I'd like to call an order the March 19th 2024 City Council meeting care which please call row Stafford here here more here we get hurt here or not here here here here here here Mayor Jordan here would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All righty. I do have an announcement that item number 12 will be pulled from the agenda on the request of the
 was the applicant's representative Robert Rhodes Robert Rhodes so that will not be on the agenda what since we're at the City Council meeting I believe it was said that the item needed to be either tabled in order for it to go to another meeting instead of just pulled from the agenda since the agenda has already been published for the tentative and the final at this point
 So it may be best to suspend the rules and table the item until the next meeting, which would require six votes. Okay, so we need to start off by putting it at the first then? You can immediately suspend the rules and table it. You don't have to move it and then table it. Okay. I would like to suspend the rules and
 Table item D12 until the next meeting. Second. Table item D12 until the next meeting. Sorry, Bob. Okay. Okay. So, Kara, would you please call the vote? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Butch? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 The next order of business we have is the nominating committee report. Mr. Mayor, I don't have anything from the clerk's office yet to read on those appointments. There may be a... Okay. You know, do you want me... I don't have a... Let me call up the email that I sent. Normally, we get a list or an email that says this is... It reaffirms this is what your list is from the clerk's office. Well...
 Okay, well, so what do you all want to do? I'll call up the email and read it, Mr. Mayor, no problem. Okay. So if you take a look at the agenda online, it has the nominating committee report at the top. Perfect. Thank you.
 Okay, the nominating committee met and interviewed candidates for all of our existing quarterly vacancies and wishes to make the following recommendations to the full city council for appointment. For the Active Transportation Advisory Committee, Herschel Hartford for a term ending March 31st of 26. For the Advertising and Promotion Commission, Chrissy Sanderson, who is a tourism industry appointee.
 For the Board of Adjustments, Pepper Roussel and Erin Atkins-Urey for terms ending March 31st of 2027. For the Civil Service Commission, Spencer Brown, who's going to fill a term through March 31st of 2031.
 For the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, Manuel Tejeda, who will serve and, well, he's going to serve as the Community Food Systems Representative through December 31st of 27, and Addison Mahaffey, a resident at large, whose term will end December 31st of 2027.
 For the Construction Board of Adjustments and Appeals, Mark McElhenney is a full board member, term ending March 31st through 2029. The Fayetteville Arts Council, Amanda Rayer, an unexpired working artist term that ends 6-30-25. Ellen Woodson, an unexpired resident representative with a term ending 6-30-26.
 Fayetteville Public Library Board of Trustees, Barry Bryan, public at large position through April 1st of 2029, with a planning commission, Matthew Cabe, Nick Kasten, and Nicholas Werner, all with a term ending March 31st of 2027. For the Urban Forestry Advisory Board,
 an unexpired resident at large term for Nathan Walker, which will end December 31st of 2025. Hannah Ash for a position that's a land development representative ending December 31st of 2025. And James Parrish
 University of Arkansas representative at large with a term ending December 31st of 2025. That concludes the recommendations and I couldn't express greater appreciation to the council members that sat for two long nights of interviews. Mr. Mayor. Thank you all very much. I will entertain a motion to accept the nominees for the City Board. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the nominees for the City Board.
 Here, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Ertspark? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the March 5th, 2024 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a
 Certified local government grant from the Arkansas Historic Preservation Program any amount of $40,000 for the University of Haskell Heights context study and spout spring neighborhood context statement and to approve a budget adjustment. Number three, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment any amount of $20,000 representing donation revenue to the Yvonne Richardson Community Center.
 Number four, a resolution to approve the purchase of automotive lifts and adapters and lift columns from Mohawk, EFSA, LLC, any amount of $105,055.34 plus any taxes, freight charges, installation charges, delivery fees up to $7,944.66 pursuant to a source wealth of opt-in purchasing contract.
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of wheel and upfitting parts and accessories from local authorized distributors on an as-needed basis through November 7, 2026 and any renewal periods pursuant to a source-wheel cooperative purchasing contract. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 24-26 and to authorize the purchase of two submersible pumps
 from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated in the amount of $200,053.30 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges.
 And number seven, a resolution to award bid number 24-27 and authorize the purchase of a drain pump from Environmental Technical Sales Incorporated in the amount of $37,755 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the vote?
 Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes Whittaker yes Berna yes Bunch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes okay next order of business is a public hearing
 Mayor Jordan, before we move on, I would just like to provide some information that the senior deputy sent me just a few moments ago. For verification purposes, a public notice was sent out on March 19, 2024 at 8.34 a.m. with the nominating committee report. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Now we're going to open a public hearing, B-1.
 waste transmission water line. Paul. Good evening, Mayor and Council. We have discussed this 48-inch water transmission line from Beaver Waters' new location.
 Previously at budget time, we've discussed it in the Water and Sewer Committee several times since that. We have also had one open meeting to discuss that. I'll talk a little bit about the funding of this. This is from a federal revolving loan fund. Even though it's called a revolving loan fund, that fund is secured by an actual bond, a privately placed bond for 85 million dollars.
 million dollars placed with the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission. So although like I said, although it's called a revolving loan, it's really structured and secured by a bond that is secured by water and sewer service fees.
 Again, we talked about that when we set the water and sewer rates, and we talked about that at budget time when we approved the 2024 budget. The good thing about this and what I'm happy to report is that this is structured as a bond issue, 20-year bond issue, so it's paid over 20 years. The principal payments do not start until the completion of the project.
 project is scheduled for completion in 2027 but the really good news for the Users of the system is that there is a zero interest payment on those bonds for 20 years and
 There is a service fee attached, which is 0.75%. Now, right now, municipal bonds, if we issued municipal bonds and sold them to the public, they're going for about the 6% interest rate at this point in time. So I would project that we will really save money.
 over $20 million by going this route and privately placing this issue through the revolving loan fund with the Arkansas Natural Resource Commission.
 So that is the funding and I'll be happy to answer questions if there are any concerning the funding later in this hearing but right now I want to present Corey Granderson who will tell you a little about the specifics of the actual project of the actual line. Thank you Paul.
 As the council is familiar, we've talked about this project several times, but just as a quick refresher, the City of Fayetteville purchases 100% of our drinking water from Beaver Water District. That water is transported down to Fayetteville through two parallel transmission lines that are on your screen on the right side. That's a 36 inch and a 42 inch diameter transmission water line. Beaver Water District is currently under construction.
 for a 60-inch water line that will traverse westward to a new pumping facility at approximately the intersection of the new Interstate 612 and Highway 112 interchange. The four customer cities will be connecting to that pumping facility to provide back feeds to our system for resiliency, redundancy, and for growth and capacity needs.
 This project has been identified for many, many years, even before I was here at the city that we would need this connection. So we are underway with a lot of our permitting and design work. And so I wanted to introduce Nick Bathker from McClellan Consulting Engineers, and he's just going to make a few brief comments about the status of the project design and permitting.
 Thanks, Corey. Good evening. As Corey mentioned, we are actively doing design right now. We have completed our 60% design and are moving towards a 90% design package.
 We're also actively working with the construction manager. We have bids out right now for procuring pipe material, all the steel pipe and a lot of the large valves. And we're doing that early to help the construction manager arrive at a guaranteed maximum price.
 which will be executed as part of this loan. And we have a funding deadline, the loan that Paul mentioned. We have to close the loan before June 30th of this year to get that interest rate. So that's why we're accelerating several items there. But as I mentioned, we're moving through 90% design in the next month, and then we'll finalize everything this summer.
 Construction should start probably in the fall. We'll start seeing some things happen with the pipe installation really happening early next year. And as far as permitting, we're going through an environmental process with the funding agency that's required by federal law. We're expecting to get a finding of no significant impact, hopefully sometime next month, and we're also coordinating with several agencies on specific permits needed for the project.
 that all well with that Baron counsel that's our presentation I know is brief but this is something we've talked about quite a bit into this point in time there we'll turn it over for any questions either on the specifics of the line itself or the method of financing what questions does the council have
 My question is while we have discussed this at different times, we might have a new audience that's either tuning in tonight that maybe hasn't heard about it or those in the audience tonight. So I was hoping we could do maybe a three-minute brief rundown on the project just as far as how long the timeline's been, the kind of quick details around how we've arrived at where we're at in the event that folks in the audience aren't quite up to speed. Okay. How we arrived at this event, is that what it is?
 And Corey or Tim or whomever can join in on this. Do you want to start, Corey, on how this evolved? Sure. I guess the genesis of this project would be
 water distribution master planning efforts that have happened several times over the you know every so many years there's a water master plan that's updated so this pipeline has been identified in those plans for several cycles now as a means to essentially keep up with growth and water usage growth of the city of Fayetteville of course that's
 We couldn't just recommend a pipeline to nowhere. So this kind of this bigger, I guess, bigger regional concept has been discussed with the major utilities as well as Beaver Water District.
 Essentially, the logical breakdown of why deliver it from the west side as opposed to just upsizing your existing corridor is a lot of the cities have built in and densified around our existing lines. You could send more water from Beaver Water District in our existing corridor, but it would be very difficult. You'd have to acquire dozens of home-type properties or take an even further route around
 Once you got to town, you would have to start upsizing lines through town to deliver that water to the west side where a lot of development has happened in recent decades. And so I guess the engineering consensus among those groups was if we can feed from the west side, that would be more advantageous just from a hydraulic and water delivery standpoint.
 The city began in about 2012, they contracted with McClelland to develop a general alignment of the project and do kind of those preliminary feasibility studies and begin easement acquisition. And so easement acquisition has been.
 prodding along essentially for the last decade with really no target until just a few years ago, there really wasn't a target end date or date when we would actually need the water line turned on. The master plans projected, you know, 2040 and then we started growing faster and then they projected 2035 and then they started growing faster and all of a sudden it was upon us and we needed the line sooner than later. So that's why in the last two years you've seen I guess the whole project go from a
 a future project that's out there on the horizon to we need this sooner than later. And so what really gave us the opportunity to even consider moving it quicker was Springdale came to that same conclusion and Beaver Water District had told the customer cities for years just, hey, whoever needs it first, we need a five year heads up. And so Springdale formally gave them that heads up, we want it. And about that time we realized that we needed it that quickly as well.
 I'll start with that, happy to answer additional questions. No, that actually, that was very helpful. The only additional question I have for my reminder is we did have condemnations that had to happen and I can't remember what the total number of those were, if you can help me on that. And then if we can have an update on where we're at, because I think there were some that were still pending outstanding the last time we discussed this publicly.
 Yes, so 100% of the easement corridor has been acquired. In October, on October 17th we came forward, I can't remember the exact number Blake, but it was in the 17 to 20 range. It started at 28 and between the agenda session and the meeting we whittled it down to 18. Do you happen to know right now how many of those cases have not been settled? It's in the single digits.
 We have six left that are still in active litigation. And so we have what's called the order of possession. We have access to the easement to do all the things we needed to do. One of the requirements of this loan program is what's called a clear site certificate. And we have, since we have all the easements acquired, including those that were done through an order of possession through the court, we have that clear site certificate has been given to us. Thank you very much.
 Anybody else? Okay. If you'd like a little update on the timeline, this was accelerated and wasn't supposed to come forward until about 27 or 28. The last year we found out it was accelerated, so we had to do some fast shuffling to get the financing in place. So that's one reason why we've accelerated that coming forward. I'm certainly glad we found the location as well. So let's open it up for the public. Who would like to address us on this topic?
 in the room. Okay, must be here for something else. Susan, who do you? There's no one on Zoom with their hand raised, Mayor. Oh, okay. Anyway, so we will close the public comment session and close the public hearing and we'll address this later on in the agenda. All right, now moving along to unfinished business
 Number one, in order to enact 166.28 permit ready building design program to provide for the establishment of a permit ready building design program and associated development requirements specific to the programs or residential buildings and to establish an initial program area. This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Thank you.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Turner? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to enact section 166.28 permit ready building design program to provide for the establishment of a permit ready building design program and associated development requirements specific to the program's residential buildings and to establish an initial program area. Right.
 Thank you, Mayor and good evening Council. I'm Britton Bostic with Long Range Planning and I'm here for another conversation about our building permit ready building design program. So just as a background to this item since we are on second reading, we had an item in our city plan 2040, an action item if you will, we also call it a benchmark to create pre-approved building types for identified neighborhoods.
 And so we undertook that in October 2022 with the council approval of the project contract with our consultant, MBL Planning and Pattern Zones. And then we brought development standards and a program area forwarded from the planning commission to the city council at their March 5th meeting.
 If you'll remember, Council staff did have an amendment to that ordinance that the Planning Commission had not had the opportunity to review and that is because we were looking to coordinate this proposed new section of code with an existing section of code relating to constructing sidewalks. And so I'll cover just the permit ready part here. We have a separate item for the sidewalk ordinance. And so this is the proposed program area.
 From both the downtown master plan and the Walker Park neighborhood plan areas It does step down out of the steep slope areas areas that we assessed would be more difficult to Include in a permit ready building design program because of some of the engineering requirements that would be needed for those steeper slope areas And then also this is primarily in residential parts of the neighborhoods out of the downtown core or where you might see small taller more dense commercial development primarily
 And so there are a number of development standards proposed and I'll go through those here. We would be proposing to require variability of designs when there are more than two contiguous lots that use this program so you couldn't have all the same building in a row. It would have to be varied if you do more than two in a row. Street facing orientation for the buildings, screening for solid waste and recycling containers, storm water would need to meet the requirements of the engineering division.
 Parking areas would not be able to be in the front yard. They would need to be to the rear or the side of the housing unit or in a garage or carport. We would only require one parking space per dwelling unit, and that's down from the two that are currently required for residential dwelling units.
 units under the multifamily, so more like one and two family structures. Parking areas with five to 13 spaces would be exempted from the parking lot construction standards and parking lot design standards and we talked through if you had two duplexes on a site that's four units and then you're required parking for that for just two duplexes on some of these lots that can take on more development would get you
 into basically creating a commercial parking lot according to the standards and that's proposed to allow some more flexibility for parking lot designs. Parking on tandem lots would not be considered offsite parking minimum driveway width would be required to be 8 feet and then shared driveways would have to be utilized to access parking areas for attached townhomes.
 meaning that you could not just have a front-facing garage or front-facing driveway for all of the townhomes since the intent of that building type is to have a walkable sidewalk complete in front of that type of housing.
 And so what staff's proposed amendment is that we'd like for the council to consider is to add language to what the planning commission forwarded to you all to include compliance with the American Disabilities Act and language around that, and then we're also proposing to remove some of the language that conflicts with or is already addressed in the proposed
 proposed amendments to section 171.13 and that's the property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost of sidewalk in the separate ordinance that's the first item of new business.
 As a reminder, we've got information about the program available on the city's website. Here's a copy of the webpage. Folks can see the project study area if they want to see a map of that. You can also watch a webinar where we explain the program, show some of the house designs, and give more information including a lot of frequently asked questions. And then my contact information is up at the top right if anybody would like to contact me about it.
 And just to summarize, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the new section. Staff has some proposed amendments to that section as well as a second ordinance. And then so far by my count, we have two comments in favor and two comments expressing concerns about technical aspects of the program, but I wouldn't necessarily characterize those as in favor or opposed. I'm very happy to answer any questions that the council might have, and thank you for your time. Okay. What questions do we have for Brenton on this? Scott. Okay.
 Britton, are we the first city in northwest Arkansas to propose this type of plan? I think we might be the first city in Arkansas. Okay. So I commend your staff and what was the mentality behind trying to develop this program?
 We have a lot of concerns about infill in the community and new houses and existing neighborhoods being compatible with the existing neighborhood fabric. And that could be a couple of different things. If you're in a one story house, you get a two or three story house next door.
 That could feel a little overwhelming if you're in a smaller footprint house and you get a very large house next door. Yeah, it can feel a bit overwhelming and kind of discordant with existing neighborhood fabric. Our downtown and our Walker Park neighborhoods are two of the oldest neighborhoods in Fayetteville. They include structures that predate the Civil War. There's not many of them, but they do exist. And a lot of the buildings that you see were developed between the 1880s, perhaps in the 1920s and 1930s.
 And then we go on from there as Fayetteville developed post-World War II. And so because a lot of those houses are very old, they're the most likely to be redeveloped, replaced with new housing. And so that's probably where my office hears the most concern about new houses coming in. So what we're looking to offer here, rather than...
 Work with the constraints the state provides us on regulating single-family structures. We have an opportunity to provide an incentive instead It's an entirely voluntary program We're not going to make anybody use this but if you want to We will make these plans available to you for free if you will build something that is in response to the concerns We've heard and the ask we've had for neighborhood compatibility And that is compatible infill is one of the goals in our comprehensive plan and this is meant to respond to that. So
 In doing so, I would assume that that would
 cut down the cost to the to the home builder I have been told that the expectation is this would cut down some of the upfront costs that can be very expensive especially getting plans that's designed and then these will be reviewed to comply with our building code requirements so if you're not familiar with Fayetteville's building code this could really help you navigate that more successfully those streamline the process and speed up getting housing that's always our goal sir
 Any other questions? Yes, ma'am. I have a question, Britton, and it's kind of about the parking in the rear or is it in the rear or on the side? Yes, ma'am. Okay. So do we anticipate that this will fit on some of these smaller lots if people have to drive around the structure to get to their parking? Do you think that'll be a problem anywhere?
 We haven't observed that that would be a problem based on the existing lot patterns that we have. If you have an alley behind your lot and you can use your alley for access, you would still be able to do that. So you wouldn't even need a front driveway. A lot of our zoning in the project area is NC, neighborhood commercial, which still requires quite a bit of lot width.
 versus a downtown general zoning where we still have a lot of single-family residential and that doesn't have as much of a lot with requirement. I think you can go down to 18 feet for single family. So some of the lots are allowed to be very narrow. Our houses are not designed to be super narrow. They're designed to be more akin to what you see right now in the neighborhoods.
 And so you would either need to have a site that could accommodate that extra width to get your eight-foot driveway in, or you could take advantage of rear access if that's available to you. And we're trying to work with a lot of different conditions with the same program or with the same set of standards. So we know that there may be some lots that are not particularly well configured for this, and the program may not be a great fit for those. But given our analysis of the program area, this should fit a lot of cases.
 I love that you pointed out it's not going to fit every case, but it would fit a lot of them. And I think that's kind of sometimes what we need to aim for. So thank you for that. Also, I was going to ask about are there any of the plans that just don't have any – do they all have a garage or do they – some of them not have any garage or anything like that that we're looking at?
 Some of them do have garages. None of the garages are front facing. They're either side facing. I think we may have a couple of rear entry situations. But for the most part, houses developed pre-World War II were not developed with garages. And those are in the neighborhoods that we're working in. And so in order to be sensitive to that, that was the design aspect that we reflected. Now, it doesn't exclude people from having a garage.
 And so if you're looking to build a detached garage and you can fit that on your site, you still could. Or if you want to add an attached garage to the floor plan, talk to us about that and let's see what we can work out. Because you will have an opportunity to provide some modifications.
 We wouldn't do that with what we make available to you. You would have to bring that to us yourself. But those are much simpler to design and draw and construct than a two-story house, for example. So I think that option is something we want to continue to get feedback on as we launch the program, understand what the needs are, and then respond accordingly.
 Okay, thank you. I really appreciate that and you brought up the one of the things I was going to ask about was detached garages because a lot of these older parts of town, if there was ever a garage, it was like just a detached garage, but thank you very much. Well.
 thank you um britain uh and and thank you before we spent some time together going through this whole thing and i was so amazed by it and and this is a little bit different like a lot this hasn't been done in arkansas but it has been done in other states yeah but
 And we were talking about how in other states they may offer like five to seven designs, and your team came up with 30. And if you haven't had a chance to look at them, they are really cool, and I feel really fit with the neighborhood. I had a question. There's a property on South College, and I don't think it matches what you're doing here necessarily, but when I was out knocking doors,
 I remember going there and it had kind of, it seemed like four units, I think two in front and two in back, and it had a shared middle driveway. And if I remember it correctly, it had parking pads and maybe carports in the back. And so do we do, I'm sorry. Okay.
 Do we have some examples of this that you know of like that? I don't know if you know about the property I'm talking to. It was on South College just north of MLK. I think I do know which site you're talking about. Would that be kind of similar to what you're – I think in a way, yes. And so –
 What we were hoping to do is be responsive to a concern we've heard from the development community. Because we talked to developers and residents and a lot of folks having advocates during this process. And what we've heard from the development community is wouldn't it be a whole lot better if we reduce the amount of land required to store cars and gave over more?
 Proportionally more land to housing and so this is an attempt to be responsive to that So we reduce the parking required by half per unit and then in addition to that if you have to build a parking lot for More than four cars and you have to have dry vials and start meeting a bunch of standards that are really
 maybe in my view more geared toward a commercial site development and public access rather than some of the more informal but still works perfectly well for a small scale residential situation. That would be what it is. So it's not that there will be no standards applied to parking and it will be a free for all, more that we're not going to
 evaluate you on the same dimensional standards that may be required for a commercial parking lot because our parking lot design standards are the same regardless it's based on number of spaces not use so we wanted to give people more flexibility in the design of their lot to probably fit hopefully a higher proportion of housing and a less proportion of parking vehicles yeah that's the goal and that property seemed to work and I didn't think they asked the owner
 owner before I sat here and I didn't think to ask the person about it, but they surely didn't complain about it. But it seemed to work. It didn't look like there was cars backed up on each other or anything. And I guess it depends on when you're, what time of day you're there and stuff. But I mean it seemed it worked and they seem to be happy to live there. So I think like solutions like this really work and you know if you drive around this area that the area you all made that where you're gonna allow this and
 I mean, you'd be hard pressed to find more than a handful of garage forward houses. I mean, this is an older neighborhood. It's a while I live a little bit to the east. But it's a neighborhood. I traveled through every single day and I was trying to think of like, okay, can I count how many I've
 garage forward houses or big garage doors I see on a Day a daily basis and it's really not that many I could just count a couple I'm sure there's more and they if people didn't want to do permit ready and they just want to build their house want to have Their garage and they're they're welcome to do that, right come get a building permit for us, but you have to provide your own Yeah, okay, and so but again, I'm wowed by this and I'm excited about I think you're you and your staff so much Thank you very much
 Anybody else? I have one quick question here and it's always talk about driveways. This made me think about this. Since we're talking about this older part of town and I may be way off in the weeds and we may not even be to this point yet, but are driveways always paved?
 Or can they be pavers or water permeable? Good question! I'm glad somebody asked! So we require that the first 18 feet of your driveway have paving. If you can imagine pulling off of a street immediately onto dirt in wet conditions, that's going to cause a lot of problems, including dirt track out. And so there's kind of a portion that you need to have that with a secured surface. And then after that, you kind of do what you want.
 Permeable pavers are an option, a gravel is an option, but we need that kind of initial solid surface to handle what can happen due to weather with just dirt. And you can see it a lot in some places after a really hard rain, but permeable pavers I think would be a great solution to help reduce your impervious cover overall on your site.
 And so there's a variety of options that work. We didn't bring that up with this because they're already available in the code, which we were really glad for. And so I didn't get it that specifically because it looks like we've, we think we've already addressed that successfully in the existing code language. Okay, great. That just made me think about older driveways and like I grew up in a house that had one that was just like two strips of concrete. Exactly. There's mud in the middle, but you know, thank you.
 Anything else? Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first? I'll go first. Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council, City Staff. My name is Nick Thorne. I live at 629 North Gray Avenue here in Fayetteville. I just wanted to commend city staff and city council for this program.
 takes action to codify goals set in the comprehensive plan to address housing needs, as well as address the growing population of our great city. As an architect whose livelihood depends on creating bespoke houses, you might think it'd be a little odd for me to support something like this, but I think it lowers the barrier to entry for developers and people moving to the area who might wanna build their own house.
 I think overall it will be a net positive for the city, especially as the housing assessment that was released at the end of last year commented on how the shortage that the city has of housing units. I think this will go a long way into addressing that.
 All too often, well-meaning and thought-out plans like the 2040 Comprehensive Plan end up collecting dust on shelves or lost on a city website. And so I commend you for taking action and creating what I think will be a beneficial plan. And I ask that you please vote in favor of this program. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you.
 Keaton Smith, 88 East 4th Street. I also want to commend council and staff for bringing forward and considering this innovative program. In my view, there are kind of three general constituencies in development. There's the city, there's the developer, and then there's the community. And I think what's really elegant about this program is that it addresses, solves problems for all three.
 For the city, it makes more efficient use of existing infrastructure, demonstrates action on housing, builds beautiful buildings in targeted locations, and adds housing supply and builds towards transit-ready densities in future transit corridors.
 For the developer, it saves time on permitting costs. And one of the key things about that is often the governor on developers for doing more projects will be their pre-development costs.
 So the architecture, engineering, land acquisition, and if we can speed up the timeline when they have sunk costs in a project before they can start construction, then that can free up developers to do more and expand housing supply more quickly.
 And then for the community, you know, we often hear from community members who might have concerns about a new project happening in their in their neighborhood or in their close proximity to their property and In in this program they can there's no uncertainty they can see the actual building That's going to be there. There's no thought of oh it can be a
 up to so many stories or what is it going to look like? So I think that certainty,
 really is a real value to neighbors and neighborhoods around the proposed program area. So, and it's a homegrown solution. I mean, this is getting national publicity and the Congress for New Urbanism and urban planning thought leadership circles. So I'm really excited that Fayetteville is considering moving forward and I hope you'll support it. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm not as tall as Keaton. Evelyn Rios Stafford, 527 South Sherman, Ward 1. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and City Council.
 There are a lot of people here tonight to talk about the subject or to listen to the subject of housing and a lot of them this may be their very first council meeting that they're at or maybe they haven't been at one for a long time and I see some people kind of furrowing their brows at all the jargon in this so I wanted to try and break it down in the most simplest terms possible. In my opinion, this will help get housing built in Fayetteville. This will help make housing more affordable.
 This will help prevent gentrification in a part of town that has had a target on its back for many decades.
 There's been, you know, you can go, you know, into the archives on the city website all the way back to, you know, 1945, where there are plans to bulldoze and redevelop large parts of the south side of town to, you know, tear down basically the whole Sprout Springs neighborhood and put in a park and a highway and things like that.
 And, you know, thankfully, a lot of those plans didn't come to pass. You know, there's been, I don't know if I should even read this, less than, less than
 gracious language in decades past about the residents, our low-income residents in the city, you know, back in the 1960s. You know, there's planning documents from the 1970s saying that the city's goal in zoning was to encourage large lots with nice homes and discourage low-cost housing.
 You know some of that you know has been swept away by the pet into the past and that's that's a very positive thing Some of it is still on the books And I think that anything that the city does like this to turn the corner And to and to make housing more affordable to make smaller housing easier to build is a really really positive development and and
 And so I'm definitely a supporter of this. The one question that I think I would have, if someone could answer, is how this might interact with the potential black historic district, which is covering this same part of town. And so that would be the only thing that I can think that I would have questions in my mind about. Thanks. Thank you, Evan. Who else would like to address this on this?
 Another short person. I'm Rebecca LaTourette and I live at 15761 Round Mountain Road. And I like this program a lot because it provides housing, it provides more of a uniform type of housing that would fit in well with the neighborhood.
 The only thing I would like to say is that, unfortunately, I don't see it as being the answer to affordable housing.
 even these little houses cost money to be built and once you put a new piece of Once you develop your land Your property tax get gets redone and you get evaluated at current market value so for instance if I put three or four or five or six or seven or eight and nine or ten of these on my property
 I would instantly see an enormous tax increase, especially if I held on to the properties and just held them as rentals. And I would be forced to rent them at current market value in order to recoup my investment.
 This will all get, of course, addressed in a later topic. But that's the problem that I see, is that when you're adding in new housing, you're going to get whomped with taxes. You're not going to be able to stick with your old tax rate and your old, you know, 5% per year if you're a homeowner, or 10% per year increase of its investment property. It'll start.
 up at the top so i don't see them as being the answer to creating affordable housing but i love the program and i think britain has done a great job and i do think they will be somewhat affordable for some people but they're not going to be affordable so sorry to be
 So it's a positive and a negative voice here, but I just wanted to clarify my feeling on that and I do own property in downtown Fayetteville and I've looked at the possibility of doing this and I'm thinking I Would really have to charge a lot of money for these so Just that's all I have to say. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? No one has their hand raised on zoom mayor, okay, I
 Then I will bring it back to the council. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Yes, DeAndrea. Mayor Jordan, is it possible to ask Britton to come back up? I have a question for her. Sure.
 Braden, once again, thank you for all of your hard work. We certainly appreciate it, which I'm sure that you've thought about this, but as it relates to the historic black district, the potential historic black district, how do
 How will this impact that? That's a really good question, and I'm so glad it was brought up. So I also do historic preservation, as this council is very aware at this point. And I appreciate the council's support for a recent historic preservation project, which includes the spout spring. And one of the things that I really like about the work that I do is that it's quite multifaceted.
 And because I've been very involved in the conversations around the Spout Spring Historic District and its creation and the long range planning team, particularly my colleague here, Sherry Griffith, coordinates with the State Preservation Office on all of the work that we do because it typically is grant funded by the state.
 And so what we have done is in anticipation of that historic district being proposed and the conversations around that, we've kind of looked at the building designs with an eye toward what you would expect to see with a historic district being created. It's very common to have a document that's called design guidelines and those provide the guidance for changes in the historic district, whether that's additions or changes to properties, new construction, demolitions, et cetera. And so...
 Although we have not undergone that process with the Spout Spring Historic District yet, you can imagine that neighborhood compatibility is a key theme and goal the same way that it is with this program. And so our focus on neighborhood compatibility and the designs that we showed recently, which are meant to be reminiscent of designs and styles that you would see in the neighborhood materials that you would see in the neighborhood.
 already get us very close to achieving that overarching goal that would be in place for both. So I don't anticipate this providing any conflicts with the historic district.
 rather giving an opportunity for people to see now what compatible design could look like, at least to the extent we've been able to do it with this program. And then something that I think is important to share too is we'll be doing an annual review of the catalog of designs in the program. So if we get changes in city policy, if we get additional input, what works well, what doesn't work as well,
 what people's needs are for housing, we are looking to be responsive to that with our annual program review. And I really like that aspect of it too because I think it gives us the flexibility that we need as the council considers additional requests or additional policies or programs as we move forward. Thank you, Britton. Bob. Thank you. Well, DeAndre stole one of my questions. And Britton, I appreciate
 You can be seated, I guess. My question's not for you, but thank you. And I don't know who it's for, right? But one thing I want to address is I believe that all housing built helps affordability in the long run because as we increase our housing stock to meet our demand, we stabilize our market. But with the question of taxes, that was an interesting one for me. Any development would have the same...
 no matter what you did if you if you built something new you would be it would be assessed at the current mountain value right it like that's not something specific to permit ready building correct i mean that's handled by the county i'm looking at you yeah that's that's handled by the county so i would assume that at some point it would be assessed at you know for whatever is on the site yeah okay i think that answered my question thank you okay so we all want
 second reading you have another question no I was gonna move that we move to the third reading please second motion second go to the third reading care which please call the rob Stafford yes
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Varner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. In ordinance to enact section 166.28 permit ready building design program to provide for the establishment of a permit ready building design program and associated development requirements specific to the program's residential buildings and to establish an initial program area.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Mayor, there were some amendments presented by staff at the agenda session. Those are included in your packet as attachment number seven. I don't know if you want Jonathan to pull that up on the screen. Mayor and council, this is what Ms. Bostick described to you during her presentation. If there are any specific questions or details that you're curious about, please let me know, or if you'd like me to scroll down so that you can consider it in full, I'm happy to. Thank you.
 I think all the changes are on the second page of that. Yeah. Thank you. All right. So do you need an amendment or do we? Yes. If you want to adopt the amendments proposed by staff, we need a motion and a second. Okay. I move we accept the proposed amendments. Second. I see some folks still reading, right? Sure. Take your time, Bob. I think we're going to be here a while. Good. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Did we get a motion in a second? I'm sorry. Sarah, did you have something? No. Oh, no, I mean, I'm sorry. I'm just making sure somebody's on the line. Okay. All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Any final comments? Yes, Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. I do want to acknowledge staff and especially, thank you. I nerd out whenever we do put things online, and I can't wait to go see your video. But what I'm the most excited, we've had conversations since our June workshop for City Council and talked about as we tackle some of the things that are outlined in our city plan, you know, being very thoughtful about that.
 tying back to what those goals are and so clearly so clearly additionally on that page it's very clear from anybody in the public to be able to see exactly where that ties back to so i really applaud that additional effort and thank you um i wanted to publicly acknowledge that i also did want to speak to the comments that were made from the public about that this isn't the silver bullet for affordable housing
 you know that's that's true we don't know this is a pilot and a test i think we've we've known in other areas where they've gone with limited designs that maybe they've only ended up over several years with a handful of production units
 And so I think we all acknowledge holding hands that this is a part of the solution. But it's incredibly important that we move forward and we work towards giving resources to staff and within the city to try all possible solutions available. And so I think that we're set up and I really appreciate that additional attention to detail to do 30 designs. Because if anything, Fayetteville is going to work to do more and to blow it out of the water. And so I'm incredibly excited to support this tonight.
 Well, you know Sarah's first comment made me realize something is we spend a lot of time up here And we we do thank staff and Jonathan and Britton But I also want to make sure we realize that we know that there's people That there's staff underneath y'all That are doing hard work as well and I want to make sure that we recognize when we thank you that we're thanking you and everybody
 that works with you on these projects. That, you know, we thank you all a lot and we thank everybody in your departments and everything as well. And I don't know, we usually address everything to the people before us and it's like, oh, there's a lot of people that, you know, whose names I probably don't even know and we appreciate their work as well. Okay, any other comments? All right, Kerwood, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnett? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. All right. Thank you, council. That'll help fix some things.
 Under new business, an ordinance to amend 171.13, property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost of sidewalk of the unified development code to provide for changes associated with the permit ready design, building design program and to adjust the calculation for payment of fees in lieu of sidewalk construction. Fred. Mayor. Sorry, sorry, sorry.
 whereas at the meeting of the fable city council on march 5th 2024 staff presented proposed new section 166.28 permit ready building design program whereas staff has identified an opportunity to more closely coordinate the proposed new
 permit ready building design program with section 171.13, property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost of sidewalk. And whereas the proposed amendment section 171.13 will change the amount of the fee in lieu for all projects citywide from $5 per square foot to an amount established by the city engineer based on actual construction costs and will also provide permit ready building projects the option of constructing sidewalk or paying a fee in lieu of construction without requiring a variance.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Section 171.13, Property Owner to Construct Sidewalk or Contribute Cost of Sidewalk and Enacts a new Section 171.13, Property Owner to Construct Sidewalk or Contribute Cost of Sidewalk as shown in Exhibit A attached here too. Hang on just a minute. Folks be sure you silence your phone. That was a nice little tune.
 you need silence your phone all right gritton go ahead thank you mayor uh council this is the part two uh for the ordinance that i just presented thank you all so much and so the changes that we're proposing to our existing 171.13 which talks about property owners needing to construct sidewalk is to change a few things that i want to highlight here we would change the word from waiver to variance and that might seem a little
 Odd, but variance is more consistent I think with the action that would be taken That's an administrative variance not one that we go to the Planning Commission essentially the city engineer would be evaluating Rather than constructing sidewalk yourself. Would you have an opportunity? Do you meet the criteria to pay fee in lieu instead and those payments would go for the city to construct sidewalk in lieu of the developer constructing sidewalk and so changing waiver to variance is
 Adding in a section to the new, or adding in a reference to the newly established section 166.28, one of the incentives for using the permit ready program is that that variance would be automatic. You wouldn't have to get special approval. You could go ahead and pay sidewalk fee in lieu. And that is directly in response to requests from builders and developers saying that sidewalk construction can be one of the complications or barriers to finishing up projects.
 So we wanted to provide that. And then the fee in lieu amount has been $5 per square foot for a while. That does not reflect actual construction costs at this point. So staff is proposing to go to an amount determined by either a yearly bid or by the published weighted averages from the Arkansas Department of Transportation. Currently that would be just a little more than doubling the $5 per square foot. I believe the amount per square foot from the state is around 1082.
 And then we would also change the timeline. Right now, the timeline for expenditures in that section of code is one year. That is awfully fast. And so we'd like to extend that to the maximum that we could do of seven years. And that's consistent with other kind of fee-in-lieu options or I'm losing my words, but when we ask people to pay for the impacts of their development. Development impact fees, there we go. I talked myself into it.
 And so the Planning Commission did not have the opportunity to review this change. This is something that staff brought in between the Planning Commission and coming to the Council. So I don't want to kind of characterize them as having forwarded this to you all. It came from staff. So we are recommending approval and I have not received any comments on this myself. Please let me know if you have questions. I'd be happy to answer. Okay, what questions do we have for Breton on this? Yes, Bob. Oh, no, Sarah.
 Thanks, Britton. I just didn't know, as we take in the fee in lieu, I sit on the Transportation Committee, and so I think about when we're doing sidewalk construction. So I'm curious about do we keep records about either by zip code that those come in or any kind of zone areas or wards potentially as those come in, or do they just come in kind of one lump sum and we just see them in one total for sidewalks?
 They go into a fund for construction. I believe the code says that they're meant to be spent in a way that serves the development that is constructed. So there's kind of a, I forget the language exactly, but it's like a proximity question. And so that's actually something that we've discussed a lot on staff is, is that, you
 If this program, in particular, the permit-ready building design program, if you're paying fee in lieu, would that ultimately result in constructing sidewalk immediately in front of the houses that are being constructed? Or if that were to happen, what would be the timeline for that? Like, how do we get that scheduled in the process?
 So right now I could not tell you that if you were to pay fee and loot that exact dollar would go toward a sidewalk Exactly in front of that house That's not the level of detail that I think the accounting provides and that's not how we've been set up in the past This is something that we want to continue to look at as we get the project
 program stood up and operating though and one of the reasons that we are taking the opportunity to ask the council to change the timeline for expenditure from one year to seven years because in one year you may not accrue many funds compared to seven years which I think gives us a better opportunity for those expenditures to exactly meet the goal of the fee in lieu.
 That may not have answered your question. If not, I apologize, but that's how we've been discussing this. Yeah, no, and I appreciate it sounds like it's kind of a work in progress and that there's some conversation around it, which, you know, I don't fault given that this is kind of a moving target as we start something new, just,
 I appreciate, again, that there's some thought around, you know, where would it be placed location-wise. And so, you know, in my mind, I just think about I wouldn't want to be collecting these, you know, all in, you know, one area and then go spend the money, you know, someplace absolutely opposite to that area. And so that's just in my mind thinking about the language and what might have to be done in the future. So, but it sounds like you guys are kind of heading down that road. And so I think it'll probably progress over time.
 I think that's definitely a conversation that we've had more than once.
 This ordinance is more general across the city, and so how do we begin to look at if we're going to have a program specific fee in lieu, how can that serve the development that's being created through that, you know, kind of an attachment to that fee in lieu, and what are kind of the accounting metrics that we could use, or how do we look at our sidewalk construction prioritization and mobilization to meet those goals?
 I think is something that we still wanna continue to talk about as we get ready to stand up this program. And then as we can continue to deliver, you know, pedestrian and cyclist paths in our city, which is a high priority for Fayetteville, certainly. Well, thank you. I feel comfortable with the progress that it looks like we're making. Thank you for the question. I appreciate that. Anything else? All right, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after. Who would like to address us on this topic? No one on Zoom, Mayor. Of course not. So I'll bring it back to the council. What action would the council like to take? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 second we have a motion to second to go to the second rate care which please call the roll Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes yes
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. An ordinance to amend section 171.13 property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost of sidewalk of the unified development code to provide for changes associated with the permit ready building design program and to adjust the calculation for payment of fees and move sidewalk construction. Move that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final read. Chairmen please call the roll. Second. Second. Second. Second. Second.
 Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 171.13 property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost of sidewalk of the Unified Development Code to provide for changes associated with the permit ready building design program and to adjust the calculation for payment of fees in lieu of sidewalk construction.
 Any final comments from the council? Okay. Carriage, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Ferna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Number two, placeholder for the West Transmission Water Line Funding Ordinance. Well, Mayor and Council, as we've discussed,
 This ordinance will authorize by the council the bonds. You have to issue bonds. They will be privately placed with the Arkansas Natural Resource Commission to secure the revolving loan fund money of $85 million for the Westside transmission line.
 This was drafted by our bond counsel, Kutak Rock. Gordon Wilburn is the attorney for us at Kutak Rock.
 We sent this to the Arkansas Natural Resource Commission because they need to review that. That's part of the requirement for the revolving loan fund. They did not get back to us, but since this is of essence, we put it on the city council for tonight. So at this point in time, essentially what it does, it talks about the details of the bonds.
 It will also give you the reimbursement payback schedule. We'll also talk about security bonds. We have not gotten all of the comment back from the Natural Resource Commission. We anticipate getting that back shortly, and we will bring those revisions forward at the next time. So at this point in time, before we...
 Even read the ordinance. I'm going to request that this be tabled for two weeks to the next meeting There you go. We need to table this for two weeks to the next meeting. I need a motion and second Make a motion we set the table to the next meeting Second We have a motion and second to table to the next meeting Here which please call the roll Stafford, yes Jones, yes Moore
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
 If I were to call representatives from the citizen led Fayetteville Housing Coalition with a ten minute presentation. Sure. I would like to do that first to set the stage on how we got here. And I think that would provide great context.
 Those individuals are representing Arkansas Renters United, New Beginning, and Circles Northwest Arkansas. That's Anna Hurley, Solomon Birchfield, and Billy Cook. Thank you.
 Good evening council members, Mr. Mayor. My name is Billy Cook and I'm an organizer with Arkansas Renters United. We are the only tenant advocacy group in the state that is led by and for renters. I wanted to give some of the historical context as to how this resolution came to be. At the end of last summer, a group of ordinary citizens from various parts of Fayetteville started talking with each other about the idea of urging our city to try new things to address our housing situation.
 Part of our goal was to do this work in public as part of an inclusive grassroots effort. Starting in September of 2023, we held a series of three well-attended public meetings. The first meeting coincided with Council Member DeAndre Jones' quarterly Ward 1 meeting, and we found a strong ally in Jones who was sympathetic to us.
 We held our first housing town hall on September 14. This was sort of a listening session where we invited the public to share stories and testimonials. People came in large groups to talk about their skyrocketing rents, their struggles with homelessness or being at risk for homelessness, and what it means for them to be pushed further and further out of our city. We heard from Fayetteville residents, those who used to live here but no longer can, and from those who are shut out from moving here.
 It was a powerful moment for residents from all walks of life to share their common issue of finding and keeping housing in our town. It was then decided by this coalescing group of people to host more events and invite more of the public to participate. We worked with Councilmember Jones to host a second housing town hall on October 19th. This second event was an opportunity for us to come together as a group to acknowledge the crisis we saw in the first meeting, and secondly, to brainstorm potential solutions to the housing crisis.
 We arranged breakout tables to go over some of these policy ideas, such as zoning reform, a land trust, and historic preservation efforts. This was unique, one-of-a-kind moment. Here were ordinary residents taking part in the formation of public policy that would impact them. They gave their thoughts on the issues, feedback on what the reforms would look like for their day-to-day lives, and opinions on how best our city could implement them.
 Between the second housing town hall on October 19th and the third on February 8th, a number of residents, activists, and community leaders came forward to join the conversation. Bolstered with more numbers, our group began to consider and explore more options, such as forming a task force composed of ordinary citizens and experts to help participate in solving something that is bearing down on all of us.
 Some called for hiring more staff, while others adamantly believed our city needed to declare a crisis as a first step. Following the conclusion of the third town hall in February, where a call for action was demanded by the folks who came, myself and other leaders in this citizen-led group sat down and began the hard task of taking all this community feedback and compiling it into a single, coherent, digestible document. I will add that we are ordinary people first and policy drafters second.
 HOWEVER, THE MOMENTUM AND ENERGY THAT HAD BEEN BUILT BY OUR GROUP PUSHED US TO GET IT DONE. THE RESOLUTION THAT WE RESIDENTS WORKED ON TOGETHER IS BY NO MEANS A FIX ALL FOR OUR HOUSING CRISIS. BUT IT CONTAINS IN IT THE HOPES OF SO MANY PEOPLE THAT WILL SET THE TONE FOR HOW WE RESPOND TO THE CRISIS. THIS IS A PRODUCT OF EVERYDAY PEOPLE CHIPPING IN THEIR THOUGHTS AND OPINIONS ON HOW TO MOVE FORWARD. WITH OUR RESOLUTION IN HAND, I APPROACHED COUNCIL MEMBER JONES, READING OVER IT AND CONSIDERING ITS CONTENTS, HE THEN CHOSE TO SPONSOR OUR RESOLUTION.
 Following that, Council Members Moore, Stafford, and Whitaker were initially approached by different members of this group to see where they would stand on it. We, now identifying ourselves as the Fayetteville Housing Action Coalition, could not be more fortunate to have this resolution considered by the City Council. From the very beginning, we approached this issue from a standpoint of empathy, community engagement, and most importantly, in good faith. Thank you. Thank you, Bill.
 Hi, my name is Anna Hurley and I'm the Big View director at Circles Northwest Arkansas. If you're not familiar with Circles, we're a poverty reduction organization and we specifically serve a demographic called the ALICE demographic. ALICE stands for asset limited, income constrained, and employed.
 I'm going to tell you a few facts that underscore the need for this resolution to be passed. But first, I'd like to say thanks to each of you for serving as council members. I know it must feel strange to be counted among the people responsible for tackling a housing crisis. You did not create, but on the contrary, have all worked to address in one way or another. So thank you for all you have done. I'm going to start with one of the most shocking statistics.
 An estimated 15,853 households, or 38% of Fayetteville's total households, were cost burdened by housing in 2022. I also want to point out that that number is from 2022, not today. And I know it has only gotten worse since, as of a few days ago, the headlines came out that Fayetteville ranks as the number one small market in the country for rental competition. In this case, it's not good to be number one.
 It means vacant apartments fly off shelves after just 22 days, almost three weeks faster than the national average, with at least six applicants vying for each vacant unit. All of this in a city where the majority of citizens are renters. As you all know, the Arkansas minimum wage is $11 an hour. And that's significant to know because if someone were to have a full-time job making $11 an hour, that would total to about $1,530 a month after taxes.
 And that's significant to know because as of November of 2023, the average rent price in Fayetteville was $1,540 a month. A full-time worker earning minimum wage brings in less in an entire month than the cost of the average rental unit in Fayetteville. What does that tell us? It tells us that there is a giant lack of affordable housing in our city right now. The definition of affordable housing means that one's mortgage or rent is less than 30% of their income.
 That means someone working a full-time minimum wage job would need to pay around $500 a month in rent. Have you ever seen an apartment for rent in Fayetteville for $500? I don't even see rooms for rent at that price. Have you ever seen a job listing that pays minimum wage? I see those all the time.
 And that just scratches the surface. Because if you think about it, how much would someone have to need to be making in order for $1,540 to be affordable to them? It's $62,000 a year or $30 an hour. There's a huge gap between the minimum wage and $30 an hour. And all of those earning between $11 and $30 an hour deserve to have a place to call home.
 In 2022, the American Community Survey estimates that Fayetteville needs an additional 11,500 housing units available between the prices of $500 and $900 per month. All work, all income, and all people deserve to be respected and have a safe, clean, and affordable place to live with themselves, their children, and whomever they call family.
 Lastly, Arkansas is the only state in the country which does not have an implied warranty of habitability. The implied warranty of habitability is a duty that all states, with the exception of Arkansas, enforce on landlords. It recognizes that when a lease agreement is made between a landlord and a tenant, it is implied that the landlord has made the property, at the very least, habitable.
 Let's choose to be a leader in the state. Let's choose not to displace people. Let's choose to include them Let's choose how to figure out how to provide them with safe clean and affordable housing Thank you for all you do for the city. Thank you. My piece is to share My name is Solomon Birchfield. I help lead the New Beganz community my piece is to share some of the solutions and the action items in the resolution that this housing action group came up with and
 One of the coolest parts to me of the meetings was one meeting pulled together a panel discussion. On the panel was a real estate agent, a staff member from Groundwork, the affordable housing group at NWA Council, sitting next to people who lived in public housing and people who stay at New Beginnings. So there's the learned expertise and the lived expertise together coming up with solutions. Some of the solutions that folks came up with were like,
 Could we inventory the city-owned land that could be evaluated for use in partnership with affordable housing developments? There's other cities that have done this. Should Fayetteville consider it? Could we create a municipal minimum habitability standard for landlords with an enforcement mechanism in the city? Harrison, Arkansas has passed this. What about Fayetteville?
 Could bonds that would be issued through the Public Facilities Board be part of financing affordable housing in Fayetteville? Many people don't know that this Public Facilities Board was originally titled the Residential Housing Facilities Board, and it is authorized to issue revenue bonds to finance residential housing, health care, and related facilities to persons of low or moderate income and the elderly. Okay.
 Have we run this idea out yet? What about creating a housing trust fund, a fund with dedicated revenue sources that could aid in producing or preserving our affordable housing stock? This was the recommendation from the experts that the Waltman Family Foundation brought in, producing the report, Our Housing Future, back in 2018.
 lots of other ideas, some that the city of Fayetteville has been a leader innovating on already in Northwest Arkansas, other ideas that are currently under consideration, and some new ideas, some bold out-of-the-box thinking. This is just the tip of the iceberg. What our group understood was we shouldn't just put these ideas in a resolution. These are the kinds of ideas that need vetted, that need prioritized. And so what came to the surface was creating a
 Yes sir. You'll have to give him some more time. Yes, I'd like to give Solomon a couple more minutes of whatever. Maybe two or three minutes. Can we give him three minutes? Yeah. Okay. Thank you. So this was the tip of the iceberg. We know that these kinds of ideas really need vetted by the right people, prioritized, and then forwarded to council and to the city leadership for consideration.
 I'd like you to imagine a task force that has people from every domain, learned expertise and lived expertise. A task force with city staff from the planning department, with a representative from the city attorney's office to vet the legal side of things, a representative from an affordable housing developer here in northwest Arkansas, and the foundations whose mission is to
 accelerate and produce affordable housing, specifically groundwork, the Accelerate Foundation, and nonprofit developers like the Partners for Better Housing and the Community Development Corporation. These are the people that could look at a package of policies and say, this kind of reform would make Fayetteville the most appealing place to develop affordable quality housing. Those experts alongside a representative from the university, since university growth and
 is certainly part of the crisis we're facing in housing. And students at the university are part of the lifeblood of Fayetteville and deserve to have safe, decent, affordable housing while they're advancing their education. Alongside these experts from learning would sit people who are struggling to pay their rent on the edge.
 People who have first-hand experience with cockroaches and mice and sewage and bathtubs who can tell us why we need habitability standards. People holding a voucher, the voucher that subsidizes your rent, desperately looking for a landlord who will rent to them. This kind of task force with the right kind of scope and the right kind of mandate
 could vet and prioritize ideas and forward actions to this council and our city leadership this year while we're all paying attention to all the people who say we want to be your public servant you know vote for us so that was the work that this coalition put together i felt great about it and at the end i thought this is probably going to be the most non-controversial resolution the city council ever votes on and i still think that's the case thank you for your time
 Thank you. Folks, let's not get into a lot of applause because I'm trying to run a meeting here, so not a lot of emotional stuff. Yes, DeAndre.
 Mayor Jordan, there has been several amendments to the original resolution that was brought forth. And I have a lot of different notes because I work with the community. And so this is not...
 Me this is as you heard this is the community and so all I did as a council member is facilitate the meeting and as Solomon so eloquently explained I
 They brought those ideas to me and my job was to bring them to the council. That was my responsibility. And so I did that and we're here. And we knew that this wouldn't be a perfect solution, but as Solomon mentioned, and I'm so glad that he said that, there was no anticipation for this being a problem.
 a conflict, but I really believe that we're all here because we care about the wellbeing of Fayetteville residents. And in order for me to represent people, in order for me to advocate, I have to understand where they're coming from. And so being able to collaborate, and listen, that has informed the resolution tonight. And that has also informed
 the amendments that's been made. So none of this is coming from myself, none of this is coming from Councilmember Moore. We are just the messengers from the community. This is something that they did. This is something as they all explained, this is their work. And of course, of course, of course, I would be remiss and I believe I speak on behalf of all of them.
 We're very thankful the work that the city has done. Mayor Jordan, you've said it time and time again that that has been one of your priorities. And as a council member, I've been involved in a lot of the planning and bringing some of the solutions into fruition. So this resolution is to enhance what the city has done, not to replace it.
 The items that were mentioned in the other resolution, this is not an either or. We can do both. And so the committee working on this from the community, I'm echoing what they're saying. So please, I want you guys to think that this is not DeAndre. This is not me.
 All I did was do what I did what I was elected to do and that's listen to the people and let the and listen to the community facilitate a meeting and bring their concerns back to the council. Folks, silence your phones please.
 Yes. So Mayor Jordan, at this time, I'm not really sure how. I see, Blake, several pieces of information. Council Member Stafford has also sent some information. So I'm not sure which direction we should go. Well, I had Bob's stuff first. And then, DeAndre, I got yours just as I sat down. So...
 I guess if we take it in the order. Absolutely. Bob? Do you want to put an amendment? Sarah, you wanted to answer or ask a question? I just wanted to ask a procedural question just because the public at large what was published on the agenda was the current resolution. And so my recommendation and the ask to my colleagues is if we might take public comment
 on that and then speak together as a council on the amendments because I think we might confuse the issue with the public then my Ask is that as we have those conversations about amendments and an effort to be concise and clear That we take one amendment at a time have discussion take public comment and then vote and
 And so if my colleagues are agreeable to that, I just am hopeful. I know there's a lot of sharing and there's a lot of different viewpoints and it might just make it easier for us all to keep it clear tonight. Okay, now according to your rules of order and procedure, you don't take public comment on amendments, but you can request it. That's my request tonight, please, Mayor.
 I thank you because I feel as if there's a lot of information and to make it clear and concise I think that would be to the benefit of the community members who came together and I'm just a little bit confused now, but that's normal So I should
 hold off on my amendment okay I would like to thank Anna Hurley Billy Cook Solomon Birchfield I think that added a lot of context I think everybody here is trying to work we're all here well this is Fayetteville you know us up here y'all out there and I think we all
 Are working in our own ways for its what we see the best for the city and in everybody's best interests and and I will yeah, I guess we're gonna go to public comment. Yeah, okay. I sure will Should we read the well Blake will read the original resolution right or do we need to just go into public comment and
 Well, I assume that you all have read the resolution, but if you want it, I guess to have it later. It's not required by your rules. Okay, okay. Well, then we don't have to. Okay. So you're ready for public comment? For public comment. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to be first? Thank you. I am Jennifer Cole. I live at 1 North School Avenue in Fayetteville in Ward 2. Thank you.
 I would like to thank the council members that came to these meetings, that put these meetings together and listened to the public intent and pains, growing pains that
 came to these town halls and heard everybody's concerns because this is a public issue. This is a public concern and it's a growing concern. When you have 35% of your public impacted and they actually turn out to give you their opinion, it's important that you show up and hear their concerns. And when you put together a list of what they feel
 might be the answer and those answers are legitimate and something that's actually worked in another city to be the answer.
 You know, such as a task force that is an integrated task force of those impacted, those that are your city officials and others that are integrated to help this situation. I feel that that is also a good answer. So I hope you are going to come together and listen to that.
 If you feel that you need to amend that, I hope you will also listen to your public and maybe get some feedback because it's a beautiful thing when we come together, but we are also the people that vote for you. So thank you. Thank you. Good afternoon. My name is Katie Bright, and Fayetteville has been my home for nearly half of my life. I currently reside in Ward 3 at 4 West Village Lake Drive, and I am a single mother of three.
 55 to 60% of my income is dedicated towards rent. Childhood for me meant always moving, never settling in one place for more than two years at a time.
 I have finally found stability at an apartment, establishing roots, and creating a place I can call home. Yet, each passing year brings a rent increase with no option for leases longer than a year, and they refuse to keep the rent where it is in order to protect long-term renters such as myself. No improvements are made on the property, and things go left untreated, which should decrease the property's value, not increase it.
 The cost of living has soared in recent years, including my rent, and it wasn't only raised by $25 or $50, but by a gut-wrenching $135. Balancing utilities, transportation, and basic necessities often forces me to turn to food banks just to ensure that my family has food, despite earning more than I ever have in my entire life.
 THIS RIDICULM SHOULD SPEAK VOLUME. AS AN ACTIVE COMMUNITY MEMBER, I HAVE STRIVED TO CONTRIBUTE TO PAY IT VILLE STATUS AS A LEADING EXAMPLE FOR ARKANSAS.
 However, securing housing here increasingly requires a spouse or roommates. The refrain to buy a house overlooks the significant challenge of saving for a down payment when living paycheck to paycheck. I stand on the precipice a few unpaid sick days away from financial collapse. How can I save for a home when I struggle to afford daily expenses?
 Fayetteville grapples with a housing shortage, leaving many, myself included, teetering on the edge. Today I implore the City Council to recognize the urgency of this crisis. And in June 2020, Fayetteville demonstrated utility during the Black Lives Matter peaceful protest, setting a national example. Let that spirit guide us now.
 I refuse to wait for anger to catalyze change. As a community, we shouldn't have to wait until people become angry to react. Unmet human needs, destabilized communities, jeopardizing physical and mental health, work, and more. Why should we continue to pour our hearts, souls, and lives into a city that turns its back on us when we need them the most?
 Why should people who work to make the city a beautiful place that it is continue to do so when they can't even afford to live here anymore? And many of us have already had to leave. It is my belief that Fayetteville cares for its hardworking citizens. The actions speak louder than words. If this council truly values its residents, I urge you to vote in favor of the housing crisis resolution crafted by the very people that bring our community to life. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for the opportunity to provide comment. My name is Thomas Brown. I live at 339 North Gregg Avenue, Mayor, City Council. I support the adoption of a combined housing resolution that recognizes the nature of our housing challenges,
 and needs to undertake the following activities. First, adopt all the actions proposed in the Moore, Stanford, and Jones resolution version. Secondly, adopt all the actions proposed in the Berna, Bunch, Turk, Hertzberg, and Whitaker resolution version.
 And in addition, I'm requesting that the Council add the following five action items to the final resolution. One, implement the City's growth concept map. Two, develop and maintain key performance metrics that will help guide and evaluate future actions.
 Three, develop a community education campaign to address the issues of affordability, such as loss of existing affordable housing and rising costs, including transportation. Four, create affordable housing projects on publicly owned land and establish partnerships with developers to provide flexible, affordable housing.
 affordable workspace and housing. And five, create a real-time database of available affordable housing units, services, resources, and incentives to strengthen the process of connecting qualified buyers and renters with affordable housing. In closing,
 I hope that you will not allow the effort of crafting a final housing resolution to become combative. All the actions identified in both resolution versions need to be adopted and implemented. Thank you. Thank you, Tom.
 Hello, my name is Brynhilder Underwood. Pronouns are he, she, they. I have lived in Fayetteville, Arkansas my whole life. I currently live in Ward 1 on Mount Comfort Road, and I have two roommates. We are each very well skilled and trained, and thankfully only one-third of our monthly income goes towards rent. I love this city, and I am so grateful for all the beautiful experiences that I've gotten to have in this wonderful community.
 I'm also an activist. I focus on housing, food security, and advocacy for the oppressed. I have received a beautiful gift in the fact that I've gotten to work within my community and with multiple nonprofit organizations to help those and support those within our beautiful community. We are in a housing crisis. Thinking anything else simply ignores the available data and we want change.
 Many organizations and individuals have stepped forward to help our community over the last several years, but we are simply not equipped and not funded enough to take care of the current crisis. I understand that it's difficult to see the crisis when you're not as involved deeply in it, but we need help or this community will suffer. Communities thrive together, so please let us the people step forward to help each other and please put in the same effort that we are constantly putting in.
 This crisis will especially affect those who are already oppressed. Fayetteville has a wonderfully diverse community compared to the rest of the state, especially the rest of the South. But now Fayetteville is starting to deteriorate. We are losing this beautiful vibrancy because those of us who are facing oppression are being pushed out harder and harder. We simply cannot afford the rising costs of housing.
 This will lead to further gentrification and will simply speed up the crisis while entrapping those who cannot flee within our legal system. Even further, tying up money that should go towards actually helping our city. I want to continue to be proud of this city. Please vote yes on declaring a housing crisis and working with the community you represent to see that same community thrive.
 One of the other hats I wear is as community liaison for Good Shepherd Lutheran Church, the most progressive church in the South. I know that some won't listen to data or heartfelt testimony, and so I will leave instead with Jeremiah 8-11. They have healed the wound of my people only lightly, saying, Peace, peace, when there is no peace. They offer superficial treatment to my people's mortal wounds, and they give assurances of peace when there is none.
 Give us peace, please. We are literally begging you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello there. My name is Jalinda Johnson. I've lived here since 1996. I currently reside in Ward 4 at the Lynx. I've been living at the Lynx for a few years now, and from April of 2022 to April of last year, my rent increased by $110 a month.
 which came out to about a 15% increase. In October of 2023, I noticed an abnormally high water bill, and it jumped by $20. It may not seem a lot, but it turned out to be a 30% increase cost.
 With an increase in rent and an unexpected high water bill, it's really hard to plan and adjust and plan accordingly. I brought it to my landlord's attention only to be told, turns out it was a pressure valve leak. And at one point or a couple points, they turned off my water to fix it without letting me know. And I...
 had the landlord tell me that running water is not an emergency, which I stood my ground on that. After bickering back and forth, I finally got it fixed as well as having bills, really high bills after that be compensated.
 Our residents, all of us, we only have so much to give with our wages and our time. We can only do so much planning with what very little we have. I do ask all of you all to declare a housing crisis and come to a solution together to not only ensure the students, but the residents that do live here year-round for safe, affordable housing, as well as holding landlords accountable for
 to provide said safe, affordable housing. Thank you. Thank you. Hi, my name is Kathy Casita. I am in Ward 1 and I live on Southwest Avenue. I went to two of the meetings of the coalition.
 And I feel like there was so much testimony that I didn't know about people struggling. But I also see that in my own neighborhood. I've seen friends and I've seen neighbors have to move out and have no place to go. My next door neighbor just recently moved out because the house was barely habitable.
 and now it's just sitting there she got an electric bill for over 300 a month so there's no way to sustain that i know that's not part of the conversation but the people are saying this is a crisis that's why it is called the housing crisis resolution and the people want to be part of the conversation so here we are the people um it takes a village and we are all the village
 So please vote in support of the housing resolution. I know that it's going to go through maybe some amendments and additions, but that's okay. Sometimes things need to be worked out. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, I'm Peggy Treber, and I live on Dixon Street in Ward 2, and across the street is Ward 1.
 So, I'm a landlord right now, just to one person. I have been a landlord. We've owned apartments. My husband built them back when he was on the city board in Fayetteville in the 80s. We never realized there weren't habitability standards. We just figured, I mean, that blows me away, and I just learned that this week. I thought a lot about whether or not housing is a basic human right. It's something to think about.
 I do think we need affordable housing in Fayetteville. And if you don't like the word crisis, call it challenge. I love that this first resolution is a grassroots effort, that people on their own came together and worked and worked and worked. And some of the solutions that have been suggested, I'm tickled with. They're outside the box. And I'd like to see a task force prioritize them and bring them back and have you all be part of that
 I didn't realize until I got involved in all this a couple of months ago that there are a lot of essential workers in Fayetteville who work here, volunteer here, art center, library, whatever, that can't afford to live in Fayetteville. That feels abhorrent to me. I don't like that at all and I want to continue to be able to say, Mayor, don't you just love this city?
 I do, and I think the two resolutions can be brought together, and we can do something about providing more housing because 16,000 out of 46,000 households are having to pay more than half their monthly income toward rent or mortgage. Thanks. Thank you. Hi, my name is Dave McMath. I live at 2701 East Woodcliffe Road in Ward 3.
 I really appreciate the thoughtfulness that went into the resolution and the way it was put together. I want to talk to one part of it, the task force in particular. It feels like a really wonderful way to bridge and get community involvement in the conversation. I counsel as staff to vet things like permitting processes and rules like that in a task force.
 just feel like a good structured way to get people involved and help people contribute their ideas. I hope you'll honor that suggestion and support the resolution. Thank you. Hi, my name is Jonathan Martindale. I live in Springdale, Arkansas. I'd like to start off by thanking Council Members Jones and Moore for proposing the approval of this resolution. Where to start?
 As I've looked over the political landscape, I've become very involved in watching what's going on over the past year. It's evident that the whole nation is facing a housing crisis in one form or another. Some have proposed to take care of this issue by criminalizing homelessness and trying to move people out of encampments, which I feel is very shameful.
 Personally speaking, I hope that y'all go work on this, that y'all pass this resolution, and that you're very vigorous about doing it. I can speak mainly for myself, anecdotally. I know that when I moved back to Springdale from the St. Louis area, it was because my rent had increased.
 And then I looked for about the cheapest place I could find around here that I figured would still be decent, which is about $510 at the time. Two years ago, it increased to, I believe, $600. And then this most recent lease renewal has increased it to $650, I believe. So I'm very fortunate to have a job that makes that still affordable. But not everybody is as privileged as I am.
 and some also have kids, have other expenses, have other obligations that they have to consider. So I know I'm not a resident of Fayetteville, and so I hope you won't discount my input on this, but in as much as you're working with other jurisdictions, I hope that you treat this as a crisis, not just a challenge, but to treat it with urgency. I know that there are people who,
 The sooner you start, the sooner you'll find a solution. And there are people who are waiting for that, people who need that, people who, with the lack of a housing, are out in the elements. And I know this isn't all that's needed. It won't solve every homeless situation, but I just hope you do. I hope you pursue it vigorously. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening.
 My name is Kimberly James. I moved here almost six years ago from Louisiana, hoping to have a better life for my children. I am a single mother. When I moved here, I moved to a complex where it wasn't even ready. But yet, I kept getting calls while I was on the road for the office manager asking me how long it was going to be to get there. When I got there, it wasn't even moving and ready.
 So she had to put us into a hotel until it was ready. And mind you, I had a job interview that next morning. Moving forward, a couple of months down the line, I had a plumbing problem. Water. Woke up one night, maybe about a foot of water on the floor.
 Told her, she told me, she sent somebody over who said it was the AC. Like, no, it's plumbing. So at that point, they began to cut a huge hole in the bathroom. So where me and my girls had to look at that hole for about a month, knowing God knows what creature was going to drop down. We moved. We moved to another place. Just as bad. Just as bad.
 Walk outside, there was a huge wasp nest. I actually got stung by these wasps, taking my daughter to her doctor's appointment. When they decided to change out the HVAC unit, they left a huge hole in the wall and that hole did not get fixed until about three weeks before we decided to move to where we currently live. These are the horrors that as a single mother renting in Fayetteville have to go through.
 I don't have any family here. I don't have anybody. I joined a church, and when I was going in between jobs and was low on my rent, I, as a single mother, had to rely on my church to help me with this increasing rent.
 that we're going through. Housing crisis, it's a housing catastrophe. So as a resident of Ward 2, I can only pray that this resolution gets passed immediately. Thank you. Thank you.
 I want to thank you for your time. A lot of people have already mentioned things that I had on my little sheet, so I'll skip past those. Often when you talk about housing and the rising cost of housing and affordable housing, people think of homeless, and that's their main focus, are really low income. And that's just not the case.
 There's a lot of worker bees. I'm here to represent your seniors. I've worked hard. A lot of our seniors have worked very hard and a lot of them sacrificing, including your veterans, sacrificing so that their children could have more than they had. And now we are here and we get into housing and they're raising the rents up and raising the rents up to where either you can't retire or you have to go back to work.
 I think that's sad and a shame that people, I'm almost, I'm 69, but people myself and older are having to worry about losing a roof over their head or have to move in with their children, which they don't want to do. You don't want to do it. Your kids don't want you to move in with them. And because the cost of living in general is high.
 they can't afford to help you pay your rent either because they're busy struggling and trying to make it i live in the nantuckets i live 1291 south light ship and i'm in unit number two and they're raising the rents again you know they'll be right at seven hundred dollars for one bedroom 600 square feet the list on the waiting list for housing for assistance
 For a senior, it's anywhere from one to three years. And that'll be a lucky thing. I used to live in, I lived here. I'm from here. I moved to San Diego in the 70s. I watched this happen in San Diego, and I moved all over the place there. Then my sister came, said, come home, Renee, come home. So I came home years ago, and I was like, oh, it's not happening here. But then now I'm watching the same exact thing
 out of greed and people wanting to have everything at their fingertip convenience. And a lot, there's Californians moving in here doing it. You know, so I, you know, I see it and it just really makes me sad. It makes me sad to hear people say, we're going to go help people that are homeless and without food in other countries and they're not looking in their own back door. It makes me sad.
 So that's just I wanted to say I hope that they all work together. I hope the renters including me are involved in that and the renters realize that if somebody does help you need to think about the landlords too when they do reach out to help you don't come in there having parties doing drugs tearing the house up and then be mad because they won't fix it because I've watched that too.
 so thank you thank you mayor um i don't think that we heard her name we heard that she lived in one renee okay thank you good evening mayor and council um my name is sonia harvey i'm at 216 east sutton street in ward 2 in my 30 plus years of living and renting in fayetteville
 I have never experienced anything like I have in the last two years. In March of 2024, we had to begin looking for a new home because in the span of four days, our rented house was inspected, photographed, and was put on the market. A for sale sign went up in one day and the house went under contract that day. Looking back, the mental and psychological impact of that alone, just those four days,
 to our family was so detrimental. You know, your foundation is just shaken. Figure it out. So we went on the home hunt in Ward 1 because we had a very specific need to stay in the ward so I could keep my job. In March of 2024, and it continued in April, we looked, in May we looked, and then by the end of the June, we just had to make a decision because I had to be out by July the 1st.
 The costs of the rents that we were looking at and considering were approximately 30-40% higher from when we were looking in 2019. When we finally found our current affordable-ish home in June of 2023, we were one of 20 applicants for this one space. I pulled all of my cards and we were triumphant to be chosen.
 But it came with a huge, huge, huge con. It was one block out of my ward, which meant I'd have to resign from my elected position. I loved my work for Ward 1, and I still do, as a council member, and was willing to serve four more years. And I'm grateful that we now have Council Member Stafford.
 So by taking this incredible home in Ward 2, I forfeited my elected position, my career, my income, and my family's insurance. No one had run against me that last term, and what a vote of confidence that was, and I had only served six months of my next four-year term.
 I'm not sure if people realize how extremely expensive it is to move between paying for background checks, for rental applications, hiring physical help to move, utility deposits, setting up the new home, time involved, and on and on. Not to mention the disruption to a toddler's environment and the time spent packing, unpacking,
 For a second year in a row, my toddler husband and I will be faced to move because the owner had either sold the property while we resided in it and decided to move back in. And it will be another huge, unexpected financial, mental, and physical impact. Please support this resolution. Thank you, Son. Good evening, Council. My name is Nick Thorne. I live at 629 North Gray Avenue in Ward 4.
 I want to share Councilmember Jones' passion and vision that we're all here because we do have a common goal to see the betterment, the general and continued betterment of our city. This is a place that people want to live. It's a place that people want to move to. I am one of those who moved here from Dallas because of the sheer beauty of Northwest Arkansas.
 I also share the vision of others who have spoken that this is not an either-or situation. This is a both-and scenario where I truly believe that as working together as council and members of the public we can arrive at a win-win-win situation. The city has accomplished a lot regarding housing. I will commend you for the things that have been done by both council and city staff.
 But it is not enough, as told by the stories that have come before me. Housing supply, housing quality, and housing affordability are intertwined and unfortunately cannot be solved in a simple vacuum. Issues like transportation, access to public transportation or other means of transportation, public safety, education are also part of the mix, in addition to many, many more.
 While the city cannot control private financing or private funding or private market moves or trends, or actually build private housing to help support the private needs of the city, there are many things that you can do within your control, like updating the outdated zoning code and codifying that in the unified development code. In addition to providing high quality general public goods and services as well as outdoor spaces for all.
 I do believe that the pieces to solve this crisis are there within our city both from a standpoint of multiple studies Comprehensive plans and other documents that the city has produced over the years And there's also many people public and elected officials However, there's a disconnect and the disparate pieces and plans are not working in unison but I do believe that a task force and a housing coordinator will help bring this together and
 All this to say I support the items outlined in this memorandum providing simple housing policy reforms in addition to bolstering city departments like the planning department that would support the expedited permitting of more housing. The city has already taken significant proactive measures, but there is more to be done to ensure attainable and affordable opportunity for current and future Fayettevillians. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, Council. Beau Counts, resident of Ward 2, and I'm the owner of Pinpoint over on Block Street. Had beers with many people here in the room. And because of that unique position, you know, public houses are one of the oldest places where people share stories and tell hard times and share victories and hard times. And I could share with you
 tons of stories that I've heard from people that are on both sides of this. People that have an abundance of homes and rent them out to others. People that can't find homes, are looking for homes. People that are buying and selling homes. I've had beers with these people, I've overheard their stories. And that's something that's really interesting for my position because I get to see a lot of other positions.
 I'm not going to waste your time with that. I'm going to tell you a personal story, a story that I don't share with a lot of people. In 2018, when I was opening up my new business, we were just getting off the ground. I put my entire life savings on the line. I have no partners, no investors. It's really hard to open up a freaking normal business. I can tell you right now, but I wanted to plant roots in Fayetteville. And I did it. And in that first year, I went home after a 15-hour day of work and found that my apartment had burned down. And what do you do? Just like we heard, moving is expensive.
 You've tied up your life savings in Fayetteville, you know trying to make this place a better place And you don't have a place to live so I was essentially homeless for six and a half months I was leaving living on couches and spare bedrooms at the at the behest of good friends and
 just so I could focus on growing my business. And then I had the privilege of getting put into an apartment here downtown that is now for sale on Zillow for $14 million with the listing, Attention Student Housing Developers, which is kind of a weird phrase because according to the Fair Use Act, we're not supposed to discriminate on what kind of development it is. But it's happening.
 That's a crisis. There's a crisis happening. And I know that Fayetteville does not like that word, unless it's crisis brewing and they're great, they're fantastic. But we're talking about a housing crisis. And I've been on enough committees and enough boards to know that we don't like acknowledging problems.
 You know, we don't want to say there's a problem. We love going, we're number one, we're number five, we're number this, look at these, look at how great we're doing. But when there's something that's bad, we kind of just want to back away and not acknowledge it. But we can't tackle problems unless we call them what they are. It's a crisis, right? Let's use the word. Words are important. That's why there is amendments to amendments to amendments to amendments, because words are so important.
 I'm asking you to call this what this is, because if we call it what it is, then we can find the solutions that we need to solve the problems as they come to us. Thank you. Hello, my name is Taylor McKinney. I live in Ward 1 at 2821 Cotton Willow Way.
 I've dealt with the increasing housing crisis for years now. I've lived in roach-infested apartments where the management was apathetic to the problem, but no less demanding for the rent payment each month. I've experienced sexual and domestic violence in the last year. I would say I've put myself in scary situations with abusive partners, but the reality is that the housing crisis did this.
 Where do you go when you can't afford a one-bedroom apartment alone, but you can scrape by as long as you walk on eggshells and bite your tongue? I know I'm not the only one who has experienced this due to the housing crisis in Fayetteville. I've been fortunate to crash on couches several times, and I'm grateful for the friends and community I've found that have helped me escape these situations.
 We won't find solutions for problems we aren't willing to talk about, and we must be honest and call these problems what they are. We want to find sustainable, meaningful, and compassionate solutions for the residents of Fayetteville. We, the residents of Fayetteville, have proven through the formation of the Fayetteville Housing Action Coalition, a tireless community-led effort to draft a housing resolution. We have proven that we are willing to put in the work to help the City of Fayetteville find solutions.
 Everyone deserves safe, healthy, and affordable housing in Fayetteville. Please vote yes on the resolution to declare a housing crisis. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi. My name is Hannah Ash, and I've lived here for over 10 years now, actually, because I've lived here since college, which is now over a decade ago. I feel old. But I've actually been at the same apartment for the past five years, so almost half of that time I've lived here. And only in the past two years have I noticed exorbitant rent increases happening. Also, by the way, I live in, I should have said this earlier, I live in Ward 2 at 821 West Lawson Street.
 in a suites or apartment. So what I've noticed about suites or apartments is actually funny. They tend to do a rent increase right after Lindsay does a rent increase. My friends that live at Lindsay will come around complaining about a rent increase and then a couple days later I'll get a thing on my door saying I owe them 50 more dollars a month and yes it goes up around 50 every time. So
 I've had my rent go up $100 within the past year, $150 since I moved there. So that's quite a bit. And also, this is only in the past two years that these increases have started happening. So $150 in two years on what used to be a $500 apartment, that's a lot of money. Okay.
 Additionally, I don't want to stay a renter. My boyfriend and I are trying to move in together and buy a home, but in that process, we've learned that it's kind of really hard to do, especially here where homes are kind of inaccessibly expensive. It's actually cheaper for us if we moved to one of the biggest cities in America and bought a home. The average cost of a home in Fayetteville is $430,000, whereas in Chicago, it is $360,000.
 which is kind of crazy. Not that I want to live in Chicago, I would much rather stay in Fayetteville where I've invested my time and spent a lot of, you know, a lot of time living here and wanting to make it a better place. So I would much rather stay here, but seeing as a lot of my friends that used to live here have moved to Chicago because they've also found that they can afford a better lifestyle, quality of life there.
 That's kind of sad. And most of those people used to be service industry employees here, my friends that have moved to Chicago. So it's a crisis of people not being able to afford to live here and literally finding that one of the biggest cities in America is more accessible to live in, which is kind of crazy if you think about it. I really just would love to see a housing crisis declared because it's only going to get worse as things...
 go on if we don't. Especially as you see in, you know, it's not just Fayetteville, it's all of America. When private equity is what's buying up over 44% of homes, I believe, in the past year, that's pricing out most of Americans from the home-owning market. Most of America is going to be renters within the next probably 10 years. And so if that's maybe not even 10 years, but if that's the case, we've got to declare a cop in crisis.
 Thank you. Hello. My name is Gideon Durzon and I live at 1530 North Pershing Street in Ward 4. Tonight I will be reading a statement from my friend who is currently at her job working second shift. Please remember that for all of the people who speak to you today, there are so, so many more who can't because they're second and third shift workers, the people who make our city function while we sleep but have less time during the day to navigate the crisis that we're facing.
 These are also people who deserve to be represented, heard, and housed even when their voices have to take extra steps to reach you. Here's her statement. My name is Wren Miller and I live off of Weddington in Ward 4. I am one of hundreds of Fayetteville residents currently staring down the barrel of what should officially be named a housing crisis. I have spent more time than I cared to count trying to find somewhere, I have spent more time than I cared to count trying to find somewhere
 in the city that is affordable to my current income levels, and I have been deeply challenged in that search. Housing with availability, affordability, and safety to the health of its residents simply does not exist in enough numbers to sustain Fayetteville and her people. Anywhere that I found in a range that did not strain my budget was rife with habitability issues and horror stories. Pictures paint the internet around Fayetteville's available apartments of bed bugs, roaches, rodents, molds, and water damage.
 When I wasn't met with a year-long wait simply for the chance at a place to live, I also had to contend with the roulette wheel of wondering if I would be placed somewhere for 12 months that would be overall harmful to me, and that I would not be in a position to break that lease if this worst-case scenario truly became my new reality. The city that I grew up in, the city that I love, simply has nowhere for me to go that does not sacrifice my quality of life. If Fayetteville has no room left for its locals, then what does it have?
 Since I have a little bit more time for myself, we've taken in multiple people over the course of the last year while they tried desperately every waking moment to find housing and holding them while they cried. Not a single human being deserves to be that kind of scared. Please vote yes to declaring the housing crisis. Thank you.
 My name is Alexandra Paulson. My address is 1151 East Shepherd Lane, which makes me a constituent in Ward 3. I have called Fayetteville home since 2018, and I've experienced the housing crisis firsthand. In 2021, I found myself needing to look for an apartment on short notice, ending up being homeless for two months and living with friends while I searched for an apartment that I could afford, was close enough to campus, and was actually livable. Even back then, apartment hunting was a bleak experience.
 There were so many apartments that were listed and turned out to not be available after all. There were times I would call a complex and ask if there was availability and I got actually laughed at. Some of the apartments I toured had a black mold that they were in the process of covering up. And these apartments were open to people to tour and they didn't care because they knew people needed to live somewhere. Even though I finally did get a place to live, my housing troubles weren't over.
 The apartment I lived in South Fayetteville had a cockroach problem and a sizable leak in the roof that took months to finally fix. I lived there because I didn't have many options, and living in a place with subpar conditions takes a toll on your mental health. Yet I consider myself one of the lucky ones because I did have people I could rely on and places I could go when I needed help. There are a lot of our neighbors in the city that don't have even that.
 We pride ourselves on being a proactive and progressive city, and there is a lot that our city has done, but that doesn't change that we are in the middle of a crisis still. If you're more well off, crisis might seem like a strong word, but try telling one of the growing number of unhoused people in the city or a single mother that is part of the 16,000 rent burden households here in Fayetteville that housing is not a crisis.
 we need action and we need action now we are all here because we have either have experienced something ourselves or know someone and love someone who has please vote yes on this resolution and give our community a fighting chance thank you thank you gladys tiffany 105 north willow street fayetteville i really hope that everybody here really kind of gets a sense that just how lucky fayetteville is that
 We have city councilors who are willing to open their ears to listen to the people talk and we have people in our community who are willing to step up and do that. I think it really is beneficial to us in so many ways that this communication stream goes on and especially at a time like this when we are really forced to look at a crisis that we are facing ourselves,
 And we're sharing it with the whole nation and as many things that are going on in the whole country We see it reflected in Fayetteville But we're also fortunate in the fact that the problem that we are facing as big as it is Is nothing like what some cities and some communities are really going through we are having because we have this communication stream that we can depend on to know what the needs are in our community and
 we really have the option to say, okay, we know what the needs are, what are the solutions? So, the question that we really kind of need to address is, where do we find some of these solutions? And I want to emphasize to everybody that there are a lot of solutions being developed out there in the world. Cities that are facing difficulties far greater than ours,
 are developing solutions that are dealing with housing and homelessness problems that deserve to be looked at because there's stuff out there that we can use in order to actually begin solving for this issue. And there's a lot of reasons to think that a task force and good staff like we have and that I hope that we will get more staff with good expertise on this issue
 There are a lot of things that can be done and we're not talking about Millions of people and I can Los Angeles where they have you know 200,000 people on the streets. We're dealing with 500 people Around that number. That's a manageable problem to solve. So if we are solving that problem now,
 there's hope for us to really figure out how to move forward in a good way that can keep us in a good frame where we are holding on to our values and seeing each other as human beings at the same time that we are also really solving these huge difficulties that our people are facing right now. Thank you. Thank you, guys.
 Hi again. I'm Anna Hurley. I live at 215 South Block Avenue and I'm in Ward 2. We haven't really mentioned that there was a petition that went around that garnered I think over 1,400 signatures. And at the bottom of that petition there were so many comments. And so I printed out some of them and I just wanted to give a voice to some of those comments tonight.
 So I had to move out of one rental house here because of the mold was causing ongoing health issues. And they were raising my rent by 40% without any upgrades. Finally found another rental that was clean, well cared for, and had no mold. However, that rent went up also, and now I pay 74% of my monthly income towards rental loans. There are just no options in Fayetteville for middle to low income singles or families.
 Look at the rest of American cities who put their heads in the sand and ignored housing and urgent movement on zoning reform. There is still time for Fayetteville. There is still time for our city to not fall to what has gotten other places. I stayed in a home with my abuser for too long because I couldn't find affordable housing. It was only because of the kindness of a private landlord who rented to me well below market value that my family could finally stabilize in temporary housing after fleeing our home for safety during the pandemic.
 This is a crisis we have a responsibility to address. There are vulnerable people in our community falling through the cracks, and they have been for too long. I have an advanced degree and work hard, yet I still cannot afford to support my family. Rent is so high it's almost impossible for people working a minimum wage job to survive. How has our community let this happen? I am disappointed in Fayetteville.
 This city needs to urgently address the crisis of housing for Fayetteville residents and not just university students. The difficulty of finding an affordable place to live in Fayetteville is increasingly driving people out of our community and harming the culture and diversity of Fayetteville. The city council needs to serve the members of this community, all of them, not just the wealthy ones. Fayetteville is my home and I love it here, but it is obvious that there is an immediate and significant need for housing available to all residents and income levels.
 Due to medical complications, it is important for me to live alone in order for my home to be safe. But the cost of rent has caused me to live with roommates and put my health at risk because I simply cannot afford to pay rent alone. I currently live in Fayetteville. Paying rent has been a struggle. Luckily, I have the support of my family, but if I didn't, I would definitely be homeless. I believe in the people and community of Fayetteville. Keep housing affordable for the people of Fayetteville and the surrounding communities.
 I myself have experienced a housing crisis. Not knowing where you're going to be able to afford to live is terrifying, and no one should have to deal with this. I was born and raised in Fayetteville, and I feel like I'm being pushed out. We deserve affordable housing. I can't afford to live in Fayetteville anymore. I was raised here. Locals are being pushed out. I'm relying on student loans to stay housed. Okay. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor, Council, Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. I figured I would go ahead and jump in line now so you knew it was safe if you needed to go take a bathroom break or grab a snack. Mayor, you said you didn't want a whole lot of emotional stuff earlier, and it's an emotional issue but I'm going to try and I'm going to stick to the numbers for a little bit. But first, I do want to thank you all for the work that has been done by the city to address housing and homelessness.
 A couple of versions of that list going around, and by my count, there's nine different things listed on that. That work deserves to be recognized, and I'm glad that that will probably happen tonight. But I want to look a little closer at what's in there. Of those nine items, three address homelessness, four are specific for low-middle income residents.
 We're doing a pretty good job, or at least we're getting better at pulling people out of the river when they're drowning. But Desmond Tutu said, there comes a point where you need to stop just pulling people out of the river. You've got to go upstream and find out why they're falling in. And your housing report has those numbers. It really gets the scale of what we're talking about. The 2023 pit count had 302 homeless people in Fayetteville.
 I'll add to that, the schools reported another 2,600 homeless students. Their definitions are a little different. They include folks who are doubled up. That count, we've heard some examples of that tonight.
 But your housing study that came out from staff in August talked about cost-burdened Residents and that amounted to almost 30% of the households in the city That is the scale that we are talking about. It is not a small group of people. It is a third of the city and
 This is not people without homes, this is people who have homes and are struggling to do anything else besides keep their homes. That's an economic development problem. They can't spend anything else in our community if everything they have goes to their housing.
 If you're not sure there's an actual crisis, you're afraid to call it that, you wanna call it something else first, ask yourself tonight how it feels to the people who spoke about their experiences. They are in crisis, they are telling you that. I'm gonna ask you to vote yes on Councilmember Jones' resolution.
 People have said before me that they hope we declare a housing crisis tonight, but what they're really saying is I hope that you will work tomorrow to fix the housing crisis. So vote yes, name it, and then let's get aggressive on solutions. Thank you. Thank you, Kyle.
 Hello, I'm Brian Hurley. I live at 215 South Block in Fayetteville. I've chosen to move to Fayetteville twice, largely because of the cost of living in 2005-2012, and it's more expensive now than it was then.
 I am here to support the resolution. I think it's important for the city to go on the record declaring a housing crisis. Earlier, Evelyn Rios Stafford referenced minutes from a 1970 planning meeting.
 That really stuck with me in this whole debate. And I wanted to dig into those a little bit. They started the quotation that she kind of referenced started off, do you want to encourage large land lots with nice homes? Do we wish to discourage low cost housing? Do we want to encourage this as a medical center for Northwest Arkansas? Do we want to encourage or discourage industry? And so that's great.
 was, as I understand it, when we started zoning here. So that's written into the infrastructure of this community. We've taken a lot of steps as a city to move away from that, starting with what was talked about earlier with moving away from the arduous permitting to lower cost of housing. I've seen all kinds of wonderful things in my time here.
 So recently turning the four lane Archibald Yell into a two lane Nelson Hackett.
 Removal of mandatory parking minimums has allowed vibrant businesses to thrive in this community that wouldn't have otherwise been able to with previous codes. We were funding bicycles before Bentonville was. We've taken great steps with housing as well. We have Willow Bend, we have Seven Hills. I've seen people fight to keep existing public housing on prime real estate in downtown in recognition of the fact that a diverse community is a good one.
 All of this is wonderful, but I believe that it is piecemeal that we have had somewhat slapped together, or not slapped together, but piecemeal approach to this, and that we need an all-hands-on-deck approach at this moment.
 So I would really advocate promoting a coherent and rigorous attempt to deal with the housing crisis. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hello, y'all. My name is Gracie Foreman. I live right off Poplar, about five minutes walking from the Easy Mart there. I know you've heard a lot of stories about struggles within the housing crisis in Fayetteville. So I'm going to try to keep this brief, but let you know, building off of the pandemic,
 This sort of metaphor I heard from a previous speaker that I am in the river right now. I do pay a lot in rent and I am looking in July at where I will go next because I don't think that I will be able to stay in Fayetteville. But the brief portion I want to bring to the table that's a little bit different than previous speakers is that I became trapped in my lease due to the lack of habitability standards
 Arkansas and in Fayetteville more specifically, my electric bill during the winter time was between six hundred to eight hundred dollars and that is because the unit in my in my renting my rental unit is from 1999
 I realized I was trapped in the sleep lease last summer when I was trying to get out of it and I had to enter into a payment plan and I had to take my $25 increase from that and for them to actually fix
 The issues that I was seeing, they would not fix it until I figured out what the actual problem with my electric unit was. And so then into this winter I had to pay between $400 to $600, but I got January and February to go back to normal rates. And I'm saying that to speak to the fact that I understand this will not be a silver bullet for housing. What I am hoping is that
 Y'all will start to feel the current a little bit that the community is speaking to. I know there has been a lot done in housing, and I appreciate that, and I'm very thankful for that thus far. But we're still really waiting against the ripples that we're feeling.
 And I'm watching my neighborhoods change as well. The cars in my neighborhood are changing. The police presence in my neighborhood is changing. I've asked about a couple of my neighbors who are kind of like the walkers around. And a lot of them have been picked up by police, which is not something I've seen in the past three years I've lived there. And so I just want to speak to the fact that our community is not a monolith.
 I'm seeing my neighborhood change, and I really think that there is power in the diversity in my neighborhood and power in the people that are living there. And I hope that I, alongside them, will continue to be in Fayetteville in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. I'm Jesse Buchanan. I live at 150 South Hill Avenue. I moved to Fayetteville about three years ago, just a little bit over that, because I was lucky enough to get hired by Fayetteville High School to teach math.
 And I really love my job. I grew up in a very small town in Arkansas, and as a young queer person, I did not feel safe or welcome in my hometown. But I knew that there was a place in Arkansas where I could go when I got old enough that I would be welcome. And Fayetteville is such a diverse and welcoming community that I do feel welcome here. However, it is increasingly more difficult for those of us who are marginalized to afford to live here.
 and that increases the threats that come with marginalization. We've heard people talk about having to live with abusive partners. I would like to also include that many young people are forced to stay at home with abusive or unaccepting parents
 I have several friends who have not been able to come out to their families because they know that if they did so they would be on the street and they cannot by themselves afford a home. And these are not just teenagers, these are 20 somethings, people who have been working and saving to try to get a home for a while now. I really appreciate that the council is listening to us on this.
 I really appreciate that this resolution has been put forward to declare a housing crisis and I hope that you will vote in favor of it. But whether or not you vote in favor of it, the housing crisis exists. It doesn't matter what we call it. A crisis is what it is by definition. 22% that is the number of students who are classified as homeless in Fayetteville Public Schools according to the data that we received last year in our staff training. If that isn't a crisis, I don't know what is.
 It's children. We've talked a lot about how hard it is as an adult to afford a home and to work to maintain your home. But children don't have a way to do that for themselves. And we know that we have a problem of absenteeism and students not doing their work right now. And if you ask any teacher, that's a huge deal. And I would like to argue that a large part of that is the houselessness issue among our students. A large portion of that is students not going home to the same place every night, not knowing where they're going to get their next meal from.
 So no, they're not doing their homework. No, they're not showing up to school because they don't know where they live. How are we going to expect them to do anything else but try to survive? I really hope on behalf of my students, on behalf of the queer community here in Fayetteville, that you will all please, please vote to approve this housing resolution so that we can actually address the crisis that we have in Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Becky Sisson. I'm the CEO of Seven Hills Homeless Center. I reside at 708 East Delaware Asylum Springs, Arkansas. First and foremost, we are grateful for the city of Fayetteville for being a leader in Northwest Arkansas and showing a commitment by providing financial support to our community members that are experiencing homelessness.
 I would love to spend a lot of time tonight talking about the success of the shelter that we've opened up where we've got 16 people who are thriving and 16 more coming in, but I'm here to address the original resolution and the homeless side of it. Because homelessness was in there in what we've seen, what we're experiencing as an organization. You've seen tonight there's a broad narrative of housing. What's the definition of a house? A house.
 What is homelessness people who are unsheltered people who are in school people who are doubling up all of those things? But we're dealing with the people who are currently unsheltered within our organization on a daily basis our program is perfect person focused It's not address specific it is our responsibility to build our guests towards self-sufficiency and we believe in that process of walking side by side our guests to increase their chances of success and
 We want to work towards employability, bankability, and tenantability, so that they can soon rent with a good record or maybe even buy a home. Placing someone into housing isn't the goal of preparing them. To be housed and to be able to reengage in society and the community, that's our number one priority. Yes, there's a nationwide housing crisis. I moved here from Virginia and experienced it, but the ecosystem was different.
 As an organization that serves the homeless, we are required or strongly encouraged to participate with two HUD-funded entities for funding and collaborations to help our community, housed and unhoused. That's the Housing Authority and the Continuum of Care. Both of these entities could better serve the citizens of Fayetteville were they functioning at a higher level. People may have houses now, but if they're not and we don't have that ecosystem and that net, we're in trouble.
 Key responsibilities of local housing authorities as shared on their website include workforce housing programs, rental assistance and housing vouchers, private landlord incentives, fair housing and anti-discrimination efforts, and community development and planning. Of the COC, it's to assist individuals and families experiencing homelessness, and it's designed to promote community-wide planning and strategic uses of resources to address and prevent homelessness, as stated on the HUD website. I fear in our desperation.
 We're not looking in all directions of what needs to be addressed. There's more that needs to be addressed, that is being addressed. I'm concerned that an extra layer of local oversight, not that we wouldn't appreciate it, might actually be harder for those of us who are already trying to navigate through those relationships that are supposed to be providing us with help as we try to put people into homes.
 Perhaps we should work to address these shortfalls as well within these two entities that are already funded through HUD and maybe build up our infrastructure. Thank you. Hello, my name is Donna. I live at 2149 South Emma Avenue. I am employed by the City of Fayetteville. I am speaking for myself, not as a staff member.
 I am very privileged to be a homeowner in the city, but that is only because my husband's grandfather put a down payment on a house in the 70s. That is an extreme stroke of luck and an extreme privilege, and housing should not be dependent on what happened generations ago. But because of that, I've been able to extend a helping hand to a lot of my friends because
 Almost no one else in my friend group of my age is anywhere close to being able to put a down payment on a house. It can barely afford to pay rent. We've put people up on my couch because there's toxic mold in apartments that's causing a lung disease. A friend of mine almost died because of mold.
 And we've put people up because their rent has doubled or tripled between leases within the past couple years. We've put people up briefly because of abusive relationships. And it's only because of a down payment that was put down in the 70s that I've been able to do that. And that's really hard. And we're trying to do a lot, but there's so much more we can do.
 I'm a bike commuter. I bike in from South Fayetteville every day. And because of that, I see the unhoused, the homeless camps that are off the trail when it's snowing, when there's ice and rain, when it's 100 degrees. And I can't imagine what that's like. People deserve housing. Whatever else is going on in their lives, whatever someone may or may not have done, housing is a basic human right.
 and we should do more. We are doing a lot. Like Spence said, this is not an either or, this is both and. We are doing a lot, but we can do more, and we should do more. Thank you. Good evening, my name is Ambra Bruce. I live on North School Avenue in Ward 1, Ward 2, just kidding.
 Thank you for entertaining these resolutions and all the work that went in through it from the community and the aldermen that put this before the council. As one of the resolutions reiterated, the housing crisis is a systemic issue. We know it goes well beyond Fayetteville.
 However, I have a lot of faith in this council and in our city because climate change is a global issue, but we excel at being environmentally innovative and proactive and I think even recently got another award for that work. So I know that it's an issue we can tackle. The language that I appreciated.
 Within the resolutions, one is declaring the crisis an emergency. One, because I know that there's precedent for it. As someone mentioned in 2020, the same council declared racism as a public health issue. And while no one expected this council or the city to solve racism, it did tell me as a private citizen that it was important and that they cared and that meant a lot.
 The other language that I hope that you support is having the task force. I already know that it's important to this council to address affordable housing in our community. I've been to several meetings where there have been many long nights of people saying that we know that it's an issue that we want to tackle but this perhaps is not the solution as they debate how to use grant money and whether to apply for grants.
 So thinking about the weight that is on your shoulders as a steward of this city, I was thinking that this must be a slam dunk to have a task force knowing that you have others partnering with the community to come up with not just one idea or two ideas, but a whole menu of solutions, some that may work and some that may not. But I do think that it's an important step forward.
 As well, we have a lot of different advisory boards addressing different issues. During COVID-19, there was a health advisory board that was created to address the pandemic. And so again, I feel that there's precedence for these two things. So thank you for considering these and please consider declaring the housing crisis a public emergency and having a task force to help address it.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Danielle Chaney and I live at 958 West Bel Air Drive. I'm in Ward 2 and I'm an employee at the University. However, I'm not speaking on behalf of the University whatsoever. A little background on me, I'm originally from D.C. and my husband's from here and managed to persuade me to move here. He actually, I mean come on, he brought me here during the lights of the Ozarks, so how could I ever say no? But I'm here asking the City Council to approve this resolution. I don't personally have a horse in this race. I'm fortunate enough to own a home here.
 But this city cannot afford to put its head in the sand any longer. We're going through a housing crisis. Whether or not this resolution's wording is approved. To be clear, I am by no means denigrating the work of the city officials. In fact, I thank them profusely for the hours they put in to make this city work. And it's not as if this resolution was crafted in a dark room and written by hooded figures. It was written by panels of people who live in this city and are worried about the future of their fellow citizens, friends, and family.
 If the people that pour your coffee, bus your tables, maintain the square gardens, teach your children, and make the city one of the most desirable places to live in America can't afford to live here, then we are not living in a city. We are swiftly turning into a theme park. The shadow of an election year hangs over this resolution. I ask you to ignore politicking, call this spade a spade, and approve this resolution. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, my name is Monica Elizabeth. I'm at 1519 South School Avenue. It's said that the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again, expecting different results. And that's what this is. I am from San Diego, so I know this scenario well.
 I'm here representing the most vulnerable, which to declare a housing crisis, we have to have vulnerable and that would be the children and the unhoused and we have all that. I was most recently unhoused myself. I slept on bathroom floors in tents.
 I sat next to many of these unhoused and ate with them every day. And I can tell you that they are the most vulnerable in the community. And they need our support. Many of them, all they have available to them are a tent to sleep in, a tent, a rock, or shelter. And shelter is transitional housing. What are they transitioning to?
 What is that? What are we helping? I actually work in a shelter and I How am I supposed to support them if I'm not confident in what that transition that housing that they're going to transition to is going to be supportive of them So that's what we need to be looking at to solve. Thank you. Thank you Evelyn Rios Stafford 527 South Sherman
 My husband is usually the fiery one out of the two of us. But I just want everyone to understand that I went to all three of these public meetings and I heard all these stories. I've heard all these stories. I've heard all these stories over a period of months. And I felt very protective of these people. I felt these stories are heartbreaking. And I felt like I would walk over hot coals for these folks who helped put this resolution together.
 And so, you know, if my mama bear energy has come out, I apologize for that. But I hope people understand at this point that these folks aren't, they're not trying to seek attention. They're not trying to aggrandize themselves or manipulate anybody. They're not trying to, you know, go around any processes or anything like that. And if there's anything that they think
 When they wrote this resolution collectively, if there's anything that they forgot to put in it, if there's anybody that they forgot to say thank you to, grant them some grace, grant them some forgiveness for that. The city has done some good things and no one can deny that. And I think adding that into this resolution is a positive and will help enhance it. But you know, for something that was written by the citizen in a citizen effort, I think this is an incredible effort.
 that these folks have put together and is is incredibly commendable they've heard for many years some of these folks that certain efforts you know they're about to bear fruit they're about to bear fruit and they haven't seen the results yet unfortunately and i think this is a cry for help this is a cry to say hey maybe the things that we've been doing haven't been working for us so maybe we should try some new things and maybe we should be open to that as a city um and so
 those are just some of my thoughts from attending these meetings over the last months since last september and um you know i i want to say some people think sometimes like my husband's my mouthpiece or i'm his mouthpiece not at all i have no idea what he's going to do tonight um i haven't heard from him in hours but uh just just you're going to hear from i think some from some more people on zoom but grant everybody
 the best of intentions tonight thank you thank you okay so now we're ready to take people from the outside well and in fact we started taking names so that we could call them in but almost all of the names that we took have they have come in is there okay so now we can go to zoom if you're ready for that man yes i'm prepared all right um on zoom we have caitlyn madeline
 Hi, can you hear me okay? Yes, we can hear you. Okay, excellent. Well, hi, my name is Caitlin Draper Matlin and I'm a resident of Ward 1 at 1584 South Spring Lake Drive. I want to thank each council member for your service to our community. I'm so proud of living here in Fayetteville and a large part of that is because of you. I'm here to express my full support of the Fayetteville Housing Action Coalition's Housing Crisis Resolution.
 I'm a clinical social worker and I have a private practice at 221 Northeast Avenue. I'm currently seeing the impacts of our housing crisis on my clients and on members of the community from a range of age and socioeconomic status. It has become so pressing to a percentage of my clients that I've had to open a food pantry in my office recently.
 because so many of my and my colleagues' clients are food insecure for the first time ever. Obviously, Maslow's hierarchy of needs, people are really unable to receive the full benefit of their therapeutic services if they are struggling with housing and food costs. I've also seen a lot of people who do things in our community like nursing and social work have to leave the community and that is incredibly stressful for them.
 This is a real issue that has real victims, I'll say, real people that are dealing with this and it causes a multitude of issues in their lives. I urge you also to please leave your ego out of this decision. We all love and support our City Council and we know that you've both done so much work on this, each and every one of you, and we need more support to help combat the crisis that's threatening to choke our lovely city.
 You know, also I'll say this earlier, there was a comment about making sure we don't get emotional, but this is emotional. The housing crisis is emotional. It's about our community members' livelihood. It's also about food security and our human rights. That is all. Thank you very much for your work. You do. Maya Scharfenberg. Go ahead.
 Hello, my name is Maya Sharfenberg. I am a resident of Ward 2 at 2142 North Chestnut Avenue, and I am speaking today to show my support for this resolution. While, yes, housing is a national problem, Fayetteville is on the forefront. Fayetteville has one of the most competitive markets for rental properties in the United States, which is fantastic for landlords. It is not fantastic for residents, especially low-income residents.
 Combine this with the fact that Arkansas has no habitability standards and you have a recipe for an emergency. This resolution is imperative to creating a healthy community and future for all residents. I was born here and I have lived in Fayetteville almost my entire life, and I have seen how this crisis has impacted so many, including myself and my family.
 As most of this council is aware, I have fought hard to keep my family in Fayetteville. Securing housing for my father when his home was being demolished took months and still he is financially struggling. And I have tried and failed numerous times to find an affordable place to rent large enough for him and my family within Fayetteville as we work to build on his land. Still though, I feel lucky because without my father's land, I know we would never be able to afford a home here.
 effectively forcing us out of our beloved city. I have seen so many loved ones and friends, long-term residents included, move out of Fayetteville because of housing prices, driven to rent and buy in less competitive areas, leaving the city and even the state they love because they simply cannot find housing, let alone affordable housing.
 Often when I explore Fayetteville with my daughter, I am hyper aware of the dichotomy that exists here. A beautifully charming Razorback Greenway with tents visible through the trees. An affluent public library with unhoused persons hiding from the elements. The gorgeous houses that line Wilson Park with the shabby apartment buildings with months long waiting lists not even a mile away. I call one of those shabby apartments home and over five years ago, it took my partner and I months of searching and applying to finally find an available apartment.
 The search for affordable housing has only gotten harder.
 I do have to wonder if all the members of this council were aware of the magnitude of this flight. I fear that many believe because some action has been done that a lot more action is not needed. Acknowledgement of this crisis, and it is a crisis, is not an admission of failure, but by failing to act, leadership will be failing to mitigate the doom spiral for our residents. Lack of affordable housing leads to more unhoused, leads to dropouts and job loss, leads to crime and increased drug use, and leads to a community in an ever-growing crisis.
 this council has an opportunity to lessen the suffering of our community fable is in desperate need of an actual plan for all residents this resolution is the start to that actionable plan vote yes thank you thank you lance reed go ahead lance we did we lose lanes um okay you hear me yes
 Sorry about that. Good evening. My name is Lance Reed. I live at 445 Southwest Miami Loop here in Fayetteville. I'm asking the council, urging the council to support this resolution because it has been written by the city, the citizens of the city. I'm very disappointed that there's a competing resolution that could have easily been passed.
 been addressed that they had went to the people that had drafted and crafted the original resolution that we're voting on tonight, y'all are voting on tonight, as opposed to being manipulative in their actions. And so I'm really disappointed that
 That, you know, we had council members engaging in backdoor situations that were inaccurate about the resolution that was written by the people and that
 It's unfortunate that council members think that they know more than what the people who wrote the resolution about their situations. That is a crisis. It is okay that we can say it is a crisis and that we can move forward. By saying it's a crisis is not diminishing anything, what has been progress that the city has done, but it's...
 Voting no on this resolution is saying to the public citizens who wrote the, the resolution that you, as the council members know more know best for them. Even though they are living in those experiences, so I would urge you to really listen to the people who are impacted the people who wrote the resolution that are.
 having issues with housing and move forward do not be manipulated into scare tactics based on one individual's lack of understanding and a lack of actually collaboration and moving forward so I would encourage the council to vote for his resolution Richard Tiffany
 Hi, I'm Richard Tiffany. I live on Willow in Ward 1. We have two resolutions here. The second one will make the city more efficient in developing some housing, but there's some gaps in the system, and I feel like this resolution here currently under discussion will fill in some of those gaps, particularly related to low-income housing, and I hope that the city council will support it.
 that's all thanks all right thank you there's no one else on zoom with their hand raised mayor okay well let's bring back to the council does the council want to break could could we please sure that saved my spot yeah yeah don't go nowhere yeah let's take about ten minutes
 And then we'll start on probably some amendments and discussions. OK. We were about to, I believe, start on some amendments. Is that correct? Who wants to do that? Was it Bob who decided we would? BOBBY LEWISIASENCZAK- Yes. If that's OK, and if other members don't mind. That's up to you all, because it looks like you all have the amendments, unless somebody has some more amendments.
 Before I bring my amendments, I do want to make some comments if that's okay. Is that okay? Well sure Bob. Oh thank you. Have you ever seen me stop you before? My wife's right. I'm usually the the more passionate one between us. This is for feisty maybe or something but I just want to make a statement and you know I know well I'm going to give a little antidote and it's
 We met about, what was it, a month ago or whatever at Greatfield and got together and had a workshop for the day. And a friend of mine asked me how the workshop went and I said, I felt I got to learn about the other members' priorities and thought processes. I think we learned some things that there's a lot of common ground. We were split into two groups for a good portion of it. I worked with Holly and Scott. We worked very well together.
 And we mostly agreed on priorities and did some great work. I don't want us to compete. I want us to collaborate. And in that effort, I'm bringing some amendments. And I want to thank Blake and Susan for sitting down with me for close to two hours. They had already developed it. I went to Blake, I don't know when,
 a couple weeks ago, whatever, a week or so ago, and told them that I wanted, you know, that I supported the spirit of this, but I wanted to bring forth some amendments that had some concerns. When I came into the office, they had kind of, it had almost like a document that addressed a lot of my concerns. And we sat down, we met, and, you know, I thank them for doing that because I felt like they did most of my work for me. So this isn't just coming from me, but,
 And I think even some of Mike's ideas may have been in there. I'm not sure. But we sat down, really had a great discussion, really did some good work to bring these together. I originally was going to read some more comments. I know we got 50 comments that came in this morning. We had so many great comments here tonight that I don't think we need to do. There is one that I think a voice that wasn't heard,
 And I think Evelyn told me one of my constituents, I consider a friend, I'm really not on social media right now. And if you look at my page, you'll see that. Sorry to my constituents for not keeping them updated. But Kent Atkins, he used to own Grease Big. He's a business owner, he's a successful guy. He sold his business, so he's able to retire.
 I called him today because he had a comment that basically said he can't afford to move sideways. This is somebody way more successful than me in anything, and he can't even afford. He said he's had his house for 12 years. He said if he were to sell it, the only place he could afford to move was like two doors down, and then he'd be moving into a house he hadn't done any work on. It's like so...
 So this is a top to bottom problem. And I've heard many of us here in the council use the term housing crisis. I think at one time or another, all of us have. And.
 I want to say, you know, there's no shame in accepting that term and there's no blame in accepting that we're in that situation. I mean, I think there's stuff and stuff coming online that we're doing. I think there's, you know, what Britt and Jonathan and their staffs are doing, what other people are doing are fantastic.
 And I understand that the public isn't necessarily aware of the mechanisms and how hard people are working and how things are actually moving forward. I brought my amendments in good faith and I originally just had one big amendment that covered all my changes. But I called Blake and I said, you know what, I want these, I want to split these up because
 Instead of trying to change one bit in paragraph two and another bit in paragraph three, I said let's just separate these down. I don't know if everybody has copies of the amendments. Can we bring that up? So they're included in your packet as attachment number five, but we can also pull them up on the screen there. That'd be fun.
 and and so my first amendment is to the uh whereas and i really thank susan on this she did so much hard work on this and and i also want to say that that you know i see something like this if somebody else wanted to add something else to it if council member whedeker wanted to add uh uh something from his on here you know or whatever i i'm totally fine i see mine as kind of a a starting step
 And it's just to give more context to things that have been done and are being done. I don't know, I mean, do you guys want me to, do we need to go through this or have you guys had a chance to look? I don't know what the process. Well, I mean, to me, you present your amendment. I present my amendment. I mean, I don't know if everybody else has read the amendment, but I have. I assume everyone has on your first amendment.
 So I would like to bring forward my first amendment, and then after that I'd like to bring forward my third amendment. My second amendment deals with paragraph or section two, and it was one I was really having an issue with, and that's the task force. Because it's like a task force for one year, it's like, well, we know nominating committee doesn't mean until June, and –
 you know, forming a new committee is not necessarily the easiest thing. So I thought, well, instead of doing that, other people mentioned CDAP and the facilities board. And so I kind of went that route. And when that was filed today at the city clerk's office, lo and behold, some of my constituents were paying attention and they contacted me and they were not happy with me at all in number two.
 think number two doesn't need to be amended and I hope we can work together to do that but I am withdrawing my amendment of section two but I would like to bring forward my first amendment which is the in the in the whereas department and this is my first rodeo so I don't know it's alright so it'll need a motion and a second to amend the resolution
 I just wanted to see after you've made that motion though I wanted to kind of discuss and see if we could look at what the ones were from is it possible for us to pull up the screen and look at the ones that were brought forward from council member Whitaker to see if we might potentially want to include some of those as well.
 Well, I'm not sure we can pull up any documents you want to look at. If you want to, I suppose we could combine the two resolutions. You know, I'm hoping... I did that once. It didn't work out real well for me. Oh, you put both of them here? I'm fine with whatever works best. Okay.
 I guess my attempt is to try to be as exhaustive potentially in this amendment. And Sarah, I think it's what you and DeAndre want to do because this is actually the first resolution is y'all's. And then, so...
 I guess, are you agreeable with that? It sounds like what you're saying is, Bob, I think this is what he's saying. We're on the initial resolution that was brought by Sarah and I. Yes. So you're making amendments to that one? Yes. Okay. Because I don't want to get into y'all's business here. And then I will, if that's okay, I'll make the amendments that...
 the community has reached out to me and we're still on the same one so once bob makes his amendments to the original one then if it's okay i will make amendments to that one as well okay and has everybody had a chance to read this i i have okay okay mayor yes um
 I don't think anybody on this council does not recognize the fact that we have an issue that we're trying to address and we work every day trying to address that and staff works on it every day. This is a very important issue and just in the last five minutes we see how kind of confusing it's gotten.
 Some folks are not going to like my recommendation, but if we want to get this right, let's table this for two weeks and let's get together and get kind of cleaned up and come back with a proposal that...
 i i think maybe it would be good to get our would be good to get our amendments on table but i i would i would really love that if we were to uh uh look at both amendments and look at how do we how do you know well first of all come together first of all the two the two sponsors of the resolution would have to agree to that right blake well the council could table it
 Well, I know, but how do you like to? Could we amend and then table? So at least we're at a, like either, like move the ball ahead a little, like amend, then table, and then come back in two weeks? I'm asking, I think, in the event that that's been brought to the floor about two weeks, that we actually discuss.
 I feel like there's a lot of trading of horses that's happening out in the community, and so not everyone is staying on the same page. I think that there is a desire for this to be a very public conversation. And so what I would ask is that those of us that are sitting on ordinance review, maybe we could schedule an extra ordinance review. Sorry. But I'd also ask all my colleagues.
 my colleagues to sign up to attend as well. Hopefully we can find a date. Here's the only reason I say what I say is we're on track and I'll be here until the last vote's taken but we're on track to be here until 2 or 3 o'clock in the morning and we are not going to make good decisions that late at night. With going back and forth with men this and men that I think we're going to get really confused and that's the only reason I bring it forward.
 Okay, I think bringing this forth on behalf of the community, it's been many individuals have asked me, they said, DeAndre, can you do one thing? Can you all look at how we can merge them both? And that's what I did. I looked at what Council Member Whitaker had included, and then I took some of the language, what the community had said.
 and put them both together. The only thing that I took out as it relates to the community was the housing coordinator. As far as the task force, all of that is in this one. So I've done what the community has requested as it relates to merging the two of them together.
 and i provided those details we my goal tonight was as it relates to the housing task force my goal tonight was to based on the original resolution was to take to table it because we wanted
 the council to provide names for individuals who would be willing to serve on the task force based on the recommendations that the community came forth. When I say recommendations, meaning the different organizations and the different skill sets.
 That's what the community had brought forth. We understand that the housing coordinator, that was a little challenging, but we wanted to continue to keep the spirit of the resolution and tabling it for two weeks because we wanted to address those concerns about the task force and who would serve on that and give the council and the mayor an opportunity to see which direction you all wanted to go.
 Okay. And to Councilmember Moore's point, I think if we send this to ordinance review that
 that we're just slowing it, unnecessarily slowing it down. I think we've all had a chance. We have two resolutions. I think they can be brought together. I'd like to go ahead and bring together my amendments as planned, and then I'm opening to where, I'm open to where it goes from there.
 uh but uh it and if we table both resolutions for two weeks and and then in two weeks we either come together with two resolutions again or we come together one uh that's fine um but i'd like to move forward by amendments if that's okay we're going to do that you might as well just do the whole thing what
 I do want to weigh in on ordinance review right now. I don't know when this could be possibly brought. We're currently working on short-term rentals and we have a new ordinance coming through next week or on April 1st actually. So this would take a really long time to get to ordinance review. Thank you. Mayor Jordan, would it be possible if I can just, I mean you all have a copy of the resolution that I brought for the new one.
 they combined uh what the one that the community has brought forth in council member Whitaker's uh I sent that to Blake today and uh if if it's okay we can go through that one it does remove the position the housing coordinator role and but it does continue to speak to the um
 the task force, the housing task force. And I've also made some additional notes explaining what the task force would look like and how in tabling the task force
 functions and roles until two weeks. Therefore, the council will have the opportunity to look and see, to submit names and Mayor Jordan, you'll have the opportunity to submit names as well. That's the only reason why the community was wanting to table it, because of the task boards. We wanted to make sure that the council had some input on the task boards. But everything
 information from Councilman Whitaker's and from the original one that the community has brought forth. And the only thing that we took out from the original resolution was the housing coordinator. But why, just let me get my bearings here. So you could include Bob's along with the two resolutions, couldn't you?
 all three pieces. I would appreciate getting them on the floor. Like I said, it is my first rodeo, so I'd like to bring them forward if possible. And I worked hard with staff on this, and I feel like they're good. So if I could move forward my number one and number three amendments.
 And then you do anything you want to, Bob. Whatever that works. I don't know. And Mayor, just to clarify, at least a portion of Councilmember Jones's combined resolution includes that whereas that lists some of the accomplishments and the things that the city is doing.
 and council member Stafford's list is expanded and you know there's some blanks in this one council member Stafford's has those blanks filled in so I think you're trying to get to the same point on at least that whereas thank you like and I second so Bob you want to bring the First Amendment forward I would like that yes I'm just trying to get
 Okay, and DeAndre you seconded it. Okay, what discussion do we have on the amendments, on this amendment? May I? Sure. I would really appreciate the proposed amendment that's on the floor being read in its entirety so we're sure what we're voting on. Do you have a break? Is that anything? That would probably be a break. I'm happy to.
 Whereas the City Council acknowledges the staff who currently work together in support of increasing the housing supply under the direction of the Mayor and Chief of Staff to identify opportunities for improved public engagement through city growth master planning processes at the local and regional levels,
 appropriate infrastructure cost shares and economic vitality initiatives in the following areas development services long range planning community resources economic vitality public works and water sewer infrastructure.
 And whereas the City Council also recognizes that the City has taken substantial steps to assist residents, including entering into a 99-year lease of City property with Seven Hills Homeless Center for the Walker Residential Unit for emergency sheltering, providing $337,000 in maintenance funding to that facility, and providing an additional $801,926 in financial assistance to the Seven Hills Homeless Day Center for daily services to homeless residents between 2018 and 2024.
 Paying $1 million as a cost share with Partners for Better Housing on the Willow Bend Project for Public Infrastructure. Administering the Community Development Block Grant Program to improve housing, public and community facilities, and provide public services to low- to moderate-income Fayetteville residents. Committing $1,630,000 of American Rescue Plan Act funds for a multi-organization project to address housing instability in Fayetteville.
 Administering a housing rehabilitation slash repair program and housing redevelopment program. Designing a permit ready building design program soon to be implemented that will reduce costs of construction for property owners in the program area.
 Administering the HEARTH program, which has provided $2,576,580 in assistance between 2016 and 2023 to provide permanent supportive housing and ongoing counseling, life skills training, and advocacy services to formerly homeless individuals and families.
 Establishing the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board, whose purpose is to advise the Community Resources Division and the City Council on the community development and public assistance programs mentioned above, and whose purpose can be amended to place a specific emphasis on housing issues. Providing funds for infrastructure cost shares to promote infill in the downtown area and other strategic locations, such as the Cato Springs development in support of the neurodiverse SLS community.
 establishing a new partnership with the Accelerate Foundation for the Sheltering Assistance from Extreme Weather, SAFE program, to distribute $50,000 for both cold weather and warm weather services during 2024. Thank you. Everybody good? All right, so what discussion do we want to have here? No discussion.
 Thank you for reading those. I was able to look at and Councilmember Whitaker you might have to correct me if I missed something but it appears that there might be the last seven on the next resolution that are listed and that whereas that gave some
 additional acknowledgements or projects that have been happening in the city and so I guess I would make a friendly amendment To that amendment if you would be open to it of adding those seven So that it would be a complete listing that would mirror what the other five council members had sponsored and that whereas If you would be open to that I
 Sarah has introduced. Yeah, I think process, I didn't. Yeah, I'm open to that. Yeah, that's yes. Just so it'll be a complete list since it appeared to have some agreement on that list previously and so that would be basically a match to what reads currently in the next resolution. All right. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I am
 so appreciative of the desire of council to find our way forward. And I think that that's in the interest of the community. You know, I offered a resolution that did not, and I mean some people complained that I did not call for a specific action. Some of those were staff people. But my resolution was actually intended
 the first half to literally just document the work that's going on underway that I just felt Compelled as a person that had worked for City Council's for 32 years. You know, I worked for five city managers And only two of them liked me, Mr. Mayor. And so as a staff person who had experienced both good treatment and poor treatment from elected officials throughout my career, one of my chief concerns was
 the cost incurred by momentum in the organization whenever you lose a talented, productive person. And that was one of the big concerns that I had. You lose a couple people in your development services office that are critical people, and you're going to spend 150% of their salary trying to replace them in a year to train them, and you've lost your ability to crank out approvals for housing developments. So that's...
 one half of where I was coming from. I don't do this work. None of us do this work. We pass budgets and policies. It's the staff that do the work and I was really, just from my view, wanting to be sure and acknowledge that because I didn't think we could afford to lose people. You know, you don't really need my resolution to be merged. It can be,
 But if it's not offending anyone because it's not asking for any new public funding to be spent, it's not asking to stop any public funding on any program. It's not terminating anything. It's not denying anything. It really is a non-binding resolution to say, here's what I think the truth of the challenge that we're facing.
 And so I'm completely comfortable with it being separate, no offense. I'm completely comfortable with it being tabled. If we wanted to table, I would be...
 comfortable for us to take things out of order and table it first so that people would rest assured it's tabled and that people would then be able to logically and rationally have the opportunity to work together to produce a single document or to conclude, you know, let's have two documents, but we're amending them in a manner that's agreeable to the majority of people. And so I
 I agree, we can stay here and do this, but you can see the dilemma that it would place me in, right? Oh, sure, yeah, yeah, yeah. And I wanted to defer to you on that. If, again, you know, I thought it would be good to amend the first document, and then if it's amended, we can still table it, right? Yes? Yes. Okay, thank you.
 and and I would like to keep my forward and I respect councilman Whittaker's Desire to keep his separate right now if he is a you know, I are we talking about tabling both amendments or Or passing one and tabling the other I I do have a little concern about that Come on keep women beneath their wings working
 on putting these together. Did I miss that somewhere along the way? I only have my own amendments.
 I don't know what the other... Okay, I'm not talking to you. Okay. I want to make this as simple as I possibly can. Oh, I think we've accomplished it. Yeah, I do. I really do. Councilmember Whitaker, based on the community, we do want to highlight
 what the things that Fayetteville has already done. And when you pointed that out in your resolution, the community, they agreed. And so I have that in the amended version. I have what the information that they, I have your resolution, I've incorporated them both.
 So if you want me to take those out, I can. But I've already put those. I'm bringing that forth in addition to the original one, because the community members, they wanted to see them merged. Yes, Mark. Thank you, sir. I think I like the idea of us working together a huge deal. These are good people trying to improve things in our community.
 If we go down this road though, I'm struggling between digital documents, printed documents, and saying, okay, wait a second, the bullets are there, we've amended it, but now my whereases, I've lost a couple of whereases. Okay, well I was a bit better off just saying, okay, let's just pass my resolution as it is, presuming that it's not offensive to anyone. Okay.
 But you can see the dilemma that it places me in of saying, well we've jumped down to fewer whereases and I'm just left saying, it's not that that's bad, it's just that that creates a dilemma for me. And that's just for me. So that part of the value in potentially tabling mine,
 which I presume that we can do in short order. Yes, we can. We can move that. And that might give us the best chance to say, okay, you know what, this is good. This language merges these two whereas versus one whereas lives and the other one gets scratched, if that makes any sense. So Blake, in this instance, can we follow your lead based on this conversation
 Where are we as it relates to Bob and mine? Sure. So right now we have Bob's amendment number one, Councilmember Stafford, sorry. His amendment number one adds a brand new whereas that recognizes the staff and the efforts that the city has done on the staffing level. And then it includes bullet points.
 Councilmember Moore noted there are seven additional bullet points in Councilmember Whedeker's resolution that are not in Councilmember Stafford's amendment. So you could adopt Councilmember Stafford's amendment and then you can bring another amendment to drag those other seven over if you want. Can I make a motion to pass my amendment?
 I'm just going to make a statement. Whereas I have no idea what we're doing. We're all over the place. And it really, my personal preference is that we show the community a united front and merge the two resolutions. I think that gives the community the vision that we are on the same page.
 That's my personal preference and my personal preference is also to table this so that we can get a combined resolution. My question though is how, and this would be to Blake, so that we're all on the same page. If we were to table both resolutions, how do we work to combine the two resolutions? I think I would suggest starting with one.
 then pulling over from the second one what you want to add so if you're starting with councilmember Jones and councilmember Moore's resolution
 We could go through Councilmember Whitaker's resolution and you can vote, you know, a whereas clause at a time, a section at a time, or bulk sections at a time to incorporate that language. Now, I agree with you that it's probably best if we do that, that it be tabled so we can bring back.
 a single document for everybody to look at. I yeah, so you're willing to table your resolution. Let's just deal with that first, shall we? Alright. Resolution to summarize action statement anticipated to support housing production in the City of Feather. So, we've had plenty of discussion, so we're going to table this, so
 I need a motion and a second. Mayor, just one comment. I would make that a motion to suspend the rules because we're still under consideration. Oh, you're right. So if we suspend the rules and table it, then that takes care of that issue. Okay, then we'll suspend the rules to table item 4 on the agenda like we did item 12. Correct. Point of information, when we go to table, we don't go to public comment or we do?
 tabling does not have public comment okay that's what I was thinking okay thank you am I good okay have we got a motion to say no not yet may I have the honor of making the motion to table my resolution I would move to table my resolution
 Second Yes, sorry point of order Aren't we on the first resolution that was bought forward? Well, we just we changed that that's why we deal with number four now because I'm getting a special thing Okay, thanks. My requires the motion to suspend the rules Do that yes. Yes. Thank you for clarifying. He's gonna go away. I
 All right. We're gonna get rid of this. Yeah, we're all right. We're all right. We can work this out. We're intelligent people. Okay, so we're gonna vote to table item four. Any comments? Just one. And we're just tabling for two weeks. We're not gonna, we don't wanna table indefinitely. We don't wanna, we just want to- I don't know, that's up to the sponsor. Or whatever the sponsor wants. How long you wanna table it, Mike? Let's table it for two weeks.
 If you'll give me just one moment to make sure that I have this recorded correctly. So at this point, we've moved forward to d4. But we first need to have a motion in a second to suspend the rules to move to this conversation before the vote can happen to whether or not it's going to be taken. Okay, so thank you so much. I feel like we're tracking. Yeah, yeah.
 Yes, we might be the only two people. Do I instead need to make a motion to stop the current Agenda 3 and reorder and address Agenda Item 4 so that it could then have a motion be made to table? An easier way would be to move to suspend the rules and immediately consider Item 4. Yes. That's what I would like to do. Thank you.
 I've moved to suspend the rules and exactly what Blake said. Second. Yes, we've done it again. That's great. You got that, Kara? Would you please call the roll? Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Biedeker. Yes. Burnham. Yes.
 Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. All right. Thank you all very much. Now we go back to your amendment, right? We still need a motion to table. Oh. And I appreciate the honor of making the motion to table my resolution. All right. Motion second to table. Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford was the second. Yes. Table for two weeks. Two weeks. I'm for it.
 Stafford yes Jones yes more yes we deter yes Arna yes yes yes yes yes now let's go back to number four with an amendment I mean I'm sorry excuse me I'm a little confused right now well so we go back to we're on item three yeah I have a question
 Why are we doing amendments on D3 if we tabled D4 with the intent of tabling D3 to then combine them? Because it didn't work out, Holly. I move we table D3. Bob didn't want to table D3. Well, I'm fine with tabling. I would like to get my amendments.
 I thought that's why we tabled D4. Table the whole thing, and then if people have amendments to bring in the next week, they can do that, right? But you didn't want to table it until after you had your amendment, right? I would like to get my amendments on it first before we table it.
 See, that's why I was saying. And I had made a motion and had a second. This is why we tabled D4, to discuss the amendments to combine D3 and D4. No. I would not have voted to table D4. I agree. Oh, OK. I think we're talking past each other.
 Why do you not want to just table D3? Oh, table it? Well, can I... Because I think those amendments that I brought forth are good amendments, and they still... Well, I didn't say they weren't. But, I mean, I think they make it easier for our work next week. I disagree. Or in two weeks. I respect your right to disagree. Should we just table? Is that what I'm being asked to do with that motion and second? Okay. Sure. Yes, sir. Okay.
 I'm hoping we're having discussion currently. I think I'm getting a little confused, but I think
 I thought the explanation that was provided, as we were tabling four, so that we can just focus on an address three tonight, make any changes we wanted to three, who knows what that was going to be, potentially pass it, potentially table it, question mark, and then four would be out in the future in the event that we wanted to do something with that in the future. I thought that was the understanding, and so I apologize to you if I misunderstood,
 My hope tonight would be that we would maybe see about making amendments to it and potentially could vote on something this evening, but at least have these discussions, let the public weigh in on the amendments, if our colleagues would be open to that. Okay. So you want to go on with D3, right, Bob? That's what I thought we were doing. Okay. So. Is that okay? I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 It's just my confusion. I thought that we were going to table everything and then have the, in essence, three versions now. Yeah, but I felt it would be simpler to table an amended document so then I don't have to reintroduce the same amendments again. If my amendments fail, they fail.
 or and then but those could still be changed or re-amended i don't i'm like i'm willing to to amend the table but if no one else i'm willing to i'm not going to die in a hill here and i'm i'm willing to defer to the uh the wishes of the council i guess yeah let's go on
 Blake, I understand exactly what he's trying to say. And I think we're, again, we've had so many whereases and all that. Is there anything to preclude him from if we table both resolutions that he brings forth through you and you send it out to us for us to review and.
 We clean up the resolution via your office and then you send it out to us where he's going to get what he wants in the way of resolutions brought forward or changes to the to the resolution. Is there anything that keeps us from doing that? So that he gets basically what he wants without.
 all the confusion that's going on. Yeah, I mean you have a couple of options. You can either sit here and you know one by one bring items over from the second resolution and add it to what's on the floor or you can table it and somebody can work with our office on a combined resolution that would come back and amend either this one or the second one.
 You have options. So we kind of find ourselves in this kind of conundrum because there was a community-led effort to bring a resolution forward, and there was a competing resolution brought forward. And so unfortunately, that creates a lot of mess.
 And it creates a lot of confusion, and it creates a lot of emotion. But I think also the public's been waiting a really long time. I spent most of my day today going back through and rewatching conversations that we had because I wanted to make sure that I really understood what the history has been on this subject, what facts have actually been brought forward. There was a validity question of why call it a housing crisis?
 And to me, I was gobsmacked because I feel like we've said housing crisis in this chamber so many times. And I did find that in reviewing the record. And so
 I am concerned that we are a year past when we were saying that last year. And we do have a lot of ground to make up. And so it's not in the public eye when we're making all these different amendments. It's whoever's jockeying for a position to make those changes. And I think, unfortunately, while it might be messy and we have to go section by section,
 so be it, that we can get through what the community has been working on for months on end and can come to something that we can all come to terms to agree to. I don't think that I'm probably going to get everything in this resolution tonight that I'd like to see happen, but I really would like us to be able to deliver something to our community that's worked so hard and has stayed so long tonight, and I think that we have the diligence and availability to do that if others will.
 Mayor, may I ask a question? Sure. Why not? Of Blake.
 What is exactly on the floor? Because I believe that the, right, well no, I'm sorry. The item that's on the floor is the original DeAndre resolution, not the resolution that DeAndre has now brought amendments to, right? That's correct. Okay, I just wanna make sure, because now we have four, or now we've got three, because Mike just, yeah. You got three. Right. That's why I keep trying to say you got three. Thank you, I just wanna make sure we were all on the same page about what's currently on the floor that Bob is amending.
 Mayor, may I? Yes. Thank you. You know, it's very confusing. We've had a lot of amendments at the last minute. These were received today, late in the afternoon. I think we owe it to the public to actually take our time, get it right, come back with a clean version so that we all know we've got, we're thinking about it, we've seen these new amendments now, and
 and have a chance to kind of digest that, but also have a clean version in two weeks. So I would really offer that we table D3 and then Bob or Council Member Stafford, Council Member Jones, Council Member Moore, any of us,
 work with Blake to come up with a clean version next week or amendments to the version well in advance so that we kind of know what's going to be out there, okay, and have time to think about it. That's what I would offer. Thank you for listening to me. Councilmember Tark, I will – I agree. I think that we have – I'm even confused.
 And I mean, and I like to simplify things, but I think it's impossible right now. So I do believe that in the best interests of the community, we know that after hearing our constituents tonight, that the resolution won't lose its spirit. And I think that if we work with Blake, then we're able to really deliver something that's really effective because right now, I just don't think that's possible.
 i just really don't as much as i would love to see it go forth and i know that the community wouldn't want us to rush through it and i feel like right now we've got so many other things that will end up rushing through it and i'm willing to work with blake's office on what i have so we can present something uh to the community on uh something to the council
 And this will also give me an opportunity to probably talk more to the community so we can flesh something out that's really meaningful. But I don't think that we can do that right now. So I support your second, Matt. You just want a table E3. And then in two weeks you all get together and do some sort of combined resolution? Yes, I will work with Blake's office and present what I have.
 And then I guess Bob will do the same, and then we'll bring that back to the council. Yeah, whatever works. I thought it'd be simpler to,
 to do the amendments and then do that the the whatever works i'm i'm good with that it's it's right we're running late and i'm if if the sponsors are all good with this i'm miles i'm good with that i i my original intention was to simplify i guess i i failed at that attempt and i apologize for that yes and holly i apologize uh councilmember uh uh herzberg i apologize for for any miscommunication there and and misunderstanding there so
 Thank you. I just want to weigh in that I have concern about these conversations and these amendments and changes happening outside of the public view. I think that the public's business needs to be done fully in the view of the public. Sometimes it's messy again making the sausage as I've heard someone say recently.
 But I worry about the credibility potentially and the questioning of how we arrive at a final product. I honestly don't know how we don't potentially come into some potential FOIA violations and conversations that are going to need to be had for us to hash some of this out to come to some understandings. And so that's my hesitation is that,
 Again, while it could be messy and we might have to muck through it, that was my thought, trying to take into account Council Member Berna's statement of being concerned about the confusion in the late hour, trying to think about the potential of a special meeting instead of trying to bring this, again, on a regular session where we've got many other items of interest as well. The community has to show up.
 And then we potentially are still going to be making amendments and speaking to the conversations that weren't had that came to, you know, that arrival of that resolution. So those are my concerns. But, you know, I'll go with what my colleagues want to do this evening. But I have immense concerns in that regard. Okay. Well, I think I have a motion. Okay.
 and the second to table for two weeks. And yes, in Mayor Jordan, in order to avoid some of what Sarah said, if Blake can provide us guidance on how to do this without,
 any type of FOIA issue, I think that that would be great. And the citizens always have an opportunity to give us feedback, and they will be here, and they'll listen, and they will contribute. But again, I think it's very important that we are good stewards of their time and that we get this right. And I think waiting until two weeks will do just that. So I think I can come up with three potential solutions. One would be...
 to go through the second resolution tonight and check each one that you want to add and then table it and I'll bring back a resolution with all the ones the council has approved. The second option would be for me to just combine both of them without input from anybody, bring it back to you in two weeks and you can go through, review it as an amendment and then make amendments to that. You could also set up a workshop.
 and have a public session where you work through those amendments between now and then. And have it open to the public. We don't have to answer that tonight, do we? I mean, will you send that out in an email to the council, or do we need to answer that tonight? How we would want you to approach that. My option one would have to be done tonight where you would go through and amend the current resolution tonight and then table it.
 And then I would bring back a clean resolution for you to look at in two weeks. If you table it tonight, then I can prepare this combined resolution and bring it back to you at either the next meeting or at a public workshop, however you want to handle it. I like that. A public workshop. It will address a lot of the concerns.
 We know that it's difficult to get all of us in a room and we all have committees and stuff. I'm fine doing things here. I will defer to the board for me. I'm woefully behind in client work. I run my own business. And it takes a lot to be able to... Every day I'm not sitting at my desk, or every hour I'm not sitting at my desk, and I work all hours. That's...
 you know, it's difficult to add an extra, you know, I don't know how long it would take to do a workshop. For me, it's difficult, but I'm willing to defer to the council. Well, Bob, I'm sorry, Blake, do you think by just presenting us a resolution in two weeks, then we can, at our next council meeting, the council can just vote on it? Theresa.
 Scott may have been before me. I was gonna really suggest that we allow Blake to combine those resolutions and bring that back and then we can have the public discussion in two weeks about each one of those items and I think that might make it we've heard from the public quite a bit tonight and so I think that might be the simplest way to go and and that's what I would support.
 second that motion if that's a motion I move that we go with Blake's second idea of combining those and then they're available for two weeks in two weeks and that we table d3 tonight I second that I would like to hear mr. Whittaker's input because that second resolution was his I think he deserves some
 some input on that plan. Mine is still tabled, right? But it could come back. You know, the Chief of Staff was right. We really have four versions now at this point, if you count mine, because we have three on the first one. Bizarrely, I own a
 There's four gospel writers. We have Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. We have four versions. I have one book that's literally four columns and it compares the New Testaments. It's almost as if the city attorney had these documents and he just literally said, all four agree on this section and you highlight for us where the agreements are to make it more efficient for us the next time that we're able to say, here's where there's...
 proposed amendments, let's identify, none of us are talking to one another, you have the documents and the capability of seeing here's where they're in agreement, here's where there's possible changes or amendments, and surely that would be more efficient for us. I will do whatever the council wishes. I'm exactly there with you. I just need direction. Well, I mean, if the question to me was,
 What was the question to me? I kind of, if you're okay with Teresa's motion, it seems to fit in with that. Yeah, why did I make it complicated? I think the two of you... Well, I was going to say I'll withdraw my motion because I actually like your idea a lot better. No, mine is not going to interrupt what Blake is doing. It was just a formatting of whatever document Blake creates. So mine isn't...
 I'm just trying to keep us all out of jail. So it's just a way of formatting what Blake sends us. So I could create a combined document and highlight the specific whereases and sections that overlap. My motion is back on the floor. Thank you for clarifying. It was a formatting suggestion. Okay.
 so and teresa has a motion in a second yes may i say something may i say something sure scott uh with all due respect if you have another town hall if you could afford the rest of the council knowledge that you're doing that so that maybe we can listen in to what the people are saying uh
 because it could be very beneficial to us. Well, it's called public calendar and it's on there. It's on there for every council member to see. We were very transparent. It was on there. Every meeting that we've done, it's on public calendar. And we can, and I have to say this because,
 the community came together the media was there I mean so if we do another meeting we're going to do what we did the last time put it on the calendar my suggestion is for the council members to check it yeah it it Scott man uh to to miss to Council Member burner's point I think I think what he's asked for him for yes it's on the calendar but I know that for myself
 keeping up with everything on the calendar is not the easiest thing in the world so i would appreciate that any of us uh going forward that is having a public meeting uh because i think it helps us do better things and it helps us all get input that you know um that we do like i don't know what the process is but it's just an email that goes out to everybody that says
 hey by the way you know because hey look at the public calendar here's here's something i'm is that what you're asking for right i'm not trying to be combative oh yes i'm just saying that it was said that that uh we had an opportunity to come to the meetings and and we didn't attend if you look on the public calendar it is on the public calendar on the first meeting it is not on the second it is not on the third it's only on personal facebook page if i don't if i'm not
 tagged in that, how do I know that? I would have loved to have attended some of the meetings, but I didn't know anything about them. And I'm sure some of the other council members would have too. So, you know, that's the challenge I have. And all I'm saying is if you have another meeting, let us all know, you know, we may, if it fits. And for the record, none of these were, I wasn't even elected for, I wasn't a city official for most of this. Okay, care.
 Thank you so much Mayor Jordan. So in going over the last few weeks worth of discussion between the council members and FOIA requests that we've received along with just regular information requests and how many times individuals have said one phrase or another phrase, you can understand that that creates a lot of work for staff on top of what we're already doing.
 One thing that I would like to say to that is when comments are made when it comes to whether or not someone was notified or not, that is looked at by the team that I manage as they've done something incorrectly when the only thing that they've done is take your request, place it on the calendar and they forward it out. I understand that
 We all have things that we need to have published on the public calendar. It is a personal goal of our office to ensure transparency through technology. That is something that we've done and we've created. We handle over a year's worth of public meetings at one time and we've done that since
 around 2020-2021. That's a lot of meetings that we handle. We receive lots of requests from other departments, from other citizens, from other organizations to put meetings on the city's public calendar. The only meetings that go on the city's public meeting calendar are those that the council members request us to put onto the calendar
 as well as having staff involvement when it comes to having someone record the meeting. We have to have that in order to coordinate between the different departments so that way we're all on the same page and we reduce staff time by doing that and ensuring that we are all reaching the public through transparency as we are required as public servants.
 I have mentioned to Councilmember Berna this last week that if there is a specific template that the Council would like to come up with that goes in your Rules of Order and Procedure, that's how your award meeting is handled and how it's announced, that is something that we're willing to work with you on. Our goal is to get the information out and to have it published. In saying that, our office goes above and beyond.
 to not only send out the public calendar weekly, the week beforehand, but we also send it an additional time the day of the work meeting. So I really would like to ask for your kindness and consideration when talking about public meetings as that is handled by individuals who aren't here.
 And they can't be here to speak up for themselves at this moment. As Councilmember Stafford so kindly mentioned earlier, when we thank, say, Britton Bostick for her presentation, we're also thanking those individuals that work extremely hard every day on their jobs, in addition to managing everything else that they have to manage. So, again, I appreciate that.
 there is a template that you want to create and add to your rules of order procedure if that is something that the city attorney's office says can be done that is something that we're willing to do barring anything else we are going to add that public meeting for you as a separately elected official of the city of Fayetteville if there is another meeting
 that is not sponsored by a city staff member or an individual that is listed as the contact for that board committee or commission or separately elected official. We are not going to post that. We are going to start looking through our policies and we're going to first make sure there's not another department that you need to speak with to add that to their calendar. Thank you for your time.
 Want to make it clear that I was in no way placing blame. I was just saying it was not there I didn't know it was there the first time but the second two meetings were not listed on the on the city website Only on personal I don't think they were city meetings and no Legislation or anything was discussed at any of those meetings It's all good
 It's all good. Yes, Teresa. Just just to clarify I think it's just a courtesy that we would like to be there And so just letting us know about that meeting because if it's a ward meeting I have no idea what's on your agenda I have no idea what was going to be discussed and
 Holly and I have our word meeting next Monday You guys probably don't know what's on our ward meeting agenda So it was just a request for a courtesy to send us an email and let us know if you have another Meeting on housing so that we can attend. That's all it was. So thank you in Teresa agree and and I just want to clarify one last time I realize you have a motion on the floor with a second already. I believe you vote on it but
 My understanding is the second two meetings were not city meetings. They weren't, no, nothing was discussed. They weren't Ward 1 meetings. I think the first one was. That was my understanding. I was not an elected official in those first two meetings. The people I ran against were both at those meetings with me, sat with them, listened to constituents. So I just want to be very clear about that. But I like your motion, and I hope we get to vote on it at some point. Yes, sir. Okay.
 everybody will simmer down we'll just vote on this thing and uh oh yes thank you um one thing and i've been able to attend several of your award meetings throughout this year to better understand what our office can do to help you and in several meetings throughout the city on on other other topics something that i've noticed
 of the ward meetings and other meetings is that no agenda is created before the meeting. I've also seen where an agenda is created as the meeting is going along and the agenda is being typed. If we don't have content to post and say what that meeting is, if that information is not given to us, then there's no way for us to convey that to someone else. So I appreciate Councilmember Turk's.
 suggestion and comment on that and I would ask if that is going to be something that you're asking one another that you make sure that that agenda comes to our office so we can attach it to that event thank you so much I appreciate your comment everybody good okay the motion is to table for two weeks
 right and mayor just to confirm i'll bring back a combined resolution trying to identify the the crossovers sounds great okay let's vote okay would you please call the road stafford yes jones yes moore no wedeker yes bernard yes bunch yes
 Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Okay. Well, we'll be back in two weeks. Well, moving right along to number five, an ordinance to amend 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims and 39.11 damage claims other than water and wastewater damage claims, the federal code to increase the amount of compensation that the city council can award.
 Whereas, the City of Fayetteville is authorized to pay reasonable claims of citizens damaged by water and sewer infrastructure problems and uninsured city vehicles, equipment, infrastructure and personnel even though statutory sovereign immunity protects our taxpayers for such unintentional actions even if negligent. And whereas, a dozen years have passed since these code sections were enacted by the City Council and recent inflationary pressures necessitate an increase in the City Council's authority to grant reasonable compensation for appropriate claims.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend section 39.10 and section 39.11 of the Fayetteville Code to increase the city council's authority to grant reasonable compensation to citizens whose property had been damaged by its city infrastructure or personnel,
 by repealing the current section 39.10 and section 39.11 and by enacting new section 39.10 and 39.11 as shown on exhibit A attached to this ordinance to more properly compensate a person whose property has been damaged.
 so what we're requesting on this revision to the water and wastewater damage claims are several items under the authorization of payments we're requesting that the utilities director be permitted to authorize up to 35 000 for a claim this is in alignment with the dollar threshold for purchase must be approved by the city council that is up from 10 000 in the last ordinance
 Additionally, we're recommending the orders be changed where the mayor can request the City Council to authorize an amount greater than 35,000 by resolution up to 50,000 in an extraordinary case Or on that one it was 25,000 in the extraordinary case and by two-thirds majority of the council Do an exemption from the 50,000 and go up to 100,000 which it was 50,000 and
 The biggest driver of this request is because of the rising cost of labor and materials we have been witnessing. In today's economy, the current $50,000 ceiling does not always provide the funds to repair the damage and the substantial water leak or sewer overflow in the city efforts to repair the homeowner's damage.
 This ordinance was recently amended last September to enable the City Council to exceed the $50,000 threshold if it was a 36-centimeter larger water pipe. What we've seen is damage above this cap even on smaller diameter water lines, plus we have it on sewer overflows as well. In addition to the funding request, there are additional items that the Utilities Department would like to be considered for amendment in the current ordinance.
 One is to mitigate further damage during a water or sewer damage incident. The utilities director would like to reserve the right to immediately hire within hours remediation service to begin cleaning up the water or sewage that has accumulated in the residence as well as begin drying the floors and walls with fans and dehumidifiers.
 This will reduce damage and potentially reduce the repair costs. The cost of the remediation will be added to the total cost of the repairs and factored into the maximum amount allowed for the incident. The Children's Department is currently authorized to hire and rely upon experienced insurance suggestions, professional analysis to establish reasonable compensation for any claim.
 Another one is that the property owner requesting compensation due to a sewer overflow shall install at the property owner's expense an approved sewer backflow prevention device prior to receiving any compensation from the overflow. I'd like to go over one more time the backflow preventers that we covered. The first one of course was the sewer popper which is a $35 expense at Lowe's or Home Depot. You unscrew your clean out and put this in its place.
 where if the water backs up, it will throw the popper out and the sewage will go on the ground, not in the house. If you don't have a clean out and you have to get a licensed plumber to install a clean out to put the popper in, that's approximately a $500 cost. The other one is the check valve, and that basically has a flapper on it. Next one, Jonathan, please.
 It has a flapper on it where when the water backs up, tries to run into the house, that flapper raises up, keeps it from going, goes out onto the ground. That also is the same price, about $500 for a licensed former to install.
 One of the questions that was brought at the agenda session was, what can a claimant do if they're not happy with what an adjuster determines to be a fair and reasonable price? Well, two answers to that.
 Since the ordinance does list even the new revision list dollar amount ceilings So if the claimant wants more than the ceiling That would probably not give any traction because we're passing orders that has still has a ceiling to it Secondly the claimant can come to the City Council meeting because what staff is merely doing is recommending to the council What we think that a fair resolution would be it's still up to the council to determine what that what that What the cost would be
 So those are the, what the claimant can do if they're not happy with what the determination is. I'd be happy to go into any other detail or answer any questions that you might have on this. I don't think we need any more detail.
 What questions do we have from the council? Please. Tim, I just wanted to say thank you for bringing this forward. You know, we have had some damages that have exceeded $15,000, and they were not created by a 36-inch or larger pipe. So I do think we're trying to be responsive to some of the recent damages that we've seen.
 And I just wanted to emphasize again that the backflow preventer would be on the sewer line, not on the water line. And that sewer popper is only $35. But the other options would be more like $500, just so that everybody's really clear about that. So thank you for bringing this forward. I appreciate it. Anything else from the council on the water? Okay.
 No, I don't know why. Any other questions? Okay. Now we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us in the chamber?
 I'm Wood Mayor Kyle Smith, 2801 Dove Drive. This is an incredibly important issue. Protecting people's houses and making sure that we make them whole whenever there's a sewer problem is important. And I just wish that we could have handled everyone else's houses that are in jeopardy when they hope to go home to them with the same sort of decorum and efficiency. Thank you.
 what we just watched was painful but not nearly as painful as somebody wondering if we're ever going to do anything about their problem and what we've done now is send a public conversation back behind closed doors where we can do all the messy stuff what are you talking about i'm talking about the last item that got tabled mayor and i'm off topic because you're not on topic i said i'm off topic because y'all spent most of that time off topic
 And after two hours of public comment, emotional stories about people's lives, y'all are going to forget that after 75 minutes of parliamentary incompetence. And so I'm going to ask you to please go get some training in Robert's Rules so that we can do the public's business effectively, because they deserve better than that. Okay. You don't have anyone on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Okay.
 i'll bring it back to the council what's the wish it's an ordinance i would make a motion that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second all right i have a motion second to go to the second reading care which please call the row stafford yes
 yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to amend section 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims in section 39.11 damage claims other than water and wastewater damage claims of the payable code to increase the amount of compensation that the City Council can award
 I have a question. I'm trying to look through all my papers and I printed a lot of stuff, but it's been a long night so far. At agenda session when we were talking, I was trying to find the section, we talked about using an adjuster to be able
 And my only question for the purposes of potentially asking for an amendment was just the hope that there would be, in the event that there was some disagreement with what our picked adjuster would state, that the other party, the person who had the damage, would have the ability to go back.
 seek a different adjuster and bring that to us in an appeal. And so that's kind of my question. Is it still just the one adjuster, and that's the basis for what our determination is? Yeah, after talking with city attorney's office about your question, no, we wouldn't be calling a second adjuster. We'd have the citizen come to the council and explain their case. Okay, so they do have that appeal process. Like, they've got due process in that way. Okay, all right. Staff's just recommending council decide.
 Thank you for that clarification. I would make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second.
 Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Care which police call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to amend section 39.10 water and wastewater damage claims and section 39.11 damage claims other than wastewater and wastewater damage claims of the Fayetteville Code to increase the amount of compensation that the City Council can award.
 any final comments from the council here would you please call the roll Stafford yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes Hertzberg yes okay moving along to number six an ordinance to amend subsection H of 163.18 type 2 short-term rentals
 residential zoning districts of the Unified Development Code to include proximity to schools as a factor for the Planning Commission to consider.
 Whereas the ordinance review committee recommends approval of an ordinance adding proximity to public and private K through 12 schools to the factors the planning commission may consider on type two short term rental conditional use permit applications. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal section one sixty three point eighteen H and enacts a new H as follows.
 H, short-term rentals in residential zoning districts may be subject to denial or additional conditions based upon the Planning Commission's findings on the following factors.
 one adequate parking infrastructure to Adequate adjoining or nearby streets for on street parking three frequency or concentration of nearby licensed type two short-term rentals For prior zoning or code violations and five proximity to public or private K through 12 schools when the proposed property is within 1,000 feet of the school boundary line Okay Thank You mayor
 I think the last few hours have demonstrated that we're all concerned about housing and these next two items that I'll be presenting on demonstrate that Unfortunately until a short while ago. I was encouraged by the collaboration between the council My hope is still that while we may differ in the way that we approach these issues or believe we should approach these issues our ultimate goals do remain the same and
 I wish tonight's meeting had progressed like the majority of the ordinance review meetings. I've been working really hard with the help of my fellow council members in order to develop proactive strategies to address the issue of housing availability through the regulation of short-term rentals. I'm not sure there is another committee in which council members who are not appointed to the committee so generously offer their time and effort to collaborate and find reasonable solutions that I'm very grateful for. So thank you all for participating in drafting this this ordinance.
 Being in healthcare I hear all the time about the importance of preventative medicine and unfortunately in practice this doesn't always occur due to many different factors. But I believe few would argue against the benefits of taking this approach. I believe the same principles apply to city government and I have been very proud of what has been done and is being done in the City of Fayetteville to take a proactive approach to some of our most difficult challenges.
 That being said, I am presenting two items for your consideration from the most recent ordinance review meeting regarding the regulation of short-term rentals. This first item, D6, is a recommendation to add proximity of schools as a factor for the Planning Commission to take into consideration when making decisions on Type 2 short-term rental conditional use permits. This recommendation was designed to complement our city's walkability goals and to encourage availability of long-term housing in areas where children and families may opt to walk or bike to school.
 However, this may not be appropriate for all neighborhoods, which is why I would strongly encourage everyone, each and every one of you to consider voting for this as a factor for consideration rather than a prohibition and trust the judgment of our planning commission to make appropriate decisions on a case by case basis. I'm happy to take any questions.
 Okay, what discussion what questions do we have or discussion or sir? Well, I sit in ordinance review and you know, it was a compromise to bring something forward, but I definitely feel very strongly you know Our schools, especially if I look particularly at Washington Elementary through you know My own experience where my child is in second grade I
 My first child, who's 12, started there in kindergarten. And so, you know, we've been at that school for about the last seven years. And so originally, the houses right across the road from there were rented. They weren't short-term rentals. And over time, a couple of those have become, and there's only about four or five,
 That's an area that's like a very, and I understand the case-by-case basis nature that was spoken to by Council Member Hertzberg, but in that particular instance, you know, it's a narrow road, people parking really willy-nilly to be able to be at these residences, and
 I feel really strongly both from that safety perspective, we've adopted Vision Zero to really be protecting some of our most vulnerable population, but additionally, to go into
 protecting each and every area around our schools to try to increase the possibility, even though it may not be all those buzzwords, achievable, attainable, but potentially be somewhat available for families to be able to call it their home so that they could easily be able to go to their school. So for that reason tonight, I'm very supportive of the amendment that's being brought by Council Member Stafford to make it out,
 right prohibition, 1,000 feet, which is based 1,000 feet on state, I believe it's a state rule, Council Member Turk might have to correct me, based on liquor stores, the distance of a liquor store. So if a liquor store is considered to be, you know, dangerous in our communities, I think very much so, you know, a very transient nature, high possible automobile traffic volume is definitely dangerous and detrimental to our families and our kids. Yeah.
 And Blake, has my amendment been brought forward and do people have copies of that amendment? It's in the packet as attachment number four and we can pull it up on the screen. You can make a motion at any point. I don't know if you want to wait until after public comment or before. I mean I'm willing to take public comments first and everything. Mr. Meyer? Yes.
 Who all is on ordinance review? Okay. Okay. I'd just like to hear everybody's from ordinance review if we could, just to hear what they have to say. We would certainly consider that a question or a statement or who wants to start?
 I think you all know my stance. Thank you. Scott? I just had one question real quick before I do make my statement. But Blake, correct me if my memory is incorrect, but
 Didn't Kit give us a little guidance about changing hard and fast rules with the fact that our litigation is in play right now? And he didn't have a problem with factoring in the consideration, but he had concerns about making it a prohibition. Right. The concern Kit had was primarily in that we don't have...
 specific numbers or evidence that a prohibition is warranted or necessary and that it would be more legally defensible if we did have some kind of data to support a prohibition as opposed to a factor That was my recollection and that's why I voted for the factor because I did not think we had data that we could substantiate and
 that situation with litigation pending. So had we not had litigation pending maybe I have a different opinion but we do so I had to lean on his guidance. I recall his guidance, I mean and we guess we can go back and watch the tape but I thought his guidance had more to do with saying that we were really close to our cap and that we had made determinations a certain way and so for us to make those changes and my question to him at that time was
 his guidance all these 15 months that I've been on council and gotten to have this fun topic at length.
 has been that because of the sunset clause being in place, that that's a protection for us to make any additional changes that we want, we deemed to be necessary. And so he did then say, well, yeah, I mean, you do have that in place. And so I think there were like a few opinions potentially put forward that evening. And so maybe some of them are in competition potentially.
 That was the conversation I had with him just before this meeting. That was his primary concern. His other concern, I wouldn't call it a concern, was that we are at the cap and so it only affects those going forward, which also means that the legal risk is somewhat lower than if we were applying it everywhere.
 I realize this isn't going to fly, but I just want to say I brought it forward in your faith that my concerns were not just about making sure that we have housing availability for young families in their schools.
 helping with kids being able to walk to school and everything, but it is also a safety question for me that when people are renting Airbnbs and short-term rentals, they're here for an event, they're here for a game, different reasons, a lot of times celebratory. They're in my view, more apt to be drinking, drinking,
 abiding more apt to not be familiar with our roads or where our schools are. And for me it was hugely a safety concern and also a concern about, and I reduced that ring to a thousand feet to match our, I spoke with Blake about it, to match the same distance that you would keep a liquor store away from a school or anything else.
 And to me, I'm not here to die on ideological hills. I'm here to get the work of the city done, but those were my concerns and that's why I brought it forward and that's why I didn't want it just a consideration that if somebody would like to bring it forward and vote on it, I'm fine with that. And if, like I said, I'm not here to die on ideological hills.
 I'll just say to Councilmember Stafford, I completely respect what you're saying. I get it. But my recollection is why we did that was by Kit's recommendation. And I think the Planning Commission uses those factors pretty stringently.
 So I felt like that was going to be a deterrent. Well, could... Let him finish. Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt. I didn't mean to interrupt at all. Well, then I'm wondering, would the council be willing to have an amendment that just makes sure that it's a...
 you know there's all sorts of considerations but can we can we prioritize a consideration or say you know just like a scoring system um that we have for certain things that the uh being near a school would would be a higher demerit than um would that be something that well or do y'all want me to take public comment i gotta do this you just never know everybody gets one turn to speak
 You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Now, let's continue on. Jonathan? Oh, do we have anybody on Zoom, Susan? No, sir. Okay.
 Is there a way for what Bob is asking? Is there any way to do that? That's a great question. I was trying to think if we have precedent in our development code as it is today. I think most of those factors are very much black and white. You either have a requirement or it's just a consideration. It's a finding that the Planning Commission has to make. This isn't a finding of if you're within 500 feet, it's a concern if you're within 400 feet. I think that's where the planning commission has to make a decision.
 The planning commission is given a very important authority, which is to consider these applications on a case by case basis. It may be that they're within 200 feet of a school, but by street connectivity would take half a mile to get there, if that makes sense. So
 I can't think of a precedent or a very efficient way to incorporate that. It doesn't mean it couldn't be done, but I also think I would encourage you all to trust the commission, perhaps to use it as one of their conditions. Yeah. And I think the way the amendment was, it would be like a liquor store where it's a diameter or a distance from the property line. But yeah, I'm fine with it. I'm good. Oh, Bob.
 Council Member Stafford, I would suggest that if we see how this works out with now it's another consideration factor and that things don't work out, we also can look kind of take a look at some of the other schools to see what a thousand feet looks like.
 then maybe you could bring your amendment back at a later date if this doesn't work out the way we anticipated. And I think we did have a quarter mile map and a thousand feet would have been smaller than that. I was trying to go for the, I thought we, I talked about matching it so to make it simple with those liquor store laws and such.
 that it wasn't more complicated, that it was easy. And I looked at the quarter mile map, and that looked reasonable, but I'm like, we're still kind of maybe a little bit too big. And so I just even wanted to err on the side of caution. But again, it is something for me, I think the safety for me personally, it was a big concern.
 I'm willing to bring a vote and I'm willing to watch it fail. You know, if no one has any objections to that, if I can get a second. Second. Mayor, we do have a thousand foot map available that Jonathan prepared. If the council would like to see what that thousand foot radius would look like.
 So is it, this is like an amendment to the ordinance? Yes. For 1,000 feet? So instead of 1,000 feet being, or what is it now? Is it 1,000 feet for consideration? Yes. It would be 1,000 feet rule. No, factor it would be a done deal. Okay, gotcha.
 Mayor, I can read the amendment if you like. That would be great. So this amendment would create a new subsection I that says conditional use permits for new type 2 short-term rentals shall not be approved for any property within 1,000 feet of the boundary line of a public or private K-12 school.
 and mayor on screen i'm pulling up the exhibits that were shared with ordinance review for those who are not able to attend uh this is what was put together and the red dots you see just to walk you through it briefly and i'll try to zoom in and out as it helps the red dots represent type two short-term rentals uh every school has around a a quarter mile and a half mile diameter that was what was requested for discussion and consideration and john
 Jonathan, is the blue the half mile and the yellow inside is a quarter mile? Yes, you can see it a little bit on the inset here. There's a faint gray line that's the quarter mile. I also prepared the exhibit if those on the committee are recall. I just chose the cluster of the most dense type two short-term rentals in the city. This is what the quarter mile and half mile options would look like.
 that were considered, here's what 1,000 feet looks like by comparison in the same area. I mean, so we're just talking a couple city blocks, right? Approximately, yes. Yeah. I mean, I'd like you to take a look at the map and take it under consideration for a moment. I think that it's, I don't feel like, it doesn't create any pinch points of exclusion zones. I feel it stays pretty close to the schools.
 and that was my intent to do it in the least intrusive way. And this would be for new things, anything that's existing exists.
 When we were discussing, I think, a thousand feet in some of these meetings, I mean, part of that conversation was around, that's like a typical block-ish. I mean, it's roundabout, I guess, as well. So if we were thinking about a thousand feet around a school, I mean, it basically is going to give kind of a buffer of basically a block around the school. Typically, I mean, give or take, obviously, you've got variability as well in some of the areas. Yes.
 I'm sorry, that was a question to staff. Just I want to clarify and make sure. I didn't quite catch that. I think that is a correct recollection. I think it was two parts. I think a piece of it was to try to capture at least that one block close proximity and the second piece was to attempt to choose a metric that was commonly found in state statute especially as it related to liquor stores and churches and things like that. Sorry.
 Jonathan, were you able to include private schools as well or is this just public schools currently?
 I do not have one I can zoom in on terribly accurately. This is it, I mean, is there a particular private school? So yeah, to describe it in further detail, the yellow dots you see, I'll just zoom in for convenience sake, the yellow dots are public schools, so the one I'm indicating here is Root, for example, and then the blue one here is, I think it's the Mission Baptist School. So yes, private schools are also on here. Thank you.
 Okay, you have the discussion. We got a motion and a second to amend to it 1,000 feet permanently by rule. Is that right? Okay, so anything else any other discussion on that? Yeah, I have one thing Jonathan. I'm trying to think about what part looking at this map of
 What part, if you could just kind of outline where like, where we have areas of downtown general that, is there any overlap there because isn't that where it would allow a hotel to be built?
 Hotels are allowed in the downtown general zone district as a conditional use. Main Street Center is the main downtown zone district that allows hotels by right. To answer your question more directly, I'll refer back to the close-up map that gives a little bit more distinction. I think the areas where hotels are allowed in our downtown area tend to be along College Avenue. So as you're near the Auto Zone, for example, by Washington Elementary, that would be within that area.
 Otherwise, that's the closest area, I believe, that has that kind of zoning entitlement. Okay, thank you. I was just worried, you know, thank you. And I have a question for Blake, because I don't recall, but we had that discussion, right? And you had asked me what about where there's, the areas where there's a, you know, where you'd have hotels and stuff, and I said I'm fine with just like letting that, those zones go, that I want to include those zones
 Is that how you recall and is that how it's written? Yes, and those zones that allow hotel and motel by right do not require a conditional use permit for a type two.
 Yeah, and so it wouldn't be effective. Correct. This would apply to those residential zones that do require a conditional use permit for a type 2. Yeah, so it would be pretty limited. And Jonathan, if you could, can you put that, is that the thousand foot map on or? Yes. Because one thing I noticed, oh is that it now? Yes. Oh, well there are some in there but yeah, I, yeah, never mind. Who all is on ordinance review?
 I thought we did that already. Hey, I'll be on there. He'll speed things up. Oh, that was... There's not a follow-up here. No? Okay. All right, we have an amendment. Anything else? Any more discussion on the amendment? All righty.
 karen would you please call the road stafford yes jones yes more yes wedeker no verna no bench no no herzberg no okay well we're back to back to the second i'll entertain a motion then to go to the second reading on this ordinance second did you have something to say sir oh okay
 We have a motion to second and a go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Barnett? Yes. Mutch? Yes. Tirk? Yes. Hartspark? Yes. An ordinance to amend subsection H of section 163.18, type 2 short-term rentals in residential zoning districts of the Unified Development Code to include proximity to schools as a factor for the Planning Commission to consider.
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading.
 motion second yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes an ordinance to amend subsection H of section 163 point 18 type 2 short-term rentals in residential zoning districts of the Unified Development Code to include proximity to schools as a factor for the Planning Commission to consider
 Any final comments? I'm very open to considering this in the future after seeing how this works out and feedback from the Planning Commission. I like the way you're thinking about it. I'm afraid of the City Attorney and so I'm going to go with his recommendation. Okay. You have one? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Stafford? We're voting on just the final vote here? Yeah. Yeah. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay, let's go to number 7. An ordinance to amend subsection C of 157.05 conditional use permit in 157 notification in public hearings of the Unified Development Code to require public notification to landlords and residents within
 300 feet of the boundary line of a proposed short-term rental.
 Whereas, the Ordinance Review Committee recommends approval of an ordinance increasing the distance for notification of a proposed Type 2 short-term rental from 200 feet to 300 feet. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Section 157.05 and enacts a new as follows. See Special Uses.
 The following conditional use permits require more stringent notification. Applicants applying for consideration of the following uses must meet the following additional notification criteria.
 One, dance halls, facilities emitting odors and facilities handling explosives, wireless communication facilities, carnival, circus, amusement park or similar temporary open air enterprises, outdoor music establishments and sexually oriented businesses shall notify all landowners and residents within 500 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed. Two, type two short term rentals shall notify all landowners and residents within 300 feet of the boundary line of the property on which the use is proposed.
 okay holy thank you mayor the second item for your consideration from the ordinance reviews to require public notification to landowners and residents within 300 feet of the boundary line of a proposed type 2 short-term rental the current protocol is to notify landowners and residents within 200 feet however in response to public comment we would like to offer this recommendation as a way to increase knowledge and awareness of an application that may affect more than just those within that 200 foot radius i'm happy to take any questions what questions do we have
 Anything? Okay, well let's see if there's anybody who'd like to comment on this. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay. Alright. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What would you like to do with this?
 suspend the rules and go to the second reading Stafford yes Jones yes or yes
 wedeker yes verna yes lunch yes irk yes herzberg yes an ordinance to amend subsection c of section 157.05 conditional use permit in chapter 157 notification and public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification to landowners and residents within 300 feet of the boundary line of a proposed type 2 short-term rental
 So, suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. In ordinance to amend subsection C of section 157.05 conditional use permit in chapter 157 notification and public hearings of the unified development code to require public notification to landowners and residents within 300 feet of the boundary line of a proposed type two short term rental. Any final comments from the council? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes.
 Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay, let's move along to number eight. An ordinance to approve vacation 2023-14 for property located at 490 West Willoughby Road in Ward 1 to vacate a .08 acre portion of a general utility easement.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo.
 Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the city clerk, along with the map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1, any damage to or relocation of any existing facilities will be at the property owner's slash developer's expense. And 2, any private utilities within the vacated easement are not the responsibility of the city of Fayetteville. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in South Fayetteville. It's in Ward 1. It includes approximately an acre of land on the north side of Willoughby, which if you're not familiar with it is just north of Drakefield running east-west along the south side of South Mountain. It is currently developed with a single family house and several accessory structures, one of which was built on an easement between 2021 and 2022.
 During a subsequent application, staff identified this encroachment and brought it to the attention of the property owner, advising that we couldn't move forward on an additional permit until this issue was resolved. The property owner was willing to do so and retroactively worked through the vacation, easement vacation process.
 The request in particular is to vacate about 3,500 square feet of an existing utility easement. The building that I referenced encroaching the easement you can see here in gray as it relates to the easement being proposed to vacate.
 With that request in mind, staff finds no issues with this. There was only one utility using it at the time, Swepco, and they've since moved their facilities and consented to the request. Accordingly, we're recommending approval of this item with but one single condition of approval.
 That's that any damage or relocation of facilities, which we've determined at this point no longer are there, would be at the developer's expense moving forward. With that, I'm happy to take any questions. And as I've told you a couple times now, but as a reminder, utility easements do not go to the Planning Commission, so that's why you don't see a recommendation for this particular request. And Mayor, I believe Frank Terminella is available online for the applicant on this item. Thank you.
 would that like speak for the council mr terminelli you'll have to unmute mr terminelli is online but he's not coming through he shows that he's muted well then there you have it hello all right you're here thank you can you hear me yep i really have no further comments scott did a beautiful job i appreciate the staff help me through this process okay do we have any questions from mr terminelli
 Well, okay, let's just take some public comment on this. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak. First, those participating with Zoom will speak after that. Do we have anyone that would care to speak in the chamber? No? And not on Zoom either. I'm glad to see you all.
 All right. Nobody on Zoom. I'm going to bring it back to the council. I would move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. A whole bunch of seconds. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Stafford? Yep. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Burnup? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 2023-14 for property located at 490 West Willoughby Road in Ward 1 to vacate a .08 acre portion of general utility easement. Sorry, move voice suspend the rules and go to the third reading.
 Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll. Stafford? Yep. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Barnum? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 2023-14 for property located at 490 West Willoughby Road in Ward 1 to vacate a .08 acre portion of general utility easement. Any final comments from the council?
 here would you please call her up stafford yes jones yes moore yes whitaker yes vernon yes yes erksberg yes okay let's go to number nine
 An ordinance to approve vacation 24-002 for property located at North Bob Yunkin Drive and West Bishop Street in Ward 3 to vacate approximately 140 square feet of street right away. Blake. Whereas the city council has the authority under ACA section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the city council has determined that the following described portions
 of street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the City Clerk along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk.
 Section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions number one any damage to a relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicants expense to Dutch shall be provided from the Bob Youngkin Street right-of-way to the individual units as required by AT&T and Three new easements shall be dedicated along new utility routes and equipment following the plat layout as requested by AEP swept Co Okay
 Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to the opposite end of the city, to North Fayetteville and Ward 3. We're about 1,000 feet south of the Washington Regional Medical Center's main campus at the southeast corner of Bishop and Bob Youngkin. This likely looks familiar to Council for several reasons. You all considered a rezoning request in 2023 of last year, paralleling a previous right-of-way vacation request.
 Even more recently, two weeks ago, you all considered a utility easement request for portions of the three parcels to the south of this.
 As it relates to that 2023 right-of-way vacation request, which you can see here, the applicant in re-reviewing their development plans identified that there is a 140 square foot piece of right-of-way at the exact corner that needed to be vacated but was not accordingly, which you can see here more in survey view as it relates to the overall property. They brought this back to council to request that it be vacated.
 In reviewing the request, staff found no issues. There appears to be no public purpose for this right-of-way. I won't expect you all to remember exactly what we talked about a year ago, but Bob Youngkin was dedicated to an exceptionally wide right-of-way at that time, given there's some anticipated office uses that have never came to fruition there. And that was a baseline premise of why staff recommended it be vacated, and council supported that request.
 Additionally, all the franchise utilities have signed off. Other than what you heard, Mr. Pennington mentioned that there are some conditions from SWEPCO specifically that request easements to be dedicated and that the facilities be accommodated by AT&T.
 With that, we are recommending in favor of it as staff. The Planning Commission did consider this one because it is right away. As I noted at agenda session, they did keep it off their consent agenda because there had been some public comment on previous items on this property, but none was heard at that meeting. And so it is before council today with a unanimous recommendation that it be approved. And with that, I'm happy to take any questions. And Mayor, the applicant notified me earlier that he needed to,
 step away given the timing but I think it looks like he is online now Tim Briseale mayor is the applicant for this item would the advocate like to speak to the council mr. Brazil go ahead happy to answer any questions but think this one is pretty straightforward and Jonathan explained it very well okay any questions from the council okay well let's take some public comment then
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Anyone like to speak to us in the chamber? Anybody on Zoom? Yes, sir. We'll bring it back to the council. I'd like to...
 Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to go to the second reading. Care which police call the roll? Stafford. Yep.
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Herzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 24-02 for property located at North Bob Youngkin Drive and West Bishop Street in Ward 3 to vacate approximately 140 square feet of street right-of-way.
 i would move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second motion second go third and final reading care which please call the row stafford
 Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 24-02 for property located at North Bob Youngkin Drive and West Bishop Street in Ward 3 to vacate approximately 140 square feet of street right of way. Any final comments from the council? Bob, do you have a comment?
 carriage please call her off Stafford yes yes more yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go number 10
 An ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-0001 for approximately 6.31 acres located at 3006 North Old Missouri Road in Ward 3 from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre.
 NSG neighborhood services general and NC neighborhood conservation to RSF 18 residential single-family 18 units per acre and are a residential agricultural
 what be it ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf four residential single family four units per acre nsg neighborhood services general and nc neighborhood conservation to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre and r.a residential agricultural
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. MS. Jonathan.
 Thank you. This request takes us a little bit around the clock if we go clockwise around Fayetteville to northeast Fayetteville and Ward 3. The specific property includes about 6.31 acres, just about 600, 700 feet southeast of Butterfield Elementary and the intersection of Old Missouri Road and Rolling Hills.
 A portion of the property was rezoned to NC in 2018. You can see the property we're discussing tonight in the bold box there. With the balance of the property remaining as its previous RSF4 residential single family four units per acre designation,
 that predated that. This particular property remains undeveloped, but as you can see here with all the address points along old Missouri Road, or if you had the opportunity to visit the site, there is currently development adjacent to it with the stage station project. This property, however, at the moment remains largely characterized by tree canopy and an increasingly steep slope as you move from the northwest upwards as you go towards the southeast.
 The request before council is to take what was the existing mix of RSF4 and NC zonings and change it to or rezone the property to RA residential agricultural and RSF18 residential single-family 18 units per acre. That breakdown looks a little bit like you see on the slide here, which includes about one and three-quarter acres to RA, which constitutes about 28% of the property in question with the remainder 4.54 acres.
 just shy of three quarters of the property being rezoned to RSF 18.
 sorry when considering the request from a compatibility standpoint staff I reviewed it kind of in two parts RA first which would generally not be something you would think you'd find in the middle of Fayetteville but it is a zoning district that we have often used and applied as a way of preserving property or indicating that it's meant to be preserved and that's exactly what its purpose is here the applicant intends to dedicate those areas as tree preservation and wants that shown
 in a zoning manner to council as a part of this request with the proposal to up zone the remainder of the property to RSF 18.
 Taking that second piece of it, the RSF18, staff does find that to be compatible with the area. While it is a larger lot development pattern in this portion of Fayetteville, it is almost exclusively single family zoning. RSF18 is a single family zoning district. So in that regard, it's the same housing types, just at varying density patterns.
 From a long-range standpoint, this property does have a split future land use map designation. The strip of land you saw going out towards Old Missouri Road is designated as a city neighborhood area in our future land use map. So that may give a little bit of a disingenuous feel of what may be envisioned for this at the point.
 The majority of the property which it shows to be developed is designated as a residential neighborhood area, which is intended to be, as its name suggests, residential in nature, accommodating a range of housing types and diversities. While the RSF 18 Zoning District does, as I noted, only allow single family districts, that variety of densities does allow it to be developed in a different set of patterns that can accommodate different housing sizes that may meet various needs.
 From an infill standpoint, it does, or infill rating standpoint, it does have very few indicators at four or five. This is in part because it is removed from Old Missouri Road so I'm not meaning to suggest that it would be drastically higher, but it is removed from water and sewer so those are being extended throughout this property given the adjacent development. So if the council wanted to consider that, it would look more like a six to a seven rather than a four to a five, but currently today that is not the case.
 As far as other issues, I just touched on the previous one. It doesn't currently have access to water and sewer. That is ongoing with the development to the west. As I noted at the top of the presentation on this item, this property does have a fair amount of slope. It varies from about 10 to 15% as you move from northwest to southeast.
 However, none of it is designated as HHOD, our Hillside Hilltop Overlay District. As a reminder, that designation is not just about slopes. It is also about the underlying soils and their appropriateness for development.
 What this request looks like for Canopy since they propose RA as a means of indicating where they want to preserve trees generally the The canopy percentages will stay the same but it is worth noting that the areas that each of those percentages will be applied will be changing What is now today a majority RSF for would become RSF 18 and vice versa for the RA and NC areas All that said to date well in
 until today we had not received any public comment on this item there was not any received leading up to the planning commission meeting there was an item received that hopefully went out to you all this afternoon if you did not have a chance to consider it it came in about one or two o'clock today there was an expression of concern that the additional density allowed here would create traffic issues both for the nearby school and for the surrounding street network
 With that said, and all the factors being considered, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission forwarded it to Council, albeit by a split vote of five to two. They found that the request was compatible, and the dissenting votes, and even those that did support it, did have some comment about the preference that they would see some sort of master plan as a part of this development to understand how all these zoning pieces are fitting together. Additionally, there was some comment about the slopes in the area and concern with those.
 With that, I'm certainly happy to take any questions. And Mayor, I believe Clay Morton or Phil Crabtree are here as the applicants for this item online. Clay Morton has got his hand raised. Okay. Go ahead. Clay Morton, happy to answer any questions. Appreciate your time. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff?
 Yes, Mike, I believe you, and then Sarah. Okay. Jonathan, it looks like we have a potential proposed street and this property abuts it enough that they would be making some form of contribution should that street ever be developed. Is that a correct understanding?
 we don't currently have an assessment area for this uh yes short i'll start at the top yes there is a master master street plan plan street that connects rolling hills to the west to oak bailey to the east there
 There has not been an assessment area created, which is a tool that we use in planning and engineering when a bridge or a other high dollar capital improvement is coming in, and there's multiple property owners that may impact it so that we can collect a dollar amount associated with those impacts.
 This property still has a largely single ownership, and accordingly we understand that they are developing it as a whole, and so that's not been proposed at this time. And we've actually seen it moving forward in that manner with the first leg of Rolling Hills extension going into the site east of that traffic signal today.
 So, it's a long-winded way of saying, no, there will likely not be an assessment with this, but I think that will be evaluated at the time we see development and how it fits in with the development of the rest of the property. Thank you. Sure. Jonathan, I didn't get to watch that planning commission, so the two planning commissioners that voted no, did the summary that you had about the potential concerns, did that summarize what they said as well, or did they have any additional concerns?
 I'm not sure if there's something else you're alluding to or not. I think for those who've been on the council for a while and the commissioners, there have been a lot of moving zoning pieces on this property as it's developed.
 created some very specific acreages of very specific zoning i think they've found as the project has moved along that there's been varying needs to shift some of those um for example i mean and a piece of that is that there is as you heard earlier in this meeting our city's main water transmission line bisects this property and so they've been needing to make accommodations to make sure that they're giving that adequate spacing
 So I think, yeah, an interest in seeing a bigger picture of what's happening with this so that it can be a better understanding of what currently feels maybe like a piecemeal process to some commissioners. And then again, there were comments about the slope because this is the portion of the property that begins to elevate up to Strawberry at the top of the hill there. Yeah, I'm familiar with that spot. So that's why I was wondering what the feedback has been. All right, thank you. Can you bring up the map or the satellite?
 Maybe the satellite. Certainly.
 Beam me up, Scotty. I understand concerns about slope. I was raised just across the street. This was my playground as a kid, actually. And there is a lot of tree cover there now. And there was always tree cover on the south side of that. But the area behind the newer development and up to Butterfield School and to the east of Butterfield School was all...
 cows and then I grew up over to the west off Elizabeth where we had extremely steep slopes and you know I mean they built that neighborhood and so I'm not you know I think the slopes are fine right they're not greater than what you're dealing with like on Elizabeth are you?
 I'm not familiar with Elizabeth. I don't know what the slopes are in that area. Certainly you can engineer streets for just about any terrain. And I think that is a piece of why RSF 18 zoning district has been requested because it could allow some more flexible lot layouts in particular. I did mention that I grew up there. It was all cows and cow pasture. But, yeah, some of those trees may be – I'm going to age myself. They may be 40 or 50 years old.
 But I just wanted to give some points of reference. Thank you. I was just gonna point out, I have not seen the email correspondence that Jonathan was speaking about, but up until today, I've just gotten one and it was in support of the project.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, could you go back to that map that you had up? And I wonder if you could overlay the topography so we could see the slope in that area. I didn't get a chance to go over there and check it out, but I am somewhat familiar with the area. And if I recall correctly, there is quite a bit of pitch in that region. If it's...
 So it really is kind of sloping northwest to southeast? That's correct. I was kind of hoping that the RA areas had really the steepest slope, but it doesn't appear to be that way if I'm interpreting everything correctly.
 yeah the slope flattens out as you approach butterfield and the intersection and does get steeper as you head to the southeast the portions of it are certainly i'm trying to think sorry i'm trying to see if there's a way i can easily transpose those other over each other but i don't think i have a ready way to do that other than to ask you to keep this image in your mind and then i can pull up the other one
 If I can characterize it in this regard, the steepest areas of the property are certainly along the eastern, southeastern portion. It does appear that there's a bit of a ravine here that may be being captured by the proposed area for RA. And then why, can you help me out here? The middle area that's proposed to be RA, do you have any idea why that is RA as opposed to?
 I believe that's an area intended for tree preservation, but I have to defer to the applicant on that one. That's an area that I believe is intended for tree preservation, but I have to defer to the applicant on that one to be certain. Okay, thank you. And Jonathan, there would also be tree preservation kind of at the entrance point on the southwest side there. That's going to RA as well?
 Correct that that's what the applicant is in yes the area that is closest to old Missouri that's a part of this request moving into the site and then that pocket that council member Turk was referencing to the northeast. In consideration of the people that came out tonight and the housing, we need I do support this. So.
 Did I hear you correctly about that there was a major water line that was in the property? Are you able to kind of show generally where that runs in one of the maps? Certainly. And if it be the one with the two designations, the green and the yellow for the RA and other zone, that would be helpful? I don't know if I can quite readily accommodate that, but I will try. Let me see. Oh, perfect. Okay. I don't know why our main...
 transmission line is not showing up on the map let me see if I can pull up the easements to indicate where that is
 Yes, there we go. If you'll imagine, some major water lines that follow roughly are centered on this easement here. That blue snaking line you see is the water and sewer easement that bisects the property. As far as your question about where those zoning designations are, if you can see this parcel line here, that roughly follows that south.
 western western portion of our area that's intended to be rezoned RA and then the second piece straddles this parcel line here. Thank you Jonathan, I appreciate that. Certainly. Okay. Well I guess we'll take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration.
 don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating because then we'll speak after that is there anyone that would like to address us in the chamber no nobody owns it all right maybe we suspend the roles and go to the second reading second we get a second there second oh okay
 we have a motion in the second to go to the second reading care please call the rock stafford yes jones yes moore yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes no
 an ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition rzn 2024-0s1 for approximately 6.31 acres located at 3006 north old missouri road and ward 3 from rsf 4 residential single family four units per acre nsg neighborhood services general and nc neighborhood conservation to rsf 18 residential single family 18 units per acre and r.a residential agricultural
 theresa thank you mayor um you know it is like 11 o'clock tonight and uh
 I think that this is a very complicated piece of property. Jonathan's really accommodated us with showing us where we think the waterline is and some of the slope information, but quite frankly, I'd like a little bit more information on that and maybe actually get a chance to go and take a look at that area. So if my colleagues would indulge me, I'd really like to hold it on the second reading. Okay.
 I was gonna make another point, but we're gonna hold this on the second reading. I can make my point in a couple weeks, or I can make it now. You can make it now if you want. I was just gonna say, we had a big meeting and we've been working on the public housing crisis. We had quite a few people here. It's rezonings like this, this may not be perfect. This may have issues with slope. It may have other issues.
 I like the fact that they're rezoning some of it to residential agricultural. That helps us with our tree coverage. But these are the kind of rezonings, I believe, that we need. I know sometimes it's a difficult pill to swallow. But RSF 18 is gonna get us a heck of a lot more housing than RSF 4.
 And again, I understand, but you know, I grew up on Elizabeth and I've always said, I was raised in Fayetteville and I always said, you know, you're either sliding down a hill or you're down in the mud. There's not many other options. And so I know our topography gives us challenges.
 um and but you know in reference to you know how do you solve a housing crisis well we do need density i think that this goes along well with the new development happening on old missouri right at the end of old wire next to butterfield you've got a you've got a neighborhood right here where those kids can walk
 The kids up on Strawberry Hill, we had, even when cows were there, I don't think they'd allow this now, but when it was cow fields, they had little stairs that went over the barbed wire fence. And then you walk in a trail through the woods to Strawberry Hill, and we'd play in those woods all day long, you know, so...
 You know, it's a very, it's right next to Butterfield and density next to schools is one thing I'm positively for and if there's some challenging building that needs to be done, for me, I can live with that. You know, developers know how to do that. They know how to...
 build foundations correctly nowadays, not so much when the rolling hills were built, but they've got a better idea how to do it now. And I would like us just to move forward with it. But I will, if Theresa, if you really like to go out there and, but I, you know, this isn't tabling, so I don't feel as bad if we just leave it on second reading. I'm okay with that, but that's where I stand on my support of it, thank you.
 Okay. So we just want to leave it right here. Everybody sure? Thank you all.
 Mayor, I'm sorry, just before advancing it, I think I heard Council Member Turk ask for additional information. Is that something you'd like to request tonight or at an agenda session next week so I can be prepared with it? I really appreciate that slope information and the amount of slope, you know, like if it's 10% or 12% or 15 in the direction, kind of how you've graciously provided it in the past.
 That would be very helpful. Thank you. Did I take some public comment on this? Remember? Let me just run through it one more time. Well, and the reason I did. Okay, good. Okay, yeah. Yeah, you don't want me wasting any time, do you? You're ready to go home. All right. All right, number 11, an ordinance to rezone the property described in the zoning petition RZM.
 2023-0037 for approximately 1.03 acres located east of East 9th Street and South Washington Avenue in Ward 1 from
 NC neighborhood conservation to RIU residential intermediate urban. Blake. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, exhibit A, and the legal description, exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC neighborhood conservation to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. John? Thank you, Mayor. Sorry, allow me a moment. I'm having a slight technical issue. Okay, I'll use it. I'm not paying you this time anyway, so I'm in pretty good shape. How about y'all? Okay.
 I'm good to go. Okay. All right. This property takes us to South Central Fayetteville into Ward 1. This puts us in the Walker Park neighborhood about 250 feet southeast of 7th Street and Washington Avenue, which you can see on the upper left-hand side of the screen. It includes approximately one acre of land that was previously platted, including rights of way platted on all four sides of it that were also never developed as you can clearly see here.
 The request is to rezone the property, as Mayor noted, from its existing NC neighborhood conservation zoning designation to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 When considering the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff finds RU to be compatible. The Walker Park area and this portion of the Walker Park area in particular is characterized by a wide variety of different housing types and additionally some non-residential uses as well.
 Within a walk of this property, there are townhouses, single-family homes of varying sizes, apartment buildings, the former Jeff School. There's the converted spring shop in the northwest, which now serves as a food vendor court. All these uses, staff feels, would be complemented by the RAU zoning district, which allows single two, three, and four-family dwellings.
 and allows them in a very flexible format. They can be developed as town homes, they can be developed as detached single family homes, all housing types that staff finds to be complimentary of what exists in the area today.
 When looking at it from a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds the RAU zoning district to be complementary of the future land use map designation as well. As I noted with the last item, our residential neighborhood designation is intended to support a wide variety of housing types when it's contextually appropriate, which staff finds it to be here. RAU, again, allows everything from a detached single-family home up to a four-unit building.
 Additionally, this property is within the Walker Park neighborhood. For those not familiar with the Walker Park illustrative master plan, it recognizes what is already present and then idealizes what could be there. This particular property was envisioned to be developed in a similar smaller lot development pattern that you see in other parts of the Walker Park area.
 Accordingly, staff does find this request to be consistent with both the Future Land Use Map designation and that illustrative plan
 When considering it from an infill standpoint, it does have several attributes that contribute it to potentially being an appropriate place for infill. It does have adequate fire response. It's about equidistant between our downtown station and the station on Happy Hollow. It is near water and sewer, despite actually not abutting water and sewer. Again, this property is surrounded by undeveloped right away, and it's not immediately adjacent to them, but it is within...
 distance that we've found in our comprehensive planning to be feasible to extend to serve a property additionally perhaps unsurprisingly it's very near the walker park area a couple blocks to the west with the razorback greenway running through it there's also transit within easy reach of the area for future residents to utilize
 As I noted, and I won't harp on it a whole lot further, this property, one of its unusual characteristics is that it does not have access to a public street today or water or sewer. It was platted like several areas of Fayetteville on paper, but never developed either the streets or the properties. However, that right away that exists today makes for an unusual opportunity for it to connect to public streets and water and sewer that may not otherwise be available.
 And when it comes to tree canopy, I always want to share what that looks like. The potential to rezone this property from neighborhood conservation and its 20% canopy would reduce to 15% with the RIEU zoning district.
 Additionally, this property has been identified to be one that has hydric soils on site. That doesn't necessarily mean there are wetlands. We do note that because it can be an indicator of wetlands. So at the time of development, our engineering division works with the applicant civil engineer or their design team to identify if any of those are present and that they need to be delineated and set aside.
 With those in mind, the last item I want to draw your attention to is there's been a decent amount of public comment for this item. This has both been very favorable of the request. There have been a number of people who found this to be very complimentary to what's going on in the area.
 Similarly, there have also been a few pieces of concern about it. I think that were also included in your and staff's report to you. Some of those have been about concerns about how the area drains and that developing this property may impact it. Otherwise, again, those are in your packet. If you'd like to consider them further, we've not received anything additional since the Planning Commission that I'm aware of.
 Taking all these considerations together, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission afforded it to Council, again by a split decision. At least one different commissioners on this one, however, the split vote was of a 5-2 decision.
 nature. Those supporting it did find the request to be compatible from a land use standpoint. Certainly those dissenting votes felt differently that the uses allowed in the RAU zoning district were not compatible with what is largely a single family, but certainly not uniformly a single family area.
 Otherwise, there was quite a bit of discussion about that water, sewer, and street access and hydric soil on the property. It was framed in more of a neutral light, just concerns and questions about those and how those would appear during the development review process. Ultimately, at least five of the commissioners were satisfied that our development regulations and requirements would be able to handle those concerns and recommend in favor of the request.
 With that, I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And there I have Lawrence, I'm sorry. David, thank you, Laurel David here in person as the applicant, I apologize.
 So I bet you all were wondering why we were there sitting in the background. Yes, I thought surely they're just not curious how council meeting is going. I just said don't worry, next one, so that she wouldn't keep looking over at us. Thank you all for staying so late. We appreciate you for your service and thought the least we could do was to stay with you and talk to you in person.
 Jonathan's staff has been great to work with, he's done a great job summarizing some of the things that were discussed. I do have some follow-up things to mention. One, the water and sewer, we have had discussions with the water and sewer department. They are supportive of the project and there are opportunities for making those connections.
 We will once finalize design, we will then decide how the best way to make the access. But as Jonathan noted, there are at least three paper right of ways there for connections to adjacent streets.
 We've also consulted with two geotechnical companies with environmental services. Early feedback is that it doesn't appear there are any wetlands on the property, but further study needs to be done. Certainly I think there are no obvious vegetation that is associated with wetlands, mostly grass. Quite frankly, there's not a lot of trees or anything else there.
 But there are hydric soils, so obviously that's something we always need to check before development. And it seems as if the hydric soils is more a just a slow drainage issue that could be mitigated during development. And I think there are obviously there's no drainage or detention on the property now. So if you have any questions otherwise then I will leave you to it. Thank you.
 Is there any questions from the council for the staff or the applicant? Yeah, I just want to mention earlier, I mentioned in Fayetteville you're either sliding downhill or in the muck. This neighborhood is in the core of my constituency. It's definitely in the muck, but it's a well-built neighborhood and people love living there. And I think this is a very welcome, I don't see any problem for my constituents, and if I do have it, I'll have to deal with that.
 But again, if it allows us to get some housing built, I'm all for this. I mean, this is no different than any other property in the neighborhood where lots of my friends have places. And sometimes the soil stays wet, but they make do. DeAndre? Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry, it's me. Y'all kinda had the mic over there. I just wanted to check with staff to see when that area was rezoned to neighborhood conservation.
 That was with, I'm assuming that was directed. Oh yeah, sorry. That rezoning occurred with the Walker Park Near-Bed Plan, so I believe it was 2008? Yep. I'm sorry, I'm blanking. Is that correct? Sure it was. Sorry, yeah. Well, no, it was earlier than that. It was like 2005, because I was on the council then. And then you showed, can you pull that, I think you showed us that, the plan, I think, as well, that would have gone with that zoning.
 I just, I didn't know if that rendering, did it show a similar density? Is this what's being referenced? Oh yeah. Oh, well that's not going to be very specific. No. Exactly. I mean, and that is something to keep in mind with illustrative plans. They're exactly that. They're, they're,
 They represent aspirations and this one was meant to reflect the zoning that was being proposed as a part of the plan as well, but it was always there's always the intent to try to create a street grid here and develop these properties as a part of that envisioning that visioning process.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan, I don't know if you can pull that up on the fly, but it would be nice to see the hydric soils of that area, and maybe if there's any kind of drainage issue or slope issue that's obvious. I'm sorry I should have asked you that when I was looking through the packet a couple of days ago, because I didn't see that in there. Allow me a moment here. Sorry.
 did you pick strawberries there as well bob i said did you pick strawberries there as well you seem very familiar with the area and the property in question you can see surrounded in neon blue teal whatever you'd like to refer to as uh and the if you're not familiar with this
 particular map it include the hydric soils are shown in blue here and that difference fill or pattern you see is indicative of historic prairie which is substantial parts of South Faye we can see most of the Walker Park neighborhood
 So the darker blue or gray is over 60% hydric soils, correct? Kind of on the periphery at the southern end? Correct, and it is worth noting that...
 maps like these are often based on USGS maps, which take a very, they're similar to like our future land use map. It's a very broad brush stroke, or stroke and that's why we use them as a baseline indicator of, for consideration to direct whether, as the applicant mentioned, geotechnical work needs to occur in association with development. Could you, since you have that up, could you pull the topography up? Sorry, he did ask for that. Thank you for doing that, that's super helpful. I appreciate it.
 Okay, thank you for that. I appreciate it. Certainly. You see that just if you're not able to see that the darker lines indicate the 10-foot intervals so across the length of the site that's about that's a 10-foot fall over about 375 feet or so. Jonathan is this going to be part of the you'll have to help me out with this, but the plans that we talked about the
 Yes, this is within that project area, yes. Okay, okay. I was thinking it would be, and I, you know, this looks like a good place to apply this rezoning and maybe let someone use those plans maybe if it would be applicable in this case. But I see this as a good place to...
 possibly rezone and it's you know there's some areas that are open but it it's but it's up to an area that looks like it's all housing as well so I'm I don't see any problems. Jonathan can you pull back up the map again and while you do that I just want to ask the applicants just a quick question and you don't even have to get up. Well they got to get up. Okay I'm sorry I'm sorry to make you get up.
 I just want to know, have you seen what the cities come forward with their pre-approved plans? Yes, and we've been watching it. It's very interesting. We certainly are going to look into it further with the possibility of actually using that here because it would be a really good fit.
 And can you bring in that overlay? Thank you very much. That was my only question. Just make sure you saw those. We're excited about them. Can you bring up the overlay with the hydric soil overlay? Yeah.
 And then can you scroll just south a little bit and I just want everybody to look at kind of the housing that is built along Washington Avenue and it's all, you know, my friends down there, there's times of year your yard doesn't get dry.
 but it's a it's a much below it's a much beloved neighborhood it you I don't think the people that live there would trade that neighborhood for anything no it was one of our some of the greatest people I know live in that neighborhood and I think they and they would all be very happy for more housing down there and and you know I
 yeah i think you know since there's not many trees on it now and you say well it needs to have 15 that might actually add some trees or do we have an idea about that or do not have those numbers yeah but um i i would like to move forward on this i'm i'm it's my neighborhood i'll definitely take the grief if if you know they will they will let me know if they're not happy and and again in the interest of getting some housing built and having some urgency about it i would like us to move forward on this
 Second. I still have, I'm sorry. I thought that was a motion. I'm sorry. I was waiting for Bob to kind of turn his light off. No, no, no, it's all right. I want you to leave a moment when you all want to talk, because if you turn them off, then I forget about you.
 Thank you, Mayor. You know, it's 11.20 tonight. There were quite a few people that had signed on with concerns. I know that's in your ward, but it was in the packet if you look down there.
 So I just think out of respect to the other residents in your area or to our citizens of Fayetteville, maybe we should hold it till next week. We could advance it forward to the second reading or even the third reading. But, you know, there were other concerns. Jonathan, can you tell me how many concerns we had? Yeah.
 There were, I believe, three written statements of support leading up to the Planning Commission meeting and I don't remember how many spoke at the Planning Commission meeting itself. But we have three in support and do we see how many we have? Were they opposed or just concerned?
 I mean, that's a subjective call. It's always hard to say if somebody says they're worried they're getting flooded out of the house, but they don't say they're . I'm sorry. I'm sorry, there it is. I knew it was in there. I couldn't take it out of my brain from watching. Five members of the public spoke against the request of the plan. Spoke against. OK, and then there were nine in the letter at the end in the packet.
 and how many total four more against them four nine nine were opposed it's it's in our packet it's at the very last page okay i don't have that much um what would you like to do you know to me it's like i was hired to do a job i ran i'm doing a job and i'd like to do my job uh and i know that not everybody's gonna be happy with every decision i make uh i'm ready to move forward with this and and pass this
 Okay. The urgency for housing to me, and it's suitable for the neighborhood. It's what the neighborhood is already. You're always going to have, I told my ward.
 Exactly the reason I'm sitting in this seat is because I told people I was going to have an urgency about this and I didn't hear any complaints about this. These are where my friends live, this is where everybody I know lives, and I'm ready to move forward with it. My friends are going to be mad at me.
 I'd like to make a motion to pass. Second. We got readings to go through. Oh, okay. I'm sorry. Can I make a motion to move to the second reading? Well, I got to take some public comment. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought we... Okay. Sorry. It's all good. All right. Now then, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that.
 does anyone want to speak in the chamber okay susan do you have anybody yes sir okay well that just took a sec now bob will make all the motions you want before i make a a motion which i will in a second i do want to point out too that this neighborhood is full of unused uh uh what uh easements or or uh
 Like the the connectivity is not going to be a problem right they'll be able to connect right into 7th Street Right. There's paper right away on three sides Yeah, there's plenty right unused right away's in this in this neighborhood and it's not gonna be an issue It's an it to me. It's a non-issue So I make a motion we move to the second reading Yes Yes
 Yes. Bunch? Yes. Hart? No. Hartspur? No. That did pass. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-037 for approximately 1.03 acres located east of East 9th Street and South Washington Avenue in Ward 1 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I make a motion that we suspend the rules and move to the third reading.
 second motion second go to third and hungry here would you please call the row stafford yes jones yes moore yes wedeker yes vernon yes yes turk no
 No. In ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2023-37 for approximately 1.03 acres located east of East 9th Street and South Washington Avenue in Ward 1 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Any final comments from the council? Yes, Mike. Yes, sir. It would make a heck of a football field. I think that the potential for using the...
 pre-approved plans is partially a deal breaker for me to support this. I know that if people had concerns it's probably about impervious service putting their property at risk and I think that's a legitimate thing. I also know that although we are elected by wards we really represent the whole city on every vote that we take and I think that that's kind of an important thing to re-establish in our minds but despite saying that
 I'm comfortable with this one sir. Thank you. Okay. Bob, do you have something else? No, I'm ready to see some housing get built so I'm excited about this. Okay. Anybody else? All right. Kerwood, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Burnham? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Hertzberg? No.
 Okay, did it pass? It passed, didn't it? Did it pass. Okay. Well, what announcements do we have? Susan, you don't have any announcements, really? I can always remind everybody about bulky waste, and that would be sad. Oh, I'm sorry, Mike. No, no. And if I could get the city clerk's attention,
 Kara, I want to apologize to you because I simply got lazy and used to an actual piece of paper delivered with the nominees' names on it. And you're much more environmental, and it was right there in the packet digitally. And so I wanted to apologize to you while we're still on the record that here I am looking for a piece of paper, and you did everything you're supposed to do, and I'm so sorry that I missed that.
 i'll pass your comment along to jonathan ramirez thank you okay we are adjourned