I would like to call to order the city council meeting for April the 18th, 2023. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederkerk? Here. Berna? Here. Bunch? Here. Kirk? Here. Hertzberg? Here. Harding? Here. Mayor Jordan? Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the April 4th, 2023 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with Washington County to accept funding from the Gulf Coast high-intensity drug trafficking area in the amount of $98,066 for the police department and to approve budget adjustment. Number three.
 A resolution to authorize the purchase of bunker gear, coats, and pants from Lion Manufacturing through Navco Incorporated pursuant to a source well co-operative purchasing contract in the amount of $154,439.10 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. All right. Number four. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $463,032.00.
 recognizing interest revenue generated from the sales and use capital improvement and refunding bond series 2019 number five a resolution to amend resolution 3523 by reducing the amount of reappropriations to the 2023 budget by three million thirty one thousand seven hundred twenty four dollars and to approve budget adjustment number six
 A resolution to authorize a one-year contract with the Northwest Arkansas Land Trust in the amount of $20,000 for habitat restoration and management at the Westside Prairie with an option to renew for five additional one-year terms. And number seven.
 A resolution to express the intent of the city council to engage a consultant to perform a park impact fee study. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Care, would you please call the roll?
 Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to unfinished business.
 Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 23-004, located at 2910 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3, for approximately 14.70 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre, and are
 residential agriculture to our a residential agriculture and NC neighborhood conservation this was left on the second reading on the April 4th I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading so move second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading did you get that care okay would you please call the roll
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Turner? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And in order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 23-4 located at 2910 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3 for approximately 14.7 acres
 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre and RA residential agricultural to RA residential agricultural and NC neighborhood conservation. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. I don't have any new information or updates on this item. I'm of course happy to take any questions the council has and Mitch Weigel is here in person as the applicant for the item, Mayor. Okay, would the applicant like to speak for the council?
 Mr. Mayor, Council, thank you. Once more into the breach, or at least for the last time. So we've made our request and we've answered a lot of questions concerning this infill rezoning. The applicant's desire is to simply provide more opportunity for infill on a small scale within the city of Fayetteville. We've looked at some traffic numbers. We've met and talked with neighbors. Our traffic numbers indicated that...
 that there really haven't been but maybe two accidents there over the past two years especially that's helped a lot since the traffic lights gone in we know that we can't put 95 units which was the which was a concern of the neighbors on the property our best guess is maybe 54 55 so current rezoning would allow for 36 so we're not talking about the ability to put a whole lot of more houses or a whole lot of more cars on the road
 It seems to be a reasonable request within what the city wants to do in providing more places to build houses, and we look forward to answering any questions and moving this forward. Thank you. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or for the staff? No? Okay, well then let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 please stay on topic please give us your name and address and those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber tonight on this topic you have anyone on zoom susan no sir thank you okay well then i will bring it back to the council what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to take we're on the third and final reading so i guess
 it's time to vote so what final comments i suppose or discussions council have mr mayor i would just like to to thank you know i feel like we've had a really good discourse about this particular rezoning request and i want to thank the you know i don't know if any of the neighbors are here tonight or watching tonight but i want to thank them for being
 patient and and you know listening and asking their questions and taking time to you know to do their due diligence and and see if they can shape this to be the best for their neighborhood and I want to thank the applicants for being patient as well I really appreciate that and if anybody else has any other comments I'd love to hear them but I think I'm ready to vote okay Teresa
 Yes, thank you all for being so patient, having a good conversation about this rezoning. I appreciate Jonathan and his staff for sending the information on the slope.
 The slope was not nearly as steep as I was concerned about, so thank you for that information. Also, the traffic info. I've driven by there several times, different times of the day, and kind of checked it out on the ground. It doesn't seem to be as big of an issue as I initially perceived.
 However, I still think that NC is too dense for that neighborhood. I think RSF 8 would be a much more appropriate density transition from the RSF 4. So I just wanted to state why I was not supporting this. But again, I appreciate all the information, the conversation, and the patience of our residents and the applicant. Okay. Anybody else?
 I truly have been on the fence on this because of my biggest concern was the traffic because we're going to add potentially, we've got 18 houses that we're going to add on the north side and now potentially 55. And it concerned me a little bit, but I'm going to rely on my
 My gut, it feels right, the zoning. And I'm going to rely on staff to study the traffic issue and make recommendations as they see fit. But I believe I'm going to support this. Okay. Anybody else before we vote? All right. Caravage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes.
 Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Burnham. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. No. Kirksburg. Yes. Kirksburg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Okay. Thank you all very much. Let's go to number two.
 an ordinance to amend 130.39, Graffiti and Federal Code, to create a graffiti abatement program. This was left on the third reading in the table. I will turn the floor over to Teresa, and I think you have some pictures to share. Is that correct? Yes.
 Yes, I do, Mr. Mayor. First, though, I would like to amend the current ordinance. I think Kit sent out the revised ordinance last week for you all to take a look at. So I was hoping that maybe we could amend that before we got started on the larger discussion tonight.
 Is that a motion to amend? I'm sorry, that's a motion to amend. Yes. Second. We have a motion to amend the graffiti ordinance that was sent out by the city attorney. I'm sure you've all looked at that. So is there any discussion on the amendment? Okay. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Berna? Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. And Mr. Mayor, even though it's on the third and final reading, I think I ought to read at least the active part of it. I won't read the whereas clauses just so that anybody in the public will know what is the issue. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council, the city of Fable Arkansas, section
 At the City Council, the City of Fable Arts are hereby amends Section 130.39, Graffiti, under the Fable Code, by repealing it and enacting the following, quote, subsection A, definition, for purposes of this section, the term graffiti means any inscription, word, figure, design, symbol, or insignia
 which is marked, etched, scratched, drawn, painted, or otherwise affixed or placed upon city property, utility property within the city right-of-way, or without the authority or permission of the owner, private property that is viewable from city property or right-of-way.
 Subsection B, unlawful to apply graffiti. It is unlawful for any person to apply graffiti upon any city property or city right-of-way, including any utility or other allowed structure on city property or city right-of-way, or upon any structure, fence, wall, dumpster, or similar thing on private property without the express authority and permission from the property owner.
 Subsection C, graffiti declared a public nuisance. Graffiti is detrimental to property values, degrades the aesthetics and attractiveness of the city, causes expenses for the city or private property owners to abate or remove the graffiti.
 harms the economic vitality of the City and violates the City's property maintenance requirements and the adopted International Property Maintenance Code, such that the City Council has determined and now expressly declares that graffiti is a public nuisance which should be promptly removed and kept off of all publicly viewable building structure, utility, and other places.
 Subsection D, city staff is empowered to abate or remove graffiti from private property with the consent of the owner or tenant. Because graffiti is a public eyesore and nuisance, the city has a public purpose to use public funds or staff to abate or remove graffiti from privately owned property that is viewable from city property or city right-of-way with the consent of the owner or tenant.
 Subsection E. All utilities with a city franchise to use city right-of-way agree to graffiti removal. By placing or maintaining equipment or other things on the city property or right-of-way, all utilities with franchises to use city property or right-of-way agree to promptly remove or abate any graffiti affixed to their equipment or other thing and allow the city to also abate or remove such graffiti without prior notice to the utility.
 This provision is an amendment to all city franchise agreements if the franchisees use the city right-of-way after June 1, 2023. And if other remedies remain available to the city, this section does not preclude the city from seeking the abatement or removal of graffiti through criminal mischief prosecutions, enforcement of the International Property Maintenance Code, or other remedies.
 thank you mayor um could mark could you please run the slideshow um i'm gonna kind of review a few of the uh photos that i had before um so this is on the this is downtown right next to the right next to the bike path um there's several more if you could just kind of scroll through that that would be great um i showed these to you last fall um
 There's several more. I went around town today and updated some of the photos, but these are still from last fall. Lots of, I believe, unauthorized artistic expression. You might, some might call that, others might call it defamation of the property. This was actually, some of this graffiti was actually on the old Porter Produce House that's been cleaned up by the city.
 This was over in West Fayetteville. That's another image of the wall downtown. This was actually off of Martin Luther King Way. And this was on the train trellis on Center Street that I just took today.
 This was on the old Peggy's Cleaners. And this was the wall down by the bike trail right there at the intersection has been actually cleaned up quite a bit. I think the next, this was actually on the parking lot on East Street. So we still have quite a bit around town. That was also on East Street.
 It's still down right down by the old depot. This was all this was over in West Fayetteville. I think they and and then right this one right here is a shot of how it has been painted over down there by the bike trail. So thank you to getting that cleaned up. I really appreciate that.
 And then I want to close out with this final image. So this wall was on saying, this fence is on saying, and apparently there was lots of graffiti on there before they actually painted it with a mural of the hogs. And since then, they haven't really had any problems. So I do think that painting over with a mural that's appropriate for the area has been really successful and does beautify our city somewhat further.
 So I am bringing this forward because I have had a lot of complaints in the past. Thanks to Kit and the city attorney's office for working with this revision. I think it's a lot more straightforward and simplified than what we originally had before you a couple of months ago.
 I think it's very clear that we have to have on private property, we have to have an agreement with the private owner, the owner of the property or the tenant before the city staff can go and remediate or remove the graffiti.
 It also authorizes to use city funds to do that abatement, and it includes the utilities that are in the right-of-way and also the railroad companies too. So I'm happy to take any questions. I know we've talked about this before, but the revisions, I think, are a good job and are better than what we started out with. Thank you, Kit. Thank you.
 I just wanted to thank Theresa for working with the Art Council on this and giving us an opportunity to weigh in.
 Was there, at some point we had a time constraint for contacting the owners of private property? How is that kind of followed up? That's no longer part of that. That was part of an ordinance that Springdale had. And if the property owner didn't reply, then they felt like they had the right to go and paint it over without their permission. And that's what caused me concern that we would be entering private property.
 affecting private property, possibly they would say damaging private property without the consent of the property owner. And that's why I thought we probably needed to rewrite that and make sure we're not going beyond what we should be doing.
 Absolutely, great. So we don't have to worry about that time constraint. We'll just kind of wait to get consent and then figure out from there what to do. That sounds good. I think the goal of this too is to remove it as rapidly as possible so that it won't linger because I think a lot of studies have shown that the quicker you're able to remove the graffiti, the better off it is. So we didn't put a time in there, but that's kind of the intent.
 I think that makes it stronger and it gives us a lot of everyone a lot of flexibility. So thank you.
 I also wanted to mention the work that you've been doing, Sonia, with the Arts Council and the art wall that will be on Poplar. Poplar, is that right? And so the Sycamore and the trail, the crossing on Sycamore or Poplar? I'd have to look it back. It's Poplar. Poplar. Thank you, Poplar. It's the pump station house at Poplar. Thank you. Yes. Yes.
 So I'm really hopeful by having this ordinance, but also this opportunity for graffiti artists to express themselves in a more appropriate location or sanctioned location that that will provide an outlet for them. Absolutely. You're welcome. Thanks for the time for us to work that out. And Joanna Bell worked a lot to bring that to fruition. So I want to thank her, our arts and culture director and the staff that worked on that. I don't have any further questions.
 Anything else? Yes. I wasn't here. So excuse me, I wasn't here in the fall. So I've been taking this in more newly and have worked with community members who do get entangled with arrests in the courts in regard to what our laws are out there. And so when I read this, I try to think about maybe the potential unintended consequences. And so I'm kind of thinking through.
 I'm curious in regard to the language around promptly and section C. And this might be a quick question. I know language is so incredibly important. When we talked, Sonia had mentioned about Council person, I'm sorry, Harvey, had mentioned that we had had the two days before. But I was curious what the interpretation might be for that it should be removed promptly.
 Um, the, well, in subsection C is actually graffiti being declared a public nuisance and- Excuse me, can you all please silence your phones if you would?
 And then subsection D says it's about removing from private property. Basically, we're allowing the administration to administer this ordinance like they do almost all the ordinances. And so we've given them or you will have given them the power to do this. And then it's up to the administration then to.
 get it done, which I'm sure that they will get it done. But we're not putting time limits or anything like that on it. Obviously, I think the intent is to move quickly, especially when it's on public prop city property or city right-of-way, where we don't even have to give notice to the utility company
 If their pole or something has been graffitied, then we can just go and remove it immediately if that's what we want to do. Or we can notify them and then they have the duty to remove it too. But obviously, we move probably faster than the utility company. But that's all administrative stuff. That doesn't need to be in the ordinance. You all are setting policy and then the administration does the administration of the ordinance.
 I guess just to kind of clarify, I'm just curious because, you know, promptly for some people can mean two days, promptly for others might mean two weeks. And so I just am curious if we would even have a range in regard to that. I'm just curious. No, there's no range in the range.
 In the ordinance, the ordinance says it's nuisance, we want to get rid of it. The city can get rid of it. We can spend city funds getting rid of it. But then all the administration part of that is left to the administration rather than putting requirements in by the council. It'll end up being left to me pretty much. So let's cut the checks. So, I mean, it'll be my responsibility to...
 have somebody, you know, we'll figure it out, Sarah. Whenever on the portion that does talk about the utilities, did the utility companies express any concerns in this change at all? Were they contacted?
 No, the utilities are in our right of way through our permission. Okay. And the utility agreements we have are primarily dictated by you all, the city council. Also following state law, which gives us the power to do that and put some limits on it. For example, how much we can charge for franchise fees.
 But beyond that is what the government is doing to allow them to use our right-of-ways. And they're not only paying to use the right-of-ways, but they also have other duties. They've had other duties for a long time. For example, if they need to get across the street, well, now we make sure our engineering people and stuff make sure that what they have done when they go across the street is fixed so they don't leave ruts in the street.
 So this is all done administratively again, but that's, you know, if the utility wants to have utilities in Fayetteville, then they have to comply with the reasonable things that we're doing. And this is not unreasonable to tell them we want the graffiti removed from the utility equipment, because they don't want it there either. I mean, they're not in favor of having graffiti, I think, on their
 I wasn't sure because I knew there had been a art program with some of the utility boxes, so I just knew there probably was coordination with that. So that's why I was just curious if we had gotten any feedback in regard to them. So thank you. And then the other thing that I had talked to city staff, understanding what workload this is today with what Public Works, I think between parks and Public Works, there's some different...
 staff that are involved that remove the graffiti at this time and You know, I asked you do you have any anticipation of what workload, you know could be in the future and they said well We think we can maintain it. But you know if it becomes too much we probably have to come to council I just was curious if the way that they currently take care of it today though is that they have one type of paint and
 that kind of matches that they put like on the tunnel. So it doesn't look too bad, but it's kind of a patch job. And so I was curious if we talked about the fact of like what happens on like brick exterior that probably needs more like blasting, wood fences where you don't want that type of paint. And then on private property,
 whenever it ends up being like a custom color, right? Today, we don't have staff going to Sherwin-Williams or to some store. And so that to me, you know, thinking about designer colors and historical areas and things like that conjured up, you know, some concerns about liability and labor that might be involved for us to take on as the city and what...
 you know, what costs that could be in the future. And so I was just, I just didn't know if that was something that we've been able to look into and try to understand what that,
 that labor and that cost might be? So I've actually had a conversation with the chief of staff about using the appropriate techniques to remove graffiti. So if it's a brick wall, maybe it's a pressure wash. If it's on a wood surface, maybe we match the color. And so we've had those kind of conversations about making sure it's appropriate and not harmful to the surface, to the building when removal takes place.
 I had thought about putting something like that in here, but that was getting too much into the details. But again, that's an administrative issue.
 If we need to come back here next year and make some revisions, I'm certainly open to that. If we need to add some more funding or another staff person, I'm open for that discussion, and we can identify and examine the cost and if this has been beneficial or not. So this is the start. I'm hoping we can have a good start, but definitely.
 but I'm certainly open to any adjustments that maybe need to be made. And when we get a complaint in, Sarah, it's not like we just go and immediately remove it or paint over it, or then I'll tell the staff, we'll go out and look at it, tell me where it is, what have you got there? And the staff's good about that. They'll know if it's brick, then they're gonna use a power washer. And there's a difference between that and say a water tower that somebody has,
 and then you might could, in some places it will work. I mean, we'll use good judgment. We'll be, I mean, if somebody has designer paintings you're talking about, I wouldn't want to paint it battleship gray. That would not probably be in my,
 I'd probably get a few calls from the owner. So we certainly want to make sure that the owner is aware of whatever we're doing before we do it. And keep in mind, we don't do that to the private property without the owner's consent. So if the owner says, okay, but I need you to match the color, I think that's what we're going to do, or we'll choose not to remove the graffiti. So that's a backup. The owner has to be giving consent about how the graffiti is being removed.
 And then the way the wording, I just want to make sure that I'm reading it correctly from you, Kit, is whenever it said, you know, based on if it's on a private property that's, you know, visible to the public, in the event that that property owner says, no, I'm not going to remove it, it's going to continue to be seen by the public, there's nothing in the language of the current ordinance that's going to make them have to take action. There is not, but if you look at subsection F.
 This section does not preclude the city from seeking the abatement or removal of graffiti through criminal mischief prosecutions or the enforcement of the International Property Maintenance Code. The International Property Maintenance Code might have some effect on a property owner having graffiti on their property, but this particular ordinance says nothing like that. Sir?
 Thank you for your clarification Teresa and Kit. It's all really good information to know and when we do something like this we start out like Teresa said and we always have time as if we see that we have a problem we have time to check it later on and I do think that
 you know, one of the things that first came to my mind is if I have a custom stain on my fence, I'm going to know if there's graffiti on it, probably if I've spent that kind of money, you know, so it's not, I mean, it's not impossible that somebody wouldn't know that. But I think
 I think we have the option of working with the citizens and trying to come up with a good resolution. And with anything we do, we can modify it as it goes along. Sometimes the starting point is just that. It's just the starting point. It'll be interesting. We'll see. Any other discussion? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member please stay on topic give us your name and address those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to address this that's in the chamber on the graffiti ordinance tonight do we have anybody on zoom not with their hand raised at this moment no i think you're good okay
 Well, then I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is on the third reading So any final comments before we look okay care which please call the roll Yes for yes Yes, yes, yes Yes, Hertzberg Hertzberg Harvey yes
 That passed. Thank you. Okay. Thank you all. All right, let's go to number three. An ordinance to amend 51.136 monthly water rates and 51.137 monthly sewer rates to change water and sewer rates as recommended by the cost of service study conducted by Black and Veach. Paul, I understand you want to table this. I'd like to table this, and I'd like to table this at a second meeting in May.
 that would be may 16th at that point i'll give the city council an update we have to go through the water and sewer committee we've had some significant changes to where we started a year ago so i'd like to table at this point in time to that meeting at that point we'll give you an update uh and see where we are that is everybody good with that do you have any questions for paul or anything
 then we need we need a motion in seconds table do we not get make a motion that we table this until May 16th basically second second we think is my 16th yeah second meeting in May all right
 All right. Care which police caller up? Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Erna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Harvey. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number four. A resolution to approve and authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an ARPA-funded subrecipient agreement.
 with Serv NWA for supportive and affordable housing in the amount of $1,295,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. We had a lot of discussion about this item some weeks back, and I appreciated the feedback from colleagues. Sometimes when you're really close to a subject, sometimes you forget to go back to 30,000 feet and kind of really kind of explain the situation. Okay.
 And for those that are in the audience tonight who may be watching and aren't really familiar with the American Rescue Plan Act monies, humor me for a minute, but I kind of want to talk about the history of these and why these are so important to our community.
 You know, these monies were given for COVID pandemic relief and the language around those was really to promote equitable outcomes to really target those populations who had been disproportionately impacted due to the pandemic but also who had been historically suppressed. And so in my work as a nonprofit, we really had dug into this since 2021 and really saw a dire need around housing
 And that work and talking to the community, doing workshops, folks really, by being surveyed, found out that they were very much interested in housing with the ARPA money. Additionally, there were other nonprofits in the area that their members surveyed the public and housing once again came forward.
 And so, you know, in coming into council in January and the conversations we had around our workshop, one of the discussion points was that those on council did think that one of the goals that we needed to think about was housing. And so really my good faith effort was that the experts in this field that do this work every day had made applications.
 and had really valuable projects that I thought could really help certain portions of our population. And so, like some of the other projects that we've been able to fund that many of you were doing before I joined in regard to things like being able to solve for a specific part of the population with childcare. Not everyone has a child.
 This proposal tonight is to look at permanent supportive housing. We, at this time, really have no place that unhoused individuals really can be in the city legally if they're unhoused or camping, both private or on city land.
 The new units that are coming on at the lowest income levels aren't going up really at the rates that we need. And they actually appear to be decreasing. We've seen this in losing West End and Highway N and 12th Street and Countryside.
 There's further pressure in our community with two large complexes that have historically provided some of our Section 8, telling this population that they most likely won't continue forward in the next year.
 Additionally, individuals that are at our lowest income, unhoused, disabled, and chronically homeless unfortunately end up in our incarceration system, in the courts, and in arrest. At any time you can look in South Fayetteville at the Washington County Detention Center, a hundred individuals will be listed as either unhoused or as Seven Hills as their address.
 That costs $30,000 yearly for those individuals to be there in the jail. That's $3 million a year. Additionally, the city of Fayetteville has an MOU, and we spent last year $76,422 over and above the quarter cent sales tax that we taxpayers already pay to fund the jail.
 The current programs that help this unhoused or housing insecure population, they're at capacity. They have long waits. Their lists are shut off at FHA because of the wait. Our population in Fayetteville is at 17.7% poverty. And programs just haven't grown to keep up with this need in our population.
 So we find ourselves in a pinch point. And the financial difference between some of the consideration sets that we'll make tonight between whether or not we do a permanent supportive housing model or we look at rental assistance or look at transitional living are that
 Some of those mechanisms actually have other funding sources that come in from time to time and are available. Being able to put permanent housing stock, being able to create housing with our funds is a once in a lifetime opportunity. Additionally, when you look at those different options that we consider tonight, you're talking about or looking at considering whether or not we're making a short term investment or we're looking at a permanent long term investment.
 And so I really appreciate all of the questions and all of the time. I know that individuals have taken outside of council to go sit with people that are experts in this field and to get more information. And I'd like to really encourage you to support this particular project.
 because it does help some of our most vulnerable, but it also is a more financially responsible way to spend the money because over time, the investment pays off after five years of the cost that typically folks that are chronically unhoused receive.
 have with first responders and ERs and hospital visits and being in the jail and court system, that will basically, you know, the next 25 years of this project would be this entry level housing would still exist and continue to give a return to the community.
 And so at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Solomon Birchfield. He's with New Beginnings. He has a handful of slides that he'd like to walk through to talk to some of these specific areas about this project. How long will the presentation take? No more than 10 minutes. 10 minutes. Okay. Solomon, you're up. Thank you all. And I will be more brief than 10 minutes. Okay.
 First off, I do want to say I got to have conversations with every single one of you, whether by email, by phone, in person, in some cases hours. I am so grateful for your attention to this critical issue, a crisis of affordable housing and homelessness. The conversation I hope keeps going. So thank you for your attention. How do I advance my slide? Susan, thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. I'm going to just run through some flashcards, four minutes of your attention. Flashcard one. This is a great conversation about the spectrum of housing interventions. On the far left of your screen is the intervention of rental assistance, of distributing this same money to a broad group of people who need a little bit of help.
 And the same thing can be accomplished with affordable housing development financing. It's a way to target housing intervention dollars to help people who are on the edge or in housing but are struggling to maintain. And so that's a really great intervention. I'm an enthusiastic supporter of rental assistance funding.
 Now, all the way on the opposite end of the spectrum is the way to spend funds in the housing intervention known as permanent supportive housing. It's not thousands of people. It's just a few of our neighbors, but it's people with long-term homeless backgrounds, like many at New Beginnings, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years of homelessness. People with disabling conditions.
 who often begin without having disability income. Maybe you know it, New Beginnings, 11 people in our first year and a half have obtained disability income so they could start helping pay rent. This intervention helps a few people, but it's some of our most vulnerable neighbors. So I want to avoid thinking there's only one ROI. There's only one way to think about the return on investment or the cost per person. I think it's apples and oranges. There's two ROIs.
 And both of these interventions are very effective for the target population. Our proposal was written to try to prioritize the people who are chronically homeless, and that's why we wrote it, to spend the funds on this permanent supportive housing. Next slide, please. Flash card two. So in general, supportive housing always works the same way. We spend public tax dollars helping subsidize someone's rent,
 Plus paying for support services so that person will be stable in housing. So the city of Fayetteville has a great supportive housing program currently, the HEARTH program. And I pulled this graph from the numbers from the Center for Supportive Housing. HEARTH program helps subsidize a tenant's rent every single month. And if you look at a 30-year period, that's a whole lot of money spent subsidizing the housing cost for that tenant.
 It also funds support services for the tenant in housing. The New Beginnings Program is the exact same goal and the same structure. The difference is, instead of for 30 years of funding, it's one large upfront investment. That's how you subsidize the housing costs. And with that investment, these units can be rented at very low rates so that they can be extremely affordable and still fund the upkeep.
 PLUS, THERE'S THE SUPPORT SERVICES. SO THE BLUE IN THE CHART REPRESENTS THE HOUSING COST. THE ORANGE REPRESENTS THE SUPPORT SERVICES OVER A 30-YEAR PERIOD. SO IT'S A COMPARABLE EXPENSE, PROBABLY A LITTLE BIT CHEAPER. FOR NEW BEGINNINGS, WE, BETWEEN THE LAST CITY COUNCIL MEETING AND THIS ONE, WE WERE AWARDED A GRANT FROM THE COC THROUGH HUD FOR $47,000.
 A year and that's a grant we can apply for and get renewed each year if congress allocates the same And those are funds we would use to fund the orange part as well as the private fundraising that our non-profit is committed to So it really represents some cost savings for the city to get an ongoing program For the cost of one large upfront investment next slide, please This proposal really is cheaper than leaving chronically homeless people unhoused um
 The quote on the screen is from the U.S. Interagency Council on Homelessness, the federal entity charged with coordinating the resources available to respond in homelessness in America. Leaving a person to remain chronically homeless costs taxpayers as much as $30,000 to $50,000 per year. Many chronically homeless people live on an institutional circuit.
 from the jail to the street, to the emergency room, to the shelter, to the jail, to the street, year after year after year. And so our proposal proposes to interrupt that cycle. We spend a lot of money leaving people unhoused and we propose these funds to instead step in and provide supportive housing instead. Next slide. One thing that came up with many of our conversations was this need for a bigger picture master plan.
 a regional master plan to address homelessness. I loved that theme that was reoccurring in our conversations. I'll tell you as someone who's worked in the homeless space for the last 10 to 11 years in Fayetteville, I have never seen more energy, more collaboration, more focus,
 around addressing this issue systemically. So with our partners at Seven Hills, at Salvation Army, faith centers like Genesis Church, through the NWA continuum of care that coordinates the response locally, with NWA Council in Northwest Arkansas, there is this energy and collaboration and focus. And we will add energy to creating that master plan. But guess what? Every master plan,
 will include investments in supportive housing. Look around the country at every city making a difference. Everyone will include supportive housing. So my question is why not get started? We don't have to wait. We can start with ARPA funds now. Next slide. The last slide.
 So this is more of a question of how. Some of the scenarios that we countenanced as we submitted our application a year ago, we did not have a concrete option for a unit to buy, a place we will actually definitely go spend this money on.
 Rather, New Beginnings is really partnered with some great professionals in the real estate and development community who are offering us the help to maximize the housing units we can purchase with these dollars. And so some scenarios to play out would be the duplexes.
 that can house people, maybe single resident occupancy, maybe a shared housing scenario. These are common around the country that help support people who are roommates in housing. The potential to add an ADU behind a unit to have a more affordable way to expand how many housing units are on the land. Scenario two, some of the...
 Developers and real estate folks suggest to us there could be some off-market apartments that are in their minds we should explore, maybe remodeling. Scenario three potentially could be a land parcel. And the off-site constructed tiny homes that are very quick, and they're high quality, we've priced some of those out, we've explored some of those opportunities.
 I do not have a definite scenario to offer you, and I know that's a challenge. I get that. But what we do offer maybe is even better, the partnership with people who are committed along with us to make the best use of these public funds and turn these dollars into supportive housing.
 So I'll leave you with that. Again, I do want to say some people from New Beginnings came today, used their voice, showed up to say we support supportive housing out front. At New Beginnings, the residents run the place. They create their own rules. They staff the front desk. They have their own cleaning organizing teams. They elect their own leaders.
 who make, who implement the policy. So it's really only natural. They wanted to come and participate in the democratic process. So thank you for welcoming any of them that have a comment. And I, of course, am available for any questions. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for Solomon or Yandre? Solomon, if you would come back to the podium, if that's okay. Okay.
 Uh, Solomon, thank you for what you've done and for what you're doing. And we, we certainly recognize the need for, uh, housing. I would like to ask you this, and I'm sure that we all know, but can you define chronic homelessness? There's a HUD definition. Chronic homelessness is a person who has experienced the last 12 months as homeless or has had, uh,
 four episodes of homelessness in the last three years. And when you add up the total months, it is more than 12 months. Plus, the person has a disabling condition. It's expected to be long term. That's HUD's definition. The simple one is people for whom housing security has been a long term reoccurring issue and have a disability.
 Okay. Thank you for that. The last conversation that we had, there was a comparison or a reference made to those individuals who may need rental assistance. Can you, I think you, you did it earlier, but can you again, identify the impact that if, if we were to, um,
 provide funding for those who are experiencing chronic homelessness as opposed to the rental
 REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM. RENTAL ASSISTANCE IS A GREAT WAY TO SUPPORT PEOPLE EXPERIENCING HOUSING INSECURITY. IN HOUSING, BUT THEY'RE ON THE EDGE. TOO MUCH OF THEIR HOUSEHOLD BUDGET IS GOING TO THEIR HOUSING. AND SO OFFERING THAT RENTAL ASSISTANCE HELPS STABILIZE THE HOUSEHOLD. AGAIN A GREAT INTERVENTION AND THE CITY OF FAYETTEVILLE HAS FUNDED SOME OF THAT THROUGH THE CARES ACT. AND THOUSANDS OF OUR CITIZENS BENEFITED FROM THAT. THE CHRONIC HOMELESS POPULATION WILL NOT BE IMPACTED BY THAT INVESTMENT.
 So it sounds like that individuals who are facing chronic homelessness, that there's an intersectionality of mental health and other issues that maybe those individuals who may need rental assistance, they may not be facing.
 I think that's correct. And so when you think about the long term, I think that was the conversation the last time. There was concerns about the...
 We can do X amount of, we can do this with this amount of money. And it seems that if we help a small amount, if we help a smaller group, then the impact won't be the same with us helping a larger number of people. I think I said that right. But I think you know where I'm going with this. So can you kind of explain your perspective on that and how that's not the case? Yeah.
 Yeah, I just think that there's a different ROI for chronically homeless folks. And there's a deeper impact, but a more narrow impact. There are just 125 people going through chronic homelessness in our city. And so the intervention that actually works is higher on a cost per person basis. Solomon, what are some of the challenges or that...
 individuals with chronic homelessness they face that we may, let's say the average person may not know that that is a challenge. Interacting with folks living on the street with this background often have serious mental illness. They are sometimes not in the same reality. They struggle to make basic decisions. They may be struggling with cognitive issues.
 Serious mental illnesses like schizophrenia, bipolar, people often who at this point in life have been disconnected from their support networks. There's not family to step in and help. Those bridges have been burned over time. There are very serious physical health issues. I think I shared last time as we opened New Beginnings, we've had three people die in New Beginnings, one from cancer, one from cancer.
 who was waiting to get treatment until she could move into New Beginnings because she knew she couldn't recover after the hospital on the street. She waited, and then she passed away with us. A gentleman who had ALS, did not know it. I'd known him for eight years, been to his camp year after year. He died of ALS about nine months after moving in. And a gentleman had a heart event.
 So very serious health issues, mental health issues. And our goal is to help people moving out from new beginnings to something stable and healthy so that more people can move off the street, out of the parks and into a place like we're running. Thank you for that. And there's something that you said earlier when you said that this will interrupt that. And I keep thinking about that.
 the lifespan of individuals who are facing chronic homelessness. What would that lifespan be? Unsheltered homelessness takes off your life expectancy about 20 years of your life. About 20 years. 20 years. Okay, so when we think about it, and again, thank you for saying that. When I think about the return of investment, I do see a
 the math and I get that. But when I think about what you just said, I can't help but think about human dignity and I can't help but think about improving the quality of life and especially in South Fayetteville. When I drive through South Fayetteville, I see that we have a crisis on our hands and people are living in parts. And these are some of the notes that I made for tonight. We have people living in parts where kids should be playing.
 People are sleeping in tents along the trail where people should be riding. It is costly to invest in supportive housing, but I think we've heard tonight that this is a thing that actually works for people who Solomon told us experience long-term support needs. For eight people who move from New Beginnings to supportive housing, eight more people can move from the street into the bridge housing community. This is how we humanely,
 and wisely address chronic homelessness.
 And I really appreciate your outline tonight and you educating the council and the citizens of Fayetteville because a lot of people may not know the difference between chronic homelessness and the lifespan and the challenges that they're facing. And in South Fayetteville, it's very unfortunate, but that's what we see on a daily basis. And so I do appreciate your solution because that solution, that is saving lives.
 And that information is widely available. And I don't think, I just don't think that we could put dollars and cents, at least I can't. I can't. When I see that we have an opportunity to interrupt a lot of the things that you've mentioned tonight, that's what I was elected to do. And that's what I'm going to do. And I'm going to support this, as I said when you first brought it up.
 I'm hoping others will support it as well. I appreciate the citizens of Fayetteville reaching out with empathy, with compassion, and with concern about interrupting this and giving everyone a fair chance and addressing a lot of these systemic issues, mental health, physical health.
 we're able to not just put folk in a home, but we're also able to help them, assist them with some of those other issues. So when I think about that, about tonight and this request, it's more than about we can do this and affect more people, but when we think about equity, there are individuals that don't have a home.
 And then we have people that, you know, they have to have a home. They just need some help. And there are programs for that. But right now we're not talking about those people. We're talking about those individuals with experiencing either life or death. So thank you, Solomon. Okay. Now staff was asked to bring what you can spend the $1.2 million
 ON CORRECTLY? ON CORRECTLY? ON CORRECTLY? THAT'S CORRECT. THAT'S CORRECT. THAT'S CORRECT. WE WERE ASKED TO LOOK AT WE WERE ASKED TO LOOK AT WE WERE ASKED TO LOOK AT ALTERNATIVES. ALTERNATIVES. ALTERNATIVES. THE ADMINISTRATION'S POSITION IS THE ADMINISTRATION'S POSITION IS THE ADMINISTRATION'S POSITION IS THE SAME IN THE EVALUATION OF THE SAME IN THE EVALUATION OF THE SAME IN THE EVALUATION OF THIS PROGRAM. THIS PROGRAM. THIS PROGRAM. IT WAS BEFORE. IT WAS BEFORE. IT WAS BEFORE. WE FEEL THAT THERE COULD BE
 And he is going to discuss some of the alternatives that we've examined to this program that could be more effective in our opinion. Good evening, Mayor and Council. So at the last meeting, staff was asked by Council to provide a couple of alternatives to the project under discussion tonight. The alternatives prepared in this case are rental assistance and transitional housing.
 for the presented slide we calculated a rental assistance program based on the estimated monthly assistance of fifteen hundred dollars per applicant and a total program assistance of nine hundred and seventy five thousand dollars i think there was some discussion at the last council meeting about potentially reducing the serve nwa request to from 1.295 million to 975 000
 And I went ahead and estimated these figures based on that $975,000. So for the first option is a rental assistance. The Community Resources Department had operated a rental assistance program back in 2020 when the city received CARES Act funding. I think Solomon alluded to this during his presentation. This program would provide support for individuals and families that are currently housed to help in preventing them from becoming unsheltered.
 the city would develop and evaluate those applications and provide funding assistance payments in a similar manner to the current arpa child care assistance program at a total cost of 975 000 and an estimated rental of 1500 per month the city could assist approximately 54 applicants for a full 12 months of support the city also looked at a transitional housing alternative
 Our Community Resources Department operated a transitional housing program back in 2015. This program could focus on providing funding to assist individuals and families that have found themselves without housing at the present time. This program would assist applicants as they transition to more permanent housing. Under this program, applicants would receive case management from city staff.
 At $975,000 in funding, approximately 48 applicants could be served for a period of one year. And I think those were the two primary programs that we figured were comparable to the Serve NWA application. So that's the two programs that I would be considering.
 relating information to the federal government as far as the city's choice on if one of these projects was elected. Okay, what questions does the council have for the staff or Sara? Okay, if there's no questions then... Yes, we've heard from the staff and Sara and so on.
 If y'all don't have any questions, then we'll open it up for public comment. Okay, let's do that. Now, everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. And the topic, I took a few notes, is whether you would recommend or support the city council committee
 TO SPEND ARPA MONEY OF ONE POINT, I GUESS IT'S 1.25 OR 1.295 ON SUPPORTING HOUSING.
 That's what the topic is for the public comment. Yes, Teresa. Mayor, I think we amended the amount to $975,000. I was going to check with you all because Chet brought up the point he thought it was amended to $975,000. Well, but I think the record does not show that it actually was already amended there. I look back at what the city clerk had done. So if you  and the reason for that, obviously, is that $1 million is a level that above that the 
 Federal minders have much more interest in evaluating a program and so it it gives us more liability issues if it's above a million dollars and I think that's why nine hundred seventy five thousand dollars was discussed there might have even been a motion but evidently if so there was no passage of it and so we're still at the one million two hundred ninety five thousand dollar level.
 And, you know, if the city council wants to change it, amend it, they can do that at your pleasure now or later or whatever. But anyway, at this point, we're still talking about $1.295 million in ARPA funds. And Mayor, excuse me, Council Member Hertzberg has had her hand raised. She didn't get a chance to ask questions. She's on Zoom. Yes. Yes. Sorry. So, Holly.
 Thank you, Susan. Hi, Mayor and Council. I'd like to make a motion that we amend the funding request from $1.2 million to $975,000. I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. She was making the motion to change the $1.295 million to $975,000, so slightly under $1 million. Before we take public comment. Could we take public comment first? I'm sorry. Yes, I think, yes, I think having some
 Holly, was there anything else before the mayor takes public comment? Ma'am, thank you. And the reason I'm using the 1.295, that's what I have in my agenda package. And I knew we talked about the 975, but I could not remember us passing that. Okay. Mayor, would you mind if I clarified something real quick? Just to clarify something as far as this goes.
 So, per the American Rescue Plan Act final rules, for capital expenditures in excess of a million dollars, you're required to prepare a written justification for that expenditure. And as part of that written justification, you're required to compare the project under consideration to two other projects.
 And that was the initial reason why we looked at rental assistance and transitional housing. So anything over a million dollars, you need to prepare that justification and the comparison between projects. You need to justify why you're selecting one over another. Dropping it to the 975, as Kit alluded to, would mean that that justification is not required to be filed. So what do you think?
 Yeah, it sure would. I can get you public comments, I'm sure. I'm almost certain I can get some public comments. Okay, the motion at this point has not been seconded, so we can't discuss it unless there's going to be a second to the motion to amend. Second.
 I just want to do the public comment first. We started down. Well, that's where I'm going. We started down that road. Oh, I thought y'all wanted public comment before we came back, and then y'all can decide what you want to do with amendments and that sort of thing. So we are going to do public comment before we do the amendment, right? Right.
 Well, that's kind of up to y'all. Oh, I'm okay with either one. That's what I would recommend. Perfect. So do I need to retract my second motion? No. You can accept public comment if that's what you want to. With an amendment, I think it's supposed to be three minutes instead of five. Yes, we usually deal with the amendment before we... So just everybody hang on. Let's get some public comment. Okay, let's go through this again. Everybody get some...
 One turn to speak, you have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Okay, who would like to? And we talked about the topic being whether you want to see the council spend $1.2 million. Good evening, everybody. My name is Craig Kritzer. I am a homeless man.
 I'm going to cover this for you. I work full time. I'm involved in the community. I'm bringing drug addiction awareness to the community. I didn't do that by 40 people being housed for 20 years with no help, no guidance, no projection. Where I'm at, I have full stability and counseling. I have guidance. I have people that care about me. That's what we need. We need something that is going to guide us and put us in the correct direction.
 Paranoid, schizophrenic. I'm a whole societal sociopath. I don't take medication no more. Again, I'm a homeless man. I'm gonna live with that for the rest of my life. When I drive down the street and I go past Walgreens and I see some unholy sign asking for some money, I don't drive past them and look at them and say, I'll stop, I'll say, you hungry? Do you need a shirt? Do you need a pair of shoes? Do you need something? I'm gonna make faces at them, because I've been there, I know what they're about. How'd I get that opportunity? Because people like Solomon.
 and other programs step up, they hold their hand out and they put their hands around you. When I first walked in Newby Gangs, it was, oh, what do you need? What can we do for you? My bed was made, I had little nice stuff in there, towels and all the things. A year now, it's not that. A year now, it's what can I do to help you? And there now, we clean our place. We keep our place going. The staff doesn't do it.
 So many people in the community come and they feed us. They take time out of their day to come in and feed us, the homeless, right? Because we can't change if we're cared about, we're taught, and we're guided. You can't do that with just housing authority. What is it? 40 people for 20 years. Just put them in a place. Let's pay the rent. They'll be good, right? What do they do when that runs out? What are they going to do for the community? How do they know they're doing anything for the community? How do you get active? They're not going to.
 We get active, we get around, and we start learning and realizing where we came from and who we are. I owned a restaurant, I had a beautiful wife, my wife had three beautiful children, and I lost it upstairs. I walked away and I medicated myself for years, years. And somebody stepped up and said, hey man, what are you doing? What's the first step? Make me fit in the union again. I'm going to be homeless the rest of my life, so I'm never going to forget the 18 years I lived out there.
 18 years I starved, 18 years I didn't have dry clothing in wintertime or when it rained, or 18 years I didn't have a pillow, I didn't have a way to bathe, I didn't have a way to eat. So before you guys make your mind up, just giving money for housing, that's not what this is about. This is giving back to the community because we're being taught to go back on outreach. We're just not sitting, we're not just stealing the money, we're not just taking the money. We're being taught how to give back.
 We're being taught to help, take care, and learn about who we are and what we're about. You know, I'm bringing classes to new beginnings now, so we have a way of bringing the community inside and to sit with us and help us in submission. It's not the big thing. It's one of the things, right? I couldn't have never done that if I didn't have that space and time. I had a housing voucher for four months. I can't find a place.
 I don't need to be in New Virginia no more. They held my hand, they got me, they put me on my feet. I own a car, I have my driver's license, my insurance is paid. Those things would never happen if I didn't have the opportunity. Well, now what? The space needs to be needed for other people. We need to move up, we need to evaluate. And by moving up, I mean we're not just going to go sit in an apartment. We're going to continue to go to New Virginia, we're going to continue to support the system, we're going to continue to, because if we don't, then we're going to fall. We have to remember where we came from.
 Thank you, Dr. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Well, my name is Terry Logan. I've become homeless since my grandmother passed. I'd also like to say that when I was homeless, it was a struggle for me because I had a lot of opportunities and goals I had to put on hold. But I am thankful to God and thankful to the people that did support me when I was homeless to be a part of it. See, I am a resident of New Perkins.
 We've been there 16 months. We've made a lot of progress. But people had doubts in us that didn't think we would succeed. But we did because we stuck together as a community. But the reason why I feel about affordable housing is just a lot of us don't have the chance right now to better ourselves what we can do. But so if y'all take into consideration affordable housing, not only are you helping people to achieve...
 to the next level, but you're also helping people that's sick. You're helping people out there that's struggling, that ain't got it as easy as some people do when they're homeless. See, when my grandmother was living, you know, we had a band, me, my uncle, and two cousins. But see, when I come homeless and she died, I had to put all that on hold.
 But since Solomon gave me the opportunity to get on my feet, things are better. You know, I made a lot of goals, were able to write music and, you know, work together as a community, like coming together, like doing chores and doing the things that people say they didn't think we could do. So I'm thankful every day for Solomon to give me this chance to get to this level and hopefully get to the next level. See, me and my wife, even though she's sick, too, we've been approved for housing, but we have nowhere to go.
 So affordable housing is very well a solution that you can really help this homeless problem, even though people out there are suffering, dying, and are very sick and really need this help. So I'm hoping that in your hearts, y'all consider it, think at least about it, and put yourself in their place. How would you feel? Who do you think would help you?
 Because we're all human beings. We all have problems. None of us is perfect. But how would you know what we could do if you don't give us a chance to do it? See, there's some of us in New Beginnings who want to move forward. We want to show that difference. But if we're not giving affordable housing that we want to get into, then how can we make this possible? See, everybody can have their doubts, but they don't necessarily make it true. So I'm thankful to God every day.
 that Solomon, like I said before, gave me a chance to achieve my goals and, you know, to make a difference that some people didn't think we could do. But just because we're homeless don't make us helpless. Everybody has potential. It's how you go about using it. Let's all hope y'all can sit in your hearts and give this project a chance and let us show y'all the difference that we can make. Because homeless is a serious issue here.
 But if you want to fix it, it want us to show to you how much progress we can make. Then give us that chance. You know, affordable housing, you know, you got to start somewhere, you know? And I know as us as a community of new beginnings and some of the homeless out here can make a difference, but it's a problem I'm not saying you can fix overnight. But who doesn't deserve a chance to better their self? We all do.
 It can happen to anybody, any day, any moment. But if we don't take that into consideration, then who's to blame? Who's the one that didn't want to help? Because like I say, it can happen to anybody. And I hope y'all take into consideration and give it some thought and give it a shot. Because there's people out there that is willing, that can and will make a difference. Then down the road, you'll be thankful that you did it. Because you're going to be saving a lot of lives. You're going to be helping a lot of people.
 and it's going to come back to you one day so i appreciate your cooperation and thank you thank you hi i'm jennifer cole i live at one north school avenue in public housing and um
 I just want to say, according to the description, I guess I was three months away from chronic homelessness at one time. And I didn't realize I was that close. And I'm very lucky to have the support systems I have. I live in public housing, as I said, and what I want to say is the support system they have, the one thing they have in place to help you get through the paperwork, it's not nearly enough. You need to have a social worker at very minimum.
 You need to have some nurses, some healthcare, some folks to help you skirt the system. When you're on the streets, you often don't have your basic credentials. There's so much that you need when you've been living on the street, and you've been wondering, well, come home and your tent's destroyed and everything you've had is stolen. It's very hard for anybody here to probably imagine what they're going through.
 But even if you can't imagine that, try to imagine living on $900 a month and knowing that affordable rent in Fayetteville is $1,500. So if we got this beautiful gift of two months start to get into affordable housing, I don't know where you'd go after that two months. It's not affordable for anybody that doesn't have it.
 real affordable housing which is saying you're going to pay 30% and Fayetteville Housing Authority has closed its doors to anybody they can't do it anymore They don't have those support systems and after talking to their ED. They're not doing anything extra and
 Anything including a social worker is extra right now. They're just trying to do the basic needs upkeep of the buildings that they have, and kudos to them for doing what they're doing. But what we need is to get this wonderful successful program, the next step up that 30 percent of their disability that makes it affordable, where they're seeing what it takes to survive in this world.
 I'm lucky enough to also be somebody who volunteers in this community. I volunteer at the food pantries. I see the need, but I volunteer at New Beginnings. And I'm lucky enough to be accepted as one of their chefs there, to come in and feed people. I feel like feeding people is one of the most amazing things you can do for their souls and their hearts. And when you get to know these folks, you see...
 that we're all human we just have basic human needs the biggest word i could throw at you right now is compassion and humanity and i'd like to see Fayetteville
 become that compassionate, humanitarian place. I don't want to see us looking at jails as our solution for homelessness. It's not a solution. There's no place for you to go from jail. There's no support system, no place for you to learn how to cook or become a person of sustenance in this world. And this is a place that is...
 Giving you that hope that support the place where you feel like a good human again You are a good human you deserve all these supports everybody deserves it but finally we have a place building that support and building community and I think we all need to jump on board and Support this and help it grow. So thank you for your time. Thank you
 Hello, Clint Schnecklath. I live at 3205 East Charing Cross here in Fayetteville. So I'm especially thankful for the back and forth that DeAndre and Solomon had, because I think it's the most clarifying point for why this proposal has unique value. What you have in this proposal is addressing chronic homelessness
 we all know that there's a wide variety of reasons why people are housing insecure. And as Solomon kind of mapped out on that first slide, there's a spectrum of ways that you address all the different reasons why people are housing insecure. So I think for that reason alone, this is a really, really good proposal to support because not only is it,
 addressing that especially chronic situation in terms of homelessness. But it's also actually, although the cost is high upfront, is very cost effective. It's a lot like those solar panels that you consecrated on our roof a few years ago, Lionel, right? Like those were expensive upfront. They've paid for themselves in like six years. And this project is like that. It's going to cost a lot.
 from funds that are just sitting there and ready to be used, and then it's going to save the city money and the county money in an ongoing way. And so I think that has a lot of value just from a fiscal perspective.
 The one thing that I thought was a little unusual was to set up this back and forth of comparing a proposal from the city about rental assistance to the proposal that's in front of you. I haven't seen that done before. Normally, I would think that if the city had wanted to apply for ARPA funds for a project it wanted to do, then it would have submitted its application together with all the other applications and then have been compared within the slate. Right.
 But what I think you could do, which would be really creative and actually be really helpful right now, would be to consider both proposals and fund both of them. So fund the New Beginnings proposal because it addresses chronic housing, and then fund this really creative proposal from the city to address the ongoing issue that we know so many people are experiencing, which is struggles with their rent.
 If you don't want to fund that yourself, you could give it to any number of entities who have made similar applications, both to the county or to the city, to provide rent assistance. I can give you just one example from within our own organization, Ozark Atolls, which is based out of Good Shepherd. We know there are hundreds of families currently living in hotels,
 and need rent and deposit assistance to get out of hotels and back into apartments. And so far, we're still looking for like ARPA places or other kinds of funds that would be able to address that. Well, if you've got that kind of money sitting around and you've got the idea, I would say go for that. But don't set the two up as a contest between each other because those are very different populations.
 And then last point, and this is a theological one because I'm a pastor, but I think a lot of you read the same book that I do, so you know that this is true. One of the main arguments I have heard against this proposal is it doesn't help enough people. Almost every story I know that Jesus told was about helping the one, and sometimes at the risk of leaving behind the 99,
 to help the one. It should not be a valid argument that we shouldn't use a million dollars to help eight over a very long term simply because it won't fund short-term 100, right? Like that's just not a legitimate argument.
 And even if you leave aside the theological point, just go back to the fiscal point. If you do this project, which I'm in favor of, right? Like I think we should do rent assistance. Totally should do that. It is a million dollars you will dump into people's pockets for short-term rent assistance. We'll go into the pockets of landlords. It'll circulate back into the economy. It will do nothing for the city long-term in terms of city costs. But if you put a million dollars into housing people who are in chronic poverty
 situations of homelessness. You will ameliorate all kinds of costs, medical costs, police costs, city services. You may not even have to disrupt as many encampments picking up their garbage because they're actually in a space that's cared for, right? So for all of those reasons, I support this proposal and I hope that you guys do too. Thank you, Clint. Thank you.
 I think there needs to be some clarification about the competitiveness. We're not really competing. Right. We were asked to bring some ideas by the council. This is not sponsored by me or... Right. Thank you, Mayor. But Sarah has sponsored this particular one, so I want everybody to be clear on that. I'm not really trying to compete because I think there's a need for both, and I think...
 Right. And that's Clint's right on that. But we're not bringing this and being competitive. We were asked to bring something to see what else we can do. Is that correct, Susan? Right, Mayor. And that's what I was going to enforce, that the council actually asked for us to bring this comparison. And it was because
 As Stephen explained earlier, there were federal rules when over a million dollars was to be spent, then we had to compare to something else. And so then, Stephen, is that accurate? That's correct. Over a million dollars for a capital expenditure, you're required through the American Rescue Plan Act to compare it to two other projects. So that's why these projects were prepared and brought forward. Right. Okay.
 So now find both of them because they're all different. I have a question. Are we still accepting applications? Not under the, no we closed that window a very long time ago for these proposals for subrecipient grants. Okay, okay so. One thing we shouldn't lose sight of what this discussion is, is the use of ARPA funds. Yes. So that's what it is and this is getting down.
 to the remaining ARPA funds. That's what we're looking at right now is the best use of ARPA funds. That's why these alternatives were brought forward to you, and the council did ask us to look at the possibility of others, which we did. Yeah. Go ahead, Lex. Gladys Tiffany, 105 North Willow, Fayetteville.
 I have a couple of things I'd like to use my five minutes for, and the first one is in support of the proposal brought by Solomon that I
 also supports what Reverend Clint just said because I think it's really important to remember that if we own the land we have a lot more control over it than if we are just paying rent to a landlord and the thing that brings that clearly to my mind is discovering that Granville Apartments is trashing Section 8 now and
 that's 120 some people who are now gonna have to be looking for something that doesn't exist and putting them out into a market that's really tight. So considering that as an investment that we have control of, either by the city or by a nonprofit that is dedicated to keeping housing, keeping people in housing is very important.
 The second thing I really wanted to just kind of include this thought that how much we really need long-term planning for this and the master plan that Solomon has mentioned really is a crucial piece of finding out how, what, what, how do we really accomplish our goals? What are our goals and how do we accomplish them? And I wanted to suggest that, um,
 that something that we do not have that many cities do is that we do not have a coordinating office that really can be in charge of keeping this front and center in the public view and thinking all the time about how all the different pieces have to work together to meet some specific goal that we have set. Our goal that I believe is really the thing that we want to see happen
 is we want to see our people taken care of. We want to see our community thriving. And there are lots of ways to do that, but there's not a single entity in city government doing that. And I'd like to suggest that we seriously consider an office about affordable housing and homelessness.
 that could begin to really kind of coordinate this. And if it was up to me, I would hire Solomon, but I'm sure there are other good people that would be available too. But I wanted to just make that clear. And then one final thing is that,
 Keeping it under a million dollars sounds good, but why are we stopping at $975,000? Couldn't we go to $995,000 and give ourselves a little more window? We could probably work that in. Well, I just wanted to throw that out there, but thank you. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor and Council. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive. I am here in support of this ARPA funding.
 And for so many reasons that I should probably just say, yeah, what they said and then go sit down, but you know me better than that. When we talk about folks who are homeless, a lot of folks think about broken people. But I want to be clear that this is, when we have folks living on our trails, in the woods, in people's yards, that's about a broken housing market. And I think that's
 Housing is a complex problem. Y'all deal with it all of the time. And it's time that we have a strategic plan for housing. That's not what this is about. We were just reminded that this is about the ARPA funding. And often that's a convenient way to keep us talking about one item so that we never get to the big strategy so that all of our one items work together. So for just a second, I'd like to zoom out and look at the bigger context.
 Months ago, the city bought and demolished West End, and I stood up here and I asked, do we have a plan to replace that housing? West End is gone. There's been no replacement housing.
 On Easter Sunday, we all opened our newspaper to see a new policy for removing trash on the trails that would give folks 48 hours to find a place to move their belongings without support to move their belongings and with no place to move their belongings to. That same article, I think quoted Solomon, reminding us how long the wait lists are and how long it takes to get somebody housing. It's a lot longer than 48 hours.
 When we've got folks camping in residential yards and you're going to see a proposal to address that here in a few weeks, this is due to displacement. It's because people have nowhere else to go. So if we're kicking folks off public land and we're kicking them off of private land because they can't afford their own private land, where is someone supposed to exist? Right.
 You're going to talk about short-term rentals tonight twice because we've appealed denials from the Planning Commission. That has an impact on housing supply and demand in the city in a market that had the highest or fastest growing housing rates in a time over the last few months when the rest of the country was finally starting to level out.
 Y'all see zoning applications all the time. That's part of housing policy. Whenever apartments come through, remember that we have functional zero vacancy in the city's rental market. When we talk about rental assistance, we can give people a voucher. They have to have a place to use it. And if we have no vacant apartments for them to rent, that voucher does no good.
 We've heard about the Grandview Apartments, one of the places that would take those vouchers, giving folks one year's notice that they will no longer. More rental assistance is definitely needed, but that is help for a segment of our population that already has rental assistance programs. It is not enough. We need more for sure, but there are folks with those vouchers in hand that can't use them. And those programs leave out most of the folks who we're talking about helping with this ARPA project.
 We have programs that address some of these needs. We've got our HEARTH program. You address other needs. We've got HUD programs, veterans programs. None of them are enough. None of them, most of those aren't for this group. And this group needs some assistance too. We are way past due for the big strategic plan that covers that entire spectrum.
 This is a first step that will fit right in. And as a wise man who spoke a few minutes ago said, you got to start somewhere. We should start by expanding capacity for low income housing for folks who don't have access otherwise. Rental assistance, like Clint said, goes to a landlord who could just as easily turn down that voucher and still rent their place because of the demand and the lack of vacancies.
 If we expand our capacity, we make more affordable housing. That's what we need. This is a good way to do it. This is barrier removal that we don't currently have. When we talk about the federal compliance issues of over a million dollars, that's paperwork. Do the paperwork.
 We do paperwork all the time at the city. We're good at it. I have no doubt that with the comparisons that they've already put together, you'll be able to make the case that the program before you now serves a need, serves people, that those other programs will not. Thank you. Thank you.
 oh my name is steve mccard uh i support solomon's uh proposal i'm not very good at talking to mikes but uh it's okay as far as um the homeless community and whatnot as far as the new beginnings uh my friends that have been there they've i've seen their lives change right around just by being there the short time they have they went from having nothing and now they're like they're starting to become become in bloom i guess you'd say uh
 As far as the trash and all that stuff that you guys have problems with, I'm in the trenches and I stay in the trenches. I don't live at New Beginnings, but I'm in the program and going to be. I've been homeless for five years in northwest Arkansas, and I've lived here my whole life.
 Anyways, I'm from here. So I love the rivers and the bike trail. I ride that thing every day. So all about the trash and all that, if we could maybe structure some dumpsters somewhere close, then the people that, we police our own people if we could,
 do something like that, work with us, then we would keep everything clean. There wouldn't be trash and all that. And I mean, that's an idea, but other than that, I ain't got much to say, except for, I think this program is great for the community as far as you guys and everything else. I'm just saying on the saving of the money, cause they're just going to keep coming back. We're just going to keep coming back. You guys are going to clean it. Then we're going to come back again. And it's going to be a repetitive deal. That's just going to be nothing but a money hole
 And if you just would work with us and we'd have dumpsters there, then I would try to get people all to work together and we could all work together. You know what I mean? That's all I got. Yes, let's take. My name is Anita Crosby. I live at 3512 West Buckeye Street here in Fayetteville. Some friends and I are very concerned about.
 affordable housing and homelessness. We are very disappointed with the city's decision to clean up the trash on the trails, meaning the homeless. If they don't have anywhere to live, giving them 48 hours to move somewhere else is not going to do anything. I have been wondering about that property on West End. I just found out the city owns it.
 Why could, would it be feasible for the city to give or sell at a reasonable rate, not market value, that property to New Beginnings and let them arrange to build housing there for people who really need it?
 I have heard that there are a whole lot of Airbnb rentals that have no one living there most of the time that are owned by out-of-state corporations. Could we do some sort of taxing on rentals that
 on the Airbnb rentals that don't have anyone living there? Most of the time they rent them for three, four, five nights a month and make enough to make a profit on them. Can we tax those high enough to make them, one, less profitable, and two, to raise money to help address this homeless issue?
 And we really do need, if you're worried about trash on the trails, maybe more places for people to put trash on the trails that get picked up on a regular basis would be good. I know some of my friends and I have talked about adopting a section of trail and going out and cleaning up trash, challenging other churches to do something similar. If we are going to be a city...
 with heart. We need to figure out solutions and jail is not a solution. That's a return to debtor's prison. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Margaret Britton, 1931 North Wheeler Avenue in Fayetteville. I wrote to all of you last night and I trust you read my letter, so I'll try not to repeat much of what I said.
 But I've been thinking about the people I know, people who have been in my life, who have been homeless at one time or another. For a long time, when my father was little, my grandparents didn't have anywhere to live. And my grandfather worked full-time, as many homeless people do. And they camped wherever they could, wherever someone would give them permission to camp. Not campgrounds.
 Eventually they found more permanent housing, but it was really quite a long time. My father, they were moving as my grandfather was building highways. And so he went to a whole lot of different elementary schools before they finally were able to find permanent housing that they could afford. My grandfather, that grandfather was a World War I vet. My father was a World War II vet. So now they're buried in the National Cemetery in South Fayetteville. So.
 I think they would have some compassion for people who have to be camped nearby because they don't have a place to live. But they would want those people to have a good opportunity to have a better place. A close friend of mine has a son who did very well in high school, got a full scholarship to college, went off to college and then dropped out because his mental health was falling apart.
 Schizophrenia often doesn't become apparent until someone is a young adult. He has since experienced homelessness, arrests and hospital stays, but he has a safety net, a family who does the best they can to keep him housed. But many people don't have that safety net. So there's a lot, a whole lot to be done. Solomon Birchfield's plan is just a start.
 we need to approach this issue with many, many solutions. But evicting people only makes them temporarily less visible. We know it's not a solution. The question that it all comes down to is whether we will choose as a city to be compassionate or not. Please support the New Beginnings Plan for some affordable housing. The ARPA funds give us a great opportunity to make some progress in this area.
 And then let's get to work and figure out what to do next. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. My name is Judith Brothers. I live at 1034 West Cato Springs Road. I live in South Fayetteville and I work in downtown Fayetteville. So I spend a lot of time in community and in conversation with my unhoused neighbors.
 many of them who are chronically unhoused, as Solomon gave us such an amazing definition of. And I'm speaking in vigorous support of spending ARPA money this way because of a language thing. And this is...
 someone brought up the importance of being intentional with language today and I just want to say that there's a difference in using the words homeless and unhoused because homeless is almost like a neutral thing like oh we don't know how they came to not be with a home whereas unhoused means it's a it's a conscious choice by people with resource and agency to be able to fix the problem choosing not to and
 As I said, I'm in community and conversation with these people all the time, just walking down the street, saying hello, asking people what they need, sometimes just sitting and listening to people. And almost every single one of these people that I know personally, I can think of like five that I see daily in my life whose lives would be transformed and turned around by a program like this.
 And I'm a proud Arkansan, I'm a proud Fayettevillian, lifetime so, lifelong so. And I can say with my full chest that I know that the values of this community that we've had for a really long time support helping people who just need support. And everyone said amazing stuff before I did, so I'll just leave it there.
 Please consider supporting this program because I think it's crucial for our community's growth as both a kind one and also a practical one and also a beautiful one because beautification is not gentrification. Beautification is not cruelty and a lack of care for people who need it most. Please protect the vulnerable. Please protect the unhoused. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 .
 My name is Debbie Martin and my address is 5 Copensee Drive Bella Vista. I am the Executive Director of the Northwest Arkansas Continuum of Care. The first thing that I want to say is that we all realize that homelessness is not a Fayetteville issue. Homelessness is a regional issue. But I commend Fayetteville for all of the work
 that you continue to do on behalf of those who are struggling finding housing, securing housing, and staying in housing. I am working very hard and hope to really have long conversations with all the other cities that to figure out how do we do this together. This has to be done in
 as a regional response. However, for this project, for this city, there's a couple things that I think we've alluded to, but we haven't really come right out and said. One of those things is collaboration.
 The continuum of care, our job, my job is to create a community response to end homelessness. My job is to look over our four counties, Benton, Washington, Carroll, and Madison, and bring agencies and cities and stakeholders and concerned citizens together and say, how do we end homelessness in Northwest Arkansas?
 We can't do it in just Fayetteville. We can't do it in Bentonville. We can't do it in Rogers. We can't do it in Madison County, but we can absolutely take a step forward collectively. This project, and Solomon gave you lots of options, this project takes...
 honestly, a barrier that we have run into. So on behalf of the continuum of care, my job is coordinated entry. My job is that one-stop shop where we get individuals, we assess them, we get their names, we get their information, we figure out what their vulnerability is.
 Since we started doing these assessments in 2018, we have done over 3,000 assessments. So over 3,000 individuals have at one point in time considered themselves literally homeless, not in emergency shelter, on the streets, somewhere. Hopefully we get them to shelter. These are not couch hopping. These are not at risk of losing their housing. These are individuals that are literally homeless at the time of the assessment.
 When their assessment score is super high, they qualify for what we call permanent supportive housing. That is that housing that we are talking about. That is that housing for the chronically homeless individuals that we have in our area.
 Are the majority of our chronically homeless within the city of Fayetteville? Yes, absolutely. Because this is also where all the social services are. All the things during the day house in Fayetteville. So how do we continue? Because what has happened, and other people have alluded to this, what has happened is people at New Beginnings,
 and in other places, not just New Beginnings, they have vouchers. They are working diligently with City of Fayetteville Hearth Program, and they are doing a great job. The problem is we don't have any housing to put these people. So they've worked very hard. They've accomplished a ton of things. They are seeing a new piece in their life, but we don't have any housing to put them.
 So they sit holding the vouchers, holding HUD money, essentially, that we cannot spend and become at risk of giving back to the government because we don't have the affordable housing with low barriers. Am I saying that, you know, six apartments, 60 apartments, 600 apartments is going to fix this? No, I'm not saying that. But I am saying that we need to try.
 to at least put a dent in this brick wall that we have created, because on our by name list, we have over 320 individuals currently within the last 90 days, who have identified themselves as literally homeless,
 I have no place to send them. I can refer all day to Seven Hills. I can refer all day to City of Fayetteville. I can refer all day to New Beginnings. All we're doing is creating a waiting list on top of our already current waiting list. If we were to move forward in whatever shape, fashion that you feel works for the city,
 If we were to move forward and identify some housing options that have very low barriers, we can take some people. Maybe it's not the 98 or the 58 that we could do with rental assistance, but I promise that's not the same group of people.
 Those people need help as well, but they also need a case manager. They also need assistance because if we give them two months of rent or one year of rent and nothing else changes in their world, they're going to be facing eviction in a year, right? So that's a problem. And yes, I think we need rental assistance and I think we need assistance with case management and all that for people at risk of losing their housing. Absolutely. Absolutely.
 for these individuals who are chronically homeless, they don't even have a house. They're not at risk of losing housing. They don't have any housing. But to give them an opportunity to utilize the skills and the tools that they have been given and they have overcome through New Beginnings,
 In a collaborative partnership with City of Fayetteville, with the city council, with the other service providers, I believe that we can open up some spaces that are so low barrier that we're not asking landlords to take information about credit checks and about criminal background that, you know what? It is what it is, right? Why are we looking at credit checks on knowing that the city is paying the rents?
 like why do they care but people are already just vetted out because their credit's bad what if we were able to provide them opportunities to fix their credit while having their housing paid for while having that case management so it it's my it's my belief and it's my request
 And it is, I am backing completely an idea of finding housing opportunities for those that don't have any and helping to just even start. And if we start and provide programs that work.
 Guys, I honestly am going to turn around and I'm going to take it to Bentonville and go, why can't we do this in Bentonville? And I'm going to take it to Springdale and I'm going to take it to Rogers. And I'm going to say we need to expand this and we need to look at the experts who have already done great work.
 and duplicate those issues, and duplicate the things that are going well, and learn from the mistakes. Right, we're not gonna get it right the first time. We're not gonna get it right the fifth time. But we have to try. And I really believe that at this point, we're just, we keep hitting this barrier. And my list of chronic individuals is growing. People are aging into chronicity faster and faster and faster, and I have no options for them. And they're frustrated, and I'm frustrated. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, Council. Hi, Mr. Mayor. My name is Erin Haley Blood Brothers and I live at 750 West Cleveland Street. So there are a couple of things you don't know about me beyond that. I love coffee. I love lemon desserts. And I'm also disabled.
 I was just speaking with my therapist today about how I'm three cataclysmic life steps away from becoming unhoused or experiencing houselessness or being housing insecure. A lot of that statistically has to do with the fact that I am disabled. But I say three for this reason. I have a job. I'm a partner at a business that I co-run.
 I have a loving family and a supportive life, and I'm white. All of these kind of cancel out being disabled to an extent. There are citizens in this community that are a lot different. They're about two, maybe one, maybe 0.5 of a step away from experiencing this. And so what I ask you tonight is how many events would it take for one of you to need help?
 I'm not saying experiencing houselessness. I'm saying help. And where have you been in your life when you've been needing help? Abundance is real for a lot of us, but not for all. So in regards to the fact that we do live in a systemically ableist and racist society that will...
 ameliorate potential, sorry, I'm getting so, potential opportunities for them. We need to consider this. Now there's another thing you don't know about me. I moved here in 1990. I was raised by a single mother. And prior to that, I relied on shelters. I lived in cars. Sometimes I didn't know when I was going to eat. Moving to Fayetteville,
 in the 90s when it was so affordable, so cheap. We all like to reminisce about how great it was in the 90s, how wonderful it was. My mother used to scrape together $5 to go to the bakery down the street over off Block, which is now all Airbnbs. But back in the day, it was cheap enough for a single mother to live in. So I ask this, how many steps, how many events happen in your life
 Is it a car wreck? Is it a diagnosis? Is it a family member dying like Terry? What keeps you from this and how will you prevent that in our community? Thank you very much. Thank you. I'm Richard Tiffany. I live at 105 North Willow in Fayetteville.
 I think the plan presented either by the city are worthy plans for funding. I hope that something similar to that happens. But I think one of the things that the city left out in the comparison is that Solomon's plan is dealing with the most vulnerable of our population and there are people who
 If they had rental assistance for a year and then that ended, they would be back out on the street homeless. Solomon's plan deals with long-term care of these people. I think it's really important to fund. There's really not much good places for people that are as vulnerable as Solomon deals with that can have long-term housing. I guess the other thing is just that
 Having a meal on a regular basis is like having a safe place to stay. It's about the right to exist and that in order for us to be the compassionate city that we all know that we are, that people need to have a safe place to stay and a regular meal.
 And so that is really important to not think of Solomon's plan as the end, but it's the beginning of finding a way for long term planning to deal with homelessness here in Fayetteville. Thanks. Thank you. Hello, my name is Paul Fox. I'm a retired Presbyterian pastor. Thank you.
 And what you need to know about us Presbyterians is there's no problem so bad that we can't find a way to make it more complex and worse. I will try not to do that tonight.
 But I do hope you all recognize this is a very important moment. This may be the first time for any of us that you have the right to tell a preacher to sit down and be quiet when I use up my time. So I hope you enjoy this moment. I won't have any problem with that. That's right. I know good leadership when I see it. Yeah.
 I'm impressed with the diligence and the work that everyone has put into this, Solomon and everyone. I like the fact that there's a consideration of the financial elements of this. I want to speak to something that I think we all know is at the core of it. And I encountered this. I'm not just a retired pastor. I'm a retired psychotherapist and a retired prison chaplain here in Arkansas, little Tucker and Tucker Maxx.
 I worked for a long time in clinical settings with populations of folks who were unhoused. I'm still learning the vernacular. I don't look like it, but I'm a lot older than you think. And what I discovered is that in all my training and all of the work that I've done, I developed this clinical language that kept the experience that homeless people actually had at a distance.
 I could use clinical categories to discuss things about them. I could use theological concepts like sin and fallenness and so on and so forth about them. And then one day I had a breakthrough. It changed my ministry and my approach to it. And that was I sat down with a homeless person and I said, what's it like to be you? And he told me.
 Now, this gentleman had been someone who had been without a home for quite some time. This was when I was the executive director of the Samaritan Counseling Center, and we focused on clients who could not afford psychotherapy. And we had a social worker who helped unhoused people find resources to deal with the situation they were in. But this is the first time I'd actually sat down with someone and said, what's it like to be you? And it ripped my heart.
 because all of my clinical language, all of my distancing maneuvers had denied the basic humanity of these people and what it would be like for me if I was in the situations that they were in. Now this man had made quite a bit of progress because he had gotten help and whatnot. And one of the first things he said is, do you have any idea how completely dehumanizing this is? And I said, you know, I think I know what you mean. He said,
 I got to the place where I couldn't trust anybody. I isolated. I felt like I couldn't talk to people. I lost the capacity to reason, it seemed like. I was in such dire straits that I was just a walk-around zombie. Now, many times before, I may have heard words like this, but at this point, with this man sitting in front of me with his before and after presentation, it hit home. And I began to wonder what it would be like if I had a child.
 who for some reason became a mouse. Or if I had a beloved friend who, through circumstances in their life, ended up feeling like nobody cared and they didn't matter and they were less than human. And I submit to you that this is the core of the questions with which we're dealing, our fellow human beings. What's it like to be them?
 What is rehumanizing? What is person building? What is character strengthening? What are the kinds of things that we can do, however we deploy our money, that help fortify their sense that they are people of worth with something to contribute? Thank you for the very important work you're doing on this. I support you, and I pray for your good decisions. Thank you. Hi. Hi.
 My name is Jesse James Johnson. I live at 654 East Lafayette Street, Apartment 1 in Fayetteville, Arkansas. My family has been here since the 1840s. I have people in my bloodline that lived and died and fought in the Battle of Fayetteville. My family has called this place home for a long time. I've always enjoyed calling it home. And when I've gone to bigger and richer cities that have more unhoused populations and less care for them, it has disgusted me to my core.
 Silas, I believe is your name, brought up the thing that brought me here today and Jude repeated on it. I believe Erin did as well. The news of clearing encampments. We cannot expect people to get better conditions for themselves with a boot on their neck, fines eating through their wallets, and cuffs on their wrists. The local youth of this area see millions go to new police stations, propose for jail extensions.
 We see parking garages and hideous student housing and very little aid going to our homeless population. And to a person, everyone I've spoken to about this is disgusted and infuriated by the direction that this town is going in these aspects. We have an opportunity to do better, to be better. I've seen advertisements in Texas calling Northwest Arkansas the next Austin. But if that means in 10 or five years I see hundreds of homeless people shivering one block over from thousands of partying bar goers, I will be disgusted to call this place home.
 You do not make your home beautiful by decorating it with the corpses of the less fortunate, and I do not want to live somewhere that pretties itself by pricing up the poor and throwing them in prison."
 So I wrote all that earlier today before coming to this because the concept of beautification by, you know, clearing encampments and throwing people in prison is disgusting. But hearing about Solomon's proposal actually gave me a little bit of hope and a little bit of pride in the city. I hope that you guys choose to go with this plan. I think it's a really good plan from what I've heard. I'll be reading more into it. Yeah. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Okay. Who do you have on Zoom? I have Ambra Bruce. Okay, go ahead. Ambra, are you there? Unmute, please. Yes. Sorry about that. Can you hear me now? Yes. Yes.
 Okay. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. And I applaud the council and the city staff for doing their due diligence and being good stewards of this ARPA money. Thinking back to what Alderman Moore said earlier about how the ARPA funds are for those who were disproportionately impacted by the pandemic and those who have been historically vulnerable.
 Working in the housing sector for several years, I have seen that with the specific subset of chronic homeless folks. As Solomon described it earlier, you know, with the eviction moratorium that happened, we've seen fewer and fewer landlords that have been able to work with different housing programs and vouchers because they've had interest to recoup as well.
 If someone comes and asks for rental assistance, I can at least
 share some agencies that can assist with that. I know that there are yearly grants, things like emergency solution grants that can offer what we call rapid rehousing, which is to help folks for a couple of years before they can maintain on their own. Also homeless prevention programs, many agencies apply and receive those every year and do a great job administering those. And of course we could always use more.
 But this is really a unicorn of an opportunity because it's not something that we have seen to help folks who are chronically homeless with permanent supportive housing.
 And while there are wonderful transitional housing programs in our community, what we find is that they do try to target the most vulnerable in our community. But two years is just not often enough time to address some of the issues that folks are dealing with, mental health issues, physical issues, etc.,
 Then factoring in income, at least once upon a time, you could help someone fill out an application and get on a housing wait list. That is no longer a possibility in either Fayetteville or Springdale.
 And our housing authorities have done what they can to apply for waivers to have the maximum payment standard, meaning that they've tried to make it more accessible. So when folks do, if they've been lucky enough to have a voucher because they were on the list before it closed, try to find affordable housing. But that doesn't.
 you're really for a one bedroom allowed about seven hundred dollars so if you look on zillow right now there are two apartments in fayetteville that are seven hundred dollars or less um and whether or not they will accept a voucher um and accept folks who might have barriers to housing like something on their criminal background um etc you're filtering even more folks how
 So all that to just say that I just want to reiterate, this really is such a unique opportunity and I am pro all housing interventions. But I would just plead with the council to consider approving this proposal because I can't recall in several years something similar to this.
 My guess is that a lot of complaints you get from community members about folks who are homeless fall into the subset of chronic homelessness because there just aren't any housing opportunities for those folks or places for people to move on to, even when they're doing everything in their ability. So thank you for taking the time and your service for our community.
 Thank you. Who else? Evelyn Rios-Stafford. Go ahead. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Evelyn Rios-Stafford. I live on South Sherman. I'm also the Justice of the Peace for District 12, which includes South Fayetteville.
 And I wanted to just not repeat some of the many great points that people have already given, but also to just give you some of the maybe some of the county perspective as well. Because we know that folks who are chronically homeless, we've seen that the longer that folks are homeless, the more likely they are to be criminally justice involved. Okay.
 As a justice of the peace, you know, we have budgetary oversight over the jail. We just got our latest population report for the jail for March. The daily average high count at the jail was 748 people, and we only have about 500 beds. So there's over 200 people in the jail sleeping on the floor.
 What we also know is that there are about, at any given time, there's about 100 people in the jail who are unhoused, who are homeless, who don't have a permanent residence. We also know that it costs about $30,000 per year, per individual, to house a person in the jail. So if you do the math on that,
 if you take eight of those individuals, you're talking about $240,000 per year to house people in the jail. Over the course of four to five years, that comes out to about $1.2 million, which is about exactly the amount of money that you're looking at. So if we're looking at in terms of return on investment, in terms of overall taxpayer dollars,
 keeping eight people out of the jail over four or five years saves $1.2 million. I know that at the last meeting there were some folks who had questions about whether this qualified under the ARPA rules.
 If you have questions about that, you can do what we did at the county and ask for a second opinion. We had the Northwest Arkansas Economic Development District out of Harrison review our ARBA applications from nonprofits and gave us back the results. We're going to start the process next month at looking at those.
 We've heard back from some nonprofits that they disagree with some of the findings of the NWA EDD, but at least we have a starting point, a baseline, you know, opinion from which to sort of like, you know, drill down further. You know, one of the last things I also wanted to mention was
 We've put a lot of money at the county toward housing, but not necessarily looking at what's going to serve the greatest number of people, but sometimes what's going to fill gaps that exist. For example, we've given $1.9 million to the Returning Home Program, which provides short-term transitional housing for people that are getting out of jail. It fills a needed gap.
 We just sent $1.7 million from emergency rental funding to the Accelerate Foundation to help construct affordable housing. Now, we know construction of affordable housing isn't necessarily the cheapest way to go about housing people, but it's going to fill a needed gap. Right.
 So, you know, those are some of the things I just wanted to kind of give the council, you know, some information from our end of things, you know, because not everybody watches, you know, every quorum court meeting. So, you know, or follow up what's happening. And I'm really excited about this program. I'm really excited about what, that you guys are even having this conversation about.
 And the Fayetteville is working to tackle this issue of housing. Thank you. Hang on, Evelyn. I got a question for you. I'd like you to answer. You said that you all spent $1.7 million for affordable housing. Well, we said, if I'm looking at my numbers right, in February, we sent $1.7 million to
 of our ERA funds to the Accelerate Foundation for affordable housing construction. But we got 5.7 million in all through the ERA. So like the first round of that, I think the first 4 million, we sent to the Fayetteville Housing Authority and the Springdale Housing Authority to use for housing stability during the pandemic. Do you know how many houses you're gonna get out of that?
 I'm just curious. No, the Accelerate Foundation is not using just our money, but they want to get money from the Benton County Quorum Court and I think they're maybe coming to some of the cities as well and trying to put together a larger pot and also getting ... I think they're going to get also ... or they're trying to get some nonprofit funding as well. So I don't ... They're still kind of ... That's an exaggeration.
 Accelerate is still kind of working out the details on that, on those exact numbers. Okay. Okay. There's no one else on Zoom, Mayor. Who, I? There's no one else on Zoom. Okay. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Well, let us begin. Thank you.
 I WOULD LIKE TO BRING BACK MY AMENDMENT TO REDUCE THE FUNDING REQUEST FROM 1.2 MILLION TO $975,000. 975? YES, SIR. AND I WILL SECOND HOLLY'S MOTION. OKAY. SO WE'RE REDUCING FROM 1.25 TO 975,000. SO LET'S HAVE SOME DISCUSSION ON THAT. IS IT POSSIBLE TO BE CAN WE HAVE PUBLIC DISCUSSION?
 Can we have a public comment over that? You can. I'm just asking. You can do that either by unanimous consent or a vote, depending on what you want to do. So. I need to make a motion. Is that what I need to do? Well, just hang on. I heard that you were thinking about. Hey, DeAndre. Yes, ma'am. I think since we already kind of figured that I was going to bring this amendment back, I think that we have given the public time to speak on this. Okay.
 Okay, I'll make sure everybody's flowing the same way. Well, anyway, Sarah. I guess I would just open up consideration, Councilperson Hertzberg and other council members, that we don't know when individuals have been able to tune in and out. We do have people attending in a hybrid fashion as well. And so for their benefit, I would ask that we go ahead and let the public weigh in and have public comment on the amendment, just to make sure what the public,
 how the public as a taxpayer ultimately has the burden on whether or not we would potentially have to repay this money I think is important in making this decision because in effect we potentially lose with that amendment change one entire unit that could be potentially purchased. And so I would like to hear from the public about how they would like us to proceed if we can. Okay. Mayor, I wanted to remind everybody that y'all's Rules of Order and Procedure
 would indicate that after the mayor has finished reading the item, we don't have more hands raised after the public input has concluded in general. So I'm just saying as far as that, people coming and going to the meeting, there is a time at which the...
 Q has to stop forming not about an amendment. I'm sorry. I just wanted to make sure we clarified that And another concern is a lot of the people that spoke earlier is not here now. I
 So, I mean, I'll do whatever you all would like to do. I guess the council could vote on public comment, couldn't they? I know in our rules of order procedure. Yeah, our rules of order procedure would say that there's no public comment on an amendment unless the city council, by unanimous consent, everybody in agreement, or by majority vote, allows public comment, and that'll be three minutes per person. That's what I remember.
 So I guess you all can make a motion in a second to put it up to a vote for public comment. Mayor Jordan, I would like for the other city council members to weigh in. Okay, sure enough. What say you?
 Mr. Mayor, there's only one member of the public I'm interested in hearing from, and that's the ARPA applicant themselves, as to whether it would be acceptable to them or not, because I would defer to their wishes personally. Well, you could call them back up and cut it to the chase that way, as they say, and ask his opinion.
 why don't we do that well i think that's a grand idea so can you make 975 work i feel like i'm an auctioneer or something go ahead well i think i think you know obviously we wrote the application at that level with that plan in mind um the more units we can fund the more lives we can impact that's definitely our position
 Can we still make a lot of impact with $975,000? Absolutely. So I will defer to the council's wishes on that. Thanks. So it's up to y'all. Thank you, Solomon. That was good. You should go into politics. Anyway. But, okay. Let's have some discussion on the $975,000.
 Mayor, the reason that I wanted to select the $975,000 is because I think that this protects the city from having to provide that justification, like Stephen mentioned, for the amount over $1 million. So I think this actually protects the project. If this passes at 1.2 and we do have to pay back the funds, I feel like this would hurt the project. Okay. Does anybody have any thoughts on that? Are we worn out? No.
 Well, I'll maybe address that. I also share Holly's concern. I honestly don't think if we have to go through that comparison for three different projects, and it's over a million dollars, that we'll be successful with this funding. And so I think it's better to be safe and protect the city and give projects an added potential for being successful. Right.
 than risk going over that million dollars. So that's my perspective.
 I appreciate the feedback from their council members and obviously we want to be fiscally responsible. I feel very strongly that we could show the reasons why this project would rise above the others comparatively, but in an overabundance of caution and because I feel like that's brought in good faith to try to be supportive of this project.
 I would be on board to reduce the amount, knowing that we really want to get this project moving forward as well and helping folks as soon as we can. I agree. And I had an observation, Mayor Jordan. For the past two meetings in a row, I think it's been almost six weeks apart with hours of public comment in support of this,
 Not one single public statement. No one spoke negative against it, which is interesting. So that lets us know that there is public commitment for this. I just hope that as city council members, we have the same commitment. Okay. That's all. All right. So are we still discussing the amendment to 975? Are we done? No.
 I have a motion to pass as amended. Well, I think we already, didn't we get a, we got a motion in a second to pass the 975. Okay. Any other final comments then? All right. Let's vote on the amendment. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Erna? Yes. Okay.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay. Now we have the amended amount. So let's start. Sarah? Well, I have a motion to pass as amended. Second. Okay. Is there any discussion? Yeah, okay. Teresa? What would you like to do? So, um...
 I've been thinking a lot about this and I want to express that I think the City of Fayetteville is very compassionate and that we've demonstrated that over the years. And I think that everybody in the City Council and the administration really wants to house the unhoused and do it with integrity and compassion and all of those things that make a person whole and human and successful. Right.
 So I have given this a great deal of thought. I was hoping there would be more options on the table than the three that we have before us. For example, I would really like to use these ARPA funds because they are special. We're not going to get them back again. Let's hope we never have another pandemic.
 But we need to use those funds really smartly. And I would rather see them go to long-term permanent housing for many. So I've called a couple of companies that are here local. I've priced out what a 14 by 20 small, tiny house would be.
 Those are about $20,000 each right around there. They could be easily transported to Fayetteville. I mean, some of them are right here in town. Okay.
 And, you know, we could start to, we could pilot this kind of tiny house, this tiny kind of community so that we could, so if it's successful or we tweak it, as somebody said, we never get it right the first time. That's absolutely correct. We can do all the research in the world and things don't go necessarily as planned. But we could pilot something small with that one point plan.
 295 million dollars or the 975 or whatever whatever we decide upon and look at a way to extend those funds to actually show a proof of concept so that we can house more people i i am sorry but i just do not think
 I think under the proposal that we have before us, eight people is enough for those funds. We need to extend them further and we need to be thinking in more of a long-term future and regionally. Regionally is definitely the key. That is one of the key components here. So I want more alternatives, not the ones that are on the table right now.
 So you could have 60 units at $20,000 each with $1.3 million. And I will stop right there, but that is my perspective. I really think we need to be thinking more broadly than what is before us. Thank you.
 I agree with you as well. And I wanted to ask if Mr. Birchfield could come back up. Cause I know that at the last meeting we had discussed whether or not he could use the land that he currently has to build units, which would also expand the number of people that we were able to positively impact. So Mr. Birchfield, could you come and speak to that please? Who? So you're back. You're going to get tired of me. Uh,
 So Councilman Hertzberg's question was, could we build on the land we currently have and could we find more housing units through doing it that way? So the perspective that New Beginnings brings for the land that we do own that fronts South School Avenue in our master planning is that the highest best use for that land is a commercial purpose.
 along the redeveloping Highway 71 corridor. We are an organization that sees a social business in our future so that there's a lot of self-funding, keeping our economic engine going and being able to deliver these services long term. So along the frontage, that is why we are not really seriously looking at building on South School anymore.
 Down 19th, a little closer to where New Beginnings community is at, is a street that doesn't have water, doesn't have the utilities. Our community actually shoots out our sewage back to Anonymous, goes south, because those utilities don't exist on 19th.
 The conversations we've had with developers and builders, both about timeline for this money and facing some of those challenges and strategic highest use for the land right around new beginnings is why we haven't put that option at the forefront of the table. And I'll leave it at that. Okay, so you have the land, Solomon.
 on the south end of town, South School? We have five acres on 19th Street in South School. We occupy about two and a half of those acres. And then another one and a half is that frontage land on South School, leaving us kind of a middle section potentially that could be open for development. It would just be expensive with the utility access. Okay, so there's enough room.
 Mayor, I'm sorry, I wanted to make sure you had an opportunity to talk about some of the partners you've been working with with respect to your land as well that belongs to the city.
 When Theresa, Council Member Turk mentioned, you know, working on another project, that is a subject it seems like for another day I'm going to have to interject because the item before you all tonight is about this particular proposal. I didn't want to miss the opportunity, though, to make sure people understand how many different partnerships the mayor's been exploring, not that we're ready to talk about all those. We're working with Solomon as well in another group. So there are lots of things going on that can't be solved tonight. Mm-hmm.
 We're working with about four groups that I met, at least, that I met with in the last couple months including Solomon. So there's some stuff out there. We met with the university last week. Right. So I'm just hoping that tonight we can resolve this issue and get on with the planning that Solomon mentioned and you have been working on as well, you know, another night.
 Mayor Jordan, I have a question for Solomon. Solomon, we talked about, we talked about a lot tonight. When we, but we mentioned the quality of life. So what I'm concerned about is, and the idea of those 60 units, it makes a lot of sense. It's definitely needed, however,
 I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge the piece that New Beginnings is offering, and that's helping manage, and that's helping addressing some of those barriers. So if we're putting people in houses, then under what you're proposing, it's just not putting them in houses, but we're empowering them. We're providing other services. It's almost like addressing or treating the whole person.
 as opposed to just putting them in a house and saying you have a house now that's and not giving them any tools or addressing those barriers so that's what i that's that's the question that i have that's very true the wraparound services are absolutely as important as the materials themselves especially for this population and there are re there's a reason there's not houses available for twenty thousand dollars in fayetteville and that's that's true
 Because to build to the right standards that will last a long time, I don't think you can get there with a $20,000 home. And we want to build homes that are long-lasting and that are dignified through their life cycle. Pair them with wraparound support services. And as I tried to show, the shared cost, I think, on a per-person basis is identical or perhaps a little less expensive than...
 our current supportive housing programs. And wouldn't we still, if we went that route with the 60 houses with the one point, what is it, 275 million, wouldn't we still have to make the comparison with that? Would we still have to meet the ARPA requirements that we didn't think that we could meet with the- Yeah, if we're talking about a capital expense in excess of a million dollars, we would have to perform the-
 the comparison so that doesn't change based on the type of project it's it's the amount period right it's not if we yeah i mean so currently we're comparing a project that would serve eight people to one that would serve 50 plus people and so i think the tiny home project would be closer in range to the other ones that we we presented tonight so but the tiny home the tiny home project
 If it's in excess of $1 million, we would still have to fulfill that requirement, right? Yes, that's correct. For using ARPA funds, we have to prepare that comparison. Unless, of course, you all reduced it to $975,000, I suppose, right? And Council Member Turk, with the $20,000 tiny homes, would that include taxes, delivery, and things of that nature? Sure.
 So with 975,000, you would get 48 homes. Okay. And that's a ballpark. The $20,000 is a ballpark. I asked if they could build 10 of them within a month after they start. They said, yes, they could do 10 within a month. So, you know, ratcheting that up to 20 or 30 or whatever we, whatever was needed. I think the local company would have that capability to provide that, you
 But it's a ballpark figure, okay? It's not an exact number because I did not want to get too far ahead. They also have several other sizes. So the size could be reduced or increased to match what the need was, what worked best here. And that includes electrical, insulation, and plumbing.
 There definitely would be obviously a need to have some infrastructure. I believe there's water out there where you are, but no sewer. I kind of looked on the utilities map last night. So sewer infrastructure would be required to make this work. Yeah.
 And I believe under your proposal, Simon, that you already have those wraparound services funded from another pot, if I understood your proposal correctly. So I don't know if that could be transferred to a tiny house project or not, but I just wanted to round that out. And who would manage, who would manage, would New Beginnings manage the tiny house project?
 I mean, I got to appreciate your . What I wrote in the proposal and the pro-form I submitted is that we would hire a property manager to manage the day-to-day. What really property management and maintenance is not the area of excellence for New Beginnings, it is those support services.
 So, it wouldn't be people just moving in and you sound like, or I'm thinking rather that you all would manage it in the same fashion that you would manage under your original proposal, right? It would be this, it'll just be a different type of housing, but the same services and you guys will manage the infrastructure as relates to case management and things of that nature. That's right.
 This is an interesting discussion. Okay. I want to say first, I've got to know Solomon a little bit during this discussion and I had breakfast with him and the board last week. And I truly, truly do think that the heart you have for that community is amazing.
 uh but i i've also spent time with other organizations and i and i walked away from every meeting uh with this idea that somehow some way we have to get every organization to the table to talk about a collaborative plan because the shotgun approach that we're using is not working i don't feel like um even though i'd love to say yes because i know your heart
 I just can't in this particular situation. Here's why. Understand we dropped it to 975, but when you take in comparison, just strictly, if you take Teresa's comparison, the two don't match up. If you take staff's comparison, those don't match up to how many people we can help with that situation or that option versus your option.
 And then the second thing is in the last meeting I brought you forward and I said, I'm a little confused about is this transitional? Is this permanent? And you told me in that meeting that this was permanent housing. Okay. In our breakfast meeting, you said it's transitional housing.
 I'm concerned that we're trying to gather an excellent amount of dollars and then we're going to try to formulate a plan after we have it. And I don't think we can do that with this money. The last thing that really concerned me is I brought forward the fact that in Fayetteville, we all know the market. It's very, very competitive.
 it's going to be very difficult for y'all to find eight duplexes in Fayetteville. If you find eight duplexes in Fayetteville, you're going to pay top dollar plus for those duplexes. When I asked that question to you, your immediate response was, I understand, I acknowledge that. That's why we will probably have to go to Farmington or we'll have to go to another community to buy those.
 We as the City Council of Fayetteville, Arkansas, can't give you money to go buy property in another city. That's not a wise decision on our part. I hope this discussion opens things up to a much, much broader conversation because it's a huge problem. We all know it is. I just do not feel like I can support this tonight.
 I had multiple people talk about the city should have a heart. You know, I think the city of Fayetteville has the biggest heart in northwest Arkansas because we are the only community that spends the amount of money we spend for the homeless community with the different organizations that are in our community, the church organization, Seven Hills, New Beginnings. No other community has that. So we have a tremendous heart.
 And this council, I'm very confident, I'm speaking for myself, but I feel like everybody on this council has an appetite to talk about this and try to come up with an answer. I just don't think this is the answer. So that's why I can't support it. Okay. Sarah, I'm sorry. Yeah. Oh, man. Let me see what I start with here. First thing, yeah.
 Jonathan Kurth. Wake up. He's like, I'm going to ask you something, Jonathan. Yeah. So one of the things that in, I had a wonderful conversation with Solomon and I felt like he didn't,
 I really felt like everything I asked him, he answered truthfully and he didn't try to gloss it over at all, which I was really proud to have that conversation with him. And I was pleased that he was like, well, I'm anticipating that you're going to ask this or whatever. And but one of the things he mentioned was a possibility of building ADUs.
 And so I was going to ask you to remind me what zonings allow in our city allow ADUs and duplexes at the same time. Anywhere that allows single-family homes and duplexes in Fayetteville allows accessory dwelling units as well. So, but duplexes are a conditional use, is that correct?
 That is correct. Yes, about a third of the city that's land purely for single family zoning. Most of that does allow duplexes, but by conditional use. A nuance of our accessory dwelling unit ordinance is that it does not require an accessory dwelling unit to be subordinate in size to the house it's associated with. What that means is a lot of communities have adopted accessory dwelling unit standards where
 The accessory dwelling unit has to be half the size of the house or some proportion thereof. That was eliminated in favor with the last round of amendments to the ADU ordinance.
 Theoretically, somebody could build a small house in ADU, which could be perceived to be a duplex, and that would be allowed anywhere a single family dwelling is allowed. But it would be limited to about 1,200 square feet. Okay. So I was just kind of wanting to refresh my memory on that.
 So somebody could build, if there was a duplex that already had a conditional use permit or was grandfathered in or whatever, you could still build an ADU behind it, provided your setbacks and everything match up.
 It's possible that it would require an additional consideration. I know some of the duplexes that exist in a non-conforming way in older parts of Fayetteville have to get a conditional use permit when they modify the building. That could be the case with what you're describing. Yeah. The reason I'm asking this is I was just trying to get my mind around some of the possibilities that this money, if we did fund this the way that this money might be used. And it's not just duplexes. It could be...
 house, you know, regular house, I mean, you, you know, with an ADU behind it or something like that, to get up into the realm of having enough for four to eight people. It could also be tiny houses, it could be a lot of different things. Although I do agree with what Solomon said about the quality of the house that is 20,000
 That ain't much of a house, I can tell you that. It may be a tiny house and it might be okay to put out on your land if you were going to use it as a hunting cabin, but it's not really long-term housing. I don't think. That's my take on it. Because that is less than a  I mean, you can't even buy a mobile home for that. So that's just kind of not quite what I would think of.
 as a permanent solution. Sorry, Teresa, but that's, you know, I would think that would be a really short term solution there.
 So, one of the things I was really pleased to hear that New Beginnings had been awarded this continuum of care grant for $47,000. And when I talked with, you know, if that is, continues to be supported, they could apply, you know, get that every year. Very similar to some of our programs that, like the Hearth program, that get every year.
 might just disappear next year for all I know though but that's the way it goes so so that would go into some of the the wraparound services that we've talked about you know I just I've struggled with this because it's not because we aren't compassionate it's I'm trying to figure out with this one-time funding what we can get the most out of how you know and six eight people doesn't sound like a lot
 but when you think about this is so i'm weighing that it's not maybe not quite as many people as i would like to help and it's also you know it's it's a lot of money even at 975 it's a lot of money i know there's not a lot of things out there to buy but i'm also thinking okay do we just do i just take the chance with this
 and basically roll the dice and see if it works. Am I willing to do that? I'm not quite decided yet if I'm willing to do that because I like to see this money go to where I know it's gonna help a greater number of people if possible. But then I also think about, and I'm just doing this stream of consciousness here about what I'm thinking and kind of weighing it out in my mind is that I know there's not any other options
 And so maybe this option turns into something that might, you know, might add greater value down the road. I don't know. I could not in any, any clear conscience support money leaving Fayetteville.
 I mean, and that I wouldn't even, yeah, that isn't going to happen as far as I'm concerned. So, but if we could find something to work in Fayetteville, you know, I might be in support of it. These are just my concerns. The things I've been thinking about as I've gone through this process and thinking about what might possibly happen.
 you know, how this money, if we did fund it, how it might be used and realistically thinking about it. It's one thing to say we're going to buy duplexes and it's another thing to know that there's not, there's not really a lot of duplexes out there to buy. And so, you know, try to, I'm trying to be realistic as I possibly can be with this. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan, I have one other one last question for Solomon and Solomon. I promise you that's it. I may have missed this, but can you explain the ADU process? How will that look?
 And how many will that serve? You may have already said it, but a lot has been said and I missed something. So if you don't mind sharing with us again. My last slide featured the three pathways we take seriously and are receiving support to realize with funds as far as which of the three housing pathways.
 The option for an ADU is an ADU is a tiny home. Right. That's basically in Fayetteville's code kind of pre-approved by right for the owners and in certain zones. And it could be the high quality. I follow pretty closely the offsite construction and tiny home options.
 market. The ones that I think are ones that would last a long time are in that $80,000 to $100,000 range. And then there's all the variables about, and we'll work with your city to get it permitted. And we know that that would be a back and forth with our city to find the right
 TINY HOME TO PUT IN A BACKYARD, WHICH IS ALL AN ADUS. THAT IS ONE WE THINK VIABLE PATHWAY TO PURSUE, INCLUDING ANOTHER VIABLE PATHWAY THAT COULD BE A PARCEL OF LAND OR SEVERAL OF JUST TINY HOMES, VERY MUCH ALONG THE LINES OF WHAT COUNCILMAN TURK PROPOSED. JUST SEEING WHICH OF THESE PATHWAYS GIVES US THE BIGGEST BANG FOR THE BUCK THAT WE HAVE. NEW SPEAKER Okay.
 The second part is, leaving Fayetteville, is that when you presented this the first time, that's something that I guess I missed as well. So can you tell us what does that look like? What's the potential?
 WHAT'S THE, WHAT DOES THAT MEAN? I MEAN, I KNOW WHAT IT MEANS, BUT I WOULD LIKE TO HEAR YOUR PERSPECTIVE. WHAT YOUR PERSPECTIVE. NEW SPEAKER Well, IT'S TEACHING ME TO BE PRUDENT WITH MY WORDS. I WOULD LOVE TO BE ABLE TO, I KNOW THAT THESE DOLLARS WOULD STRETCH A LITTLE FURTHER IF WE COULD BE OUTSIDE CITY LIMITS. I ALSO FULLY RESPECT THE STRICTURE THAT WE COULD NOT DO THAT WITH THESE FUNDS. SO I DON'T KNOW IF THAT.
 If that was a flexible rule, I've kind of floated that idea out there, but we could certainly execute our plan within the city limits of Fayetteville. Okay, so we're not going to Farmington, are we? No, I understand that's not possible. Thank you, Solomon. One quick question, Solomon. One more question.
 Out of curiosity, what did each of your units that you have presently, what did they cost you a piece? Those cost a little over $12,000 each. Those have since gone up from there. These are made, these are a 96 square foot unit. I'm very familiar with those. Right, but I was just curious per unit, what that cost you. $12,000, eight to 10 year lifespan. Now, Mayor Jordan, I have a question for you and Susan.
 It's good to hear that y'all have been having, you've been having meetings about this. When do you think you may be able to tell, to kind of give us the details on that? Well, we met with four people that I can remember. One was Solomon's group, Seven Hills,
 and you may have gotten some of the literature from seven hills on what they're planning on doing and accelerate and and you have a second meeting with them next we also had the university come in and talk about middle income housing that wouldn't be but they have a really good plan um
 i don't have anything concrete right now and mayor as we've talked about it it would not necessarily whatever the mayor can come up with with any of these groups would not necessarily be competing for these arpa dollars so this arpa thing is a whole separate we're talking i'll be honest we're talking about different ball game here okay i'm talking about
 So different funding our funds so it sounds like what Solomon is wanting to do will complement your plan as well Correct. It'll be something different. It's not well. We need housing right I mean, let's get real here I'm looking I mean, you know, I don't want to sit around talk about a crisis on housing and then not talk I mean
 we can't just say we got a housing crisis and then we turn down developments i mean right i'm just saying and i'm a little that's the truth there george i mean i'm a i'm a little frustrated with some of it because we go oh we've got a housing crisis and then when we bring a development then everybody says well we don't want that development okay well so so that's a little of my frustration so i'm trying to get something going now when you talk about quality
 of house, Solomon. I tell you what, I guess somebody else wanted to ask questions, but anyway. I mean, would you consider the houses that we have New Beginnings, and I partnered with y'all on New Beginnings, us, the university, and somebody else. You were involved then. So those houses, how are they holding up?
 The shelters are holding up really well. Because we put foundations under those things. We put a, we have a gravel berm foundation underneath them. These are two and a half inch foam wall with aluminum siding and they are a great unit for the purpose we put them to. And how many acres are those on? You remember? It's a little over two, two and a half acres.
 You see where I'm going with this. We could build several on the five acres you already have, correct? The same comparable house.
 Well, I wouldn't call those houses. We could certainly expand more of those shelter units, but. And I'm trying to work with you here. I'm trying to figure out something here. So we know that those houses cost about 12,000 feet. Those really aren't houses, old mayor. They're just shelters. They don't have plumbing or anything like that. So it's not really a house. Okay, but it gets people out of the weather.
 Without a doubt. Without a doubt. And that, so that company that we helped bring to Fayetteville is, they have a hundred villages around the country doing emergency shelter to get people off that street. But we have had people in those shelters. Right. Of what? Yes. And they're holding up. I mean, the shelters are holding up. Sure. So we could, you know, they're not necessarily what I would call cheapskate housing.
 So I'm trying to figure out how many more people we might be able to help with the same amount of money. I'm just saying. My mind goes towards a mainstream unit that would have the lifespan of a mainstream unit that could integrate in our community well that you or I would live in. That's what I'll call housing. And the ones that are built for long-term occupancy,
 PRICED MORE UP AT THAT $80,000, $100,000 RANGE. ALSO THE SUPPORT SERVICES, WHEN HUD GIVES YOU GRANTS TO DO SUPPORT SERVICES, THAT UNIT HAS TO PASS THE INSPECTION AS A DECENT HOUSING. THERE IS NO WAY ON EARTH THAT OUR $12,500 UNITS WOULD COME CLOSE TO PASSING THAT INSPECTION.
 You could not use, for example, vouchers or supportive housing programming dollars in a pilot shelter. So we could not put the same New Beginnings houses on what you're doing because we could get more houses or shelters. Excuse me.
 We couldn't support people there permanently. We couldn't use the HUD dollars to provide wraparound services. We are talking about transitional housing, too, where they have some. Right. Anyway, I'm all over the map. I'm sorry, but I have a lot of, you know, I've been in discussions with a lot of people on what we could do to get, just get somebody sheltered. You know I'm all for that. I'll work with you as much as I can. I know you will.
 But we've met with some four or five, but I don't have anything solid. What we're trying to also do is work with middle income house where people that's making $16 an hour could buy a home. That's what we're working on. But I'm not. Well, I guess now everybody knows it. But anyway, we are. We're trying. We're trying to.
 get a house that people making $16 an hour can live in. They can afford to buy it. And we're working on it. Thank you, Solomon. I guess my question is, you wouldn't want to put the same houses you've got in New Beginnings in what you're wanting to do. Okay. Mayor? Yes.
 Sorry. That's okay. No, I think this is really kind of getting to where I have been, where I've landed at this moment. I just want to thank everybody for coming out and talking and sharing their stories and kind of what experiences you've all experienced. And I think this ARPA process has 
 brought to light a very critical issue that just grew and grew especially over the pandemic and I felt like the application Solomon's application is kind of like a square square peg in circle because this is such a Huge project a huge conversation a bigger a bigger topic um
 And the COVID, you know, really emphasized it, brought it out. And so I would personally like to really see resources and us look at a real serious development of potentially tiny homes, of homes with plumbing and bathrooms and kitchens. Right.
 I don't know if the whole council has not been able to probably go to New Beginnings, but essentially, you know, if it was me, I look at it as those spaces as they're really not for very long. And we've already had people in them for pretty long.
 That's not what anybody ever intended, but now we're in this crazy crisis. And so we're trying to figure out how to solve it really fast. But unfortunately, I think it needs time to really do it well. And I would like to see partnerships with other cities. I would like to see a regional approach. I would like to see an investment. I would like to see each city put in millions each, a million or whatever we need to put in.
 and really, really, really, really address the situation with time and energy because this ARP application, it's like it's just been this little fissure in this giant wall and we're, I don't know that it's the appropriate place to solve this issue. It kind of gives a little, we can put like a little bit of putty on it, but it's just not quite,
 I feel like we're not doing the justice to what it needs to be done. And I think if we're really committed to doing something about housing in the different areas of housing, we've got to figure out how to solve it collaboratively, which we've already heard. And we're all in agreement. I don't think anybody disagrees that we need it and we want to do it and we're all behind it. City Council is absolutely...
 has a heart to want and to be committed to something like this. We have, we don't really have a real plan of how we're going to solve housing because it's almost like it kind of came a big wave on us and everybody on the nation. And so, you know, I would like to think about what is our housing plan? And I have talked to Devin a lot about how do we
 look at that mathematically, how do we offer various types of levels of housing? So I just think that the conversation is so huge and big and the issue is so big. We have an opportunity, sure, to do this quick thing and we want to do that.
 But I'm not sure this is the right way and the right project and the right time, the right energy and talents and everything that we have to really do an amazing job with the most, the dollars that we do have. So my understanding is if we did save this $975, let's just say we have two, three years, I think, Steve, to 
 think about how we commit it. It's got to be committed by the end of 2024 and totally spent by the end of 2026. So we have some time to really kind of think about how we want to best apply this. And so that's kind of where I am right now. I'm not sure this is the best possible solution. I just think it opened the conversation for the larger,
 bigger commitment that I believe that the city council does want to give to this very incredibly important situation and issue that we're all facing, you know, in different various ways. So I just, that's kind of where I am. It's not never, it's just when that makes sense. I mean,
 Want to do something, but I'm not sure this is the most efficient effective way to help Everybody that we could help and I don't think we should rush it I would encourage the City Council not to try to make the decision tonight Solomon did talk about in his presentation about small homes tiny homes and
 and obviously they would be less expensive than some of the other options you were looking at for permanent homes this would be something you probably need to discuss with planning to figure out the way to get past all of our regulations but i know there's ways to do it maybe with the plans only district or something like that and you can bring back a proposal for i think a lot more
 tiny homes than you could with a regular duplex or whatever like that, especially if they were built on your own land.
 And the city has a lot of restrictions on what we can do with our own money. We can't buy housing with our own money. The Constitution doesn't let us do that. But we can build infrastructure with our own money. So in order to have ARPA money go farther in a tiny home sort of situation, then the road up to it or the sewer line or whatever like that,
 is within the city council's power to use general fund money for. You can't do it for affordable housing, but you can do the infrastructure that is needed for affordable housing. And so I would encourage that you don't make a decision tonight. You've heard what the city council is saying. And I think, unless I'm gauging everything wrong, I think they're thinking more about a tiny home situation as opposed to
 Going on to the economy and buying where it should be actually also reducing the amount of affordable housing Even though you'd have your people in it, but then they wouldn't be available for the market So is that something that the City Council is interested in? I don't know Mike Thank you. I want to compliment the community that came out tonight and to say that you're you in general and
 much kinder and gentler in person than you are online. So let me at first say that. I've had to replace a couple of keyboards and monitors in the last month. So you are an enthusiastic, passionate group, and my inbox confirms that. Although I'm much younger than the mayor, I'm old enough to know that in the 1980s... You're not that much younger. Oh, I didn't realize you were still listening. Oh my goodness, I...
 I haven't died or something. I'm still here. The main way we produced affordable housing prior to the cuts in the 1980s were basically through our HUD and CDBG programs. And those were cut 65% in the 1980s. And only the mayor is old enough in the room to know that. And I read about it in a history book when I was in junior high.
 So when you look at how did we arrive at where we are, and just put up with me, I'll do it in a minute. So you lose 65% of your funding. You have the 2008 subprime lending debacle.
 And it wasn't a housing problem. It was a problem that we lost 60 to 70% of the labor in the housing construction trades that moved on after 2008 when all residential construction dried up. And it dried up for about a two or three year period. We have not recovered that labor force. So then you look at having lost that labor, you look at interest rates that you have today.
 And we have a number of projects that are entitled and not being constructed because people are saying, I can't borrow the money and have a fiduciary responsibility to my lenders and to my investors to produce something that's going to generate positive cash flow. And so those are the things that are confronting us. No one in Fayetteville did anything wrong. In fact, no one other than perhaps some bankers in the,
 in the 2000s did anything wrong. So we're all are in agreement that through no one's fault, anyone in this room, we have more people than housing in the United States, let alone in Fayetteville. We're also a college town. And so we have 24,000 students and 5,300 faculty and staff.
 that are competing because they're not housed on campus. They're competing for half the affordable housing in three zip codes. They're no one's fault here. Fayetteville wouldn't be Fayetteville without the university. I'm not knocking them. It's just additional competition for housing in our community. Jonathan helped me. We currently have, you know, we're not really talking about ownership of houses here.
 despite what Solomon is proposing. Gosh, and it's sick. I'm actually leaning toward voting for this. But he's not talking about deeding property to people. He's talking about owning it in trust and people being permitted to live there without maybe only paying a nominal rent. And there's nothing wrong with that. But we have 3,000, no, we have 321 apartment dwellings
 entitled currently today in the city of Fayetteville. But 142 of those were 44% or for off-campus student housing. And so that means we only have 56% of the currently
 building permit issued apartment units for families, for individuals. And so that's an additional challenge that Fayetteville has. We wouldn't be what we are without being that college town, but it does have its challenges. I've met with more pastors than I cared to meet with, and it's not even Easter. I have...
 met with Debbie who was very gracious and drove down from Bentonville to meet with me regarding her work with the continuum of care. And I met with the sociologist at the University of Arkansas who's our contract point in time person that counts homeless individuals on that famous night when we count those that are unhoused in our community.
 So I'm attempting to do my homework. What I learned is that of the people counted who previously had stable housing, 43% of them in the point of time count lived in Washington County. That means Fayetteville, they lived in Washington County. But of the people in Washington County who were counted, it was 66% of the...
 population that was counted. So we are attracting, what that tells me, as an armchair statistician, is that we're attracting people, just as Debbie with the continuum of care hinted at, because we're the community offering services.
 The people that I'm most upset with are the people that have railed on me, that have railed on Fayetteville as we're uncompassionate, we're evil, we're all these things, and I just don't buy any of it. I think it does need to be a regional approach.
 I think the mayor has approached other communities. I think the other communities have said, you know, we're just fine. That's a Fayetteville problem. And in fact, you know, knock yourselves out. We don't have that problem with people that are unsheltered in our communities. And while you know that's not true, and I know that's not true, they're more than happy for us to be the sole
 provider of services in our region. And that's not fair. They need to write a check to the mayor and we will gladly be the community that provides services and resources for this. Okay, now that's the whole diatribe to say, this is, you know, I don't even like Solomon. I don't even like his, his proposal, but the man is onto something and I respect that.
 While I have concerns about whether we would put this money almost in an escrow account and Solomon would have to make application to it and say, hey, I found a I found a piece of property and I've got the first right of refusal and it's X amount. And boom, then the money would become available to him.
 I'm not comfortable with saying this is the best, highest use for this money. Here, Solomon, go knock yourself out because he's not going to be able to purchase enough property to house eight people. It's just not going to happen. Doesn't mean that he's wrong. Doesn't mean that it's not worth trying. And I would be comfortable if we were to earmark these funds for a pot to address homeless services, unhoused families.
 sheltering long-term individuals and then allow a consortium of people to make application against that pot of money Solomon being one of those and that he could just like anyone else someone else finds a viable property I don't want to turn them down
 So I would be interested in us exploring that kind of alternative. And I even think Solomon would be supportive of that. It would be accomplishing the kind of thing that he's attempting to do, which would be permanent housing for folks that have no place today. And he would be the first to say, God bless the next person if they come up with the $65,000 small home that's going to work and be HUD approved
 He would applaud that individual. So I would be very open to us pursuing that kind of talk because I think Sarah did a good thing by sponsoring this and bringing it forward to us, and I applaud her. Lord knows you owe me a lot for the emails that I received and the computer I had to replace. So those are my thoughts, Mr. Mayor. Thank you for bringing it forward. All right. Praise God.
 Oh, sorry. I'm sorry. No worries. We've said several times that we are experiencing a housing crisis. And what everyone has said tonight about being good stewards, I totally agree and support. However, in Ward 1, I am concerned about what we are experiencing. I am concerned about people living on the streets. I am very concerned about that. And I would really like to know, I know that it's a
 We're looking at something sustainable, but in a crisis, sometimes we have to stabilize and then look at our longer term plan. So I'm hoping that we can look at something, a strategy of stabilization because we have an issue and it's not getting any better. And representing Ward 1, I drive through there all the time.
 It's not getting better. So I would like for us to be, I guess, intentional and deliberate as it relates to looking at stabilization, finding some type of emergency housing, something that we can get folks in shelter.
 And I don't know what that could look like. That's why I call Solomon to the podium so much, because I don't know what that looks like. But I think that we have an opportunity to lean into the experts. And it's good to know that Mayor Jordan and Susan are talking to other people. And that's kind of, I think, the longer-term approach. But in the interim, we have to do something. We have to do something. Great. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to echo a lot of what Sonia said earlier. I think this has been great to open up the conversation about all these different options. And I would like to suggest that we.
 hold these funds, this $1.295 million, and appropriate it for some sort of housing that we decide later on. I don't wanna, I think we've got a lot of options on the table here. We need to explore them further. And we still have time. We have a year and a half before they have to actually be decided upon. And then we've got another two years before they actually have to be spent.
 So this buys us a little bit of time. It keeps this on the front burner. And so that's where I'm headed right now. Thank you. Okay, Scott. And then, Paul, did you have something? Yes, I did. I'm listening to the conversation. And...
 If I understand it correctly, the entire council is interested in addressing the unsheltered issue that we have here in the city of Fayetteville. We're kind of dancing around a question a little bit, throwing out what ifs. When I've been vocal before, what we could do when we're talking about air marketing money, we could set aside this $875,000 at this point in time.
 we could develop a, we could develop an RFP to go out and ask for several, ask for other people to submit, to submit proposals to us to select the,
 that proposal that we think best fits our needs. I think that would be my suggestion, but I think you should make a decision on whether or not what's on the table now is what you want or not, or we could put this aside and come out with an RFP. Now, that's my recommendation, what I would suggest that I think I'm hearing. I would just say, I think it's very clear that the council has an appetite to address this issue.
 I think it's also very clear tonight that we need to probably, or not probably, we should out of respect for Solomon and New Beginnings, vote on this particular proposal as written. So we can either fund it or put it to bed. And then we can, if we put it to bed, then we all make a commitment that we want to address this issue.
 We I mean we can put a proposal if we want to to hold the funds for this type thing But we're not going to get an answer to that. We're not going we're not going to come up with an answer tonight so I I would recommend we Vote on this proposal out of respect for Solomon and new beginnings and and then you know move forward from there sir
 Well, and I appreciate that, Scott. I just, I want to kind of go back in our time machine too, though, and really say, you know, we've been having these conversations, you know, back again from when the money came in 21, community advocates and groups did homework. We asked for an RFQ process on housing, and that wasn't taken up at the time. We talked about an RFQ possibly at our workshop that we had earlier this year.
 And some of the responses to that were it was too cumbersome. We were too far down the process. We needed to get this money allocated and spent. And so that's where I arrived at bringing forward this as a solution. I want to remind folks while we do have time, the suffering in our community continues every single day.
 If you don't have someone close to you that's been chronically homeless, or if you don't have someone close to you that stays on that bubble constantly from serious mental illness or something that they really can't prevent themselves, every day that we don't make a decision, they continue to stay in the spot they're in now and potentially get to a worse spot.
 So I really am championing us to really take action. If we are truly serious about a robust RFP process, RFQ, which whichever we put out to really say, what can we do with this money? My concern is that it's limited at this point with the amount of funds that we have. We can get incredibly creative, but we have a very finite amount of time to do that. And so I'm concerned that we will get down to the 11th hour
 and have to really scramble. And that was part of our discussions during our workshop that we all had together. We held hands and said, are there other things out there we can sponsor? And so for that reason tonight, I appreciate all this discussion and I agree too. And I think we're committed, it sounds like, to having a master plan around this housing, particularly this part of our population. And I'm here to do the work. I'll show up, I'll go to the meetings. You can send me. I'm traveling to other places across the country.
 because it hits really close to home. This could be my children as they're seven and 11, what they're facing, not knowing what their path is in life. And so I really would ask that you would approve this tonight because we don't have a lot of time to figure out what the next process is. And I really am asking for you to trust experts. You heard the CFC backing this, you hear from all these folks in the community that are
 well established that had been there for a very long time that believe in this project and know it can move forward successfully so let's see what can happen but then let's also hold hands and have that commitment to the additional things that we're all going to go find going forward to be able to solve this together so i appreciate this and i really would ask for your vote tonight okay anything else yes sir a question though if the money were to be approved
 You don't write a check to Solomon. He's got a lot of contract. He's got a lot of hoops to jump through. How do you safeguard the money and continue to draw interest on it? And yet he would have access to it when he finds an appropriate purchase or construction to make because money.
 the application was a little more nebulous. Hey, we'd like to buy some things versus our other applicants that had actual addresses, specific properties. If you give me the money, I'm buying X, Y, Z. How would that work for me? Help me. Well, if you approve the program, then we have to negotiate with him a sub-grantee agreement on exactly, specifically what we're talking about.
 Then we would have the money, the money would be budgeted for this or allocated for this, and then it would be draw down based on submissions of expenditures by Solomon. That's how it works. It's a drawdown program. If in fact you approve it, we budget it at this point in time, we negotiate a subgrantee agreement,
 Okay. And then we go forward with the program once sub-grantee agreement is approved and we're comfortable with it. Then he can begin spending on it. It's a reimbursement program. It's not an upfront. Okay. Does that answer your question? It does. It answers it perfectly. So if...
 i guess the question then becomes um right now a realtor will will have a buyer that will make eight offers before they have to offer sufficiently and actually succeed in the ninth offer that they make the first eight offers they make they get outbid on a property currently in our in our market so if solomon is only able to purchase three dwellings and it in 18 months goes by
 we need to be capable of using this money within our timeline so that we don't get caught having to send the money back. So while I'm liking this program that Solomon is proposing, my concern is we may need more than Solomon attempting to use those funds to be able to meet the deadline.
 Does that make any sense? That does. Let me clarify, too. Part of this application has, I believe it's $30,000, if I'm misquoting Solomon, but part of this application actually has a professional that's hired that actually goes to help to procure the properties. And so they go and do the analysis on the individual houses, and they would need to be turned into different units. So if I'm misspeaking, please understand.
 correct me. But that helps in that situation too, as far as having an extra individual that's actually going out there in the market the way that it is today. And you're right. I mean,
 The benefit that New Beginnings has is because they have made those relationships that they actually have people coming to them with properties asking them. They're declining some because of our concerns that we've said. Things like an apartment that needs an entire, our apartment complex that needs an entire overhaul. That's not the right fit for this program. It's making sure it's the right fit. Anything else? All right, let's vote. Kara, would you please call the roll? I want to make sure
 The question yes is for the proposal. No is against the proposal. Okay, I just want to make sure. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Berna? No. Fudge? No. Kirk? No. No.
 Hertzberg. Hertzberg. No. Harvey. No. The resolution fails. All right. The resolution fails. Okay. But I want the council to understand something that we are visiting with people right now and I'm be I'll be honest with you. What we're working on is we're trying to get people
 in a place where they can afford a house and they don't have to make $50 an hour to get it. So I'll be bringing something to you as soon as we can get it buckled down and we're gonna work on the $16 an hour. Now that's the middle income housing that I will be proposing to you all, probably whenever we can get it worked out. And then we have two other people. I know that Seven Hills also is looking at some stuff
 That's pretty pricey. Mayor, I wanted to say two thanks to Solomon. We have further ongoing meetings with Solomon as well, so there's just a lot more going on. I plan to continue the conversations with Solomon. The specific audience now needs a specific kind of housing, needs an opportunity to support permanent housing, and that is a bigger, broader conversation. Sure.
 I'd like to ask for a break. Mayor, did you say we're taking a break? Yes, we're taking a break. I am anyway. Let's go ahead and get started. Well, now we're ready to move to new business.
 And Mayor, nothing controversial on new business? No, no, no, no. We don't have anything controversial on new business. Let's just finish this up until the midnight hour. All right, here we go. All right, we have an appeal.
 a resolution to grant the appeal of council members scott murnis sonja harvey and deandre jones and approved conditional use permit cup 2023-008 for a short-term rental at 348 north fletcher street jonathan thank you mayor
 The property in question is east of downtown Fayetteville on the west slope of Mount Sequoia. As we dial in the location more specifically, we're at the northeast corner of Dixon and Fletcher. We're located at Ward 1. Fletcher Avenue at this location is the boundary between Ward 1 on the east side and Ward 2 on the west side. The property was previously developed with two single families
 two single-family dwellings. In 2020, it was rezoned successfully from its previous designation of RSF4, residential single-family, four units per acre to RSF8, residential single-family, eight units per acre. Subsequently, a conditional use permit request was submitted to develop the property with five duplexes, which would ultimately be subdivided into 10 townhomes
 These were subsequently built and sold, and as you may have seen them today, they're all rear-loaded as far as parking goes. It comes from the south side of the property with parking to the rear.
 The request before council is an appeal from the Planning Commission's denial of a request for a Type 2 short-term rental on this property. This property specifically being the one that's the northern of the two that are being discussed tonight. Given it's an RSF-8 or a single-family zoning district, it does require a conditional use permit for a Type 2 short-term rental. Those that are intended for permanent short-term use.
 rental use. As you all likely know, the RSF8 zoning district does not permit hotels and motels. So this request would contribute to the citywide cap, which I believe as of the numbers I pulled today, our citywide cap is 2% for type two short-term rentals.
 And that's 2% of the total dwelling units in the city as determined by the Census Department. Most recent ACS numbers or American Community Survey numbers have about 45,000 units in the city, putting that cap at just shy of 900 units eligible as type two short term rentals. As of today, there are about 327 that have been licensed.
 Moving into the considerations that staff used when looking at the request, there are very broad ones, of course, as with any conditional use permit concerns such as the public interest and compatibility with land use, existing land uses and our long range land use plans.
 There's also very specific conditional use permit considerations for short-term rentals, those that the council adopted in December of last year. Those pertain to parking, occupancy, as well as the presence of existing or previous violations on the property and whether there's a significant concentration or proximity of other short-term rentals to the petitioner's property.
 Taking these one at a time, the occupancy for this unit is limited to six. That's based on the two being allowed per bedroom plus two. It's a two bedroom unit, so that brings us to six. When it comes to parking availability, the site does have two spaces built with it. That was part of our standard development code. We do have residential parking requirements. Additionally, there is on-street parking on this development side of Fletcher as well.
 Moving from there into current and previous violations, in researching the property, there were some previous violations. Going back two property owners ago, there's some issues of tall grass and things like that that may not be entirely relevant to this case since the property has been fully redeveloped and has changed hands twice since then.
 The previous property owner did have complaints levied against them during construction. There were complaints about a track out and some other noise and messy construction site related issues. And currently there is a complaint being investigated for trash cans and recycling bins being left on Fletcher Avenue rather than being taken up within 24 hours of trash service on the
 Lastly, as it relates to concentration and proximity of other type two short-term rentals in the area, hopefully you saw this map in your packet. This has become standard issue, if you will, for the planning commission when they're looking at type two short-term rentals. You can see in the center of the map that this particular parcel is highlighted in red and there've been three identified, three other short-term rental, type two short-term rentals that have been licensed in the immediate area.
 Another item worth noting on this, and which is hopefully captured in staff's report here, is there has been quite a bit of public comment on this item. I cannot possibly hope to summarize it all here. There was again, quite a bit. These range from very broad statements of concerns about neighborhood character, and that would potentially comprise it to have a significant number of these new housing units being turned over into short-term rentals with the associated more transient use of the property.
 There's also a lot of concerns expressed about the property's development history, not just during construction, which was mentioned, but there's also a lot of concern that during the entitlement process, especially the zoning and conditional use permit entitlement processes, it was frequently mentioned that these units were intended or would serve as attainable housing or affordable housing.
 And there's been a lot of frustration expressed over the units and their ultimate sales price and also the potential that they will go immediately from or perception that they'll immediately go from newly constructed housing to the short-term rental market with nothing in between.
 There are also concerns noted about parking. A couple residents commented that parking on street on Fletcher created a constrained traffic movement on that area, in that area. And there were also comments about issues about the intersection of Dixon and Fletcher with concerns that there'd been a high frequency of traffic accidents. And of course I've already noted that there was also
 comment about the violations that either previously had occurred on the property or were currently being considered. With all that in mind and with staff considering those very broad and also very specific use conditions that have been codified, ultimately came down on a recommendation of approval for the project.
 Planning Commission, however, upon hearing the public comment and making their assessment of it, ultimately denied the request by a vote of seven to one. The dissenting vote had similar comments to staff's that the request on its face meets the considerations they felt were set forth in ordinance.
 The planning commissioners, given the number, unsurprisingly, who opposed the request had much more robust comments in supporting their action. These ranged from very high-level comments concerning that these short-term rentals of these properties would not serve the public interest and may be an incompatible use.
 But there was also a lot of comments about the needs for perhaps future amendment to the short-term rental ordinance that afforded the city, whether it's staff, the planning commission or council to evaluate short-term rentals.
 on a basis of if they're negatively impacting housing pricing in possibly different ways. I think I mentioned it shortly ago, housing going straight from newly constructed to the short-term rental market. I believe that captures housing.
 both the planning commission and the public's comments but i'm happy to take any questions the council has otherwise i have nick mike and christy scott here in person as the applicants for the item there mayor may ask jonathan a question real quick so jonathan could you go back to where you had that radius around the proposed short terminal how far out is that what is that that beeps at 500 feet or
 i'm suddenly blanking i believe it's it's 1200 feet so i think it's a i'm sorry i'm suddenly blanking on i believe it's a quarter mile oh okay all right sorry thank you okay would the applicants like to speak for the council
 Jonathan, you all supported, the staff supported this project, correct? That's correct. Staff does recommend and favor in the Planning Commission by vote of 7 to 1, denied the request. Could I ask you why you supported it? Certainly. Hang on just a minute, folks. I want to get...
 Thank you for the question. Staff in evaluating on the whole balance of items, which again included very broad and very specific items, we felt it met the requirements of ordinance, including very project specific or property specific items such as the availability of parking, whether there are current violations that indicate possibly that the current applicant is a bad actor.
 whether there was what's perceived to be an excessive number of short-term rentals in the area. And on the balance of issues, staff did not find there to be a compatibility issue and that it would not adversely affect the public interest.
 Thank you. Yes. Hi. Hi. Thank you, council members and Mr. Mayor. We appreciate your time tonight. I'm sorry it's a long night. I just want to introduce you to us, Mike and Christy Scott.
 Just a little bit about us, Mike grew up one block from this property on Lafayette Street, graduated from Fayetteville High School. Both of our children will be attending the U of A as students. We are both alums. His parents still reside here in Northwest Arkansas, and we are heavily invested in the success of this community.
 We are part-time residents of Fletcher, of 348 Fletcher. We live there part-time. That is because we both work here in northwest Arkansas, and that requires us to be here frequently. We purchased this property to provide a space for our family to live, to gather, and for others to enjoy it.
 We, when we're not here, we would like for the intended use of it to be available as a short-term rental so that other people can enjoy Northwest Arnhem's Hall. This home was purchased and very carefully researched for a short-term rental. And it was really based on the facts that there are no homeowners association restrictions or covenants.
 This property is in compliance with zoning laws. The cap space for short-term rental is under 2% for the citywide, making our property eligible on this category. And at the time of the application, the staff did recommend that our home be passed as a short-term rental based on its compatibility to this neighborhood. And the Planning Commission's past approvals for short-term rentals were aligned with this property as well.
 I would like to reiterate from our planning meeting, the Commissioner Chair stated, the City has decided this is something that we are going to be permitting in the City. How this is defined under City Ordinance, seeing what the City Council has done on appeal for decisions we've made, and just looking for consistency on the way we've done things in the past, I am voting in favor.
 So, Mike wants to address some concerns that were stated during our planning meeting.
 Jonathan, if you could put that slide up. There were some concerns over parking. As Jonathan did mention, there is ample parking spaces behind the unit. We have a two-bedroom home and there is two covered parking spaces in the back of the property that are easily accessed and will be well marked.
 So parking is not an issue. As you can see on the slides, there's very few cars parked in any of the garages or on the front of the streets. Those were both kind of during rush hours, 7 a.m. and 5 p.m., I believe on a Sunday and a Monday.
 As you can also see in the slides, there's not a whole lot of traffic in any of the photos. You know, Fletcher is a cut through from kind of Lafayette or Mission to Dixon Street. There are, you know, cars, but I've never seen a bunch of cars stacked up at the intersection. You know, it seems to flow very well.
 With short-term rental, both parking and traffic are going to be less because there's not 100% occupancy in our home. There's going to be some times when we're not there and when it's not rented. So that would actually decrease both of those things.
 Noise, since the property has been developed, there have been no noise complaints or complaints other than the trash. We haven't had guests at our property. Events and parties are not permitted in any short-term rental in Fayetteville. We don't want a noisy home or for our home to be messed up since we live there.
 So we're able to vet our guests wisely to ensure compliance with all sound ordinances and and make sure we don't disrupt the neighborhood trash. So basically they are very steep front yards. We did order a small trash bin. It has been placed in the back of our property behind a fence where it's not
 We have not once put it down on the curb. We actually removed the trash ourselves and take it to a business that my family owns or we have several friends that have businesses with dumpsters. So we've been removing the trash ourselves. Obviously there'll be less trash as well without 100 percent occupancy.
 We cannot control other homeowners either across the street or down the street or next door on what they do with their trash bins. We can only say that if we do rent it out, we hire housekeeping. They're in charge of removing the trash from the premises as well.
 So there was also some concerns of water drainage and construction issues. This really has nothing to do with short-term rental, but obviously we understand the frustration of some of the neighbors with some of the construction issues that occurred during construction. And I don't know if they're still occurring, but just 
 The construction and rezoning issues really don't have anything to do with our short-term rental application. That's for another meeting with the developer or the builder. We simply bought the property after it was already rezoned and the plans were already in place to build. We also feel like the planning commission kind of got in the weeds and went...
 went outside of their normal methods, basically using individual opinion and kind of stereotyping unfair criteria, kind of conflicting methods than what they usually use. There was discussions on a moratorium on new housing for at least two years. However, later in the same meeting, they approved a brand new house and a brand new development.
 Also, affordable housing. Obviously, you know, affordable housing is a big issue. We're very sympathetic of that. We're unaware of any affordable housing requirements for short-term rental approval. Obviously, this neighborhood is in the heart of the Fayetteville Entertainment District.
 It is one of the most coveted places where people want a home to be close to Dixon Street, the university, that type of stuff. So it's going to be very, very hard to have affordable housing in such a high demand neighborhood.
 to me that it was ever considered affordable housing with the price points and the way the markets control these high demand neighborhoods right in the heart of the entertainment district just seems to me that's a little beyond my comprehension there but
 As far as density goes, I think you guys saw the map. I think there is not a lot of density. I know there's a 2% wide cap that has not been met and so I think we're still eligible for approval. Another commissioner stated wealthy people outnumber Fayetteville City citizens by the millions.
 and that they're coming in and buying up all the properties. And basically, we feel we shouldn't be discriminated against whether we have $100 or $100 million. This isn't criteria that should be used for short-term rental application. As she mentioned, we are residents. We're not a big conglomerate buying up a bunch of properties and turning them into short-term rentals. So...
 I just feel that that was not really relevant or appropriate for them to judge our application on. Your time is up. Oh. You have 10 minutes.
 Thank you. Unless the council wants to give them more time. I didn't get a warning. Can we get one more minute? I'll give you one more minute if that's okay. Thank you. We do agree with the city that this neighborhood is very compatible for short-term rental. It is near everything that a tourist wants to see, next to the U of A, next to Dixon Street, next to Mount Sequoia.
 on the U of A bike trails. It's where the people want to visit. The neighborhood is a mixture of single family homes, apartments, duplexes, in town homes. And we do feel as well as the city staff did that it would fit in nicely with the already diverse rentals that are in that property area as well.
 We would like to restate a memo sent by the Fayetteville City Attorney, Blake Pennington. He stated, The Planning Commission must take into account the concerns of neighbors and insurer
 that a use is not unreasonably disruptive and incompatible with the neighborhood. Without a history of violations or disruptions to the neighborhood, it would be difficult for the Planning Commission to determine the proposed use as incompatible with the neighborhood.
 And it is our understanding that the short-term rentals... Okay, you're many, so... Okay, I mean, we're just not... I just run the clock. We live there. This is our home. We're not trying to get a permit on a coffee shop to be disruptive in our neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for the...
 Mayor, can we ask the applicant a question now? Is that appropriate? Oh, yeah, sure. You sure can. I'm just fixing to stay there. It was stated a fewsorry. It's okay. I'm sorry. Jumping ahead. I'm becoming the other Sarah. No, I'm just kidding. So, it was stated several times that the
 you primarily, you're primarily going to live in the home. How often are you there? Because we do have type one and type two. So I was just curious how often you're actually there, like out of a month, 30 days. It varies based on our business. I service oncology patients and support medical communities here in town. This past month being spring break, we were not there as often, but normally we're there two to three times per week, depending on our schedules.
 Thank you. That was the question I had. Okay. Is there any questions for the applicant or the staff anymore, shall we say? Okay. Thank you all. Okay. Well, I've lost my official...
 all right anyway everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration you have one turn at the mic don't engage the councilman or anybody from the public stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom uh those in the uh chamber will be allowed to speak first and those
 participating by Zoom will speak after that. Did I get pretty close with that, Susan? Yes, I've had a little practice on that. Yes, Kyle. Hello again, Mayor. Kyle Smith, 2801 West Dove Drive on the far other side of town. And from the looks of it, there's a whole lot of neighbors over here that are gonna talk about the conditions in the neighborhood. I hope you will listen to them, but I will submit that it probably doesn't matter.
 If we just listen to the applicants, they did their careful research to buy a house for a short-term rental. I understand that they're living there, but it sounds like not enough to make this a type 1 short-term rental, and that puts it into type 2. This is a great neighborhood for a home, less so for a hotel. Okay.
 I have watched this council over the years and participated a few times in haggling with developers over ten houses in the development versus eight houses in the development. A difference of two, there's two on the agenda tonight. If we're not going to invest in houses for people who can't get one, what are we doing making special accommodations for folks who need a second?
 Recently, we've seen some turmoil in the banking system. If you followed the Silicon Valley bank bailout slash shutdown by the government,
 They chose to do some things and rescue some people who had their deposits in the bank. They did not choose to to bail out the investors in the bank. This is an investment property and I would posit that y'all do not owe an investor protection over their investment when they take a risk and don't yet have their conditional use permit approved. You do owe your
 fiduciary duty to the housing market of this town and everyone who lives here to make sure that it is a healthy system with enough market capacity for the people who need to live here. And as long as we are continuing to approve short-term type 2 rentals, we are taking houses off market, especially houses that have just built.
 The applicant also read a quote from the single planning commissioner vote in their favor, where I believe she cited your past actions on appeals as one of her guiding decision makers. You have an opportunity tonight to send different guidance back to the planning commission and tell them that we don't have enough housing in this community to be taking it off the market for hotel rooms.
 Yet, I hope that you will start approving more housing and that we will get over that and that this will not be an issue anymore. But right now it is very much an issue. And I hope you will deny both of these conditional use appeals tonight. Thank you. Yes. Hello, my name is Emery to this year. I actually live at 356 North Fletcher. So one of these 10 units.
 We are actually one of the only two of the ten that actually has residents living in them. My wife and I live in one. The other one is lived in by an undergraduate college student. We are first-time homeowners. We bought this home solely with the goal to put down roots. I love the description about great location this was. We can't agree more. That's why we wanted to live as residents in this home, and we know others who would want to as well.
 So sort of give some background on this that's relevant. After looking for over a year for a home in Fayetteville that we could afford, I know there's a term affordable, attainable housing. I wouldn't say it's affordable, maybe it was attainable for us, thankfully. This was one of the only homes we found only because an investor backed out last minute. So the only actual residents who aren't one undergraduate college student who are living here are because an investor backed out at the very last minute. Of the 10 units,
 The 80% are unoccupied the vast majority of the time. People can say whatever number they want. We live there every day. We don't see anyone. I have made efforts. We have finally probably met every single person once from catching them on the one day of the four months we've lived there.
 um and as pointed out these only got finished in the last six months the timeline and speed of these permits as sort of proudly said was planned to turn these into an income generating unit not a home not a not a place for a resident of our city which if we're talking about goal six on our city goals to make more homes
 Having homes that are built and immediately turned into only investment properties gets us further away from that goal. There's no chance we'll ever catch up if 80% are unoccupied. And like I said, 30% came up for a short-term rental application. Two were denied 7 to 1 that we're hearing today. One was denied 8 to 0. So even that one individual who disagreed before ended up denying it. We have 20% now coming up.
 the others will come up. There's a reason all of these are unoccupied. They intend to make them. I've spoken to these individuals. There's the practical matters of trash and garbage. In my exhibits I shared with you guys in my email, I showed some of that. Those are real matters. Those are real issues. I'd love to work with neighbors to deal with those issues, right? Those are things we can work around. I can't deal with those people who are living in other cities far away or
 Ultimately, the comments about commitments to the neighborhood, who's more committed than people who live here? Who's more committed than residents who actually live in this home, go to the grocery shops, go to school in this area, work in this area, go to restaurants, go to church, go to whatever you go to in this town? And ultimately, like I said, I'd love to work with neighbors to deal with some of these issues. The neighbors I have met have ecstatically welcomed us into the community as the only one of these 10 units living there.
 And my ask is that these are denied just so that we can allow the opportunity for other either long-term renters or other homeowners to live. I really want a neighbor. This is why I moved to Fayetteville, to meet neighbors. I've met some great ones, but I've got eight empty lots next to me. And I hope you help give me some neighbors and not just be part of somebody else's real estate portfolio, unfortunately. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Justin Minkel. I've lived at 633 Crescent. It's just kind of diagonal from the new townhomes for about 18 years with my wife and our two kids. I'm in Ward 1.
 So many of the changes in zoning and so many of the developments have been really disruptive and really hard on the neighbors who live there. But we understand that that disruption happens for a legitimate reason, that we really need more housing stock in Fayetteville. And I think that's part of the reason for that 2% cap. And it is really troubling to me that, you know, when we look at the houses right now, you know, three of them have been requested so far for conditional use. And it sounds like others will come up as short-term rentals.
 And again, they were voted down 7-1 and 8-0 for really solid reasons after a lot of discussion. But I think that 30% even, which could be 40 or 50% of these townhomes that are intended as short-term rentals, really flies in the face of that 2% goal and the real larger goal of creating affordable or attainable housing for people to own or rent.
 When these zoning changes or requests come up, we always hear about the character of the neighborhood and the fabric of the neighborhood. And I think that's really important, but I don't think it has anything to do with how much money you make or whether you own your home or rent your home or whether you've lived there for a couple of months or for 18 years. What is really important is that you live there, that that's your home and that you're moving there with the intent to be there.
 When I think about the character of our neighborhood, it doesn't feel to me like it's for tourists. It doesn't feel to me like it is in the heart of the entertainment district. It feels like a neighborhood with people walking around and talking, getting to know each other's kids.
 And that fabric has a lot to do with how people treat each other. So during the ice storm, there was an elderly neighbor that lost power. Two different families reached out to her and asked her if she wanted to come and stay in our home while she was without power. This young couple next door who were renting their house came over like they do every time there's snow or ice, and they shoveled her walk and dragged the branches out of the way so that her car could get out. And I just don't think you have that kind of fabric or that kind of character when you have people who are just there for the weekend.
 When this change in zoning was proposed, because I think this history does matter, our neighborhood was really concerned about how the development would unfold and our concerns turned out to be grounded. It was really hard for a couple of years for the residents. Some of the things were just,
 specific events like chopping down this 30 foot tall magnolia tree so the developer could fit in 10 units instead of eight or nine. Others were ongoing, like we couldn't walk without walking in the street against oncoming traffic because there were two giant dumpsters there. You know, our basement flooded for the first time in 18 years. But, you know, my daughter kind of gave me perspective and she wasn't as curmudgeonly as I was. And she said, but dad, it's all going to be worth it because we're going to get a couple of wonderful neighbors in there.
 And my daughter was right. All right. First, you just spoke Emory and his wife, Mariel. Like they're the dream neighbors and they're there to make a home. They were over in our house in the yard last weekend. Like I see them out walking. I haven't met anyone else in those homes.
 And so it feels like this kind of hardship in this really tough couple of years that we went through was kind of intended to end up with more homes that people could buy or rent. And instead it kind of feels like a ghost town on the rest of that street. If you go out the day after garbage has been there, you'll see there are multiple toppled garbage cans that already have orange stickers on them because the people live in Little Rock or they live somewhere else in their primary residence and they're not there to prop up the garbage cans. You wanna do that kind of basic simple thing.
 In the presentation to get this development approved, the developer did say, as we went to all those meetings, that they'd sell them for $150,000 to $360,000 to provide affordable and attainable housing for workforce households with incomes between $33,000 and $78,000.
 Instead, they've sold for closer to $450,000, and they have mostly been bought as investment properties to rent out short-term. I don't think any of us were surprised that the developer said one thing to get the rezoning and development approved and then did something else to maximize profit. That part wasn't a surprise, but I do think it would be such a shame if 30 or 40 or 50 percent of this development ends up going to be short-term rentals.
 We want real neighbors who want to live here and want to be part of the community and are there all the time. And the last thing I would say is just that I am really concerned about the number of renters I know, three personally or friends of friends who just in the last couple months with the increase of the possibility of doing short-term rentals,
 have been turned out of their house with about a month's notice, not because they were bad tenants, not because they failed to pay rent, but because the landlord knew they could make more profit flipping it into a short-term rental. So I do think that's on the rise. So I think it's a deep problem, and I hope this council can find a way to fix it. Thank you for listening to so many of us tonight, so late into the night. I really appreciate your time and your service to Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 I am Bruce Wilkins. My wife, Laura, and I live at 230 North Summit Avenue, which is 100 yards or so from this property. Thank you for letting me address you tonight. We're here to voice our opposition to this change, and we concur with the things that you've already heard. I don't really want to reiterate much, but I will say that I felt like we were...
 pitched, sold on affordable housing, walkability, meeting new neighbors. And the short-term rentals don't do any of that. Really what they do is drop an upscale motel in our neighborhood without any staff to run it. They also do add to the traffic and the parking issues. I can tell you I drive through Fletcher and Dixon every day
 And if there are cars parked on Fletcher close to the intersection and you're trying to go north on Fletcher, you just have to sit there and wait until all the southbound traffic gets through the intersection because you're not going to fit three across there when people are trying to make that turn down Dixon Street.
 So, you know, all the things that we've talked about, just like to concur with those, the things you saw from the letters. I don't understand really the appeal process. I'll tell you that right now. But after so many of our neighbors spoke at the planning commission meeting, and after the planning commission rejected this proposal almost unanimously, I said,
 You know, it's I'm just disappointed that that my council members were sponsoring This appeal, but maybe I don't understand the process, but That's how I feel. So, thank you Thank you. Yes Hi Excuse me. My name is Paul. Those are I live at 236 North Fletcher and I've been a resident of that in that house for about nine years and I I
 I'm going to save a little bit of time because I wrote all of you letters, and I really appreciate those that got back with me. I showed that you did care about what I had to say, and I appreciate that. I want to acknowledge that. What I'd like to say is a couple things. One, I've lived on that corner for nine years, and the pictures that you saw a while ago were cherry-picked. It's crowded there sometimes. There's a lot of traffic you'll see there, and those narrow streets makes it hard to negotiate. I look out my window.
 Back door now, I see a paved over parking lot. Used to be big trees there. And that parking lot is made for compact cars. A lot of people there have trucks, SUVs, and so they're going to end up parking on the road, which makes it a lot harder to deal with. My biggest concern, however, tonight is the deal with the cap and the density of 2%. That is not distributed over the city. My understanding is...
 Nine of those units, eight of those units that are not occupied could apply for this very thing and get it because it's not distributed over the city. There's no requirement. There should be. I wish that we put a pause on the whole thing because some of those things have been addressed. Nationwide, a lot of cities are dealing with the idea of short-term rentals being not very good for the city. In fact, Houston did away with it because of that.
 The other thing I'd like to address a little bit is there are some good rules in place. I've read them for short-term rentals. However, who's going to enforce them? We've all stayed in Airbnbs. You know how it can be. You get the wrong people in and there's nobody close. There might be somebody to call.
 Two people per bedroom turns into three or four. Pretty soon you have a party or something like that. And I'm not against partying, obviously. There was another issue. There's a house. It's 318 Dixon Street. Big house. Got some land around it. I've seen as many as 15 cars there. And it's a short-term rental.
 And I know it's not equipped for that many people and they were having an event. You're not supposed to have events in the city on short-term rentals, but they did and there's no one to stop that unless it's the neighbors and we're not, we don't want to get into that kind of deal. It's just not, it's not good business. We've already kind of addressed the idea of the bait and switch that kind of occurred with the builder and stuff and that I'm not going to go into that anymore.
 Like I said, the biggest thing that I had was the idea of the 2%. So I thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else? Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor, members of the Council. My name is Karen Minkel, and I live at 633 East Crescent. I've lived there since 2005, so just around the corner. And when I reflect on all the public hearings for this development, I think as you've all heard, and I think as you articulated yourself, attainable, affordable workforce housing was the common theme that
 elected officials talked about, that planning commissioners talked about, and that the developer talked about, and how this development was consistent with the six goals that sit behind you at all of these meetings. And as I listened to the earlier conversation tonight, I realized, and all of you talked about how dire and urgent this issue of housing is within the city.
 I've supported attainable, affordable workforce housing for most of the time that I've lived in Fayetteville in a professional capacity. I support greater density, and I'm delighted to have neighbors who add to my neighborhood fabric. And in fact, as this development was making its way through the process, you've seen my husband probably multiple times at this, at these hearings, and I was kind of hiding out in the background because I think in many ways this development aspires to meet all of those goals.
 But if this and other appeals to allow short-term rentals are approved, the city, I think, will have failed to deliver on this goal. And I think it's concerning because it sets a precedent. So many developments are coming forward and talking about how they are going to deliver on this goal that everyone cares about. And I think if they can easily become short-term rentals, they aren't going to meet that goal.
 I also think that that 2% cap was meant to address this issue of housing. It was because there was a concern that we don't have enough housing for residents and that it does affect the character of our community. And so when I look at that, of the map that has that radius and it shows how many short-term rentals are in this neighborhood. And I think about the,
 the likely requests that are going to happen, I think it's significantly above the 2% threshold for that neighborhood. And I think that that was the intent, that it does matter, that housing for residents matters, and that it does affect the character of a neighborhood and community. Thank you for your time and for staying so late this evening. Thank you. Hello, my name is Mariel Narcisa. I live at 356 North Fletcher
 So I can only share my own experience that feels very similar. It's kind of like Twilight Zone right now because my husband and I moved here from Bentonville, where we also were renting in a 10-unit townhome situation where more than 20% of those townhomes were Airbnbs.
 And so from we shared a driveway with these folks, we were also within walking distance of the square. So it was very
 Yeah, people wanted to rent there and wanted to live there. From our experience in that situation, the onus ended up being on us as the people who live there to manage all of the issues around trash, to manage the huge bike trailers in the way of our driveway, to manage the noise complaints that we were having. And while, you know, there is no other person to really reach out to if folks aren't there living there. And so I think it is unbelievable
 It's unfair to put that on all these neighbors who really want to just live. As my neighbor Emily says, we just want to live and we don't want to have to monitor the people living near us. But we can't do that. We can't solve issues or solve any challenges that we have when folks don't live there full time and we have rotating guests coming in. This is a very popular area to live for the reason why we live there now, but we just
 we just want to live. We just want to create a place where we can all solve issues together. But in this sense, as a short-term rental, there is no one there to talk to you about this. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, good evening everybody. You guys have had a long strenuous night. My name is Natalie Underneer and I live at 365 North Fletcher. I'm right across the street from these units. I have joined all of the meetings since the beginning of this whole process with these units. And to see it morph and then to get to the point where, okay,
 We have two on-voucher houses across the street that are going to be torn down. What's going to replace them? Oh, it's okay. It's going to be affordable. And to finally accept these are going to be affordable. And then to hear the developers or the investors as they are being shown these houses as the perfect Airbnb. As we're out, ooh, are these going to be our new neighbors? And you hear them say, this is the perfect investment property.
 It's kind of soul-crushing. I did get a fabulous set of neighbors from one of those investors backing out.
 But we've also seen tonight that as a community, Fayetteville needs housing. As a university employee, I'm lucky, I understand to be able to afford the house that I do live in because as everybody is well aware, the staff and the students, the staff is actually being phased out of Fayetteville. I don't know if you guys know this. I have three coworkers that were just served papers to get out of their apartments because they've been rented out.
 by the end of the month. We do not have enough housing for our employees of Fayetteville. We do not have enough housing to accommodate our students' needs. Is it the city's job to accommodate the students' needs? I don't know the answer to that, but I do know that housing in general is a problem in Fayetteville. So a type two, we're type two, correct, not the we're living in it 90% of the time.
 because that's the other one, right? A type two short-term rental kind of goes against the need to establish that housing. And it also goes against the neighborhood feel. I can tell you, I took a picture at 745 the other day because it made me laugh looking out my driveway as I was trying to back out. And there are seven cars down,
 one side of Fletcher, two cars on the other side of Fletcher, and a Dodge Dually trying to go between these vehicles heading towards my house and the no parking sign is in my front yard for my side of Fletcher. And so I have this ideal picture of the traffic problems and the parking problems on Fletcher with the no parking sign. And I took a picture and sent it to my husband and said, well,
 Aren't you thankful you weren't riding your bike down Fletcher? And I said, you know, actually this is one of the reasons that we take our bikes off of Mount Sequoia to go biking as a family because it's never been a safe road to bike on. It's not normally a safe road to walk on. The trash cans, we still have trash can problems. I know I should do the click fix thing.
 I'll figure it out eventually. We've got grass clippings now sitting on the sidewalk too. That's a recent development. So we are consistently having some problems. There aren't residents in a lot of these, but they seem to have a lot of trash.
 So that's just a little suspicious. The 2% cap, the circle of a quarter mile, is really interesting to me because it is only showing the type 2 rentals, but it's not showing the type 1 short-term rentals or any other rentals. So the fabric of our neighborhood, the individuals that you see speaking up, are the full-time residents of the neighborhood.
 The rest of our neighborhood is actually mostly rentals. I've got three duplexes in between me and the next full house where someone is not there. I've got two duplexes on the other side of me. Our street is already empty.
 Filled with other types of rentals and I can tell you that if you go out to Airbnb you can find 16 Airbnbs within that quarter mile mile radius that's on the map whether they're type 1 or type 2 I did I do know that there is a difference So the fact that there are already Airbnb's that aren't being represented on the map makes me want to say please I
 consider the fact that these houses are brand new. There are 10 units, and we've got two tonight, and we don't know if the other gentleman's going to appeal, but we've got four other that are possibly on their way to come see you guys as well. So please think about that as you make your decision tonight. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Hello. I'm Emily Irvin. I live at 362 North Fletcher, so I'm adjacent to these 10 homes. It's also past my bedtime, so bear with me. So as my neighbor said, I just want to live in my home. I've lived in my home for 21 years. I...
 have welcomed new neighbors. I have welcomed new people to the city. I don't like having to monitor people's trash and all that stuff when I'm on my walks. And if I did monitor the trash, it would be the same picture every day because the same trash has been out there
 Every single day. It's not moving because there's no one to take it in but this really isn't about the trash cans It's about our neighborhood. It's about our housing shortage it's about taking care of the residents and the people that want to be a part of the community not the people that are there
 to make investments. We want to make an investment in our community because we live here. And I love that they are coming back to Fayetteville, the applicants.
 It's a great place. I understand why they want to come back. I also went to school here. I taught a year here. I did my student teaching at Ramey. My kids went to Washington, Ramey, FHS, Owl Creek. And when my kids weren't there, actually when they were there, I was also volunteering. To me, that is what is,
 being part of the community. And we would love for our new neighbors to stay there and to live there. So when all this began in 1020, we,
 We were told that we needed new homes and we were given parameters of these new homes We didn't come up with these statistics and numbers on our own. We were told those we got those and
 Those parameters in letters we saw them in meetings and it wasn't just one meeting. It was every meeting Every letter that I received from the developer Also said these things about affordable housing attainable housing we need homes that are close to the downtown so that they can walk to work and and such as that
 I was sitting on my couch Saturday morning and I heard some noise outside my window and I was like, oh, I wonder what that noise is. And I peeked open and it was my new neighbors out there talking to my old neighbors. Had some flowers in their hands, so I don't know if they had walked to the farmer's market or where, but gosh darn, I went out there in my robe and I was like, hey, how are y'all doing? Stood out there looking a mess, just confused.
 Trying to get to know my new neighbors hollering across my yard. And that's kind of the way I've been doing things for about 20 years. Anyone that stops while I'm out there, oh, hey. And that's the way it should be.
 With short-term rentals, it's taking away from our community that needs housing. It's taking away from our businesses like hotels, like Mount Sequoia, that also has lodging available, like the new hotel that we are going to be building down in the Ramble. So I just see that the people making investments...
 Coming here for investment properties are getting a whole lot more consideration
 um than than the residents and frankly as much as i love a lot of y'all i am really tired of coming up here and saying the same thing sending emails sending pictures i mean as she said i'm just trying to live here and enjoy the community that i have invested in for over 20 years
 And I want other people to be able to do the same. And I know y'all can't do a conditional rezoning, but this happened after the rezoning too. It wasn't just then. It was at the conditional use permit for the planning committee, the planning commission and all that. I'm tired. Y'all have to forgive me. So anyway. Okay. Thank you. I'll probably be back in a minute.
 Hello, I'm Laura Wilkins. Thanks for being here so late. I appreciate all the work you guys do. I agree with everything everyone has said so far. I'm just going to try to make a couple of points that were not mentioned. First of all, we're not in the entertainment district. I have to walk 25 minutes to get a beer.
 So we have to walk way down Dixon Street. There's a nice sidewalk. It is a walkable community now. I can see these units from my front porch, so I can see there's different cars every weekend. On big game weekends, there's lots of different cars. And even though they are back end loaded, nobody parks in the back. They all park on Fletcher.
 which is why we have the trash problem because that's where the trash cans are on Fletcher. So I'm sure when the trash trucks come there's no way to pick up those trash cans and they get filled and then there's the green labels on them. I don't know what that means but it's a big mess. I can't even walk down. It's a walkable neighborhood but I can't walk down that sidewalk because it's filled with trash cans and there's a lot of trash.
 lot of cars there and like Someone said before it's hard to turn right from Dixon Street down the hill to the north Let's see, I think that was my main issue I believe in everything else I know I was here at the meetings two years ago when this was sold as affordable infill and it's not affordable and there's no neighbors I can make friends with except one sweet couple. So thank you very much for your time. Thank you Who else would like to address us?
 I'M GOING TO BRING IT BACK TO THE MAYOR. I THINK YOU HAVE ONE. SORRY. THERE'S JUSTIN GUNN. OKAY. GO AHEAD. GOOD EVENING, MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL. JUSTIN GUNN, 332 NORTH FLETCHER. I WILL BE UP NEXT. JUST A COUPLE COMMENTS HERE.
 Around the affordability, it has been a very sensitive discussion and fully understand, but you know the price has been set that this is not an area that's going to be for affordable pricing even as I hear from the neighbors today, you know the pricing of the homes across those those few streets. It is not affordable in the broader discussion of what was heard tonight.
 What I do know as an owner of one of those homes, I do know five of the 10 families and their parents. They're parents that are here to come see their kids. So whether their kids are going to be living there after when they get out of attorney houses, sorority houses, whatever it may be, but that has been the predominant buyers and purchasers of those homes.
 It's interesting when I hear about the trash, but yet there's really no short-term rentals in there, and there's a lot of cars there, but there's no cars there, and there's trash, but no one's home. I can understand people's...
 sensitivity to prior to. But the point being here is if it's not going to be sweet families like Mike and Kerry, Christie Scott that are gonna be spending a lot of time
 These are going to be rented to college students. And that's just the reality of it. And I know the long-term neighbors and things like that, well, there's about 40 to 50% are already apartments and duplexes. It is just part of that rental market. But I could see Mike and Christy Scott as residents of this that supports when they're not there. So thank you. And I'll be back.
 there's no other zoom okay I'm gonna bring back to the council what discussion with the council like to have or what action the council like to take
 Can I address a comment that one of the speakers made about the appeal process? I'm one of the council members that signed off on the appeal. It does not mean that I'm going to vote for or against. It means that we have an appeals process in place that the applicant can use to have their concerns addressed. I felt like their concerns had some legitimacy and they had the right to be heard.
 So again, that doesn't mean I'm going to vote for the appeal or against it. It means that I felt like they had a right to have their voice heard. And so it's a resolution. And so here we are.
 Yes Yeah, I just want to thank the neighbors for your patience and the process because this part of I know what is available to applicants to bring it back and ask these hard questions and and so, you know, I'm going to restate what council member Myrna Just said
 Um, and we're very aware that housing is an issue and we're very aware that, um, you know, we're, we're working on, on that. Um, I personally don't make any, I would never, uh,
 make any votes on if something is going to be affordable or not, me personally, unless there is a contract associated with the project. And I know that has come up an enormous amount of times in the emails, and I haven't really had a chance to address it because I've,
 um i just really wanted to talk about it but i don't i don't see that that is something a good you know i wouldn't have voted for it for it to be affordable housing unless it was a cobblestone project which we have had it was a set up and this the city knew had a guarantee that it was going to be of a certain price point so
 in this current market there's just no way we could ever control the cost of those homes ever um so that i wanted to address that um and um you know i don't know legally kit if you could help me can we control what people do to their homes with their homes
 after they've purchased it, is that something an ordinance that could be addressed as far as the home is only, you know, is less than one year old and it cannot be turned into a short term rental? Is that something that we can even discuss?
 No, I don't think we can. Certainly, they can use as of right a house for home or for long-term rental. That's as of right. In order to do a short-term rental, then they do need to obtain a conditional use permit from the city council or the planning commission before that. And as you remember, I wasn't
 Totally in love with this particular Way that we approach short-term rentals in fact I even proposed a different one but the City Council decided to go forward with this one and Since you did you're stuck with this one no matter what you might think or want to do you must follow the rules you have set forth in the Unified Development Code and
 And there was concern about short-term rentals taking too much property off the market. And so you all designed the 2% cap. That was your solution. That is in the code. They're also talking about concentration. And there is a particular provision that I should read to you because it's pretty appropriate for this.
 where attached residential units, which is what we have here, are held separately through fee-simple or similar ownership structure, no cap shall be applied to the buildings with the attached residential dwellings. Now that's a special cap, so when you had like an apartment complex, there was another cap for that.
 But for attached townhouses or attached duplexes or even if they're separately owned Then there's no additional new cap that can be applied to them One thing that can happen But it's probably not appropriate here is it does say in your code that short-term rentals in residential zoning districts may be subject to denial of
 for the Planning Commission's findings on the following factors, adequate parking infrastructure, adequate adjoining or nearby streets or on-street parking, and this one, frequency or concentration of nearby licensed Type 2 short-term rentals. So there are really not that many nearby short-term rentals now.
 If these two are allowed, then other people that will want to get short-term rentals in this group of eight residences, at that point I think you could certainly look at this section here to give yourselves the right to say, too much concentration, even though we don't specifically disallow it from that other language,
 But it's too much concentration, I think, and that would be something that would probably be supportable and sustainable. However, in the situation for these first two short-term rentals, I just don't see how that works. I think, and also with the affordable housing, I agree with you, nothing was presented that was enforceable.
 uh if you wanted to make it enforceable they would have had to give us adult insurance and saying it's going to be affordable housing we're not going to charge more than this it's workforce housing we're making sure that people work there and and instead it was puffery is probably the proper term which means it is not enforceable it is salesmanship i don't like misleading people
 But if we don't have a bill of assurance or something like that, there's nothing the city can do about that. Except maybe remember next time when a particular developer shows up with his plans and asks for a different zoning because he's going to do all this workforce housing. So maybe the city council will remember.
 The other thing that that's about all I have to say on that it's you've got to follow your rules. That's what the Supreme Court has said. You don't have to make rules. But if you make rules, you got to follow them till you change them. I think what you've heard tonight should inspire our current committee looking at short term rentals to see big changes are needed. A two percent cap. We're not even halfway there.
 And we're concerned about affordable housing. Well, maybe it ought to be a much smaller cap than that. Maybe it should be administered differently as some council members have looked at where you look at a neighborhood and put a real cap on a neighborhood beyond just that overall cap.
 And so those sorts of things, you know, I think you can look at. I don't think what the developer has said, even though maybe it, maybe the developer was trying to tell the truth. I don't know. And he just sold the property and then the owners did other things. I don't want to accuse anybody. But it's very difficult to have any effect on that.
 But you can have a lot of effect on short-term rentals if you really look at that cap much, much more closely and the concentration much more closely. But until you change the code, then tonight you can't do that because you've got to go with what was passed by the city council, signed by the mayor, put into our code. That is the rules right now and it would be unfair to the people that bought the houses
 under these rules to say oh, but we're going to change the rules now and we're not going to approve this because we just don't like it and because we like all these nice neighbors that came in that many of us know many of those neighbors and Have known them for years and respected them, but we still have to follow the law that the City Council passed I think so. Is there what about if I
 because this happened with another neighborhood in ward one where the neighbors came in and said they didn't want short-term rentals
 So, you know, because if the neighbors don't want it, is that, that's not part of the code, so that's not part of the consideration? It is not really like that. We can't really give a neighbor just a veto power where they've got to go around and all the neighbors must agree. I mean, even if you try to put that in the code, that'd make me a little bit nervous. Compatibility is certainly something you can look at.
 But these are the same similar structures, either than what is in this neighborhood. There are duplexes or townhouses, which are single family type houses like they have in other areas here. I know it's much more dense, but city council has said you want density. And so I think it's awfully hard to punish an owner
 who has bought a house that is really dense partly because the city council was encouraged densely and changed the zoning to allow more density
 One last question. My understanding, and this may be more of a dominant question, but so really the only way what we have as far as according to the ordinances is they potentially could lose their, the owners could potentially lose their short-term rental rights if they get a lot of violations. Like if the trash cans keep being an issue, then potentially they're,
 their license to do it, to keep it a short-term rental, could be violated, then they would have to become a non-insured, right? If they have a lot of violations and it's these owners rather than their neighbors, and of course these owners have said they don't even use a trash can down there, they empty it somewhere else. So, and I don't know if we have anything to prove that that's incorrect. So,
 You know, it is much more difficult in this particular case on this conditional use. The Planning Commission and the City Council has a lot of discretion in conditional uses, but you still got to follow what you say you're supposed to look at in the code. Right. Okay. Thank you.
 So, with all due respect, Kit, that's a long lawyer answer to give me a short answer. Are you saying your interpretation is that on these two, or let's back up on this one because we have to look at them separately, as the code is written, we should approve this, or we have to approve this?
 with Blake Pennington who addressed the planning commission like that and said how can this how can you determine this is not compatible with the neighborhood when the use unit is is very similar even though it's more dense but apart from that it's very similar how can that not be compatible um and especially since the city council has said that they can do that
 In short-term rentals, you can be next door to a house. That's a, you know, I was afraid when this was getting passed that this was going to cause a lot of trouble for a lot of neighborhoods. And this is probably the most extreme one I've seen. But it has come to fruition that, you know, I know I would not want to live next to a short-term rental. I wouldn't want to do that.
 And these people don't either, especially two or three or more. They wouldn't want to do that. But the way the code is set up, they can complain and try to prove how it's not compatible, but it's going to be very difficult for them to make that proof. And in this particular case, I will never say you can't do something. I would, I don't think I would, I would ask you not to do it occasionally,
 The short answer is I would be very concerned. I think I agree with Blake that the facts don't appear to be here. It is a neighborhood that we're trying to protect, but we haven't put in the code a good enough protections for them, and that needs to change. But it is a conditional use permit. It's not a use by right. Absolutely. And so, um,
 We don't approve every conditional use permit application. And Lord knows you've stopped me from doing a hundred things that I wanted to do, mostly because of your wisdom. And I appreciate that.
 I don't think I'm up to 100 yet. But it is a conditional use permit, and we are acting as if we were the planning commission at this point, and I believe we have the full authority to approve or deny an application for a conditional use permit, and certainly my recollection is that we've done that in the past. So I'm appreciative of your admonition, Mr.
 Well, I was concerned about affordable housing. Oh, yeah. I'm not You can't consider that. Yeah, I'm not going there at all. I was concerned about, well, you know, there's too many here because not by your code there are not too many there. There's always a requirement for it to be compatible with the neighborhood. That is where you have more discretion than anything else.
 Normally you look at parking and so there can be some issues with parking. Again, what your code says that they can be denied for if they don't have adequate parking infrastructure but of course they have what our code requires and more. Adequate adjoining or nearby streets for on street parking, well they have one right in
 One of the problems with short-term rentals is that we give them a bonus density. We double the density that is allowed as opposed to long-term. And I've always been opposed to that and would love to see that change. It should not be that way in my mind, but that's the way it is.
 You and I both. And I'm sure that the Ordinance Review Committee is going to be getting back to us with revisions. I think the only correction I would have is that some of us inherited that legislation from prior councils. We weren't necessarily the council that adopted it. And so I would clarify that. But you still have got to obey it. I agree. For me, the issue is...
 is that we're speaking about it as a dwelling unit, and I view it as a business. In other words, a hotel's a hotel, a motel's a motel, and we're kind of like, we changed legislation to allow a daycare center in a single-family home, appropriately so, up to five children.
 This is a business that we still have not given that kind of carte blanche to and that we approve on a case by case basis at the Planning Commission per our code. And so for me, I'm sensitive to the fact of a business requesting to operate in a residential neighborhood and I think that that gives us
 at least grounds for considering the full context of the impacts of a business operating in a residential neighborhood. And it doesn't mean that I'm smart enough to understand all of those impacts. It just means that there's a conditional use permit being required for some reason. And I don't need to prolong this and keep anyone up any longer than that. That's all I can think of to say at this point, Mr. Mayor. Mayor Weill.
 kid if I get this right if I build a house then you're pretty much saying I can tell the council that I'm going to make it affordable housing but I can make the short-term rental if I chose to as long as unless there's a bill of share right no they we can't believe anything that somebody tells us they don't put it in the bill of insurance it's not enforceable there you go that's why I wanted them
 You know, let me read some others here. You know, this is general conditions for conditional uses. You can deny conditional use when not in harmony with the purpose and intent of this chapter, the chapter being the conditional use chapter. And then they talk about various things you can look at, ingress and egress of the place, off-street parking and loading, refuse and service areas.
 and then general compatibility with adjacent properties or other property in the district and then it says general compatibility with the goals or intent of the city's adopted land use transportation other strategic plans the troubles that that is so general I really don't know how to interpret that
 But our long-range plans have many different goals. They have affordable housing, and they also say you can't do sprawl, which is where the cheapest affordable housing would be. So which one are you following? But compatibility has always been the key for any conditional use. And so I will not tell you, Scott, that you cannot vote for this. You still have discretion when it comes to compatibility with the neighborhood. Well, there you go.
 well what shall we do now i think i have a motion in the second for us to do some voting here oh well i'm not hurting all right i move we approve um this appeal okay thank you theresa okay did we get a motion we got a motion in a second okay and and voting yes would be to grant the appeal of the council members
 approve the conditional use permit for a short-term rental this particular short-term rental and it's subject to conditional you the following conditions which were the ones that the Planning Department had recommended I think is that right no no wait I've got to get this in my head here so if we vote for the appeal
 You have granted the conditional use and we have granted the conditional use that was brought by the appeal Correct. That's right You granted the appeal and I can't additional use Subject to the same general conditions as was provided by the planning department when they submitted it to the planning Yeah, all right. They're right with me. Okay good. Well, I mean, I'm just check What if you vote no? No use
 you don't know what it means but If you vote no, you would be voting with the neighborhood. I understand that correct. Okay. I just wanted to make certain Okay, thank you. Thank you. Yes, you'd be voting with I Got a lot of yes Okay, are we ready let's go yeah Jones no more no
 Weedeker no Berna no bunch no hurt no Hertzberg yes Hertzberg Yes, okay, no So the appeal fails and conditional use remains denied. Okay. Now we have another one similar. I
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Councilmember Scott Berna, Lee Hersberg, and DeAndre Jones an approved conditional use permit CUP 2023-009 for a short-term rental at 332 North Fletcher Street.
 Mayor, I'll keep it short. I think the biggest distinction between this and the last request is that this property We're going to make it short. This property is one lot north of the intersection of Dixon and Fletcher, and this is also a three bedroom townhome as opposed to two bedrooms. So the allowance would be for eight guests as opposed to six.
 Otherwise, staff had recommended or does recommend in favor. The Planning Commission denied it by the same vote of 7 to 1. Their comments were largely the same. I'm happy to take any questions. And I believe Justin Gunn is available as the applicant online there. Okay. Mr. Gunn is online. Yes, Mayor, can you hear me? Yes. A little louder, please.
 Yes. So listen, thank you, Mayor, City Council. I know it's late and obviously I'm very disappointed with the past decision. So I'll keep my comments brief as they're fairly comparable to the past presenters.
 We basically followed the letter of the law. We've actually done what you have asked us to do. That thing was outlined by the attorney as he spoke tonight. I won't go into the details because I know it's late. And again, I apologize for not being there, but I was carried out of state for a business meeting. So I had to zoom in. But Sherry and I wanted to have this discussion as this has been weighing heavily on us.
 I can go into details of affordable housing, but you've heard a lot of it this evening, which I don't have any idea how that plays ownership on me.
 In addition to that, the fact that the city planning commission representative stated that it should be new home should be without consideration or should not be considered for short term rental, which was not in the codes that you all had crafted for us to follow. And yet the same commissioner said yes.
 to a brand new building later during that same evening. Builders complaints, trees down, water runoff, dust during it. I get it. I've built homes and unfortunately been on the other side of one of those newest neighbors that have moved in and had to deal with that and flat tires from screws and all that to go on. I understand that, but that doesn't seem to be an issue that has been weighted on me
 Unfortunately, it seems like this council has. The trash, you know what, people move in, people need to get fined or people need to fall in line. I can say the same with some of the situations, the duplexes across the street. I won't go into the parking and traffic, although I had a lot to discuss on that because the fact is there was just not a lot of truth to a lot of the comments there.
 The thing that I felt really stereotyping and a lack of inclusion was stereotyping me as a rich man coming out from a different state and making investments. And almost it was unfair for people that have money to invest in real estate.
 I'm not sure I'm that person that needs to apologize for creating an environment for my family that I'll speak to in a minute, that we gather as a family, allow Sherry and I to transition back to where we graduated and our triplet children did, and allow families to have an awesome experience. As we had triplets who just graduated this past May, and it's nice to have a meal in a house somewhere, instead of traipsed across a bed trying to visit with your kids on weekends.
 I'm going to leave it at that and I'll close with my purpose or really my why. Sherry and I graduated from the university and been married for 30 years. We had triplet children that graduated in May of this year and we've fallen back in love with Fayetteville. So I can't believe how disappointed this decision was made given the fact that I've got three reasons, my whys of buying this house. My triplet children have moved and separated in three different states as of May of this past year.
 And our base, our home is Fayetteville. We come back for games. We come back for events. We come back for holidays. Whether it's Christmas and Easter, that's where our base is. And this council seems to be taking this away from me. My why of owning this property, that we're there monthly, but we're not there a majority of the time.
 And then the second piece of that is during those weekends that we're not there to be able to allow families to have the same experience that we did in the last four years. It's not a party. I've heard that. We all know the Airbnb story. It's not my story. This is a story that's good for families. It brings revenue to the city and it allows for me to stay with my family. And now I've invested a lot of money that seems to going to be rejected because of that.
 I hope you see this. And if not, we're highly disappointed. Okay. Does the council have any questions for the staff? Mayor, I'd like to say something really quick.
 I was really surprised at the last vote and I'm hoping that possibly one of the council members who voted no will come back and reconsider the decision that was made. I think that this is very unfair to hold the property owners responsible for a promise broken by the developer. I don't think that that's very fair.
 I think that we should have granted the appeal of the last one, you know, the last appeal. And I think that we should grant this appeal. I don't think that we can hold people accountable to rules that are not yet rules that are codified. Thank you. Okay. Now, let me ask the council again. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or the staff? Let's start with that. Okay. Mr. Gunn, are you still there? Yes, I'm sorry. Is there a question? No.
 Yes, Council Member Moore had a question. Yes. You need to turn your mic on. Is it working now? Sorry, I think I had a mic problem, Mr. Gunn. I'll put my question out again. You shared when you were presenting that your family spent time, I think, each month in this home. And I just was hoping that you could clarify how many days in each month you're actually there, just on average.
 we're there probably one week out of the month i'm sorry did you hear me any other questions okay sorry i'm sorry we're having a hot mic issue here okay let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public accounts or city or any council members stay on top you please give us your name and address those president and the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak
 So I'll repeat everything I said, just what I think might be relevant. There's talk about can promises be kept or taken?
 The only thing that was in law was these were zoned as residential. Everyone bought those zoned as residential. We're keeping them zoned as residential. So everyone bought willingly what they got. The other one that's relevant is the traffic issue. This is the bottleneck of the entrance to these homes. It is on a slope, and actually any vehicle sticking out inhibits all the other homes to get into their parking access. There's a big truck of somebody who parks there 
 a college student i don't know if they're renting what um that does partially block at half time so there actually is a traffic danger of this one that is unique to this one as the bottleneck okay anyone else okay i'm going to bring back to the council okay
 I'm Emily. I live next door. Emily Irvin. One thing I forgot to mention that is very important and it's been discussed at both CUPs, this one and the one that was in May of 21, and that's the lighting. Every single car that pulls into that driveway, their lights shine into our bedrooms.
 We finally begged enough that we got the buffer that they said they would put in, but it's going to take at least 20 years for it to grow. So meanwhile, every single car that pulls in, the lights go right into my window. So I'm just curious, I know certain things aren't enforceable, but I'm just curious for
 When you write things down and you put them in the public meetings and all that, well, what are we, not assurances, but what are we getting or what are we guaranteed? And why have the meetings and all the discussion if what is said is,
 It just has to be said, but it never has to be done. And that just doesn't make sense to me. And the affordable housing, okay, whatever, that's done. But it just is strange that all these things can be said, but we're not supposed to trust they're going to be done. I mean, that's not a very good way to build community because I'm not a politician. I'm not a planner. I'm not an architect. I'm not an engineer. I'm not an engineer.
 So when I go to these meetings and read this stuff and hear the discussion, I'm going to expect that that's what's supposed to happen. I know it didn't always happen, but when we hear it and we read it and we see it, we should reasonably expect that that's what's going to be done. So I would love to have something done about those lights along with other things, but that's all I have to say now. I'm tired.
 So thank you all. I appreciate it. Okay. Anybody else? Thank you. I'll make it brief. It seems to my husband and I and maybe Mr. Gunn and Sherry that the neighbors are mad at these developers. They are frustrated that they were promised one thing and delivered on another.
 We made an offer on a home to live here part-time. We are here two to three times per week. I go to St. Joseph's or St. Thomas. Somebody said that. How much do you make? I'm just, it's frustrating that it's like we are being targeted, that these were not made into affordable housing. Mr. Emery and his wife probably purchased this at $500,000 plus.
 I don't know how that is going to be affordable even for a long-term renter. How do you make that affordable for a long-term rental? You can't. But we are not doing it as an investor. We did this because we wanted to be in this community. And now we can't pursue our American dream, just as Mr. Kitt had said. So I just think for this one, I'd like for you to reconsider it.
 For these properties, it's never been about them being affordable. That was said way too much at the Planning Commission during the rezoning and the large-scale developments. I know because I watched those meetings, and every time the developer said it, I cringed and I wished somebody would go whisper in his ear, stop saying that. Because we all know new construction is not affordable, but every new house is another grain of sand in the bucket that we have to have if we're going to house the population
 Okay, anybody else? And no one's on Zoom. Okay. Well. So, you know, I think we're, I'm very tired, I'm sure everyone else is very tired as well. I think for me, the process is, is, is worked because the idea that
 the planning commission listened the staff did their part and and went by the law the letter of the law the planning commission listened to the public comment as well and then we get to come back and listen kind of with with a clean clear slate but we do have to consider because i think that's what that's why we send out the notifications what the neighbors
 the neighbors that have been there and lived there for a long time what is going on there in their you know in their neighborhood and so that's why i think it's important to balance what the neighbors are wanting because it is their neighborhood and if the short-term rental ordinance trumps what their their opinion then we shouldn't even invite them we shouldn't even notify them so i'm confused i'm really confused um
 I wanted the appeal process also for the applicant because I want them to be heard I want that I want to know what's going on with them and they seem to have a very good case of what's going on But it's like a balance, right? So I'm trying to figure out like what what do we how do we do this? Process and then I'm hearing that maybe I can't I can't let the neighbors have their opinion because I got to go to buy the Ordinance, so it's really hard situation but
 i don't see how it's really different from the last one but we definitely need to revisit the uh how pro the proximity of these short-term rentals come together we have to um well you all have a short-term rental in more than three years don't you yeah oh yeah we don't have to wait
 I would be more than happy to bring this issue to short-term rental, or I'm sorry, the Ordinance Review Committee to reconsider or, you know, try to add some rules. But I don't think that we can enforce rules that don't exist currently. But if that's something that you guys would like to discuss, I would be happy to bring that to the committee. Hey, Mike, can you restate that? I couldn't hear you. I'm sorry.
 Yeah. I think the presentation was about the owners. I think the student discourse from the neighborhood, caliber that I aspire to, the appropriate thought, the intelligent thought, and I commend people for participating in democracy. I think the only portion that I disagree with is that I'm not denying someone's use of their property that they purchased
 or my city attorney would tell me i must buy that property because i'm denying their use of their property when you purchased it as a home and they're allowed to use it as a home unencumbered by anything i can do i'm simply dealing with additional use permit applications to operate a business in the home they short-term rent and so that's the only exception that i think
 and not denying the use of the property to the stock. Is that right? Okay, who's next here, Sarah or Scott? Wait, Sarah. Sorry, y'all, I think we're having some mic trouble. Does that make any difference? It's like it's not picking, I can hear myself now. Yeah, so this is kind of hard because,
 We do have, you know, just what Mike just said there. But when people buy a home, you know, they're not guaranteed to be able to use it as a short-term rental. They have to go through the process, and that's what this process is.
 And, you know, I think it's unfortunate for the people that bought these thinking that they could use them as short-term rentals, but they still should have not, you know, they knew they had to apply and they've done everything that they should have done. They just did not pass planning and has not passed the council with their request. So I don't really think that we've, you know, we've prevented them from using their property. Yeah.
 You know, it's just it's kind of where I've land with this one. So thank you. I would be lying if I didn't say this is giving me a lot of heartburn because I understand the neighbors concerns completely. I agree with the applicant in the fact that I do feel like they're being held to standards by some some comments and some rules that are not in place.
 but ultimately we have the right for the compatibility to the neighborhood and that's the the one aspect that we can get by I think but I do have a lot of heartburn turning these down not because I disagree with
 the request is I'm not sure the rules I'm just not sure the rules are in place to prevent us from doing it but I voted my vote I'll stick with it but I'm just not sure I got a lot of hard work on this yeah okay can you hear me all right one of the things that I did not take into consideration is you know I've tried to focus on the things that we could actually look at and I don't I'm not I
 that concern with the trash cans in the street or the grass clippings on the sidewalk. You know, there is parking on the street. There's parking that's available there. And I know I drive through there all the time, but I will say that it is more busy than what was shown in the pictures, because I drive through there all the time.
 And, but even on my own street, when people park on the street, you have to stop sometimes and let someone pass. I used to live in the historic district, and that was a daily occurrence. The streets are narrow. People have to slow down, and if someone's parked on the street, it makes it kind of a one lane there.
 It always works. I mean, it's not like you can't function with one lane. It just slows people down. Now, one thing I did not take into consideration were any comments that happened in the rezoning of this property and the idea that this was going to be affordable housing because that ship has sailed. That's not something we're even considering here. And I want to make that clear tonight that that's not...
 I'm just looking at these proposals just as the proposals themselves. And, you know, our ordinance is, we've got some issues there I think we need to fix. So, but the affordable housing, whatever somebody said a year and a half or two years ago. Unless you've got it in a bill of assurance. Unless you've got it in a bill of assurance, it does. Yeah. Yeah. So, thank you.
 Okay, anybody else? I have one question. I want you to confirm that you are, you have listened to the statements by the neighbors from the previous conditional use and you will consider what they said also for this conditional use since these are neighboring properties. I think that they don't need to get up and tell us everything again.
 Okay, do we have a motion and a second, Chair? Mayor, I'd like to move that we approve this CUP. All right, we have a motion and a second to support the appeal. Is that correct? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Jones? No. Moore? No. Whittaker? No. Berna? No. Bunch? No. No.
 No. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? No. Okay. So again, the appeal failed and the conditional use remains denied. Okay. Well, let's move on to number three. I have a question here. Before we go on to the next one, if this goes to ordinance review and we revise our ordinance, when can these people reapply for a conditional use permit? Kip?
 That's a good question. I'm trying to remember exactly how that section of ordinance reads, but effectively a denied application cannot be made within a year unless something has substantially changed about it, which is ultimately the Planning Commission's determination. But if the ordinance is changed, that would be something substantially changing? Or is it the issue, the property itself that's...
 I've never experienced quite the scenario, but for example, a rezoning that is denied, typically if they come back with a different rezoning request or one with a bill of assurance, that constitutes enough of a change to bring it before the planning commission. I think if the ordinance was substantially changed,
 that may represent just that. I mean, ultimately, it's a Planning Commission determination, which makes it difficult for me to make that determination on their behalf. Possibly. Correct. The Planning Commission could deny it on the grounds that it is too similar of an application. So what if an applicant wanted to reapply and they said, I mean, could they put a bill of assurance on their application?
 conditional use permit or application and say we're not going to rent this out more than so many days a month if would that be a possibility I think that's something an applicant could offer that could be incorporated as a condition but I as a planner we often recommend the Commission not incorporate conditions of approval that are very difficult to enforce okay I would recommend that that could be very difficult to enforce okay thank you okay let's go on number three
 a resolution to approve a proposal by Walmart and, and one to refurbish and paint the Walker Park basketball courts and host a back to school backpack and shoe giveaway and to approve the recognition of Walmart and, and one for their significant contributions at the refurbished courts.
 That's a good title, Mayor. You thought I was going to mess up on that one, didn't I? I had to. Go ahead, Allison. Thank you, Mayor. I did have a couple of visuals. Mark, if you can see. OK, thank you. And one is a basketball footwear and apparel company founded in the early 1990s and sells their products in Wal-Mart stores in 2019. And one began working in communities to refurbish basketball courts to promote youth activity.
 This year marks the 30th anniversary of the Streetball brand and as part of the celebration, Walmart and N1 are proposing to paint the court at Walker Park and to provide a back to school backpack and shoe giveaway celebration. Total investment of the court improvements in the event are estimated at around $200,000. Examples of other paint the court projects were included in your packet and I have a couple of visuals we can pull up on the screen.
 Each project includes the AND1 basketball player figure, along with elements that relate to each individual community. AND1 works with a street art team called the Illuminaries.
 along with the local artists to tailor each design to the community that it's in. For instance, this, whoops, the previous, there we go, that page is the project in Oakland, and you can see the Bay Bridge in that court mural, and the next one is in North Carolina, which includes
 the teal and purple colors of the Hornets. Again, these are only examples. The specific design for Walker Park would include Fayetteville's specific elements and if approved, Ann Wood would engage a local artist to help finalize that design. The material used for the court paintings is a road quality paint and is expected to last at least three to five years depending on the court use and once the mural has outlived its life, there's no obligation to repaint it in the same manner.
 The request before you tonight is to approve the donation from Walmart and Anne 1 to refurbish the court, paint the mural, host a back-to-school backpack and shoe giveaway for the community, and to approve the recognition of the contribution by way of including their names or logos on the mural. Let's see. Donor recognition in parks is allowed by city code given it meets certain criteria included
 current recognition policies those were included in your packet and I can have I'm happy to answer any questions about the specific Categories that we have if approved this mural and event would be completed in August before school starts This proposal was presented and unanimously approved at the April Parks and Recreation Advisory Board meeting Be happy to take any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Allison on this?
 Since we last spoke, I had a couple of questions that came up that I didn't have time to ask you. So with this launching for the back to school event in August, I was just curious about what the timeline is because I just know how much use that court gets. And I'm curious during one of the maybe really busy time periods that it might be down for painting, but I don't really know what that timeline actually is.
 So from what I understand in talking to the Walmart rep, it's about a week. They come in about a week prior. They paint the mural and then host the event. That's a lot faster than I would have expected. And then the only other question is I'm not a basketball. Sarah, would you pull your mic? I can't hear. Closer? Is that better? Sorry. Sorry. Mic solved. Sorry. Okay.
 The only other question I was curious about, just because I don't have any expertise with basketball courts, is that the type of paint I am assuming because they have more expertise with that is it's a preferred type of paint that gets used. That would be something we would want to have applied to the basketball court. But it also works for this kind of mural quality as well. So it holds up because I think you said three to five years. And that is that typically what we would get with the paint that we would put on it.
 So the mural isn't a typical paint that we would put on a basketball court. So they have a typical basketball court coating is a different material. What works for the mural is a road quality paint so that it will last that three to five years. So I guess it's a thicker coating than a typical Sherman Williams type of paint. Scott?
 So could you go back to the screen where you had the overhead view of the court? In the top right corner and all the way down the right side, is that an indication courts are wore out in the way of the coating that's on it now, where it's discolored? I see. That discoloration, I believe, is from...
 that has washed on from a recent rainstorm. Okay. Anything else? Okay. Allison, I would just like to say thank you and the children and the families of Ward 1 will certainly appreciate it if it passes. Well, first we've got to have some public comment.
 Mayor, Sonia, it seems like you had some concerns about the commercialization of this, if I recall correctly. Maybe you could speak to that, if you still have those concerns or perspectives, and that's why we moved it off consent. Yes, that's exactly. I think because of the late time, maybe we might have had some people who might have wanted to speak on it. I don't know. Maybe they're not here.
 But I would like to have this sent to, reviewed by the Art Council, just because it is public art, even though it is an advertisement, it's still art in the park. It's a very specific type of art, you know, that which is promoting a business and businesses.
 So I do have some things I want to say and I can say them now. I was going to save them for after public comment, but I don't know that we have any public commenters. So I'll just go ahead and my notes acting blank here. Okay, I'm just going to have to try to remember it. So when I think about the parks or awesome parks, I'm like looking at it.
 You know, I think about leisure, relaxation, equity, inclusivity, which is very opposite of an advertisement.
 You know advertisements when you look at advertisements, it's about comparison and feeling like maybe do you have something? Do you not have something so it has this creates this vibe of like? not equal And you know you it's wanting you to promote to go buy this certain product or the certain brand or to wear that certain brand So I think by having it being a more neutral green
 and not an advertisement actually creates a feeling of more inclusivity and more openness. We don't promote a specific business in the park. We don't say we want to promote this business over this business. But what about the other basketball brands? Well, what about the other retail outlets?
 by choosing to say yes, we invite you to have a permanent ad impressing on all of our wonderful young minds and all the people that use the basketball court. It's a weird space. Being a person in graphic design and advertising, I'm in this all day, every day. They're getting a real good steal. They're getting a great deal. They do this. It's part of what they do. It's their marketing team. Well, we're receiving some things, sure. But I just...
 it just crosses a line for me as also when i was in a had a business i had a very lot many many pages of the business ordinances on signs as a business you have to have us your sign can't be a certain size in conjunction or in relation to the size of your building and so i feel like this is a really big sign in the building well in the in the park
 Well, you might say, well, Walker Park is really huge and this is one little piece of it. But a lot of people just only come to the basketball court. So that's the only part they see, that's the only part they interact. They come, they go to the basketball court, and then they leave. So that's like, for them, that's the reality of what we're promoting and what we believe in. So my question is, are we in alignment with the and one business? Are we in alignment with the Walmart business, with their goals and their values?
 I don't know. I mean, by allowing it to be there, we're kind of saying that we are. If it's a name created by Walmart or sponsored by the Walmart Basketball Corps, I mean, I think that's a different level versus a basketball-size advertisement. So that's kind of my thoughts. I can remember from my notes. Oh, I did think of something else. Would we want an advertisement program
 in the Wilson Park pool to take up the whole park by a particular swimming gear? Would we want the pavilion at Gully Park to be painted in a particular guitar business? You know, so we're creating this feeling that we're aligning ourselves with that business. The business wants that because City of Fayetteville is an awesome thing to align with. That's going to be very much resonating with their customers.
 So we've got to think about it from that perspective. That's my thoughts. Allison, how did they choose Fayetteville? I'll get to it in a minute.
 The representative that contacted me grew up playing on a basketball court and has a tie here locally. Okay. What were some of the other cities? I may have missed that, but what were some of the other parts? I know you mentioned North Carolina. Mm-hmm. And you also mentioned... Oakland. Oakland, okay. And I believe there's one in New Orleans. So if we choose to move forward, then Fayetteville will be one of the...
 Sounds like number four maybe. Right. I think you mentioned Memphis as well. Did you mention Memphis? I think it was New Orleans. I did mention Memphis, but I think it was actually New Orleans. It's not complete yet. What's been the, do you know what the response has been like in those communities?
 I can only speak to the research that I've done. I haven't talked to the communities themselves, but it appears that they have a great turnout. I mean, the event portion of it is also community building. The mural portion of it, often they have people participate in the painting of the mural.
 So it is really built around a community event. And so that seems to have been positive in these cities. I was thinking it sounds like it's fostering community. So, yeah. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. I have a question for you, Allison. There's also a backpack for children in there. Give away. Backpack and shoes. Okay. Before I make my comment, do we need to officially open public comment and close public comment?
 Or are we good? Well, we're done asking questions. I'm gonna open up some public comment. Okay. I have a- See, we're still asking a lot of questions of staff. So once y'all are done, we'll- Go ahead, I'll just- I have a couple of questions. Sonja's perspective really, it's new. I never really thought about that. So this makes me wonder how our naming rights, if we have any naming rights,
 ordinances or regulations, how this interfaces with that, and then also the sign ordinance. I mean, because this is kind of a big sign, it's just not up in the sky, it's on a basketball court. So have those been reviewed or discussed or thought about in any way? When it comes to the sign ordinance, this is what would be called government speech. And so we are allowed to speak as we wish.
 However, it is also meaning we are somewhat aligning with Walmart as well as, instead of and, as well as and one, and their event is something that really is more for their promotion, even though they're giving away goodies. So this is certainly a.
 promotion that's we haven't done exactly the same thing now there is the I am stoner and the I am stoner Park we allowed them to have their paw we did not let anything else here they want their name and logo the entry to I am stoner Park
 Was it in their logo colors too? It was green, that's all I know. Maybe that was it, we just didn't let them have their colors also. And of course, that was for the whole park and that was before our naming rules really came about. But that was allowed. We have, in other things, not allowed logos. Back when we used to have a lot of banners across Dixon Street.
 So if it was an event being sponsored by somebody, I think they could have their name on it, but they couldn't have their logos or something. But it's been a long time since we've had one, so I can't really remember if that's exactly correct. But we have had limits on it. This one is certainly pushing the limits. And we talked about that, but parks wanted to have it. And I think it probably is close enough to our naming...
 ordinance, your naming ordinance, that we could potentially do it, but it certainly has, you need to think about it before you approve. Allison, didn't you say, oh I'm sorry, oh I didn't know that. Could we open and close comments so we can officially get this toward the end?
 We hadn't done that yet, right? Well, everybody keeps asking questions. Well, that's why I'm trying to. I've tried twice to start opening it up for public comment, but everybody keeps. Let's open it up and close it so we can get out of here. Okay. Okay, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom after that. All right. There's nobody here. And there's no one on Zoom. OK, now. I should note, as of today, the resolution reads that the city council authorizes Mayor Jordan to approve the form in which anyone...
 are recognized for their significant donations and contributions to our community at the Recurve-Bridge Basketball Courts, which may include the incorporation of and Walmart names and logos to the basketball court park. So we do have a gatekeeper that has to pass Mayor Jordan's approval.
 and it may include those things if he chooses to think that that's what should be in there it may be others they want if that's what he believes it should be but we wrote this in such a way that the major is kind of backstopped and look at what they are proposing inside whether or not you can accept the right oh thanks
 Well, I tell you what I keep coming back to and what I came back to, and I talked to Allison about. We do have the Iams Dog Park. It's got a big sign in front of that thing. And then I forgot about the Rotary Club. They've got a big sign in front of that. It's a little light for them. But we gave more money, too. Yeah. We did give more money.
 And I also think about the kids that need backpacks and shoes. And I don't know, Allison, how many children do you think is going to be at this thing? I don't know. It's packed. It'll be packed. Now, I'm just saying, I think you need to pass it. And I think we need to think about these children and the backpacks and the shoes. And so I'll just leave it at that. That's my opinion.
 for what it's worth and if i have the control over it the gate will be open and the children will get their backpacks and shoes and we'll play on a basketball court with somebody's name on it or something sonia i fully acknowledge what you're saying but i would like to see us prove this move it forward and and here's why as a girl dad that she played basketball for all the way through u of a
 I've been in gyms all over this country watching hundreds of kids play. This will be an absolute draw to the neighborhood. I understand that it's got the advertisement.
 But if they're given $200,000 to do this, they're going to expect some return on their investment. Yeah, they're absolutely, you don't want to turn it as a community event, but they want return on investment. But you're doing basically the same thing at Kessler Mountain ball fields where all along out.
 outfield fence. You've got advertisements that are all around the field. So you basically have the same concept there
 The and one painting on the floor, you see it in college sports all over every floor. Everybody seems to want to try to outdo the other person on their floor is the coolest floor. And I promise you, it will draw all kids, not just, you know, certain kids. It'll draw all kids. So that's why I'd like to see it move forward. All right.
 I think one thing I'd like to add to this is, you know, we talk about this logo and these companies, do they represent, you know, we are aligning ourselves with their values, and I really get that. But then when we talk about the backpacks and the shoes, I align myself with giving out those, too. And I kind of...
 you know, I'm kind of like more along the line of let's pass it and let it, you know, it'll make the court look nicer. And then we get this added benefit. And, you know, it's one of those things like, you know, it'll benefit the community in the long run. It may be kind of odd and shocking to see a
 one of our parks that says, you know, Walmart or whatever on it. So, but I'm kind of leaning toward it because, just because of the donations and how, you know, when Allison says it's hard to imagine how many kids this is going to benefit,
 I would imagine it really is hard, but I would also imagine that the people hosting this have deep enough pockets that they're gonna have shoes and backpacks for everybody that shows up probably. That's exactly right. You know, it's gonna be- And that's what's important. They'll just be there with a truck, you know, throwing that stuff out. And for a lot of people that might,
 that might be the backpack or the shoes that those kids have to wear. That's right, and that's the only shot they may have of getting them to. Maybe, but I understand and I recognize Sonia's comments, and I think they're very valid, but I'm kind of leaning a little bit the other way right now. Thank you.
 And I appreciate what Sonia brought up and I hadn't, I mean, I was kind of weighing the fact that we potentially put logos, but I hadn't thought of it framed in the way that you brought forward. And I appreciate that.
 I also think too respecting process is so important and I'd like to understand from Allison in the event that we held this so that the arts Could weigh in and then come back to Council does that mess up the timeline in any way for this project? Does that delay or hamper things because I would think that delays it by maybe four weeks possibly maybe I Think that would I think that would be okay. Okay the
 The step this step getting approval from the council to move forward allows and one to start engaging With artists to come up with the design specific for Fayetteville So we do need time for that to happen for it to be ready for August May I ask doesn't it seem like when we do that step that's when the Arts Council would want to weigh in? Would we already be
 saying though that we're buying into all those agreements so at that point I get it and I guess I Hang up on what Sonia is saying as well the little the small things are the big things Especially for our kids that are more vulnerable parts of our community I mean the carrot dangled in front of us is the backpacks and the shoes, right? I want every kid and they will public schools to have what they need right but I
 are we for sale to the highest bidder in the city of Fayetteville? And I think that Sonia brought forward, and I really appreciate whether or not we say that we align with different brands because the city of Fayetteville is a very strong brand. People want to align with us because we're the place people want to be. They aspire to be Fayetteville. And so they're seeking us out because we're a very strong brand ourselves.
 And so I think it's worth at least having the further conversation because I know that I'm not as fresh as I could be at 1121 at night after five hours of meeting. And I would love to hear thoughts with fresh eyes and voices on this to what folks' perspectives are from different walks of life in our community and also the arts community to understand, too, their perspective about that process.
 so folks if it doesn't mess up the timeline so if i'm hearing correctly from what y'all want to do you want to send it to the arts council and then bring it back here so we'll table it for a certain amount of time no i don't i don't think we're i don't think we want to table the approval i think we want to tell you i think they're saying maybe
 Well, I mean, I was saying tabling because I think you can approve it tonight and really give it to arts to say differently. You know, there are community organizations that do give backpacks. They don't all give shoes. And I agree. They're not necessarily going to meet all the demand. And this giveaway possibly can do that.
 skipping ahead just because again that carrot viewing the additional diligence brought up the points that Sonya brought I think are valid points that need consideration so when does when exactly somebody check and see when Arts Council meets so we meet on when the third the second Wednesday Wednesday's we meet tomorrow
 So you need to. But there's no way you're going to get there. But we're not going to be able to. I mean, I don't know how this meets. I don't know. I mean, we can have a special meeting about it to try to speed it up. But I honestly think that people are going to take backpacks and shoes any time of the day or night. So I don't think we need to worry about rushing ourselves. I think we really need some time to think about it. It's late. It's a serious thing. I mean, I think.
 I think that absolutely we want people to have backpacks and shoes, but let's just, I don't think we need to look at that. Is the company, though, you don't have a design,
 And so the company, is the company going to create a design if they don't know yet whether, do we have a design? No. So are they going to create one if they don't know if it's even going to be approved or not? So that's why we're here tonight is to get the approval so that that would give them the red light to engage in the artist to make a vehicle specific design. So, I don't know. Okay.
 I just think we have built in the contract, you're filing proof of what, you're the gatekeeper. I don't think we're going to have a situation where he's going to,
 you know go rogue on us and and do something crazy but i i think we're if we delay this we potentially i'm not saying they will but are we if we delay this are we potentially opening the door for them to take that elsewhere and i don't i think it's a very good project for our parks or they wouldn't have brought it to us and i i think we need i i would vote to move forward
 So, I have a couple of questions. So Sonia, if we held it for two weeks, not a whole month, but two weeks, and you had this on your agenda for tomorrow night, could you rush it on there tomorrow night and have a discussion about it? I think it's important enough that we could possibly, I could propose, because we can propose things at the beginning of the meeting, so I will propose it so that we could discuss it and then just ask people to stay a little bit late to talk about it.
 But maybe they might ask for more time just because we already had an agenda set. Sure. The second question I have, because we do have a very strong brand and we really need to protect our brand here in Fayetteville, is that if this company, if something happened and the company had a scandal or whatever, could we immediately repaint over that court immediately?
 I mean, we really need to think about, you know, it's an outlier. You don't think things like that will happen, but they could. So the terms of the contract, I think, are really critical. My other question on the contract is, could they do a backpack giveaway every year that it exists on the court? You know, that's another question I was wondering. I'm just, you know, I just thought that was something new I didn't,
 think about earlier. Okay, what y'all want to do? My comment is that I view it as a low risk proposition in the sense that the paint only lasts three to five years. We have people donate land and the park is named after them and I think you can say that that is very much an advertisement for their business when the business name is their last name.
 And so I just view this as a way for the community to get a refurbished court without having to spend its own money and that it's a low risk proposition. Because we're not naming the Walton Art Center, which is already named. We're painting a basketball court. So in that sense, I think it's a pretty low risk proposition. And I would think the art...
 council's role would be to advise the mayor and make a recommendation not to necessarily say whether the refurbishment of the court is appropriate or not. I think that might be beyond their purview, but they would have the appropriate role to advise the mayor. That would be good. However, we do advise the city council on public art.
 That's really the main, one of the main things that we do. So we're defining that as public art? Absolutely. But you would want to advise not on the location because the court can't be moved. You don't even have a design to advise on unless this company is not going to hire an artist to propose something even unless we approve this.
 That's true. We wouldn't know what the public art is, but we do know it's a commercial public art. Yeah, I would agree. So that would be the discussion only at the beginning, and then there would probably be a second phase of if it is approved, then what is the art? So there would be two parts. Okay. So unless we approve it, then the company's not going to design anything, and so...
 But if we do approve it, we still have time to bring something back to the council after it goes through the arts. I think it's still a great idea, and I think if y'all decided to approve it... I'm not against it going to the arts council. I'm against holding it up for the shoes and backpacks, because we don't know really what we're getting due in until we approve something.
 I mean, in terms of the design or yeah, correct. Yeah, we need to come up with a design for Fayetteville that feels like Fayetteville. And so unless we're OK moving forward with this, that design, I mean, they're not going to do the design unless they think we're moving forward with this. And I'm not going to make it. Of course, I'm not going to make a decision on it until it's approved.
 I mean, I can be the gatekeeper all you want, but I've got to have something to work with. I know, guys. I mean, it's basically they're just like getting a cart, not carte blanche, but just an opportunity to put this advertisement on there. We're going to say, yes, we want it. You know, do we want them because we want the shoes and the,
 and the backpacks and then you know basically we're saying yes go for it because i mean there's no way we're going to be able to look at the art i mean the art approving it now proves the art we don't haven't even seen the art i mean we the two examples that we have in the packet if they're they're similar they're a basketball player with the and one logo on the ball and that's their typical style i hopefully you know it seems like that
 you know, it was probably what they're going to do again. That's their brand. So I don't think it's going to be a real mystery about what it's going to be to me. The fact that it is an advertisement is more of my concern. That's really... Okay. So if it's approved, let me get my head wrapped around this, and then it would go to the Arts Council. If approved by this council tonight to see what you all are okay with.
 I mean, I think probably too, whatever we want that to be, then yes. If we want them to also go, want it to also go to the Art Council, then we can ask them to look at it.
 But it's an advertisement, so they don't have to look at it if we don't want them to look at it. You know, you guys could just say, we just want it, and then it could go over the art councils because it's in that gray area. Yeah, but if they have to wait on me for approval and I said, okay, I want the arts council to look at it and make sure everything's okay, then I wouldn't approve it until you all okay.
 but what if our council says we don't want it well then we have to come back to the council okay also two questions do you have any concern if we delay the decision tonight that the company could choose to go elsewhere because i'm assuming they're expecting a answer from you tomorrow they're they're wanting to move forward um i've
 I haven't received indication that they're going somewhere else at this time. I think I would just need to connect back with them and see what the timeframe is that they need to draft a concept, get it in front of Arts Council, and have that ready for us. Is it your understanding, though, if we approve it and they submit artwork to us?
 and we turn it down, then they understand they got to go back and rework that to our specifications. Yeah, or they could go somewhere else. The mayor can't turn it down. So we have a fail-safe, for lack of a better word, of if we don't like it, we just turn it down. Well, I don't know about fail. I wouldn't okay anything that you'll find offensive. I wouldn't.
 It's not going to do that. I don't think it's offensive. That's not at all what I'm concerned about. I'm more concerned about that as an advertisement. Okay. No matter what we do in the end, it is an advertisement. Okay. I'm asking you guys to not allow this. It's my personal recommendation as a graphic designer, marketer, brander. Would we be okay with an advertisement of...
 like i said on the the for a certain brand in the pool and is that is that what we is that the direction we're going if this was a average if this was in the basketball court of gully park would that would the residents be throwing
 you know, flipping tables because they don't want an advertisement in Gully Park. But this is my park. This is my ward. And I just don't want it there. And I don't think it's right for the kids that I see that come and play on the basketball court to be around a giant advertisement every day, all day. I just, I don't think it's the right inclusive communication. Okay. Well, then...
 I wouldn't approve anything that was not okay by you all. Why would that be a problem then? Sonia? Go ahead. Finally, can we just table this? Is it possible to just table it? It's been six hours and it's hard to make good decisions after six hours. I really don't think we should just table it because it's almost like we're almost not making sense. I mean really. So if we could just table this. Well sure.
 Did I hear a motion to table this for two weeks? I think I brought that up about 30 minutes ago. I make a motion that we table this. Second. All right. Two weeks. Yeah, we'll have to vote. Oh, so you don't have five Tuesdays. Please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Ledecker? No. Berna? No. Bunch? No. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? No.
 Okay. Harvey, hold on. Sorry. Yes, table. Okay, that's not enough votes. That's four to four. All right, Mayor, it's four to four. You get to decide whether or not you want to table it. I'll table it for two weeks. Everybody's tired. We table it to the first meeting in May. Oh, yeah. Thank you all. We're adjourned.