Meeting of July 7th, 2020 City Council to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Bunch. Mayor Jordan. Here. All right, would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, I want to welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Bethel City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxton, City Clerk-Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Assistant Police Chief Jamie Fields. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department.
 City Council members, city staff, and the public are participating online or by phone. Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the city of Federal. And we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members
 City Clerk's Office or City staff prior to the meeting, viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel, joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Instructions are currently shown on screen and staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hands so as to ensure time to be recognized. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comments shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item. They may wish to address being open for public comment. Each speaker, this is the new rules passed by the City Council at the last formal City Council meeting,
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker, additional time, and an unsigned amendment.
 up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us begin. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be for the month of May. It will include sales taxes for April.
 I'll begin this by saying I hope this shows what the bottom of the coronavirus activity will do to us. So I've been waiting for this report to see the sales tax for the month of April. As far as the general fund is concerned, if you remember, we started out with three very strong months. The month of April was down 11.3% compared to the prior year.
 we were expected to be down but that was a little more than i had anticipated i had thought of being the 10 10 down mark so it was it was in the area however if we look all uh if we look for the total activity year-to-date basis through may we're essentially flat with the budget
 at this point in time. Sales taxes are really up compared to budget on a year-to-day basis as our franchise fees and building permit. Court fees and intergovernmental revenues are down, but all in all, we're flat through May compared to budget. I don't expect that's gonna hold the rest of the year.
 but it's certainly a pretty fair start as of a year-to-date basis right now next i'll look at street fund a little bit street fund again is flat the budget street fund is a little more protected
 to the type of activity and economic activity. However, it is still driven to a degree on motor fuel taxes, which is dependent on driving throughout the state and also somewhat on sales tax. However, we're flat to the budget at this point in time, working with Terry Gulley, Transportation Division Manager. He has, in fact,
 some held some temporary positions on an expense basis to look at that. But so far, the street fund is doing okay at this point in time. Parking fund is under a little more distress, a whole lot more distress actually. Parking revenues are down 35% on a year to day basis compared to budget. The month of April alone, the usage was only 17%
 of the budget for that point in time. This is something we're gonna have to monitor very closely with things opening up a bit on Dixon Street. Hopefully that's going to improve and I expect it to improve.
 However, they're down substantially for this point in time and that fund is under more stress than any other. Remember that fund also is responsible for making monthly payments for a bond issue that we did in 2012.
 At this point in time, we've got sufficient reserves to meet those bond payments. So I do not believe those bond payments are in jeopardy at this point in time, but we're gonna have to look at this very, very carefully as we move forward and reduce expenditures as necessary. As far as HMR for parks development is concerned, revenue is down 20% year to date.
 the month was 70 percent of budget so it was down roughly 30 percent in the month of april hopefully again april is the bottom point for us
 Again, at this point in time, I feel we have sufficient reserves to get us through the end of the year, but we're going to be monitoring that very closely and, again, working with parks. There have been temporary positions that have not been filled, and some of the programs aren't being used, et cetera, at this point in time.
 As far as the water and sewer system is concerned, our billings are up 2%, so we're pretty flat on usage compared to last year. Counts receivable, however, is about a million dollars up from where it was last year.
 That more or less shows us that some of our rate payers are under stress and are not making their payments in time. However, I'm not concerned about the water and sewer fund. If we got sufficient balance in the neighborhood, even after all of our capital in the neighborhood to 12 to $15 million at this point in time.
 Again, sooner or later, we'll open up. We'll have to restore cutoffs at a point in time, but we're certainly not recommending that at this point in time. We're not going to cut off services right now. As far as recycling and trash collection, that's down 7%.
 Pool charges are down, commercial use is down, and the transfer station usage is down. That's all as commercial activity is cutting back because of the lack of their economic businesses.
 However, hopefully once the virus passes us or things ease up a bit, trash and recycling and trash collection fund will improve. We still got a pretty solid fund balance in the trash and recycling fund.
 the airport fund fuel sales are down 24 percent operations are about the same as they are last year but fuel sales are down substantially we are looking at uh that ways of cutting expenses there too however we should have sufficient balances certainly to get us to the end of the year we're monitoring this very closely i talk to the mayor about this all the time we're taking steps right now we're looking at fuel
 We're restricting the use of fuel strictly to that expenditure. We're not allowing any transfers to other places for fuel. We're carefully monitoring utilities, travel, and travel budgets.
 have been reduced. We're monitoring that carefully and we're looking at any temporary positions that we can do without at this point in time. Again, line on line, look at this. We talk about this on a, if not daily, at least three or four times a week on it. And we're doing what we need to do to keep us in a stable position as possible.
 With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions as far as the monthly report, which is the year to date report through May. What questions do we have from the council on this? All right, let's go to number two. In the 2019 annual audit report, Paul, I believe you have this. I do.
 The annual report is a rather intimidating document. If you look at it, it's over 216 pages. There's a lot of information in there. Primarily what I'm going to say tonight is this is put online, is there for public inspection, and an electronic copy was sent through all of the board members. As I go through this document,
 rather daunting task of giving you a few highlights. I'm going to direct everybody to the management discussion and analysis, which is more or less the summary that we prepare for the annual financial statements for the year 2019. That would begin on page 13 of the report, but it hits some bullet points that I do want to emphasize at this point in time.
 Assets exceed liabilities for the city when we combine everything by $700 million, $600 million of that, however, fixed assets, therefore not available for budget. The net position for 2019 was up.
 $39 million. Now, one thing that it doesn't take into consideration when we're preparing financial statements are in fact, what are some of the CIP projects that have not been completed? However, city net position was up. The ending net position for the year was up 11% compared to the prior year. So those are all good activities or good measurements for the year and the year's activity.
 General fund unassigned balance was 37% of expenditure. So we were pretty solid in the general fund reserves. Again, that doesn't address CIP or certain things that weren't
 that weren't taken in consideration when this particular number. Now, one of them is, of course, our 60-day reserve, which is roughly $8.5 million that we have. So above and beyond that, we've still got $10 million before we look at taking out CIP. And we ended the year in the area of $8 million over and above what our safety valve of 60 days was.
 The other thing in a report that I would like to draw your attention to, it also talks about debt. If you remember, a big issue that we had, a big driving force for 2019 was the issuance of bonds. We issued $124 million in bonds. However, our debt only increased $109 million. So if you remember, we were paying off the old bonds.
 So that again was a good driver for the year. If I went around the entire, if I look at the entire financial statements, the biggest things that happened in 2019 were a driving force where pension funds are up about $5.8 million for the year.
 OPEP, which is other employment benefits, was up about $600,000. We've reduced prior year debt by $22 million. Now remember when we issued that $124 million,
 That doesn't necessarily affect the bottom line of the balance sheet because we still have that cash we've generated. So we've got additional liability, but additional cash. So what really happened was we reduced the debt, which was good. Pension funds were up. Debt was reduced, giving us a positive balance. We looked very much at balance.
 at being frugal with our expenditures last year. So I report it's a very good year, was a very good year for us. Now the other thing in the audit report that they address are internal controls. There were no internal control weaknesses, no significant deficiencies, no material weaknesses.
 it was an unqualified audit opinion which means those statements in the opinion of bkd the auditors fairly represented in all material respects the financial position of the city we also had no compliance issues when it came to any of our single audit or the grant control review that we do so financial statements are representative
 No control or weaknesses as far as internal control that need to come to your attention. That was a positive year, both for net position and for the city operations. I'll be happy to answer any questions. Again, this is online for public inspection, and that's very, very brief, but best summary I can give at this point. I'll be happy to answer questions. Do we have any questions from the council on this?
 Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Paul. Good work. All right. Let's go on to the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the June 16, 2020 City Council Meeting Minutes and the June 24, 2020 Special City Council Meeting Minutes.
 Number two, a resolution to authorize the acceptance of a COVID-19 Aid Relief and Economic Security Act grant from the Federal Aviation Administration in the amount of $69,000 to offset loss of airport revenue related to the COVID-19 pandemic and to approve a budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the purchase of fleet operations management software upgrade from CCG Systems Incorporated DBA Faster Asset Solutions in the amount of $129,144. Pursuant to a Federal General Services Administration contract to approve a project contingency in the amount of $12,914.
 and $44 and to improve an annual maintenance cost in the amount of $22,967 for the first year with a 3% annual price increase. Number four, a resolution to award the bid 2049 and authorize purchase of an elevator conveyor from the bulk material handling of
 in the amount of $46,500 plus applicable taxes and freight charges for use at the Nolan wastewater treatment plant. Number five, a resolution to award bid number 20-48 and to approve the purchase of Ford Transit van from Lewis Automotive Group of Federal Arkansas in the total amount of $34,526 for the use
 by the Information Technology Department. Number six, a resolution to approve change order number two to the contract with JBZ Incorporated, DBA, Helmingson Contracting, in the amount of $163,000 for roof framing, shingles, siding, and trim associated with the Woolsey Farmstead Restoration Project.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in a total amount of $10,604 representing Community Development Blanc Grant program income and donations from citizens and local businesses.
 Number eight, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Garver LLC in the amount of $224,350 pursuant to RFQ 20-01 Selection 3 for the design of the South School Avenue and College Avenue corridor improvements and to approve a budget adjustment. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects. Number nine,
 a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Kraft and Toll and Associates Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 20-01 and the total amount of $211,785 for
 for the design of the Mission Boulevard Trail and Street Improvements Project to authorize the Mayor to acquire the easements and right-of-way for the project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is another one of our 2019 Transportation Bond and Trails Bond projects. Number 10.
 A resolution to award bid number 20-56 and authorize the purchase of a prefabricated bridge for the Claver Creek Trail from Park Thurston, Incorporated, any amount of $40,100 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Number 11, a resolution to approve the purchase of personal protective equipment and other goods and services related to the city's response to the COVID-19 pandemic through various agencies.
 Cooperative purchasing contracts as needed. Number 12, a resolution to award bid number 20-37 and to authorize the purchase of six filter units from Mayor Electric Supply Company Incorporated in the amount of $70,453.66 plus applicable taxes and freight charges. Number 13, a resolution to award bid number 20-46 and approve a contract for Cisneros Family Construction Group
 Group Corporation in the amount of $892,403.60 for the construction of water line to facilitate improvements to Highway 170 to approve a project contingency in the amount of $89,240.36 and to approve a budget adjustment. And number 14, a resolution to approve an out of scope agreement with CH2M Hill Engineers Incorporated to perform
 are subcontract repairs to the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site in excess of $10,000. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Kenyon. Yes. Petty.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Thanks. It passed, Mayor. Okay, thank you all. All right, let's go on to unfinished business. Number one, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-6996 for approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road to RA Residential Agricultural.
 RSF 1, residential single family with one unit per acre. RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre. NC neighborhood conservation and NC neighborhood services general. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this. So moved. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Her. Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 And in order to rezone that property, describe and rezoning petition RZN 20-6996 for approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road north of Mount Comfort Road to RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family 1 Unit per acre, RSF 8 Residential Single Family 8 Units per acre, NC Neighborhood Conservation, and NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 And Mayor, there has been a proposed bill of assurance, actually two of them offered by the applicants
 and we have supplied them to the city council by email and as well as we've supplied a proposed amended ordinance that would recognize these bills of assurance. So I would ask the city council to make a motion to amend the ordinance to what we sent out to you this afternoon so it'd be recognizing the bills of assurance. Okay.
 I move we accept the bills of assurance. Two bills of assurance. Is that right? That's correct. I'll second that. Okay. I have a motion and a second to add two bills of assurance. And to amend the ordinance. And to amend the ordinance to put them on. Yes. Okay. And before we vote, we do have a full council now. Council Member Marsh and Bunch have both joined us. So, council.
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Mayor, can we discuss amongst ourselves? Sure. I'm not going to support the bills of assurance on this. I don't think they're necessary. The difference between six to an acre and eight to an acre is fairly minor. And I think what we hear from our planning staff on a regular basis is that they're
 It is nearly impossible to build to the maximum density anyway. And so I suspect that six is probably what they will get under an RSF8. We have other zoning types, if that were the goal that I think we could use that would meet that. But I'm okay with the RSF8 as it is. I don't think that that's an encumbrance we need to attach to the land in perpetuity.
 My apologies, I should ask for discussion among the council. Who else would like to discuss this? We can't hear you, Mark. I was muted. I support this because I think it's a measure of good faith on the developer's point. And with this addition, it is a guarantee.
 Otherwise, who knows what could happen in the future. So looking at these two elements, I think that it is wise to go ahead and include this. It's not gonna change the development a lot from the current situation, but I do really appreciate that the developers took an extra step and created this bill of assurance to attach to this ordinance. Okay, anyone else? I have a comment.
 I appreciate the developers also providing voluntarily this bill of assurance. And this is pretty much consistent with the public comment that we heard a couple of weeks ago from the neighbors. The neighbors do not want higher density. There have been some water issues that fortunately have been resolved.
 But a lower density would seem to fit much better with the geology and topography of the area and also respect the existing neighbor's wishes. So I will be supporting this measure. Okay. Anyone else? I have a question for Garner. Would this bill of assurance in any way restrict the...
 ability to come in later with an accessory dwelling unit on a house that was already built to the six per unit, six per acre standard? According to my reading, Council Member, I don't believe that does that. It's a one sentence restriction saying, the density won't be higher than six units per acre. And as you recall,
 The accessory dwelling units are riding on an accessory concept that doesn't add it to the unit count in the zoning districts. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay, if there's not any further discussion, we have a motion and a second. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turck? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. I count five votes in favor so I think it passed. Okay so now we have the amended ordinance. Gardner do you have anything that you want to add to this? No Mayor, I don't have anything to add. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay, what about the applicant? Mr. Roach, you're here. Would you like to address the council? You have 10 minutes. Don't take it all, Robert. No. Can you hear me? Yes. You know, I don't really have anything else to add. We, I think we presented the meeting before last, the rationale behind the rezoning, and my sense of the,
 Neither my clients nor myself have received any other comments from anyone else. So we figured that offering the bill of assurance on those three tracts of land that are RSF8 would sort of show our good faith. And we're here to answer questions if anyone has any questions. And I thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have from the City Council on this? Mr. Mayor? Yes. Yes, so the emails that I received, mostly the concern was the traffic. There's a bridge in the area, and the roads maybe weren't sufficient enough for the density. Can we talk a little bit about what the plans are for the roads in that area? Okay. Garner, you have that one?
 yes um i would also defer to uh matt casey i believe he's uh uh on the line um there the i think the capacity of the road uh is adequate to handle the anticipated traffic with the full development of humont uh there are some issues with the bridge it is getting a little bit old but uh i will let matt casey talk to that too if he's online
 Okay, Matt, do you have any comments to make? Can you address that? Can you hear me, Mayor? Yes. Unfortunately, I don't know as much about this request as the governor thinks I do. I apologize for that. If we're talking about Humon area, there are agreements that would be needed with the development, of course. Matt, your garb was real bad. I'm sorry, I may have a bad internet connection. I'm sorry, I'm at the house tonight.
 can you hear me now yeah but now just speak a little slower yes sir okay i'll try again i apologize i'm not familiar enough with this property or the request answer with too much detail but uh
 And I know Jonathan Ely may also be on the call tonight here as well. But the Humon Road area, a lot of those areas, a lot of those roads in the area are rural, two-lane roads that wouldn't need to be improved. But that would all be taken into account with the development as that goes through the Planning Commission. OK. Thank you. Do we have any other questions from the council? OK. We'll take some public comment. Now.
 Each figure is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent for majority vote.
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent of a majority vote of the council. Who would like to address this tonight from the public? Mayor, I see Russ Collins up. Okay. Russ, would you like to address this? Yes. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Awesome. Well, thanks for...
 Taking my voice here, I feel like I know you guys really well. I've been following this for a long time since it's been on the docket. I appreciate where we've landed. I appreciate being in the city of Fayetteville and the ability to do this tonight. So thank you. You know, I think my biggest concern, everyone, is whether it's RSF 6 or 8, it's still a ton of houses and a ton of traffic.
 And my biggest concern is what Ms. Sonja brought up is, so will the infrastructure in order to handle all of the traffic, in order to handle sidewalks, in order to handle a light possibly, in order to handle traffic flow, in order to handle the bridge, I mean, we're talking another 200 to 300 houses possibly if we zone RSF 6.
 And that is a likely two household, two income family. Both folks are working. Two cars at least in each driveway. You're adding another 600 cars on top of the cars that are already here.
 My question is to the council and to the developers and who do we hold accountable to the infrastructure being in place so that we're not building right away and creating issues in the neighborhood of traffic, of unsafe traffic?
 and that sort of thing. And I recognize that we're going to have to move forward and visit with the Planning Commission on that as well. But I would certainly love some guidance there as to what are the next steps that we'll take in this development. The last thing that our neighborhood needs is...
 development to begin without these measures being taken place prior to that. If you take a look at the Ruppel Road extension, you've got sidewalks on each side, bike paths, you know, those things are being put in place before those houses are being built.
 And so I would hope that the council would take that into consideration as we move forward in the vote. My idea would be to keep it RSF4 to at least limit the amount of houses that are being built to limit the amount of traffic.
 RSF4 is the way that it's zoned everywhere else out here. So I'm not sure why we're moving to an RSF8 or an RSF6 even when everything else out here is RSF4. So those are a couple of things. I know I have some neighbors on that are willing to speak as well. So that's all I have for this evening. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, we don't have any other public comment. Okay. Sorry, now Ben Pierce is up. Okay.
 Ben Pierce? Ben, go ahead. Yes, can you hear me?
 Yes. Perfect. Well, I just want to weigh in in the kind of same way Russ just did. I live out here currently in Humont. And, you know, with our current setup, I mean, the roads, I don't know if you guys have been out here. A couple of you mentioned you're not too familiar with, you know, with everything. But the road structure, the bridge, you know, it's already –
 pretty tight i mean getting from here to the interstate is is rough in the mornings as you guys know i mean we've been trying to fix kind of the traffic up and down mount comfort and several different areas and and kind of worried about the urban sprawl and you know in the past and i just kind of want to echo the the same thing um russ said with the rsf4 you know it's literally every neighborhood around us is set to the rsf4
 um you know in in particular our current humont road once you turn off of mount comfort is uh is worse than any road in the area i've seen i mean it's a tiny two-lane road with uh you know no sidewalks you've got uh the bridge that already has you know flooding issues with the creek um
 And then just to go ahead and add this amount of traffic and this amount of people just doesn't seem like something that would be in the city of Fayetteville's best interest at the time. So I'd love to hear some kind of comments, just as Russ mentioned of what exactly we'd like to put in place and how we see all this working out. Like I said, it's already tough living out here in our current setup, so.
 Thank you very much for taking my time and appreciate everything you do. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Nix, we have Joe George. Okay. Joe, go ahead. Thanks, Mayor. Hopefully you guys can hear me. Yes.
 There's really not a whole lot that I could possibly add to what Ben and Russ have already mentioned. You know, we're talking about higher medium to high density dwellings in the area where everything is, you know, RSF4 and the subdivision Humont Village where we live. And then adding all of that extra strain on the...
 of traffic on the small, I mean, if people know this area out here, you know, Humont Road is a very narrow two lane road. And the biggest concern I have is that, the bridge has been mentioned, which is, it practically gets narrower on the bridge. The bridge is gonna need some improvements fairly soon because it's definitely showing signs of its age. And then also as you go around from,
 As you go around from Mount Comfort Road turning north onto Humont Road, there are, you know, a series of blind corners right there. So if we're adding, you know, as Russ mentioned, 200, 200
 600 cars adding to the traffic out there. It's a pretty treacherous little stretch right there. It's a little S curve and they're all blind corners. And so that's definitely something I just wanted to make mention of as a concern that the
 the residents in the area already have and would be exacerbated by added traffic flow in this area as well so that's what i wanted to add and also i guess i i would mention something that russ touched on as well about just making this area out here feel logically connected to the bright the bike trail system which which uh you know the residents out here don't really feel like
 there have been great efforts put towards making us feel logically connected to the bike trail system, which I'm sure is in the plan, but it just hasn't happened yet. So I just wanted to make mention of those points. And again, I thank you for your time as well. Okay. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mayor, I'd like to make a couple of points about the roads out there.
 being that we annexed these into the city about three weeks ago uh this is this is still fairly new to us so there i i get lots of complaints about the roads that are just outside our city limits all the time and it's it's sad to say but i feel like the county is actively neglecting infrastructure in this area
 While they're building roads for other cities, they're occasionally throwing a shovel full of asphalt in a pothole up on North Salem, and I hear about it on a regular basis.
 So I have every confidence that even though I'm not eager to go build a bunch of new roads, that our city transportation division and their proactive maintenance plan is going to be a massive increase in the level of service for these new residents of our town. Also, just a reminder that we are already in process on connecting Ruppel
 We are up to the other part of Ruple where we are currently is. Soon this neighborhood will have an option to go to the north and still tie back into main roads. I'm confident that , well, first of all, I understand their concerns. They are very real concerns. I'm confident they are in better hands now than they were a month ago. With that, I would like to make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading.
 Okay. Second that. Who did the second? I'm sorry. Ms. Mark. Ms. Mark, that was you? Yes. Okay. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final read. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch?
 And Mayor and Council, I believe I should read the entire amended ordinance. Okay.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-6996 for approximately 152 acres located at Humont Road North of Mount Comfort Road to RA Residential Agricultural, RSF 1 Residential Single Family 1 unit per acre, RSF 8 Residential Single Family 8 units per acre, NC Neighborhood Conservation, and NSG Neighborhood Services General subject to bills of assurance for the partials to be zoned RSF 8.
 be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo to RA, Residential Agricultural, RSF 1, Residential Single Family, 1 unit per acre, RSF 8, Residential Single Family, 8 units per acre,
 NC Neighborhood Conservation and NSG Neighborhood Services General, subject to a bill of assurance for the parcels to be zoned RSF 8. Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, is there any final comments from the Council before we vote?
 I just want to let the people who spoke today know that I'm on the sidewalks and trails committee, and I will work to make sure we can connect you guys up, and I will express that in tomorrow night's meeting. It's at 530 Active Transportation. You're welcome to join that meeting to express, but I will voice a concern for you at that meeting tomorrow. I want to...
 Before everybody finishes up, I guess I need to go back to Garner. And Garner, you all believe that the infrastructure is adequate to handle this at this time. Is that correct? Mayor, the two-lane roadway, I think, will accommodate the traffic. But the next step is preliminary platting. And preliminary platting will produce the information that the Planning Commission needs
 to know to assess the public improvements that are needed but since it's now in the city it will be under the city's process and not the county so it when the primitive plant is reviewed by the planning commission they're going to be looking at sidewalks turn lanes uh and improvements the ones that they can't assess that have a nexus to the development they can't
 get off site very far. But my point is the neighbors ask, what's the next step? Next step is the preliminary plat and the Planning Commission will then be looking at infrastructure improvements that would be needed to accommodate the proposed development. Okay, thanks very much. All right, any other final comments from the council? I wanted to put that little piece of information out there before we all vote. Any final comments from the council?
 Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. All right, let's move on to number two.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7100 for approximately .16 acres located at 514 East Johnson Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. All right. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 TURK? Yes. SMITH? Yes. GUTIERREZ? Yes. MARSH? Yes. KENYON? Yes. PETTY? Yes. SCROGGIN? Yes. BUNCH? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 20-7100 for approximately 0.16 acres, located at 514 East Johnson Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre.
 Okay, Garner, what do you have on this? Mayor, I don't have anything to add. I believe Ms. Knight, the applicant's representative, is online. She did want me to point out to you all that they've been at this for a long, long time. They went to the Board of Adjustment and were turned down on a variance that tried to save this tree, and she wanted me to convey that they would appreciate a vote if that's possible. But I think she's online and can speak for herself.
 Okay. Ms. Knott, would you like to address the council? And you have 10 minutes. Yes. I don't have anything new to present. I just wanted to make sure that I answered all of your questions from the last meeting concerning prior notification adequately and see if there were any questions that you had for the project. Okay. Is there any questions from the council to the applicant or the staff? I do have a question. When you're looking at that area, I know that we've had
 somewhere right along there, a lot of runoff that goes behind the houses and has caused problems. Is this an area that we're concerned about managing the stormwater between Johnson Street and Rebecca? Garner, do you know? The Council Member Smith, Kenyanami,
 Yes, this is an area that has problems. This is an area where we have active storm drainage improvements under construction right now. Okay, Matt, did you want to weigh in on that? Not at this time. It seemed like Mark still had more to. Oh, I'm sorry. Mark, what else do you have? I just wanted to be sure that it was in the discussion that we are working on that because it has been a...
 a problem ever since i've been on city council and we are working on it i know that but i just want to be sure that this is in place and then it's going to happen before we start any more activity uh in this uh runoff area so i'm pleased to hear that it's it's going to happen and i know the neighbors will be relieved to hear that too okay anything else mark thank you
 Okay. Anybody else have any questions? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. We are on the second reading. This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and move to the third and final reading. Okay. Second. Kyle, we'll give you the second on that one. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Carol, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 And your ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7100 for approximately 0.16 acres located at 514 East Johnson Street from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 8 residential single family 8 units per acre. What final comments do we have from the council? Okay. Kara, would you please call the roll? Her. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number three.
 An ordinance for the zoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7080 for approximately .20 acres located at 360 North Arkansas Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to DG downtown general. I will entertain a motion to take that to the second reading. So moved. Second. Okay, we have a motion to go to the second reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Herk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7080 for approximately 0.2 acres located at 360 North Arkansas Avenue from RMF 40 residential multifamily 40 units per acre to DG downtown general.
 Mayor, I need to also point out, as Garver can too, that there has been a bill of assurance offered in this particular case, and if the City Council wants to accept it, we would just add both to title and Section 1 subject to the bill of assurance. Okay, let me get this straight. So the developer is offering a bill of assurance, the applicant is offering a bill of assurance, and that you would put it in after the title of the...
 Ordinance, correct? Yes. After the title in Section 1, both would say subject to the Bill of Assurance. And, Garner, I think you probably have the copy of the Bill of Assurance, and I think that's also been provided to the City Council. Oh, okay. All right, Garner, do you want to take it from there? Yes, I do have a copy of it. I also believe that Mr. Jorgensen is online if he wants to describe what he is –
 offering to the council for the council's consideration on the bill of assurance if if not I can describe it I have it I have it here well if the applicant is going to describe the bill of insurance we'll just let them do that all right Blake you're the applicant so you have ten minutes to speak for the City Council good evening can y'all hear me yes good deal
 I know we're in a little bit different times here, so I'm not sure if all the city council members have access to the documents that we've provided. Maybe, Mr. Jordan, Ronald, Mayor, can you confirm that everyone has that document in their file? Okay, does everyone have that document, Kerry? It would probably be... I guess what we should ask is, has any city council member not seen the bill of assurance that's been offered? Yeah, that would be probably more proper.
 Okay, we have to assume that they all have a copy. That sounds good. And it's short, so I can go through it. Basically, you know, when we first came to planning commission, the first proposal was, you know, a structure that was closer to the right-of-way to be further into the build-to zone.
 We understood there was some backlash from not just the adjacent neighborhood, but also collectively, the city has some concerns that this structure is going to be too close to the right-of-way. So we amended the site plan and submitted a bill of assurance that would ensure that the building would have a front setback of 15 feet, a rear setback of 15 feet, and side setbacks of 7 feet.
 And this is to be more in line with the other structures along Arkansas Avenue. The other thing we want to make sure we limited it to three stories and as well as we submitted some architectural renderings to depict how this structure would be built in accordance to try to mesh within the other structures along Arkansas Avenue.
 We have tried to make amends and open up a conversation, and we hope to have that tonight. This is not – we want to make sure – I understand that technically the bill of assurance is what you have in hand, but we also want to have a conversation of if this is not satisfactory, what else can we offer up? Our client's very willing –
 to try to make some amendments to either the current bill of assurance or whatever we can to get this project back online because they went from a structure that had the right to be housed as a fraternity through the board of adjustments and today they had that and then they thought
 through previous actions through planning commission, variance requests that they will be allowed to build by rights. So, we don't wanna, I understand that we're doing this as a rezoning. Our other option is to go to board of adjustments, but we wanna have an open dialogue with everyone to say, here's what we're presenting. What's your thoughts on it? What can we do to make changes? We hope we've made some reasonable changes to make this fit within the neighborhood.
 And typically a rezoning does entail a change of use. This is not a change of use. It's still going to be a fraternity. Yes, the old house that was there did get raised and it was time to modify. And we hope that our teams put together a good faith effort to try to create
 a structure that fits within that fabric of the neighborhood. And so something I really hope that happens tonight is a dialogue. I know last time it was a very long city council meeting. Everyone's fairly worn out by the time I got to this item. We completely understand that. We have other members from our team that are here tonight and we look forward to a spirited conversation about this and I'll just close it at that. Thank you very much. Okay. Okay.
 But before you right now, counsel, is a bill of assurance to add to the title of this ordinance. So what's the wishes of the counsel? Okay, I'm going to assume that the counsel is not wishing. If you don't amend the ordinance, then the bill of assurance will not be considered. Well, here, Mayor, let me break the ice if nobody else is going to. Okay, okay.
 Mr. Jorgensen wanted to make this conversation, so I want to look at the bill of assurance. I'm not entirely sold on the
 I think the neighbors in all the emails we've gotten have made a pretty compelling case against fraternities generally, but I understand the history of the land on this one is that it was a fraternity. So when it comes to the bill of assurance though, I think this makes the zoning proposal in front of us a lot better in several ways. The setbacks and the height limit I would be fully in favor of. I think it's a good thing that we're doing it.
 I would encourage you to be open to a different plan than the one that we were presented. And I'm not sure that I'm thrilled about number three, just because I think it could be limiting further down the development pipeline if better, more historically sensitive elements were perhaps considered, so.
 Mr. Mayor I need to clarify I think as Garner will also tell you that they have presented a drawing but
 And that doesn't mean if you accept the bill of assurance that that's a drawing that we'll control because we have design standards that they must satisfy regardless of any drawing that they give us. You know, the various things about three stories and the setbacks and everything. Yes, that's all enforceable, but the drawing itself would have to be modified. I understand that Garner's told me in order to meet the standards that would be applicable to this area.
 Thanks for clarifying that, Kit. And I guess that goes to, first of all, I would like to not include unenforceable language. I think it would be a lot more straightforward if what's in there is actually enforceable. And then just second, that elevation, I would hate to see only modified slightly to meet compliance. I think it could stand a more dramatic overhaul than that. Okay. What other comments do we have on the bill of assurance? Yes.
 Mayor Jordan, may I say one thing? Sure. So the city clerk office has started publishing the agenda on the morning of the council members, or excuse me, the council meeting. And the reason why we're doing this is because so many people are teleworking, working here, working elsewhere. The council members are working in their jobs and at home. So we are publishing that agenda again to make sure that we include all of the items that get submitted to us.
 So in saying that, that bill of assurance was included in the packet and can be seen on the agenda page. Very good. Thank you, Kara, for clarifying that. So we have to assume that everybody has the bill of assurance. Okay. Before you is the discussion of the bill of assurance, whether you're going to make a motion in a second to put it. Yeah, amend the ordinance to recognize it. As we move forward to consider this,
 Again, I think it's important to realize the bill of assurance goes with the property in the future. And so we really, we've got to look at the possibilities. It might not go through the way that the fraternity wants or it might not happen. We've seen this over and over again. And looking at this piece of property, I think that the bill of assurance does offer something. It's not enough. It doesn't really answer the concerns of the neighborhood.
 I think it's commendable and I would support it because it's better than what we have, but it does not resolve the issues I have with the rezoning overall. I want to hear more compelling arguments and I'm open to that also.
 But if I voted for this, it's because I think it's better than what we have in front of us with the bill of assurance. But I don't know that it will resolve the issues I have in the rezoning as a whole. And I don't like that we're presented with elevations that are simply dreams based on someone's vision. And it's not really...
 the issue because the issue is rezoning and anything can be built there with the rezoning and the bill of assurance so um i think that has to be considered okay who else mayor yes well it may uh i agree that um in any case the bill of assurance does make the proposal better
 and would move that we amend the ordinance as suggested by Kit to reference it. Okay, Matthew, that's a motion. Do we have a second? Second. All right, thank you, Sarah. We have a motion and a second to pass and the bill of assurance. Any other discussion on it before we vote?
 Well, I do want to one more time say, I will support the bill of assurance, but I'm not certain that it is compelling enough to justify the rezoning. I'm waiting for further arguments to be presented. Thank you, Mark. I think you have made that point relatively clear. Thank you. All right, anybody else?
 Yes, I have a comment. I feel similar to what Council Member Kenyon is saying. I think it's getting closer, but it's certainly not meeting the concerns of the neighbors or the historical nature of that area. But it is further to where I think we should be. So I will be supporting it just on those merits. Okay. All right. Anybody else? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Kip, you need to read that. Well, if they wanted me to go on, I'll read it. Basically, it just adds a subject to the bill that Shurner spoke to the title in Section 1.
 All right, so now we have the amended ordinance. All right, so we'll open it up for questions for the applicant or the staff. Okay, well, let's have some public comment then. All right, for those of you that will be speaking to us, not each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public?
 Up first is Maureen Hogan. Okay, Maureen. Maureen, you're up. On mute. Okay, I hope you hear me. First, I will be brief. I want to thank you for your time, but I'm asking you very strongly to vote on the matter in front of you, to vote no on Downtown General spot rezoning for 360 Arkansas Avenue.
 There is a bill of assurance that is intentionally vague about where the setback starts. And even if it starts at the senior walk, the eastern edge, 15 feet, that's only half of what the rest of the neighbors have.
 This is not, as the fraternity keeps claiming, a rebuilding. They removed an approximately 4,000 square foot building that already had been given variances by the city for size parking and their fraternity membership.
 They wish to supersize on a very small lot, and they intend to exploit downtown general rezoning in a historic area. They want that downtown general so that they can supersize with free reign in an incompatible and inappropriate way in a family neighborhood. Please vote no to downtown general rezone.
 I yield my time. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor, next we have Jeff Block. Okay. Jeff. Hi. Can you hear me? Yes. Great. Thank you so much, Mayor Jordan, city council members, city attorney, and city clerk.
 I want to thank you once again for the opportunity to express my strong opposition to the spot rezoning of 360 Arkansas Avenue from RMF 40 to downtown general. Over the past two months, we have spoken and written numerous letters to you and the Planning Commission with our many reasons to reject the spot rezoning. It all really boils down to the fact that the SIGGAP plans do not work in any way, shape or form.
 going from 4,000 square feet to 14,000 square feet on 0.2 acres is not compatible.
 Here at 370 Arkansas Avenue and the Stilwells at 358 Arkansas Avenue, we will lose our right to peaceful enjoyment of our homes if this is built. This triples the size of it. And prior to it, it was still, it was too large. I mean, the issues with the fraternity were too great.
 Having no parking is not compatible. I want to thank Professor Matthew Gurner for his in-depth description of the utter lack of public parking options in the neighborhood in his letter from yesterday. Having no sensible trash collection is not compatible. Endangering 100-year-old trees on our neighbors' properties is not compatible.
 And you cannot make the SIGEP plan work in any way on this parcel. It is too large. It doesn't compare to the other fraternities in the, on the university. It will deprive the surrounding neighbors of their peaceful enjoyment of their homes. I urge you please to vote no. And again, thank you so much for your time and consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mayor Nix, we have Paula Marinoni.
 Okay, Paula. This is Paula. Mayor, I would first like to ask if you could ask the City Council representatives who did not receive the letter written yesterday from our neighborhood. I want to make sure everybody received that so I don't have to go through the whole thing again.
 if that's possible. It's possible, but it's going to eat into your time for me to ask that question. Did everyone receive the letter that was sent out by the neighborhood yesterday? If no one received it, please say something now.
 Okay, thank you. Okay. We went through point by point of some of the things, the arguments that the opposition or those for this have brought up, and some that our other representatives have brought up.
 I want to say on the trash that was in here that I went through with the City Solid Waste Department, it's going to be nearly impossible to get a trash truck to the back of that property. A seven foot side setback is not going to cut it. They'll need at least 15 feet. Otherwise they'll have to put the dumpster in front of the house. That's in the letter.
 Also, I want to go over the per acre average that people have said nobody has an acre. That is not true. That is in the letter also. There's 23 Greek houses that I went through one by one. And the least is farmhouse fraternity with a third of an acre.
 and they only have like 20 people in the house and don't plan to grow any larger. The average for those is .77 of an acre, so that's three-fourths of an acre. Many have upwards of even two acres or more, so that is not the case.
 this property is way too small. Also, I want to go over, sometimes I like to give somebody an example of okay, picture this, because that property is so small and they showed that picture of it next to the other houses and it looked suspiciously like it fit in, not accusing anybody but...
 you can photoshop stuff like that to make sure you know make it look like it fits in so here picture this and i will go into my next two minutes if that's okay with you mayor that's fine okay uh the old post office is 13 450 square feet so picture the old post office crammed in between those two houses
 The old brew pub at West Street and Dixon is 13,672 square feet. So pick up that brew pub on Dixon Street and cram it between those two houses. The Planning and Engineering Building for the City of Fayetteville, this county says that it's 10,573 square feet on three-tenths of an acre.
 City Hall, as near as I could figure, it's about the same size on a third of an acre or less probably because I couldn't break it down. But picture City Hall, just pick it up and plop it down between those two houses. Commercially, Walgreens at Township and College is 15,000 square feet.
 that's mainly floor plan but to accommodate that that's on 2.15 of an acre so what is being imposed here on us is not reasonable at all another thing is the 1970 thing is um
 that it's outdated and antiquated, the RMF 40 and the regulations for the one acre. There's a really good reason for that. So finally, I wanna say that
 This fraternity is a problem for our neighborhood and the thought of enlarging it, it has set everyone in a panic because it means can we live here or not? They need to consider if they build this house, are they going to get kicked off campus again because we as neighbors will not tolerate anymore what we have had to put up with in the past.
 Absolutely not. No one will help us. The University won't help us. University police won't help us. We've got cameras and they need to consider that. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us? Next up, Matt Gurner. Okay, Matt. All right, hello. Thank you for this opportunity to speak.
 I've lived in Fayetteville since 2007, and I'd just like to speak on the parking situation around 360 North Arkansas Avenue. During the city council meeting on June 16th, Blake Jorgensen had indicated that they found parking on campus within walking distance for the up to 40 residents who would occupy the house if it's rezoned.
 I'm concerned the claim isn't actually supported by the facts of the University of Arkansas parking capacities and I'd recommend that um
 It be required that Blake Jorgensen provide a plan for parking on the lot premises for all the proposed residents. Since the students would not be living in University of Arkansas housing, they would have access to purchasing either an orange commuter parking pass or a green parking pass.
 And although all students can apply for a garage parking pass, the spots are limited, and students living on campus are given first priority. And since the spots, these parking passes are very difficult to obtain, especially for students not in University of Arkansas residence halls, students are told in the University
 information. Please note that transit and parking cannot guarantee premium parking to every student who requests resident reserve parking or garage parking.
 The majority of the green lots, which the residents would have access to, are located on Razorback Road. And I would not consider that within walking distance of 360 North Arkansas Avenue for practical purposes. There's only one lot available for either of the parking passes that could be considered within walking distance. And that's Lot 53 on West Avenue. It's about a five-minute walk away, 0.3 miles. And...
 Lot 53 is predominantly faculty staff, yellow parking, but it does have 19 spaces designated for green parking permits. However, those spots are only for green parking permits from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. Monday through Friday, and they're paid parking during office hours or off hours.
 And from my experiences with parking on the University of Arkansas campus for the past 13 years, even the yellow faculty and staff parking around Arkansas Avenue is difficult to find between hours of 8.30 a.m. and 5.00 p.m. Monday through Friday in the fall and spring semesters. You know, you can leave for lunch and if you come back, you'll have to drive around for a while to find a parking spot in a different lot.
 And faculty staff are able to park in the green student parking spots. So I can only imagine how much more difficult it would be for students to find parking with only green parking permit. And it's also important to consider that the parking on campus has evolved rapidly over the past 13 years. I've been in the past.
 Fayetteville campus. Many of the lots that used to be designated green parking permits for students are now red, resident reserved or yellow faculty staff permits, especially around Maple Street, Lever Avenue and the surrounding area.
 And it makes it even more difficult to find a parking spot for students with just a green permit on that side of campus. There's no guarantee that the parking lots will continue with their current designations. So even the spots currently available in lot 53 to students could be lost in the coming decade. Regarding parking alone, I think it's unreasonable to request a rezone without at all.
 the very least having a viable detailed solution for adequate parking on that lot for the proposed number of residents. I do not see evidence that the current available parking options at the University of Arkansas campus will provide the parking that the residents need.
 or that the current capacities are gonna continue into the foreseeable future. I would request that Blake would be able to give us a detailed plan for how all the proposed residents would be able to park within the lot boundaries. So as it is, please vote no, and I appreciate your time and your service to the community.
 Okay, thank you very much. All right, who else would like to address this? Next up, Mayor, is a phone number that ends in 687. Uh-huh. Please announce yourself. Hello? Hi, this is Diane Block, and I'm calling from Santa Fe, New Mexico. Okay. With my brother Jeff, I am the co-owner of number 370 Arkansas Avenue next to the fraternity.
 I would like to point out over and over again, we have said, the neighbors have said that we are firmly opposed, steadfastly opposed to the spot zoning for this fraternity. We are opposed to downtown general,
 and I would like to point out that their letter of assurance is only tied to your vote to allow downtown general and it means absolutely nothing to us because we oppose downtown general and it's not placating us in any way um I have uh
 I sent you a list of the 12 points that the city attorney's office has provided concerning the things you need to consider for a rezoning request. And the most important is compatibility with adjacent zones and to avoid spot zoning.
 The next most important thing is public opposition that is logical and reasonable. The Planning Commission has found that both of these things are absolutely applicable to this situation, and that influenced their vote of denial on May 26th. Other things are traffic,
 particularly congestion, which I would tie to the lack of parking.
 Safety and fire protection, they don't have an adequate, they don't even have any water line for sprinklers for their 14,000 square foot building to protect for fire. Also the adequacy of public facilities, they don't have an adequate sewer line for the 15 residents.
 And the streets are not adequate because as Professor Garner said, there's no parking, virtually no parking anyway. And they will clog the streets like they did before, only five times greater because they only had about 10 to 14 residents before that.
 The noise and the litter has been intolerable for the neighbors and will increase also exponentially. The decrease in the adjoining land that would happen, particularly connected to the loss of tree canopy. And many of the counselors said that there is no need for.
 and this is point number 11, for more land to be zoned as downtown general. Commissioner Belden said as to the need for commercial businesses that you can walk to, we already have that on Dixon Street. You don't need to impose that on our neighborhood because there's no need for it at all. Also, Commissioner Garlock had,
 cited the problem of parking with the Wilson Park neighborhood and also and they all agreed that if you open this up to downtown general the bottom floor of this building or any other building can be for any kind of commercial use and would set up the whole demise of zoning for the entire block.
 As to safety and health, I have recounted the use of our lawns as latrines. Also, the escalating arguments among the fraternity brothers, our requests for them to be
 stay on their own property. They have become volatile. And frankly, the city police, the
 the Greek life will not help us. So it is completely unconscionable that the neighbors themselves should be expected to be the police, because it is dangerous to our mental and physical health. We could get in a very dangerous situation going outside at 2 a.m.,
 The main thing is that they're going to say that it poses a hardship for them because when they had their variants approved for concerning their driveway and their parking area in 2015, they assume that the approval of the variants for only the two...
 Okay, who else would like to address? Next we have Steven Rogers. Okay, Steven, you're up. All right, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you for offering this communication tool. My name is Steve Rogers, and I'm a Fayetteville resident who lives at 40 West Prospect in the Wilson Park neighborhood. I joined CIPA 5 Epsilon as an undergraduate in 1984, and I actually lived in the fraternity house on 10 North Stadium.
 At that time it was a set of three buildings and kind of a definitive Frank Lloyd Wright, E. Fay Jones influence. We all loved that house until it became unstable due to flooding. So what resulted was SIGGAP was homeless after 40 years in 10 North Stadium. That wasn't very uncommon for us. Since 1907, we've lived in three houses on Dixon Street.
 including the location that was known as the Ozark Brewery, two locations on Stadium Drive, one location on North Oakland, one location on Maple Street, and our current recently demolished site on Arkansas Avenue. As the Alumni Board President from 2001 to 2005, I personally moved the fraternity from the Lambda Chi location on Stadium Drive to Maple Street.
 So I do believe I understand the impact of moves on the members of the organization, as well as the people we impact in the neighborhood. In the last meeting, Matthew Perry made the comment several times, Arkansas Avenue is a special place. It's so special that Will Rogers helped to save Arkansas Avenue cause in the 1930s and helped support the beautification of the avenue by helping plant a canopy of trees and a divided street.
 Sigma Phi Epsilon demolished the previous structure on 360 North Arkansas Avenue because it did not represent what is great about this special street. We want to represent great structures like Pi Kappa Alpha, Kappa Alpha, Farmhouse, and Delta Gamma. We also want to represent the street by being great stewards of the property and being philanthropic neighbors that add to the area.
 I believe strongly that we will adapt the design if necessary to make this structure a pillar of pride on Arkansas Avenue. It's obvious to me that everyone must elevate a level of trust as neighbors to make sure we're all held accountable to the expectations of people like Will Rogers and Edward Stone, who helped make Arkansas Avenue the front door to the university.
 I personally invested in the Delta Gamma project that turned out to be magnificent, and I intend to do the same for 360 North Arkansas Avenue. So please vote yes. Okay, thank you. Next up is Evelyn Stilwell. Okay, Evelyn. Myself? Yes. Thank you for taking the public interest in listening to us. I live right next door to 360 Arkansas Avenue, and I will –
 carry on with what the previous speaker has mentioned about the historic beauty of this avenue. It's grand and it should be kept that way. However, I appreciate their desire to build a grand and respectable structure, but they don't have enough room. Our zone requires a fraternity to have an acre.
 And the fact that they had a 4,000 square foot house previously is in keeping with the size of houses here. And to think of having at least double or triple the number of students and the size of the house next door would definitely harm
 our neighborhood, especially with the noise they generate. I won't go over the other items that have been mentioned, but we have babies and children living in our house. And so many calls had to be made so often to try to keep the noise level down because it just wasn't in their minds to do it. And Fayetteville has a good neighbor program that requires people to keep their noise at an acceptable level.
 So my main opposition is because the size of the building they want to build there will not allow for the things that are needed to make a great fraternity like Delta Gamma has built. They have a sorority house on two acres, 0.2 acres is not sufficient to build what they want.
 And I will go ahead and mention my 100-year-old oak tree that probably cannot survive something being built seven feet away from its roots. And so I'm encouraging you to vote against it, not because I don't want the SIGEPs to have a nice house, but they need a bigger lot to do what they really want to do for the number of members they want to house. So thank you for hearing me. Thank you, Evelyn. Who else would like to address this? Rachel Gerner. Okay, Rachel. Rachel?
 Hello. I live at 383 Fletcher. And I will keep this very brief. The property is too big or the proposed building is too big for the size of the property. And that's it. Have a wonderful evening. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Phillip McKnight. All right, Phillip, you're up. All right. I think everybody can hear me.
 The one thing that I want to say about this particular project is, is we believe that we have met all of the neighbors' objections to having the setbacks where they're needed. The average setback on most of the properties are 18 feet. We've proposed 15 feet, but we can certainly go to 18 if needed. The other thing that I would say about all of the complaints from neighbors
 our neighbors is that I contacted Greek life and asked had any communication been made from any of our neighbors to Greek life and I can assure you that Greek life would contact me in a heartbeat if any of those things were true they have they have researched their records and there is no contact between any of the neighbors and the University of Arkansas
 Unfortunate incidents do happen. Arkansas Avenue is a thoroughfare from everybody on the east side of campus to Dixon Street. So there's a high probability that those instances that they were talking about were not perpetrated by members of the SIGGAP fraternity. I would also mention that there has not been anybody living in the facility for over a year. So none of those are recent events,
 if they were even remotely perpetrated by the fraternity members. So I just wanted to put that to rest. As far as Evelyn's 100-year oak tree, we agree completely with not wanting to damage those roots. And if you look at the previous structure that was there, it had a full 10-foot basement.
 And when we place the new facility footprint, we moved it over to where the old facility footprint was. And to go down and to build a foundation for the new facility, it would not go into any of the oak roots. It would simply be just an excavation back to the line to where the original footing was. They had been there since 1910. So there are no,
 no instances that we could go into their tree roots. As far as to address the trash, it would be similar to what we're doing currently, where we have the canisters that we roll out to the street for the city to pick them up. I think that's all that I have. Okay, thank you, Phil. Who else would like to address this? Bill Mandrell. Okay, Bill?
 Yes, can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I want to disagree with Philip McKnight. I live next door to the SIGFs and have lived here the entire time they've been there. The owners of our property have made numerous complaints to the university, to the university police, and to the Fayetteville Police Department.
 Their lot is too small, not only for the house that they want to build, but it is too small for the house that they've had. And their events spill over into our lawns with their guests, their party goers, even their parents congregating in our lawns. They have done damage to our lawns, damage to our property, damage to our tenants' automobiles.
 There have been numerous problems, and I have been in contact with the fraternity presidents year after year. They've tried to be cooperative, it's just that
 The lot is too small to have 150 or 200 guests there, regardless of how the guests behave. And their parties spill over into our neighborhood, onto our property, and their cars block our driveways and block Reagan Street, and so there have,
 Having a fraternity there has not, even in the past been compatible and increasing the size of the fraternity will increase these problems that we have experienced in the neighborhood. I encourage city council members to vote no to the rezoning so that we won't have a big building protruding out toward,
 the new senior sidewalk and the new landscaping that the university done that looks so nice. It's a beautiful historic vista that needs to be preserved, thank you.
 Okay, thank you. Now I want to go back over the, on the speaker end of things. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. So let's continue on for those of you that are attending a little bit late. All right, who would like to be next? Mayor, we have some that have already spoken. No, everybody gets one turn at the mic.
 I'm sorry, Jeff Block. I'm sorry, Diane Block was the previous speaker. We have Jeff Block. I think Jeff Block has spoken. Has he not? Okay. No, no, no, excuse me. Yes, Jeff Block was number four. I have him as... Yep, sorry, Jeff. Okay, is there anyone else that we haven't heard from tonight? Okay, I'm going to run back to the city council. Okay. I have a question. Sure. Thank you. I have a question for Garner.
 Garner, I know that you have told us more than once by now what the law is with respect to lot size and fraternities, but I wanted to get you to repeat that one more time. And then I was hoping that you would explain how parking is reviewed and permitted through the development review process relevant to residential uses like this.
 The RMF 40 district has a special provision for seniorities and fraternities. It's a density provision and it requires one acre minimum lot size and 250 square feet per resident. With regard to parking, the parking requirements would not change. It's not based on
 whether it's RMF 40 or downtown general, they would be required to provide one space per room and that decision whether or not to accept offsite parking instead of onsite parking could be requested to the planning commission as a variance. It's not something staff could approve.
 Okay, thank you for explaining that. Garner, I have a question. What is the use unit that this is a fraternity would be classified as? The use is just housing, but there are special density requirements in the RFF. Right, and I'm seeing those as 500 square feet per resident, but you just said 250. Yeah. Okay.
 And I was looking at the code on the website. Let me get, we are blessed with having Jonathan Kurth here. Let me get him to weigh in on that one. I was thinking it was 250, but it may be 500. Okay, I just wanted to double check that. Jonathan, can you, are you on? Yes, sir, certainly a mixed blessing, right? Yes, Council Member Sharp, or Council Member Marsh, excuse me, is correct. The RMF 40 zoning district does require 500 square feet per resident for a fraternity or sorority.
 Thank you. And the size of the proposed structure is approximately 14,000 square feet. Is that correct? Do we know? I don't think, Council Member Marsh, they have not applied for a site improvement plan. Okay. But based on public testimony, Mr. Jorgensen probably could answer what their proposed square footage is.
 It certainly is under the bill of assurance that you approved it's restricted. Okay. De facto because of the three stories, seven foot side, 15 foot front, 15 foot rear. I guess what I'm trying to gauge is if they are under the new scenario providing approximately 500 square feet per resident.
 But I guess it's too early in the process to really know that. One interesting detail I did note as a very important difference between RMF 40 and Downtown General is the noise classification. In RMF 40, that for noise purposes is considered a commercial zone. And for Downtown General, that's considered a residential zone. Is that correct? Or do I have that backwards? Yes.
 I'm trying to uh I believe they're both residential. Jonathan can you that is correct they are both under the residential requirements it doesn't change downtown general is residential. Okay thank you that that was all I had. Okay what are the other questions do we have the council? um fraternities and sororities are classified as residential like like they're basically residential the use unit uh yes
 There's a special density requirement in the RMF 40 district and it's actually a flag that's in the district. Okay. I feel like fraternities and sororities, I mean this is another date, need to be
 probably classified slightly different. I think their uses five, 10 years ago were residential, but fraternities and sororities, the houses that are being built now are not being used like they were 15, 20 years ago. They're almost halls for events more than they are residential. So I think that's a separate date, but I just wanted to bring that up now. What else do we have?
 Mayor, do we have anybody from Urban Forestry on? There was a description of how the trees would be handled and how they'd be impacted, and I was just looking for an expert's read on that. Okay, who has that from staff? Garner, do you have that, or who? Okay, yes, Melissa, you, yes. I don't see her, though. Are you ready, Melissa? Hi, yes, can you hear me? Yes. Okay, I have seen a preliminary site plan
 But of course, you know, and it looks like they are trying to maximize the site, which would stress on the trees. You know, I would just have to study it in further detail, but it looks like the root zones of many of those trees along the borders of the property would be significantly affected. Oh, okay. Did the...
 The placement of the previous footings have any impact on that? Or I don't know enough about how trees grow underground. Well, I mean, if you look at the canopy of a tree and you just extend a drip line down from those outer branches down to the ground from the edge of the branches, that's pretty much where the root zone is. And the roots are generally in the top two feet of soil. So they spread out like the canopy, you know, and they can take, you know,
 cutting some of them, but you know if you cut off half of that root zone that tree is going to probably certainly suffer if not die. It may you know, it may take a while for it to die. But there are I mean there are things that can be done to you know tread lightly around them. I mean I
 and I'm not sure about the removal of the existing building and how that would affect the trees. I haven't studied it that carefully. That's all right, thank you. Governor, there were some questions about from where setbacks are measured. Is that ambiguous in the bill of assurance or is there an established standard for that? It would be from the right of way line. I think it's a good question.
 And does staff have an estimate of how the neighboring buildings measure from that point? And to make a comparison on this? I believe that the adjacent structures, I believe one is 18, the other one is 20. Okay, that's roughly what I was estimating from the GIS. So I'm glad that I guessed those right. And then I guess just to circle back to the one acre requirement on RMF 40 is,
 way out of character with the other special land, minimum land sizes or lot sizes. Do we know what any of the rationale behind that was being when the code was adopted? I do not know what the thinking was in 1970. I do know that given these uses, it seems to,
 They are occupied by young people that are in college and they are sometimes referred to as locally unwanted land uses. It strikes me that for what is primarily a housing type that they are treated very differently than other multifamily housing.
 If we weren't talking about a fraternity house with the one acre requirement, what could a building built to the current RMF 40 zone look like? The height limitation is five stories. There is a step back provision there. It starts at two and then if you set up, if there's a setback, I believe 10 feet and then it can go up. But eventually it could reach five stories.
 And I believe the side yard is eight feet on the RMF 40. But it still come back up to the sidewalk like we had the initial concern? Yes, it could but not at the five stories. There's a two storey part of it could go to the zero setback under the RMF 40. And I know this has been a point of confusion because
 The RMF 40 used to have, my understanding is it used to have 25 foot setback and the neighbors were under the impression that's what it is, but that's not what it is now. It is zero to 25. And the reason I'm kind of probing around these other situations is we're all very concerned about the consequences of a yes vote, but a no vote also has consequences as far as what
 that gets developed from a determined developer on lands on the way it currently is. And I know that we've talked a couple of times on this one about the Board of Adjustments and how every other Greek institution recently has been to the Board of Adjustments and received variances. What would we anticipate would happen here as far as determination of a hardship and what could they get in a variance through that avenue?
 Board of Adjustment is, it's a high bar. It's supposed to be a high bar for variances. You're supposed to show that the land can't economically be used without the variance.
 which really sets a high bar. But I think the Board of Adjustment also can take under consideration common sense and normal development requirements. I would say that they certainly have done that in granting variance to the priorities of fraternities.
 The standards of the Board of Adjustment, though, it must be unique, a unique problem to that property. And here we have a regular piece of property out there.
 and you've got standard setbacks, you'd have to prove to the Board of Adjustment that you can't develop your property without removing those setbacks. And that doesn't mean you can't develop it at the highest value to yourself. It means you can't develop it. So I would very much not believe that the Board of Adjustment would grant any kind of variance on an established lot like this.
 but but the kid they're not asking for setbacks they're looking at that one acre minimum requirement and and i believe the board of adjustments granted several of those in recent uh developments haven't it i'm not aware of that maybe garner is or johnson uh yes i think i may have i may be able to share that with you um
 Actually, I'll defer to Jonathan while I find this chart. Jonathan, you did the research that I have.
 Certainly, there have been several variances granted. Not all of them have been for density, but most sororities and fraternities, given their sizes and their ballooning sizes, most universities these days have had much larger capacities and as Council Member Scroggen noted, much larger buffets of options for attendees. I can think of two or three that have had
 either acreage or lot area per residence variances granted. Some have had minimum buildable street furniture variances granted. Yeah, you can see right here, Mr. Stoll has pulled up some examples that we've seen of late. You can see that there's a pretty close correlation with the university's recent increase in number of residents and the subsequent increases in the sizes of many of the sororities and fraternities.
 We would probably be seeing more of them except that many of the sororities and fraternities do elect to sell their land to the university, putting them beyond the city's authority. So that's where you see many of the much larger ones, especially along Maple or sorority row, if you will. Okay. Well, it looks like here some of the recent ones, Kappa Sigma and
 and the high five both had the land area and land area per resident that we're talking about delta 2. so um but there's just not a lot of security in our code the way it's written right now and um i understand i wouldn't want to live next to a fraternity either my first job in college or out of college was as a residence hall director and i dealt with greek students there
 less than the young adults but i not not where i would choose now to to put my house right next to and i didn't i live across town but um there as we talk about the history of this street it strikes me that this street has historically housed lots of lots of greek organizations and so it makes sense that this is
 an appropriate place for that otherwise they're going to be moving further off into another neighborhood that's maybe a little less adjusted to it but it feels like our code is just wrong on how to allow that to happen what other conversation do we have on this from the council here i have another question okay uh garner or jonathan i noticed on that uh document that you displayed for us that one of the requests was uh labeled
 partially granted. Could you describe to us the flexibility the Board of Adjustments has when partially granting or considering partially granting a request? Board of Adjustments can look at the situation that as the City Attorney mentioned, they're supposed to make a finding that probably can't be used economically. So they could say,
 The applicant has proven that to their satisfaction. Board of Adjustment also can get rent variances and attach conditions to allow the economical use of the property, but protect their surrounding area. And they do. Thank you. I have another question. It's probably best for our city attorney.
 We've heard before the list of things that we are legally allowed to consider whenever we have a rezoning request in front of us. To what extent are we able to consider business or purpose of the applicant themselves? Well, the list that I have provided in the past, I've taken from court cases and from the statute itself
 but it's not really supposed to be an exhaustive list uh every time one of those were was adopted by the court was probably because the city council had adopted it themselves so they're uh it's not meant to be a list that includes everything that is uh that you could ever think of uh i will say in most zoning situations uh you should probably consider just potential uses on the
 development on the land rather than any particular one. In this particular case though, it's pretty hard to get away from the fact that they're doing this or requesting this zoning so they can build a fraternity here, which would not allow fraternity under RSF 40. And I can't imagine the Board of Adjustment would consider granting a variance wherein this is one fifth the size
 that the ordinance that was passed by the city council requires. That's just too far to go. So the only way they could build a fraternity here, I think, on this size lot would be to rezone it to downtown general. So in this particular case, I think that with the history of the lot and with the clear concept that
 it's a fraternity that is attempting to do this, then I think that's probably something you can consider. Whereas usually I would say, just look at the youth unit, nothing else.
 But no rule does exist without possible exceptions. And I think this is one exception in that particular case, because it's so clear exactly what is being proposed for this lot that you can consider the use that is most likely going to occur if you do the rezoning. Thank you. You said something as you were explaining that, that I need to follow up on.
 You said that you didn't think without a rezoning that they could build a fraternity building. But I wanted to ask you about that again, because when you said that I feel I need to reconcile that with document Garner showed us earlier that showed the Board of Adjustments had a history of granting these variances. Do you think that under RMF 40, the Board of Adjustments would not be able
 to grant or partially grant a similar request? I think probably that is correct. They have to, they don't, one of their restrictions or they can't grant something that would be clearly outside the zoning criteria.
 And this one would be a lot that is one-fifth the size that the city council says must be in a RMF 40 zone in order to have a fraternity. Now, if it was 0.89 acres, I think they might be able to grant that variance, you know, something like that. And that's probably, if there has been changes in size, it's probably been a size of a lot that is very substantially bigger than one-fifth of an acre.
 I mean, it might not be, you know, nine tenths of an acre, eight tenths, I don't know, but to grant a variance that's five times smaller than what the ordinance requires, I think would violate the spirit of that ordinance too much and they could not do that. Okay, I can't say that it's becoming clearer, but it is helping.
 When you speculate about or when you interpret that ordinance and you raise the notion of the relative difference from the ordinance requirement of one acre and the lot size of 0.2 acres, do you know where one acre came from in the original ordinance? I'm asking the question because it seems like
 I'm curious if there was an assumption that fraternity and sorority houses would be of a certain size. I think that, of course, you must remember this was done 50 years ago. And it's been the law, including a setback form, F40 until about 10 years ago. And it's still the law about the acre. And I think that that was done because the board of directors of the city of Fayetteville
 probably had some experience that sometimes fraternities and sororities are difficult neighbors and therefore they probably felt like there needed to be basically a buffer to some extent around a fraternity and sorority so that they would not be too disruptive to their neighbors and therefore they thought
 A larger lot would be something that would be needed. They probably also were aware of the parking that fraternities and sororities almost always need. And therefore, again, a larger lot would be required to have adequate parking for the fraternity and sorority so they would not impede upon the other neighborhood that they might be in.
 So I think that's where it came from. And, of course, at that point in time, the land was not as expensive in Fayetteville as it is now. And the university had not grown as much. And so all the land around it and all the lots had filled up. And so it's more difficult to find a one-acre lot. I'd say that's not impossible to find a one-acre lot, even relatively close to the university. Right.
 But I think that was the reason for it. There were several factors that went into it, but I think one of the major factors was they were trying to protect the neighbors of the fraternity and sorority as kind of having a big enough lot that there might be some buffer around the fraternity and sorority so it wouldn't adversely affect their neighbors. Council Member Petty, yes.
 There's a lot of details here, but Board of Adjustment did grant a variance from the one-acre lot size. They did not adjust the provision that requires 500 square feet per student. What was the size of that lot, Garner? On this lot. They did grant...
 a variance to that to the one acre lot size to allow this the previous fraternity to not not be non-conforming. I can say I'm surprised but you know they they they are a fairly independent group although they have to follow the the law and so I guess that they didn't have well they did what they did. I'm not sure I'm not sure I got a clear understanding of that you said
 The question was, what was the size of the lot? It was the same lot, Mark. I guess they allowed that fraternity, the SIGEPs, to be there in that building. I don't know if they just were using a building that was already there or what. I don't know what the facts were in that case. Oh, if it was SIGEP, that's, yeah, okay. I got it.
 Well, I would like to thank you both to Garner and Jonathan and to Kit for helping me think through this. I don't know that I have my mind made up in a confident way, but I did want to share what my current thinking is. If the council elects to vote tonight, I'll make up my mind as well as I can. But I would also not be...
 I would not be upset if we wanted to take another two weeks personally for my own thinking. So I am definitely struggling with this one more than I might seem to with some of our other rezonings.
 I felt that what Council Member Kenyon said earlier at the beginning of the meeting was mirroring how I felt in that the bill of assurance was an improvement but I still didn't feel compelled to support the rezoning with the bill of assurance alone. So I've listened to the conversation carefully.
 Right now I feel two different things. On the one hand, it does appear that downtown general with respect to setbacks in particular and also with respect to height limitations is a more favorable zoning based on the values that have been communicated to us by the neighbors.
 With RMF 40 allowing a building to be constructed more closely than has been expressed as a desire, and it also allowing a taller building at five stories. On the other hand, it seems like the truth to acknowledge that
 In many ways, these land uses function more as event halls than they do as strictly as residences alone. And I think that for me is really the crux of the decision. Whenever we consider parking,
 Parking is going to be treated the same from one district to the next and I am skeptical that the Planning Commission would be as receptive as the applicant seems to think they would be about a proposal for off-site parking at the scale that's been discussed. So in any case I am concerned about parking but I also have a little bit of
 trust in the system that we have, that that is a conversation that would be treated as seriously as it deserves to be treated as development review were to proceed. The main issue for me is that it seems as though RMF 40 is
 with the Board of Adjustments gives a process that is specific to fraternities, and it appears to be the only process that we have that is specific to fraternities in this case. I feel that these land uses should be treated differently than strictly residences, perhaps not all that differently, but differently in important ways, and
 So even though Downtown General looks better on paper with respect to some of the technical requirements, it removes any ability we have to impose conditions on the basis of the variances that may be requested in RMF 40.
 So I feel double minded about it. I also feel as though I don't understand the Board of Adjustment process as well as I do the Planning Commission process. I've watched it many times, but I'm simply not as familiar or as involved and haven't been as involved with it in the past. So I don't know to what I can't say for myself
 to what extent I believe that the Board of Adjustments would consider creative conditions to support the project and to address some of the concerns we've heard. So in summary, my mind's definitely not made up, but I did want to share my thoughts of where things are at. I don't feel like this is...
 I don't feel like this is a decision that is a clear decision in terms of what's better for the community or in terms of what's better for the neighborhood. Okay, who else would like to address this? What other discussion do we have?
 I'd like to say a few things. So I did a little developer math on this lot. Based on the existing lot size of about 150 feet by 60 feet, I subtracted the setbacks by our new Board of Adjustments. And what that leaves us with is about 5,520 square feet of developable land area.
 on the lot and if we were to go up three stories that's a little over 16,000 square feet of new residence halls. If we were to divide that by 500 square feet per resident that would accommodate approximately 33 residents assuming that none of that space was used as an event center space. But in looking at the fraternity's website I see that there are over 87 people in their membership photos so that
 gives me concern that there may be more people than the 500 square foot threshold would allow living in the house. So that leads me to believe that the neighbors are correct in saying that the proposal is too large for the site. Now, whether or not the answer to that is to go back to RMF 40, I think that actually –
 That's where I'm leaning at this point, which is a strange finding for me because normally I would be due to its proximity to services, I would like to see this developed in a more dense format. But I also agree with the residents desire to see this as a special historic overlay district, and I wish that we had done that. But while I haven't.
 committed to voting one way or the other. I do wish that moving forward, we would develop a specific use unit for fraternities and sororities because acknowledging their unique condition so that we don't find ourselves in this situation again. Thanks. Okay, who else would like to address? This is an ordinance, it's on the second reading right now. So if you want to,
 plow on through it's going to be wherever you all said i do have some comments on this so i may have a minute okay sure there first of all i don't think that we can uh really make suppositions of possible actions of the board of adjustments but looking at those uh
 and I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point.
 that in this block, take a walk down Arkansas Avenue. I live in the area, I walk down it all the time. I also live adjacent to two sorority houses that have recently expanded and they were very careful to restrict the number of residents that were living in the properties, but the increase in event space completely invalidated what was presented,
 initially as they were building on the property. And that's what led to the parking crisis north on the south side of Wilson Park. And I think that this could easily do a similar thing in this neighborhood. I think the most important thing that we heard tonight was there are 12 points to consider
 the one first one being compatibility on this block this is the last block that is anchored by two historic homes that indeed are historically significant and preserve that element across the most famous lawn in arkansas and that would be the lawn of old maine and so i i'm i'm concerned that being the last lot anchored by two historic houses and then this
 This is a large building, square foot-wise, that will indeed impact the whole nature of the last block anchored by two historic structures. The, I have a lot of things here, but I need some. Got lost here. I think I've hit a lot of the important things.
 Everyone knows that I like neighborhood preservation, and we have heard from the residents. Some of the residents that live in some of the oldest properties in the city of Fayetteville, and they are pointing out something that we don't want to lose in our city, and that is the history, the heritage, especially associated with the University of Arkansas.
 So I have to consider this and I wish it were preserved historic neighborhood in some way. The fact that they talked about solid waste and solid waste collection. I know if you go down in the area behind the other fraternity houses, if you walk down Reagan Street is often a mess, but there aren't residents right behind it like there would be in this property.
 We heard about downtown general being spot zoning and I'm always concerned about spot zoning. I was concerned about it in properties in the south end of Fayetteville and I considered a problem with this also. So that's some of the things I'm thinking about. I really enjoyed and appreciated the conversation and the questions that were brought up by Council Member Petty.
 they're very relevant and very much on my mind when I'm looking at, if you're looking at this property, not as a fraternity, but the uses that would come with the property if it were not developed by a fraternity, the current uses and those that would be developed possibly by the change, I think that that has to be considered with equal validity. So,
 currently all in all, until I hear some other compelling argument, I would not vote for this because it is incompatible. I think that it takes away the historical nature of this very block that is important across the lawn from Old Main and I think the neighbors have very valid points that they have presented and we have to appreciate that, so.
 And the big thing is this is not, if it's typical of the Greek houses that have been built adjacent to me, and they're not bad neighbors, they're two sororities, but they are event centers. Any way you look at them, they're not to be judged by the number of residents that they say are going to be occupying the structure. Right.
 They need to be judged by the potential events and the number of people that will be attending them regularly. And so that's the change in the nature of Greek housing compared to 50 years ago when they were developing the current guidelines. A lot to think about, but that's kind of outlined some of my thoughts. Anybody else?
 Okay, so what y'all want to do? You want to hold it here? What's the wish of the council here? I'd like to leave it here. Okay. I agree, Mayor. I think that if I were to vote on it tonight, I would vote no and let them take their chances with the Board of Adjustments because it sounds like they'd have better luck there than they will with us monkeying with code that doesn't fit. I'm curious. We haven't heard from the applicant yet.
 Since we've had a lot of this conversation and in honor of his request for a conversation and to not just have it be up or down, I'm kind of curious if you've got any feedback for us. Okay. So you want to hear from the applicant again, Kyle? Is that what you're saying? Yes, please. Okay. How much time are we looking at? Because they had their 10-minute block. Three minutes. Okay. Do we vote on this?
 Well, I don't really know, Mark. I'm not going to leave that to the city attorney here. If there is any opposition to that, then there will be a vote. Otherwise, it can be done by unanimous consent. I will oppose that. Okay, then we need a motion in a second to do three minutes, I suppose, Kyle. I'm not making a motion. I withdraw. Okay. I want to explain myself. I do think that they have the guidelines and that they have presented their time. We'll get another week at them.
 Excuse me, this is Sarah here. I also feel like if we're going to hold this here, they have an opportunity to come back and address our questions, you know, in anything that arises at the next agenda session, they're going to have ample opportunity to address that then. So I think we should just go ahead and hold it and go on.
 Well, if, all right, let's just, I'm not hearing that the council wants to go on with the night, so let's just leave it right here for two weeks, okay? If anybody's in disagreement with that. Well, I'm in disagreement with it, but I don't think it would pass, so. Okay. I'm not.
 Okay. Well, that being said. I'm in disagreement with that as well. I just don't see the difference of the number of members changing the decision because it just sounds like the size is an issue. So we're talking about residents, that's not going to change to what is fitting within this piece of property. So that's my, I don't feel like that's going to change the conversation.
 Well, okay, then somebody probably needs to make a motion to go to the third and final reading then, if we're going to go on. I would like to make that motion that we go to the third and final reading. Okay. I will second that. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. All right, Kara, would you please call the roll? Kerr? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? We're voting to go to the final reading, correct? That's correct.
 Yes, I want to go to the final reading. Okay. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Petty? No. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Eight, six. That's five. Five to three. Then, Mayor, you can vote if you choose to. I'm not going to vote. Okay. Then, it's a motion that did not pass. Okay. Let's go on to number four.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7086 for approximately 0.51 acres located at 1278 West Hendricks Street from RSF 8th residential single family eight units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on that. So moved. Second.
 All right, we have a motion and a second to build the second reading on that one. Tara, would you please call the roll? Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Torres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property, describe in rezoning petition RZN 20-7086 for approximately half acre located at 1278 West Hendricks Street from RSF 8, residential single family, eight units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban. Okay, Carter, what do you have on this one? Mayor, I don't have anything to add. I'd be happy to answer your questions. Okay, is the applicant here?
 Okay, we're going to assume the applicant is not here. I believe the applicant is Mr. Fugit, if he's present. I think he is. Is he? Okay, well, that's good. All right, Mr. Fugit, do you have anything you want to say to the council? Okay, well, obviously, Mr. Fugit does not have anything to say to the council. All right, what questions do we have for the staff on this? I have a question. Okay. Garner, could you...
 over what the staff recommendation was for this this rezoning? Staff recommended a denial. And that was due to? It was due to the fact that we had recommended RSF 8 and the City Council had approved that less than a year ago and we felt that
 given all the issues surrounding this neighborhood, which is under a tremendous amount of development potential as well as pressure, that going to RIU at this time was dramatically changing the development potential, 18 foot lot rather than the 50 foot lot width is the biggest change
 Certainly this neighborhood has examples of 50 foot width lots all the way up to half an acre. But the RIU really has very few limitations depending on your viewpoint whether that's good or bad. But it really does not have a lot of limitations.
 that would restrict the development to reflect the character of the long established neighborhood. And if I read the code correctly, there's no density limitation, is that correct? That is correct. Thank you. What other questions do we have for Garner? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes
 which staff will monitor who would like to address this from the public okay i'll bring it back to the council this is on the second reading correct and it is an ordinance so what's the wishes the council nobody's got any wishes
 Well, I'm a bit concerned that the previous issue went on for a long time and maybe the neighbors got tired and we haven't had, you know, a lot of public discussion except on the on the issue on Arkansas Avenue. And so I'd like to hold it here if we can and give the neighbors an opportunity in two weeks to express their opinion if they have one. Okay. I would support that.
 Do we know if anyone who registered for the meeting tonight signed up to speak on this? No, nobody did from the beginning. We're living in a very strange time and we've changed the whole dynamics of our meetings. This neighborhood has spoken out many times recently on what is happening in their neighborhood. So I think that we're well aware that there are concerns and it
 i want to give them an opportunity because they are a neighborhood that's under pressure as mentioned before so just due to the change of the nature of our meetings i think it's very hard for people to get united and figure out what to do so i would like to hold it if we went on to the next reading i guess that would be okay but i would like to hold it and this is in my ward
 I mean, I'm fine with that, just whatever y'all want to do. Yeah, I'm fine holding it. I spent an hour and a half on the phone with some of the neighbors from this neighborhood, and I was surprised that they were in favor of it, the ones that I spoke to after the conversation we had last time, them maybe more so than me, but I'm perfectly happy to hold on to it and give them another chance to join us on a shorter agenda.
 Okay. Is anybody opposed to holding it two weeks? Okay, then we'll just leave it right here. Let's move along to number five, which is a lot like number four, except a little bigger.
 An owner of the zone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7089 for approximately two acres located at 1139, 1213, 1237, 1251, and 1283 West Hendrick Street from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this. So moved. Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-7089 for approximately two acres, located at 1139, 1213, 1237, 1251, and 1283 West Hendrick Street, from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay. Garner, what do you have on this one? Mayor, I don't have anything to add. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Is the applicant here? I believe the applicant is Mr. Marks. Well, is he here? Yes, he is here. Okay. Mr. Marks, would you like to speak to the city council? I would. Can you hear me?
 Yes, we can. Thank you very much and thanks for letting me speak. I'd like to say that my request is quite different than the previous one in that I have submitted a bill of assurance for single family. And I felt like that single family bill of assurance was the message that...
 it would keep the occupancy limited, according to city ordinance, three persons or less unrelated in any one home. And I just felt like that was a different deal. I also felt like that I have the,
 neighborhood support. I think there was a letter supporting this. And I think if you've had any phone conversation, you'll find support. And the reason for that support is this bill of assurance sticks with the property. So even future owners would be tied to the single family residence. And we felt like what we were doing was locking this section of the neighborhood into single family, which is very equal to what's there.
 I'll stand by for any questions. Thank you again for the time. Okay, let's go back to Garner. Garner, give me a reason why the planning staff did not support this rezoning. I don't believe you all did. No, Mayor, we did not. We felt that, I know council was fully aware of the development requirements.
 The RIU is the least restrictive in sense of the lot width, it's 18 foot and lot area. And we felt that a more gentle approach to this area rather than rezoning to RIU. Of course, when we made the recommendation, we did not have the bill of assurance
 I think those of us on the staff side are questioning why you would do RIU and then do a bill of assurance limiting it to single family when we have a plethora of districts for single family all the way from RSF4 all the way up to RSF18. RSF18 would allow a 30 foot lot width
 which is a little closer to the historic pattern in this neighborhood. But neighborhood conservation would be 40. RSF 8, which the previous zoning decision by council was requires 50 foot
 It just picks up the pattern language of this neighborhood, which was developed in the 50s as small scale lots to large lots actually, but none that go all the way down to 18 foot width. It seems like it's a little bit out of character to us. The other issue that we really were aware of is
 the potential of this area and the development pressure. Lewis Field will be a park. We're going to spend millions of dollars, hopefully, for a wonderful trail system that connects east to west, which is now under planning and design and funded. And lots of small houses, large vacant lots,
 We think this is a candidate, whether we do, are lucky enough to get funding to do pattern zoning or pre-approved billing design. We think this is a candidate for perhaps a look at the future of the area because it's under development pressure and has a lot of potential, but maybe surgeons,
 rather than a bulldozer in terms of relationship to the existing houses would be called for. So, and the RIU certainly, I'm not opposed to RIU. I question whether it fits this particular context.
 Mr. Mayor, I think I need to ask the City Council again to amend this particular ordinance to make it subject to the Bill of Assurance that's been offered by the applicant. Okay. I move that we add the Bill of Assurance. Okay. I'll second that. Okay. What discussion do we have on the Bill of Assurance? I think the Bill of Assurance changes the nature of this completely. And if you'll recall the discussion we had in previous sessions,
 rezoning with this neighborhood, this very property came up more than once where the neighborhood said that Mr. Marks was willing to do this as single family and that they did support it. And so we know that that was an expression. And then when I've talked with neighbors recently with the bill of assurance, it changes everything. So now that we have the bill of assurance attached, I think we have to completely consider it
 And so, RIU itself is, well, I guess to me it's odd that it's there, but on the other hand, I see how it could work for the developer and for the neighborhood. So maybe this is a nice compromise to move forward. So the bill of assurance, I think, is key.
 I would like to clarify something the applicant said. In R.I.U., isn't it limited to four persons per resident, four unrelated per resident rather than three? Is that correct? Yes, that is correct. It allows for unrelated individuals and the single family districts would allow three unrelated individuals. Thank you.
 Mayor, I have a comment. Sure. Well, I'm not able to support the bill of assurance because I feel it would be inconsistent with statements I've made in the past. We are desperate and we...
 I really wish that we would have a formal review of the zoning pedigree and zoning genealogy of the ordinances that we have on the books. It would, I feel, illuminate in a way that is simply truthful and historical some of the impacts that have come about from our past zoning decisions. Thank you.
 I can't support the bill of assurance because when we have zoning that restricts the developments to single family exclusive structures, the outcome is economic segregation. I don't say this because I have an ax to grind. I say it because it's an observation. If we have neighborhoods where the only people who can live there are those who can afford to buy or rent a detached structure, then,
 we have economic segregation. And arguments that rest on sameness don't compel me. Our neighborhoods, even though we love them, even though we've had wonderful lives there, have, they demonstrate environmental deficits. And to fix those, those neighborhoods have to change.
 They run fiscal deficits and to fix those, the neighborhoods have to change. And they're very, very white and affluent. And to mix incomes and to mix us up, those neighborhoods have to change. It's hard for us, I think, to accept because of our experiences growing up in neighborhoods like this, that it could be true that these outcomes are tied to the zoning, but they are.
 They are tied to the zoning. These decisions that were made 30 or 40 or 50 years ago to create neighborhoods that segregated us economically have led to the kind of makeup that we have in our city today. And decisions like the one that is before us prolong those conditions. Environmental deficits, fiscal deficits, and economic segregation.
 I can't support the bill of assurance because I believe that very strongly. And I think those are the facts. Mr. Mayor, I would like to remove my second. I concur with Matthew Petty's statements. Thank you. I'll second the motion. Okay. So, Teresa, you now are seconding the motion. All right. We're back to where we were. What discussion do we have on the bill of assurance? Mayor, this is also a bill of assurance that I can't support. And while I agree with,
 the statements we just heard that's i have a different reason the neighbors have said that they want to maintain the character of their neighborhood as a an affordable single family neighborhood and and even if we didn't worry about the the segregation aspects which i think we should um i don't believe this bill of assurance accomplishes what the neighbors are asking for i
 What we are doing is some very complicated interactions of various sections of our code. It is easy to look at one thing and think it will solve your problems. In this case, not only is single-family restriction completely contrary to the purpose of the RU zoning as it is stated in our code, but it is also a very complex
 It also is going to put us into one of these positions of pushing the zone to extremes. Teresa pointed out that it increases the maximum occupancy. And so we might get large houses that are big enough for extra people.
 that would necessarily be more expensive and rented by the room or rented to a very luxury sort of clientele that is not what we see in this neighborhood. That is not the character of this neighborhood that they're looking for. Alternatively, they could use the 18-foot lot width minimum and really pack in the space
 some small single family houses here under that which is also not what this neighborhood is looking for when i had my conversation with them they were overwhelmingly concerned about density and we had a good long chat and i didn't agree with um with some of their goals and and they didn't agree with some of mine but we both by the time we were done agreed that this bill of assurance
 I think we have zoning tools that are better for a single family restriction. Like Gardner mentioned, that would allow a gentle intensification in this neighborhood. No neighborhood should have a zoning restriction. I think we have to be careful about that.
 change radically, but they also shouldn't be exempt from change. I'm afraid that RAU is a radical change even with this bill of assurance. Thank you.
 I have concerns as well about restricting this to single-family homes because the reality is in this neighborhood a lot of these are probably going to be rented by the room and if we are going to rent them by the room I would rather a see build apartments that are adequately provisioned with enough space and amenities to handle that kind of density in particular parking spaces so
 I can't support the bill of assurance. I do agree that we need more density in this neighborhood, but it needs to be,
 built realistically for the people who are likely to live there. And, you know, we have an abundance of three bedroom and homes on the market in Fayetteville, but we have an extreme shortage of affordable, smaller dwelling units, whether that's apartments, townhouses, row houses, any type of attached dwelling. And this is very close to services and jobs. Right.
 and amenities. So I do agree that we need density here, but I don't think that the single family provision that they're trying to attach to it is the right mechanism to achieve that. Thank you. Okay. Well, I assume, Mr. Marks, you're listening to all the conversation going on here. So do you have any thoughts from what you're hearing here differently than your proposal? Well, I think,
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for allowing me to speak again. Just to clarify on the R.I.U., which has no limit to occupancy, the bill of assurance was put in for the single-family residence, which would apply the limit to occupancy, which I hope is, you know, I've interpreted that correctly, and I think there's a little confusion there. The other thing is...
 I do want to build smaller homes that are affordable housing, not multi-family attached units that would change the neighborhood dramatically. And so that's my intention, that's what I'm trying to do. And I'm under the impression I have the support of the neighborhood in that direction. I felt like that would increase the density of the neighborhood very appropriately.
 If I can answer any other questions, I will. Thank you for allowing me to speak again. Okay. Anybody else want to? I have a comment. Sure. You know, Mr. Marks is trying to actually respond to the concerns of the neighbors. This is a modest, stable neighborhood. The neighbors, many of them have been there a very long time. They've invested their money, their livelihood, created their culture of that neighborhood.
 And I feel that this council often has negated the neighbors. I mean, these are the very people that have built Fayetteville for the great place that it is. And to not listen to them and to consider their wishes and trying to work with them
 I find very disappointing. You know, sure, we are definitely, Fayetteville is under some housing pressure. But we have no idea how that pressure is going to be next year with the pandemic going on. We have no idea how that's going to affect things. And right now, that neighborhood is an affordable neighborhood.
 It is very affordable and it has absolutely nothing to do with racial zoning or inequities. What I don't understand is we've had other neighborhoods that have come up here where that could have been an issue, but that has not been spoken about. And tonight and three weeks ago, whenever we had this discussion, for some reason, this neighborhood now has been selected as the poster child.
 of inequities in zoning and historical zoning. And I think that's completely inappropriate. This is a sweet little neighborhood and I applaud the developer for trying to listen to the concerns of the neighbors and address those through his bill of assurance, thank you.
 okay i agree that this is a modest stable neighborhood i do not believe that following our code in this way will allow it to stay that way this bill of assurance matched up to our our zoning code does not produce the desired result and i'm curious if mr marks is is
 Gain for making smaller more modest housing. Would you be open to looking at? One of the the single-family zones that is intended specifically to accomplish that. Okay. Thank you you know as pointed out by a
 one of the members in the earlier meeting, I'm not sure who, that RSF 18 was felt like it was more appropriate and it certainly doesn't really change
 the density of what my intentions are. And while that's the same, that's not the direction we went. And if that's something that can be changed midstream right now, I'm not aware of how that works, but if that's the case,
 as pointed out by one of your staff, it's the density would be the same for me. And that is fine. If that's something you feel more comfortable with, that's what I was trying to achieve with the RIU and the bill of assurance. So I'm trying to get where you're telling me to go. Maybe I just didn't try the right direction, but I'm going where you're asking. I appreciate that flexibility. Thank you.
 I do feel that the RSF-18 would be much more appropriate for this area. The 30-foot lot widths, that could accommodate some smaller houses. So I would really like to see the applicant move in that direction. And certainly the city council has the legislative power, especially with the request by the applicant to modify, amend this ordinance. So instead of RRIU, it would be RSF-18.
 yeah and garner you all right with the r18 because then you're in the uh in the packet it talks about you all being okay with rsf8 or 18 or there was something else that you all yes mayor we did put that on the table yes i saw that so i think that i'm going to leave that up to the applicants and the council and the council
 I think if the applicant is for that, it's the way to go. The way I was looking at it, it was a matter of semantics. It seemed like the same if you listened to the applicant. So I think that we do need to consider the single family 18 residential as an option. To me, it's much the same. And it does...
 It meets the goals of the neighborhood. I also think that this is a diverse neighborhood with diverse housing. If you get away from the four block area, then suddenly you're moving out to all sorts of diversity. So that is just not the case in this neighborhood.
 I don't see how it can be economically segregating to a big degree if we're doing affordable housing. I always point to the south side of town where we were spot zoning one lot after the next under the illusion that there would be affordable houses down there because of density. And there is not an example of that that I can think of. They're very expensive homes. The density is nice. The homes are nice.
 But it did not meet the goal that we were promised when we were doing the resounding. Parliamentarily wise, Mark, you had...
 If you wanted to go and change the potential rezoning to RSF 18, you would first need to withdraw your motion to amend the current ordinance by adding a bill of assurance. And then at that point, it would be possible to amend the ordinance to change the zoning to RSF 18.
 Well, let's do that then. I'm not sure exactly how to do it. Withdraw your motion to amend to accept a bill of assurance. Yes, I will do that. And the second would have to agree. I agree. Okay, Mr. Marks, you're okay with that before we get too far down here with your bill of assurance being removed and going to an RSF 18. Okay, I'm requesting what you're asking for. Yes, thank you.
 All right. Thank you all for that fine horse trading. Okay. We have withdrawn the bill of assurance, and now we're back to the ordinance, correct? That's correct. Okay. Well, that's good. I'd like to amend the ordinance to change to RSF 18. Second. Okay. We're going to change the ordinance to an RSF 18.
 That's an amendment. Just writing all this down, folks. Me too. So I can remember. All right. We're going to an RSF 18. Okay. What discussion do we have on the RSF 18? We didn't get a second, I don't think. I'm sorry. Yeah. Second. Now we got a second. Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have one question for Garner and then I wanted to take an opportunity to clarify something I said earlier. Garner, you may have already covered this, but I don't think you did for RSF 18. What is the occupancy limit per unit in RU and in RSF 18? The difference, Council Member, is in unrelated individuals. In 18, it would be three units.
 and R-I-U it would be four. Basically R-I-U is like an apartment zoning for the definition of family. Well, thank you. I think we need to stop thinking of apartments like that or as thinking of R-I-U as apartment zoning, but we can
 continue that conversation at another time. This is worse for economic segregation than the Bill of Assurance was with RIU because of the occupancy limit. And I understand that every time we bring this up, people naturally think that it's ridiculous to suggest that these kinds of neighborhoods are segregated or it's natural to...
 observed that this neighborhood has been targeted because it has had multiple recent conversations about it. But we've had the same conversation about every rezoning that it would allow multifamily development that has been proposed in central Fayetteville in the past five or six years, especially when the council or when the staff is reluctant to allow multifamily construction to take place.
 We've had that conversation in Walker Park, VA Hill. We're going to have it within a month. In the Washington Willow Historic District, we've had it in Wilson Park. I expect that we'll have it much more in other areas in the future. Our comp plan says that we need to
 change these neighborhoods that are central in Fayetteville not in radical ways but in gentle ways and we've lost I feel the spirit of the debate when we look at residential units in small structures and say that they're incompatible with other residential units and small structures. This isn't an industrial proposal, it's not for a refinery or even for a mechanics shop.
 The proposal for R.I.U. without a bill of assurance is for modest dwellings for people of modest means, potentially. It doesn't say the developer can't build for luxury markets, but it's a zone that allows for a more modest development to take place. I regret that it's a fact that this type of zoning that's on the table now,
 does produce economic segregation. I'm not saying it's intentional. It seems like any time we talk about racism or economic disparities, there's a presumption that we're trying to call people out. We're not. I'm not. The history is just there. The outcomes are there for us all to see. And I worry that we are so preoccupied with the politics
 And so eager for compromise proposals that we have lost the plot of what our community needs to address issues like homelessness, like climate change, and like economic and racial segregation across our city. Okay. Any other comments from the council? All right. We have a proposal to change it to an RSF 18. That's correct, Mayor. Okay. Any other comments from the council? What reading are we on?
 Well, this is just an amendment. And then we're on the second reading, and this is to amend the ordinance that would be on the second reading. And then what I've got is public comment, and then you all can choose to either move it to the third reading or whatever you wish to do.
 Okay, I would just like a little bit more time to consider this because we've been changing the target on this one for a while and I feel like my head's spinning on it. So I encourage us to just take our time with the decisions as we move forward on this one. Thanks. But we do need to move forward on the amendment. I'm good with that. So whatever you all wish to do. So is there any other comments? I've got a motion to second to amendment to move to RSF 18.
 And so I think we need to vote one way or the other. I mean, moving it to the different zoning was the whole idea why I withdrew my previous motion. So now we're here. Let's do what we said we were going to do. That's right, because he withdrew his bill of assurance to do this. So I think y'all need to vote either up or down here.
 That's just me. All right. Let's go ahead and vote. Cambridge, please call the roll. Herg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Kagan? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? No. Bunch? Yes. Harris?
 So the amendment passes. Five to three. Right, and the ordinance has been amended, and it's on the second reading right now. Okay. Now let's take some public comment. All right. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this? Mayor, it appears that Blake Jorgensen is up for public comment.
 oh okay blake go ahead yes sir mayor uh good evening again i appreciate y'all's time i'll keep it under three minutes um and i just want to say that you know we are working with the other members within this neighborhood to try to create something cohesive that is palatable um and i just want to i want to commend the other uh council members that have the good faith that you know andrew marx has a desired
 you know, development pattern, which is commendable. And I agree with him. And he and I have talked about this at length. My point is that he could build under the RSF 18 zoning type under RRU. I think the future is uncertain as we've seen with this year
 My goodness, but I think RRU is not a derogatory zoning, and I don't think his intentions are to present anything to the neighborhood that he hasn't promised out. My point is that he can build by right anything under RSF 18 under the RRU purview if that's his desire. I disagree with the other council members that RRU is not,
 zoning that should be looked upon in a downward manner. So thank you very much. Have a good evening. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Bill Fugit. Okay. Bill. Hello. I apologize. I was having difficulties earlier, but yeah, I own the property at 1278 West Hendricks. And I'd like to echo Mr. Jorgensen's comments. I think that
 this neighborhood has a lot of um it's has a lot of houses that frankly are becoming uninhabitable and i think that um the riu zoning um you know allows for additional density and uh affordable housing that the city has um you know made a a goal so i think ru is appropriate for for this and i hope the
 But Bill, right now it's been amended to RSF 18. So that's the discussion that we're having. Oh, right. And so that's, I support the RSF 18 as well. Okay. Well, that's great. All right. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay.
 What's the wish? I think it's necessary to hold it here because we've made a change, and there's going to have to be a discussion and understanding in the community to be sure that they understand what this change means. In fact, I might need a couple of weeks to know what exactly this change means. You've been here a couple of weeks, Mike. Anyway, yes, okay, so...
 would you so mark you would like to hold it right here for two weeks and is anybody opposed to that okay well we'll just hold it right here with everything else on hold this all right uh hey we're the new business we're the new business i think the uh the folks up here can stand a short break so um we'd like about 10 minutes here to uh
 Have a short break. We'll be back in 10. Thank you, Mayor. All right, let's get going again. Thank you all. Let's see. New business. All right, number one.
 an ordinance to waive form of competitive bidding and to accept a quote of twenty one thousand seven hundred and seventy six dollars from black bearing company for the purchase of replacement bearings for the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site kit
 whereas on may 17 2020 the thermal dryer was damaged when the rotator shaft moved from its fixed position and inspection after disassembly revealed damage to the bearings and whereas an operational thermal dryer in combination with a biosolid biosolids management site solar house
 reduces 100,000 pounds of daily biosolids volume to 15,000 pounds of Class A exceptional quality fertilizer and allows the city to achieve substantial savings on landfill costs each year and is important for the dryer to be operational as quickly as possible. And whereas the city received quotes from three vendors, with Fleck Bearing Company being the lowest,
 And whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for the repair of both hidden or unknown damages. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD,
 repair of hidden or unknown damages the purchase of replacement bearings does not require formal competitive bidding and because of the urgency of the repair competitive bidding is not feasible or practical and therefore waves confetti competitive bidding and accepts the quote from fleck bearing company in the amount of twenty one thousand seven hundred and seventy six dollars and authorizes the payment of that amount
 Okay, Tim, what do you have? Thank you, Mayor. The biosolids management site does utilize a series of six solar houses and a thermal drying process for production of that Class A biosolids fertilizer. The thermal dryer process is nearly 75% of all the biosolids annually, and it saves the city significant landfill costs annually as well as allows for a beneficial reuse of the biosolids.
 On May 17th, the thermal dryer was damaged when the motor shaft moved from its fixed position. An ordinance was passed on June the 4th by the council to waive competitive bidding and accept a quote from the in-place machining company to repair the shaft that the burns were on. They did get that shaft repaired by last Friday.
 This was after the new bearings were installed about four to five weeks prior to this breakdown. On May the 30th, a representative from the bearing manufacturer visited the site to inspect the originally installed bearings. They were slightly damaged. They had been taken out of service before the damage done to them was nearly the extent
 for the first set of bearings. The bearing experts stated they can be used in the short term while new bearing parts can be ordered and received. We don't wanna use them just as short amount of time as possible so they don't risk any damage. We have received two quotes and a no bid from three vendors with Fleck Bearing Company and Springdale being the lowest bid. We do recommend the purchase of these required bearings at $21,776 plus freight and taxes
 Because it was necessary to have the bearings and shaft disassembled to determine the extent of the hidden and unknown damage to the equipment we've already purchased, a bid waiver or formal submitting would not be necessary according to Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD.
 Funds are available in the Plant Pumps and Ports Account within the Water and Sewer Fund. Decided and was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on June 9th with the unanimous decision to report to the full council for more consideration for approval. Be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Mayor, I was going to ask him whether it included freight and taxes, and it does not. So we'll need to amend the ordinance to include plus freight and taxes to the end of Section 1 and the title. I move we amend this to include freight and taxes. Second. Okay, we have an amendment to amend to freight and taxes. All right, any discussion on that for the council? Okie dokie.
 Mayor would you please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thank you. Okay, so what questions do we have from the council for Tim? Mayor I would like to add that our sludge dryer will be operational on Saturday. Okay, great.
 All right. Do we have any public comment on this? Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this on this from the public? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? I move that we suspend the rules and move this to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Second.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch?
 And ordinance way for competitive bidding and add and accept a quote of twenty one thousand seven hundred and seventy six dollars plus flight freight and taxes from Fleck Bearing Company for the purchase of replacement bearings for the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion second to go to the third and final reading. Chair would you please call the roll. Heard.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Pinion? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 And nor does the way formal competitive bidding and accept a quote of $21,776 plus freight and taxes from Fleck Bearing Company for the purchase of replacement bearings for the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Carrie, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Thank you. Number two, an ordinance to amend Ordinance Number 6315 to include additional exemptions to credit card and debit card transaction fees and to establish an effective date. Kip? Whereas the City Council passed Ordinance Number 6315 on May 19, 2020,
 to approve the assessment of a 2.95% fee on credit card and debit card transactions other than utility bill and parking fee payments. And whereas while configuring the city's software, city staff identified several additional invoice types that should be exempted because the transaction fees are effectively incorporated into the fee structure of the invoice being produced.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 1 of Ordinance Number 6315, so that it reads as follows. Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines, pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 14-59-119B3,
 that the credit card or debit card transaction fee is included in the amounts charged for utility bills, including recycling and trash collection charges that are included in monthly utility bills, paid parking fees, airport invoices, police invoices, animal control invoices, parks and recreation fees, and miscellaneous billings.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 2 of Ordinance 6315 so that it reads as follows. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby approves the assessment of a 2.9% fee on credit card and debit card transactions other than payment of utility bills.
 including recycling and trash collection charges that are included in the monthly utility bills, paid parking fees, airport invoices, police invoices, animal control invoices, parks and recreation fees, and miscellaneous billings. Section 3 that the City Council of the City of Fela-Arksa hereby determines that the effective date for development services-related transaction fees shall coincide with the implementation of Intergov online payment software.
 And Paul. As the council will remember, on May 19th, I brought this issue forward. It was driven by two events. One last year, the legislative session in 2019 passed that a transaction fee needed to be charged on any charge for which a credit card was used unless that fee was incorporated in the fee being charged already. It was also brought forward to
 coincide with the implementation of Intergov, which was a new system for building permits and impact fees, etc. At that point in time, we had expected to have Intergov implemented. However, that was delayed and the implementation will be this Monday.
 What this resolution does is amend the original resolution for two things. As we looked and analyzed, some of the other fees should have been exempted. One is animal control invoices for which the transaction fees incorporated,
 Airport invoicing, which the oversight board has agreed to increase the charges to cover the credit card fees and incorporate that into the fee. Parks and Recreation, which felt it would be much easier and which they will incorporate that fee and the fees for parks and recreation events.
 and other miscellaneous billings, which are very, very small. So we'd like to also exempt them because that's incorporated in the fees. We would also like the transaction fee to go into effect in coordination when EntraGov is implemented and the payment option is given to those larger transactions as we roll them out
 to the particular users of those services. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have, Paul? Paul from the City Council. Okay, let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. So anyone from the public that would like to address us on this issue?
 Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes to council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Fudge.
 Yes. Motion. OK. An ordinance to amend ordinance number 6315 to include additional exemptions to credit card and debit card transaction fees and to establish an effective date. OK. And so. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kerr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Froggen? Yes. Butch? Yes. And ordinance to amend ordinance number 6315 to include additional exemptions to credit card and debit card transaction fees and to establish an effective date. Okay. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh?
 Kenyon yes Eddie yes Scroggins yes Funch yes okay moving along to number three a resolution to grant the appeal of council member Mark Kenyon and deny site improvement plan SIP 19-69-31 variance
 19-69-61 and variance 20-7096 for Beacon Block Apartments. Mark, I believe this one's yours. Mr. Mayor, before we get going on this, I was preparing for tonight's meeting, and when I read this ordinance again that had been drafted, I noticed that the incorrect –
 judgment or test for the validity of variances had been used. It had been used similar to the ones for the approval of an actual preliminary plat or small-scale site, something like that, which also was one of the issues tonight. But the other issue is the variances, and the variance has a much different
 review right. And in fact, there's much more discretion on the planning commission and now the city council, whether or not approval of a variance was proper. Therefore, we sent out a proper ordinance that reflected the correct test to be used for variances. But I think the city council needs to amend to the resolution that we sent out
 And if not all the city council members have seen it, I could read what it is, but it would provide the proper tests that the city council will use to determine whether or not this appeal should be granted. Oh, well, what discussion do we have on that one council? I think it needs to be read. Well, we're gonna do that, Mark. You don't have to worry about that, but I... I mean the test that he was talking about. You want me to go ahead and read that? Yes, please. Okay.
 As opposed to one of the normal reasons for a preliminary plat or something to be withdrawn, which are the six reasons, and only one of them really usually is up for debate, and that is traffic safety.
 Instead, it would be that the City Council, in the second whereas clause, would now read, whereas the City Council has heard the appeal of Council Member Mark Kenyon and determined that variance VAR 19-69-61 and variance VAR 20-70-96, which were approved by the Planning Commission for Beacon Block Apartments on January 13, 2020 and May 26, 2020, would
 should be denied for one of the reasons set forth in section 166. I'm reading the wrong one. I'm reading the current one. I'm sorry. Here's the one that I changed it to. Whereas the City Council has heard the appeal of Council Member Mark Kenyon and determined the variance VAR 1969-61 and variance VAR 2070-96,
 which were approved by the Planning Commission for Beacon Block Apartments on January 13, 2020, and May 26, 2020, should be denied because the applicant has not met the standards set forth in Section 156.03, Development, Parking and Loading, and that's in the Variance Chapter of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code.
 And section two should read that the city council, the city of Fayetteville, are hereby grants the appeal of council member Mark Kenyon and denies variance VAR 1969-61 and variance VAR 2070-96 for beacon block apartments because the applicant has not met the standard set forth in section 156.03, development, parking, and loading of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code. Let me read you what the variance test is.
 Okay. In that section 156.03, it says certain variances for the development, parking and loading regulations may be applied as follows. General requirements, undue hardship if the provisions of development chapter 166 or parking and loading chapter 172 are shown by the developer to cause undue hardship as they apply to this proposed development.
 including but not limited to financial, environmental, or regulatory, and that the situation is unique to the subject property, the City Planning Commission may grant a variance on a temporary or permanent basis to development from such provision so that substantial justice may be done and the public interest secured.
 provided that the variation which will not have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of the development or parking and loading regulations and then it said conditions and safeguards and granting variances the Planning Commission may prescribe appropriate conditions and safeguards to secure substantially the objectives of the standards so waived and then if you look over at the subsection for parking variances and
 It states for parking variances, A, number of spaces. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to vary the number of off-street parking spaces required in the downtown core, main street center, and downtown general districts. B, findings. The Planning Commission shall make the findings indicating, one, parking generated, that the proposed use will not generate as much parking as required under the existing standard.
 Two, shared parking, that the shared parking facilities are available. Or three, on-street parking, that on-street parking can satisfy intermittent and occasional demands.
 So those are the duties that the developer needed to establish to the Planning Commission, and the Planning Commission felt that that had occurred. Now the City Council, you're sitting exactly like you are on the Planning Commission with these variances being presented to you for your consideration.
 The other parts of the resolution were correct, and it goes back to the standard thing that you look at when a large scale development or something like that has been appealed so that must follow all the rules of Unified Development Code. And the only one that has much subjective consideration is whether or not it creates or compounds a dangerous traffic situation. So, but that's not the test for variances and mistakenly it was placed in there. I spotted that this afternoon.
 And so that's why I sent out the new ordinance, which is what should guide you tonight. Okay. Okay. Let me tell you about this from my point of view. I was contacted by Tate Wolf and the neighbors in this immediate area, and they have concerns of safety and also the parking that requires you to back right out on the street.
 In this area, there's topography to be considered. It's a 10-foot drop in a short space, so you have a hill to deal with in addition to turning basically Pollard Street into a parking lot, even as you go down Cleburne. So with that safety being considered, that was kind of the foundation of this. The neighbors certainly will offer some more arguments and arguments.
 At their request, I brought it to City Council so we can consider the appeal, and I think they have a valid reason that we should appeal this decision. Okay. I guess we would hear from staff. Yes. All right, Garner, what y'all's... Oh, sorry, yes, it is Jonathan on this one. Yes, Mayor, Jonathan has a staff report.
 Okay. All right, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. And in light of Mr. Williams' comments, I do have an inquiry for him regarding his interpretation of the variance section of codes. The parking in question that is the subject of the appeal is for on-street and right-of-way parking. And it was a variance of the Master Street Plan standards within our Master Street Plan. And I'm not sure...
 if it's your understanding that that would put it squarely under the purview of the parking and loading section of code or the subsequent section regarding general design standards? Well, I think it's under parking variances because you're talking about parking numbers of parking. And I think that's one of the issues here about how much on-street parking would be allowed.
 And will it satisfy intermediate and occasional demands? Now, if you have another one that you want to...
 site, then certainly that might come into play for the city council. But the general requirements of undue hardship and that the situation is unique to the subject property and that it'll be done in the public interest and substantial justice will be done, those are the general requirements that will handle any type of variance when it comes to development. Understood. Thank you.
 Moving forward with that understanding, I'll start off my presentation here. For those of you who are not familiar with the property, this is located on the southwest corner of College Avenue and Cleburne Street. This is about halfway between Maple to the south and North Street to the north, just south of the VA.
 The property has been largely undeveloped since about 2007 when the existing building was demolished there. It is unusual and challenged in that it is a triple frontage or three street frontage lot. It has College Avenue on the east, Cleburton Street on the north, and Pollard Avenue on the west. That is often a source of burden when developing a piece of property as many of our development codes do speak specifically about frontages on public streets.
 Another interesting aspect of the project is that it is stair-stepped topographically. As you can see in the aerial here, there's a grassy area that's several feet higher than the lower gravel area that's immediately adjacent to Cleburne.
 uh before i dive into the specific request a little bit of additional background i think is a benefit here one of the the most prominent things that has happened to college avenue in recent years was part of the 2006 transportation bond project there was some significant sidewalk improvements made all the way from maple to the south to
 north to the north. This included very wide sidewalks, street, excuse me, tree island, or tree wells on the east side of the street, and some additional pedestrian facilities on the west side of the street. What you can see here on the left is the corner where this property is being, is where it resides. The second piece of this response to these improvements, staff was charged with rezoning this section of College Avenue,
 initiating a rezoning of this section of College Avenue. It had all been zoned previously in very single use nature, mostly the C2 and C1 zoning districts with which many of you are probably familiar with. You could only do commercial uses. Council saw fit to rezone the entire extent of it to mixed use zoning districts, including this property, which includes community services, allowing for a mixture of non-residential and residential uses.
 Which brings us to today. Again, you see the subject property on the left includes three parcels. What's being proposed is two buildings on the property, one of which will front Cleburne and College predominantly. That's a mixed use building intended for about 15,000 square feet of non-residential uses with dwellings above that. And then there'll be a purely residential building nestled into the just south of that,
 A unique twist to this proposal, which is the subject of the appeal, is the on-street parking proposed with it. Those of you who have been on Cleburne Street, you probably noticed that there is already quite a bit of existing on-street 90-degree parking on the north side of Cleburne. This proposal includes incorporation of that in addition to new on-street 90-degree parking on the south side of Cleburne and on the east side of Pollard Avenue. As for the building itself,
 as i noted the site is stair-stepped as you go northward so the northern portion or the northern of the two buildings is three stories but it won't necessarily be towering over the two-story building to the south because it actually sits at a lower elevation which you can see here that's the residential building that will be facing the single family uses to the west across pollard
 It's a little bit of background. There are a few moving parts with this request. A small site improvement plan was submitted in late 2019. At that time some variances were identified by staff and those went on to the Planning Commission where they were approved for the most part. But most importantly for this discussion, the on-street parking was approved.
 Subsequently, during grading permit review, some outstanding items were identified that also needed variance approval. So it went back before the Planning Commission on 2020, in May of 2020. Following that approval, a resident did approach Councilmember Kenyon soliciting his appeal of the item. Their assertion was that the development would create or compound, well,
 Prior to Mr. Williams' comments, the assertion was that it would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. That's the language that the resident actually used in making their appeal. So I'll let Mr. Williams comment on how that actually factors into the discussion procedurally from here on out. Again, the crux of this conversation is about that on-street parking that was approved in January as a variance from the Planning Commission.
 On the north side of Cleburne, there is existing on-street parking spaces. You can see here in green on the image of that parking. The western half or so is proposed to be improved and formalized. Again, if you were up there, you probably saw that it is in pretty substandard shape. The applicant proposes to, again, improve that.
 adjacent to the subject property itself. The applicant is proposing some additional new on-street parking, which is what you can see here in blue with sidewalk between the parking and the buildings themselves.
 When staff initially looked at this request, we had many of the same concerns that residents did subsequently. 90-degree parking is not a normal condition in Fayetteville. We've not seen a lot of it. Many cities nationwide do incorporate it into their developments with some regularity. But again, it's not something that we've seen in Fayetteville a whole lot. So, traffic.
 traffic issues and traffic safety were the largest concern when looking at it. So we naturally turned to traffic accident data, which you can see here from 2015 to 2017. The period that we reviewed leading up to the variants identified 22 accidents at the intersection of Cleburne and College, which you can see here on the image just northeast of the property.
 Residents had also asserted that there were a lot of concerns about cut through traffic and that that is very dangerous from Pollard Ave, on Pollard Avenue.
 when commuters try to go from North Street to college. In looking at this, staff was unable to identify a single traffic accident that the police were called out for along Pollard Avenue. And in response to a council member comment at agenda session, we were able to work with the police department to get the most recent data for the last 18 months, I believe it is.
 We saw about eight accidents on Cleburne and College, which is comparable to what's seen on Prospect and a bit less than what happens on Rebecca and Trenton further south. There were 10 accidents at the northernmost end of North and Pollard, and there was a single accident at the intersection of Cleburne and Pollard at the northwest corner of the side.
 So in considering that, staff did have some concern about it, we did not feel that it constituted a dangerous or an existing danger, given that none of these accidents were associated with any injury records. But we did acknowledge that the increase in traffic may aggravate the situation. So the biggest opportunity we saw to improve it was to eliminate a few of the parking spaces you see here from the original proposal.
 to go back to the comparison of this proposal to a parking lot. Our parking lot standards do have a throat length requirement, which is basically the length of driveway between a public street and a parking space. And that's where people pull out when they're reversing, exiting a spot and have enough room for a vehicle to see them.
 and the minimum standard is 40 feet. And so with the applicant's proposal and agreement with the variance, they increased that from the 27 to 51 foot, which is beyond the standard and code for a parking lot. So that said, staff recommends approving a resolution to, or I guess sustaining the planning division and planning commission approvals of this request.
 I'm happy to take any questions and as a bit of a synopsis about the public comment, in case you didn't happen to or have the opportunity to see it in the report. This was one of those unusual items where we did have the opportunity to hear some comments in support and opposition. Certainly there was more opposition than support but
 but those in support did agree that a development like this is appropriate given the amount of city investment in this area, capital investment, and one was a neighbor to the east who looked forward to being able to walk the services.
 The neighbors that were opposed to the proposal, and they were certainly more numerous than those in support of it, expressed specific concerns about the building sizes, their appearances, a nearby cap spring that one individual inserted was near the intersection to the northwest, concerns about parking overflow into the neighborhood, and simply the general scope of the proposal.
 And again, with that, I'm happy to take any questions the council may have. Thank you. Okay. And I should probably clarify, I did not have time to find out what the zoning was for this. And if it's community services, then that would not be part of the parking variances section I read, because that relates only to downtown core, Main Street Center, and downtown general districts. So the undue hardship is,
 still is valid for every development variance. And so that is still what the city council can consider. And you're sitting as if you were the planning commission yourself and making that determination about whether the developer has sustained his burden of approving you to you, that the variance should be granted. Okay, it's the applicant here. Who's the applicant, Garner?
 Jonathan, somebody. Tate Wolfe, are you here? Mr. Wolfe is indeed the resident who submitted the appeal. David is who we're looking for. No, what I was looking for was the developer of the property, and then we would get to the appeal. Ms. Atkins-Ori is the applicant.
 Well, actually, even though Alderman, I mean, Councilmember Kenyon really is the applicant. He's explained from that. But the other applicant is actually the developer who is trying to get his development approved. And so he probably needs his 10 minutes now to explain why the development was properly approved. I need to get a clarification since kind of it's changed.
 I haven't read the changes that Kit just explained. I want to be sure that the arguments were for the safety
 that it was a dangerous situation due to the way that the parking was designed. Is that still considered? That's still valid. That would be in section one, the first whereas clause because the traffic safety goes to whether or not the large site improvement plan should be approved or should be denied because it does increase or compounded dangerous traffic situation.
 Okay. That's still relevant. That's relevant to whether the whole thing should be approved or not. The variance situation is only whether those variances should have been approved. Okay. Mayor, we show that Aaron Adkins-Uri, the applicant, is registered to speak. Okay. Aaron. Aaron, would you like to speak to the council? Can you hear me? Okay.
 Yes. Okay. Can I get the ability to screen share? We have some graphics that I think would assist the council in understanding some of the points we're trying to make. Okay. It's not as simple as just enabling you, Aaron. You'd have to rejoin the meeting as a panelist. I mean, I can do it. I'll kick it out at a different time.
 So it'll have to kick you out for a second and then it'll automatically bring you back in as a panelist. Okay. Hold on. Okay. Okay.
 Erin, I believe you can now unmute and share your screen. I can, thank you. Again, I'm Erin Atkins-Orey. I am the Director of Commercial Development for High Street Real Estate and Development, the applicant. I did want to first introduce our project architect, Rob Sharp. He's just going to speak for a moment of our time on kind of the vision for the project, and so I'm going to get some images pulled up, and I'm going to let him speak. Okay.
 You have 10 minutes. 10 minutes. Everybody's got 10 minutes. I don't care if you've got a dozen, you've got 10 minutes. Thank you. Thank you, Aaron, and thank you to the City Council for giving us this opportunity to present the Beacon Block project to you in more detail. We certainly see this project as a manifestation of the City's vision for College Avenue, a multi-story, mixed-use building that includes space for a cafe, small offices, and residential apartments.
 This building is carefully detailed and features brick, cast stone, decorative panels, and exposed timbers at the roof line. The building creates a real destination at the corner of College Avenue and Cleburne Street. There's increased space for street trees, wide sidewalks, and outdoor dining. As the building turns the corner at Cleburne and Pollard, you can see that we worked hard to break the scale of the building down and begin to introduce elements such as lap siding,
 the divided light windows. And also I think you can begin to see that the architecture, as it turns the corner and begins to face west, it's inspired by the excellent historic housing stock of the Walker Park neighborhood. So this is a view of the building as we are on Pollard and we're traveling north. So you can see the building over to the right. As you can see, we're closing two-story, ditched roof, well-proportioned structures with room for landscaping and tree islands.
 And finally, I want to talk about elements that have been added to the building since the Planning Commission meeting at the request of the Planning Commission. And these are these A windows, which are, again, attention to detail and then the efforts to make the building in 360 degrees a building that's an asset to the neighborhood. All the buildings constructed of high quality, durable materials. It's completely consistent with the Walker Park neighborhood.
 So now at this point I'd like to turn things back over to Erin and have her walk us through the complexities of the site for this project. Thank you, Rob. I want to touch just real briefly on some of the points that Jonathan's already made, but the existing parking conditions surrounding the site are almost exclusively 90-degree parking. You'll note that all these locations that I show you require that to be
 the cars back into either Cleburne or Pollard to use the parking. So on the north side of Cleburne, there's seven commercial spaces that are paved with bumpers and then some additional unimproved 90 degree parking. To the south of our site on Cleburne on the east side, there's six commercial spaces
 across from our side on the west side of Pollard, as residential spaces for two vehicles at this location, and then another one to two vehicles, again on the west side of Pollard, closer to the intersection. So when we look at the site here, I've rotated it north, it's now to the left, so that you can see it a little bit bigger. The yellow again indicates those existing 90 degree parking areas, and then the red shows where on-street parking is currently prohibited by signage.
 When you overlay our proposed improvements, you can see where on the blue blocks, we either improved existing 90 degree parking on the north side of Cleburne or added additional on the south side of Cleburne and east side of Pollard. We worked very closely with city staff to reach this design that offers continuity with the existing neighborhood parking.
 Additionally, you'll see at the intersection of Cleburne and College a red square. That is where we are actually removing an existing parking space to increase the throat length of the existing conditions and improve the safety of that intersection. In the 2040 Master Street Plan for the City of Fayetteville, both Pollard and Cleburne are categorized as residential link streets. And I've provided the guidelines here before.
 that the city provides, but I wanted to stress particularly that on street parking, sidewalks, and green space contribute to increased safety for non-vehicular traffic, such as pedestrians, and our design incorporates all three of these. Now, looking at how the site interacts with our neighboring properties, we can see on this diagram that on three of our frontages, our neighbors are commercial properties, and of those, only the ones on the far east side of College face our development.
 Our neighbors to the west along Pollard are residential properties, but none of the homes of our residential neighbors face the development. Here you can see a composite view of those properties on the west side of Pollard facing Beacon. From the south to the north, left to right, you see a storage structure, some parking accommodations, some dense vegetation, and some additional parking accommodations.
 the current existing views from the neighborhood at that intersection looking to the northeast. The views of the backside of the commercial teas or custom teas commercial business and their dumpster area. And to the southeast, you can view our site from the intersection.
 And I certainly feel that, as you've seen in the architectural renderings that Rob showed, that what we're proposing is an improvement on that view. So in summary, the existing commercial and residential parking on Cleburne and Pollard surrounding the site is 90-degree parking, and the proposed design offers continuity with these existing conditions.
 The existing commercial parking on Cleburne included a 90-degree parking spot located approximately 25 feet off of the curb of College. And the proposed design eliminates this existing spot to increase the safety of the intersection. The existing street section along Pollard varies in width from 19 feet wide south of the site to 24 feet wide at the intersection of Cleburne and Pollard.
 and it has currently very poor alignment and no curb and gutter with the exception of at the intersection. Our proposed design will straighten the alignment of Pollard, widen it to a consistent 24 feet and add curb and gutter to both the east and west sides of the street for improved stormwater control for the entire length of the site. It's also proposed that we will accommodate or that we will dedicate five additional feet to the Pollard right of way to accommodate these improvements.
 Similarly along Cleburne there's inconsistent width existing between 21 feet and 24 feet wide. No curb and gutter and our improvements will bring this to a consistent 24 feet wide and add curb and gutter to the north and south side of the street.
 The existing college corridor improvements eliminate the possibility of utilizing College Avenue frontage along our property for on street parking for the development.
 we have carefully considered the parking in our proposed design to avoid creating a sea of cars. If we parked the entire project on our site, the rows would be stacked, whereas our design is able to limit all car stacking except for in this one three-space location along Pollard where we'll have 2D. Additionally, the on-street parking near the commercial tenants helps prevent customers from seeking parking further into the surrounding neighborhood.
 As mentioned before, we have no residences facing the development on either Cleburne or Pollard. The proposed design increases pedestrian safety with the addition of on-street parking, sidewalks, and green space, where none currently exist. And the proposed design adding on-street parking to both Cleburne and Pollard will, as numerous studies have proven, have a traffic calming effect. Vehicles will reduce their speed.
 when traveling on these roads and it's likely that this will discourage much of the traffic that currently uses these residential link streets as a cut through to avoid traffic signals at nearby major intersections and so we feel that overall our proposal improves the safety of the neighborhood for drivers for pedestrians for everybody and we're here and available to address any questions the council may have
 Okay, thank you. Now we're back to your amendment, correct? Yes, and really it's a legal amendment because that is the proper test that should be used. There is a different test for variances as opposed to the small site or large site improvement, which is the, which I can read for you. It's the one that you know very much about where it says the proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition
 For purposes of this section, a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant due to factors such as, but not limited to, high traffic volume, topography, or the nature of the traffic pattern. And that would be when you're considering the validity of the entire site development approval
 And then when you're talking about only the variances, then basically it's the general requirements that I read to you about undue hardship. I would like to ask Jonathan to, if he could, explain what those two variances actually were, what did they do so that the city council knows what variances they're actually considering. They need to know exactly what was granted and why by the planning commission.
 Certainly. Mr. Mayor, would you like me to speak to that now? Sure. So again, there were two sets of variances, the first of which came through in January. That was the larger batch of them, if you will. That was in response to staff's initial review. As a part of that, there were building design variances. This property is, in addition to having a frontage on three lots, it's also...
 subject to three layered tiers of design standards as a part of the College Avenue corridor. It's subject to the Downtown Design Overlay District because it's a
 It's a mixed use development. It's subject to our non-residential design standards. And because it has a residential element, it's subject to their urban residential design standards. So despite all that, there was only one variance of design standards which are significant that staff was able to identify. Mr. Sharp spoke to that during his presentation. That was the requirement that every facade of a building have a certain treatment to it.
 in our residential standards. Staff did not support that, the request did not have that special treatment for an additional filigree, if you will, facing the residential neighborhood. We thought it was important to have the development not turn its back to the neighborhood necessarily. And the commission did agree with staff on that item and the applicant has incorporated that into their design.
 There was a variance request from the minimum amount of window percentages required. Again, this is a three frontage lot and most of our window requirements are based on adjacency to a street.
 So basically they would be required to have a retail storefront on all three sides of the property, which staff considered that triple frontage lot to be more than sufficient hardship to merit some consideration. Glazing is provided on all three sides of the building, just not up to the standard required by code. Okay.
 Other requirements included, sorry, let me, or variances included, there was a proposal initially to not include a screening wall between parking or for any parking proposed within a build-to zone. So any form-based zoning district has a build-to zone associated with it and an associated zone.
 parking lot design standard that requires a screen wall for any parking within that area. We see that with a lot of our more urban development, it's a typical condition when you're trying to fit enough on a lot, you end up putting parking closer to the street and so that screen wall's there to buffer pedestrians and street users from that traffic. Staff did not support that request either and the planning commission agreed, so the applicant did incorporate that screen wall into the proposal.
 And I believe the last part of that request is the one that again is the major topic this evening, and that is for the 90 degree parking proposed along Cleburne and Pollard, and that was supported by staff and approved by the Planning Commission.
 As far as the second group of variances that went through in May of this year, there were two. One was with regards to green space. The city of Fayetteville's landscaping codes do require a minimum amount of green space between a property line and a parking lot.
 Again, this is one of the commission sees with some regularity for urban projects where land is simply too valuable to just put down several hundred or thousand square feet of grass where you could potentially put a building or some sort of pedestrian amenity.
 The city's urban forester supported that and the planning commission agreed. The second variance that was proposed was regarding a ratio of compact parking spaces to normal parking spaces. And prior to the meeting, the applicant was actually able to work that out internally and with their site design. And so that variance request was withdrawn at the meeting itself.
 So basically I think I guess the major variance that the City Council will be looking at now would have to do with the actual parking and that parking that pulled directly in off the street, which I guess is not normally allowed. That is correct. That appeared to be the main topic of Mr. Wolf's appeal request to Council Member Kenyon. It was the 90 degree parking on Cleveland, correct? Mr. Ruff. Okay.
 All right, do you have anything else? No, I would like to get that amended though because that was just a mistake. Unfortunately, I did not spot that mistake until I was preparing for tonight. And we should use the correct measure and test for variance.
 and not because it's not the same it's not uh traffic safety although traffic safety could be talked about in the 90 degree uh pull-in but the test really is undue hardship and whether it's something that uh the developer has been able to prove is it is an undue hardship and they have to have it okay i think we accept the city attorney's uh proposed amendment second
 Okay, we've got a motion to second to accept the city attorney's amendment. All right, any discussion on that? Okay, Tara, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 Thank you. And the only other thing I'll say is that if you want to support what the Planning Commission did in approving this, then you would vote against the resolution.
 and if you want to grant the appeal then you would vote in favor of the resolution and you don't actually have to be in favor of both section one and section two section one is the overall uh small improvement plan section two is concerning the variance for the pull-in parking kids should we separate these in some way
 I don't understand. By making them two sections. And if you just denied the variances, then the small improvement plan could still be approved. However, the pull-in parking that the variance granted would not be approved. And so then it would be up to the developer to determine whether or not
 He could design his project without the pull-in parking, whether that would be viable or not. So if you just approve Section 2 and withdrew Section 1, then the improvement plan would still be approved except for the fact that you could not have the pull-in parking.
 well this evening i'm not prepared to do that i you know i want to hear the discussion from the neighbors if they're still around which i it's late i don't know so we'll move forward with what i've submitted i guess the council needs to jump in now is that uh do we hear from them first yeah i wanted to get mark what he wanted to do because he's bringing the appeal we've heard from staff we've heard from the applicant
 We heard from your amendment. So now it's to the city council. So what's the wishes of the council? Let's start the discussion. That's right. We have...
 I would like to start by asking that we make a conscious effort to not use gendered language when speaking about our applicants. I've repeatedly heard the city attorney refer to all developers as he and I think it's time that we stop that and use more gender neutral and inclusive language. Thank you. Okay what other discussion do we have council?
 I think we have a couple of questions. I think for Jonathan. Sorry, we have been around this from so many different angles. We don't look at planning commission memos quite as often as we look at the ones that are formatted for us. I just wanted to make sure that you kind of went through the list of variances. Is 90-degree parking a variance in its own right in all cases? Or are there places in our code that just allow for it? I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question. I think that's a good question.
 There is nowhere in our master street plan that allows 90 degree parking by right. No, there are instances in our downtown or urban street section that do allow for angled parking. But no, none of the city's master street plans that I've seen since I've been here have included 90 degree parking. Okay, so it's not just a matter of quantity or placement, it is actually the existence of 90 degree parking that generates this? Correct.
 I read through the 23 or so emails that we've gotten over this in the last couple of weeks today and a couple of things I noticed. There were some concerns about safety with sidewalks. Will this project create sidewalks that are not currently there? Yes, it will. Along both Cleburne and Pollard. Both streets? Sorry, the east side of Pollard and the south side of Cleburne to tie it into the improvements along College. Okay.
 Got it. And there were some questions about the streets being dangerous because of not being striped. Will the two streets end up striped at the end of this or is that not part of the development?
 That would be atypical for a residential street to be striped. Usually they're only striped in instances of specified property specific on street parking. But I don't know if anyone in our transportation or engineering department would want to weigh in on whether that's been used in some instances or not.
 And the applicant mentioned a 24 foot wide street that would make for 12 foot lanes, which are way wider than anything we've gotten any of our cross sections or a street this size. What's, what's the rationale behind that?
 certainly that's a good question when staff originally started looking at this proposal a lot of our street sections that do allow angled parking such in downtown they uh they they can be accommodated with the more typical lane widths that you see 9 10 11 foot lane widths but when it comes to 90 degree parking it does require a lot more maneuvering and there's also the potential for a lot more vehicle overhang so staff did have concerns and told the applicant that uh
 one of the conditions of us being able to support a variance for 90 degree parking would be some additional accommodation for that. We did initially have concerns, of course, because wider streets lead to faster speeds, and we were put at more ease with the applicant's proposal. You can see in the site plan that they have several bump outs proposed on both streets that has a natural inclination to slow people when they see a curb there.
 I had another and I just lost it. I'll be here all night. Probably so. Okay, what other conversation do we have with the council? Questions, comments? I do think that this site has a unique hardship based on its three different front faces.
 And I appreciate that the solution that the developers are proposing to have on street parking, this is something that we've seen as a goal in more and more of our streets to provide traffic calming, as well as to be useful to not just this development, but other people that wish to park in the area. I like that this plan minimizes impervious surface area.
 which is better from an environmental perspective. I like that it provides traffic calming, and this is exactly the type of development that we have been wanting to see along our North College corridor. If we can't build this kind of building here, we have a problem. So I think that I concur that the Planning Commission made the right decision, and I'm going to vote no on the appeal. Thank you. Okay.
 Well, we haven't even got to public comment yet, but certainly. Okay. What other questions do we have in the council? I remembered my other one there. There were several of the emails talked about the number of compact parking spots, but I don't think we heard about that tonight. Did they get that resolved without a variance?
 That is correct. Initially they were not able to find sufficient space on the property so most of the parking spaces on site were going to be compact. There is a ratio allowance in the parking lot design standards of 35% and I think they were around 40 or 50%. Between the second variance request and the meeting itself they were able to eke out a few more feet there to make them standard parking spaces. Okay.
 I don't have any persuasive statements to make yet because I think that's all my questions. I will ask the neighbors that are going to speak to help me understand because I don't understand the
 I think it's important to note that the appeal on this one just from going out and visiting yesterday I walked around for about 25 minutes and saw a lot of what was presented to us as far as existing 90-degree parking . The lack of any nearby residences directly facing into this.
 The 25 minutes I was there, there were only two cars on either street and they were both on Cleburne and not on Pollard. So I was there at 3.30 in the afternoon. It wasn't exactly rush hour. So I'd like to better understand the normal conditions in the neighborhood that brought this about. That's what I'll be looking for in the public comments. So thank you. Okay. Anything else from anybody before we have public comment? Okay.
 Let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to be first? Mayor Scott Hill is first. Okay, Scott, you have the floor. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, I'd like to speak in favor of the project. Couple years ago when the city was,
 rezoning this stretch of college. They had extensive public comment and I don't know how many meetings about the rezoning that took place to encourage form-based development here. A lot of the conversation from the focused on what they didn't want. If you remember, people spoke out against what they saw downtown and they didn't want to see repeated in their neighborhood. And that was five story student apartment complexes with no active uses on the ground floor.
 And this was the same conversation, if I'm remembering correctly, where the height restriction limits were changed from being demonstrated in feet and changed over to stories. And I believe that that was in order to encourage a variety of roof styles. So in general, what the neighbors said they wanted at that time, and I think the city council and the planning commission did a good job of listening to everybody, was that they wanted development two to three stories,
 traditional forms and mixed uses with active uses on the ground floors. And I've followed this project through planning and now to the city council appeal and it checks all those boxes. I think if you took this project back three years ago or two years ago, when that rezoning was being done and showed it to people, everyone would have said, yeah, this is exactly what we want to encourage along the stretch of College Avenue. Regarding the 90 degree angle parking,
 And I've heard some discussion that it may impede cut-through traffic. I don't think that's a negative. I live on Elm Street in Ward 2, and our streets frequently use as a cut-through. And when my neighbors park on the street, you know, I'm glad. I encourage it whenever we have discussions. I'm like, yeah, have your guests park on the street, because the only thing that impedes or slows down cut-through traffic is some kind of barrier or some kind of uncertainty or something to look out for. And so I don't view...
 the possibility of customers or clients visiting these businesses or visiting their friends in the apartments as possibly backing out into traffic being a bad thing. I view it as a traffic calming measure, like Council Member Marsh said. Finally, I would say that I view this project meets all the criteria of what the City of Fayetteville says it wants to happen in this stretch of College Avenue. And I think the city should be really accommodating
 and really proactive in allowing developers who bring good projects like this forward to do what they want to do, because this is what we say we want. And if every time someone brings a project like this, a good development, in my opinion, that they hit all these roadblocks, you're going to discourage other developers for coming in and doing what the city says that it wants to see here. So I would encourage you to support the variances as requested and approve the project and deny the appeal. That's it.
 Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Mayor Tate Wolf is up. All right. Tate, you have the floor. I'm sorry. Can you hear me? Tate, I'm sorry. Tate, you have the floor. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. I'm the one that brought the appeal. Obviously, there's been some misunderstanding. I am not against the development. I'm against the 90-degree parking. And as Jonathan said...
 This is not, this has to have a variance to have 90 degree parking. And there's no place else that he was aware of that has had this. So that is the issue that I've, we've always brought up. It's never been the development. They can go up five stories. That's fine. It's the 90 degree parking and the danger at Cleburne and College, Cleburne and Pollard, that
 just through normal traffic, a 90-degree parking changes it into a parking lot. And actually, I liked your all two baits. I liked your all's renditions, but you didn't put the high power lines around your building that are on both sides of your property and that the green spaces were going to be underneath the high power lines. So that's kind of a
 misnomer there too. So as far as the parking on the north side of Cleburne, there's not going to be any walkway. There's actually only six spaces there, not seven. And actually we did a demonstration that I hope you all received the pictures of what the parking lot would be like, and I call it a parking lot,
 if it was designed the way, or if it was implemented the way that it was designed. I measured it out nine by 19. There's eight spots on the north side of Cleburne. There's 11 spots on the south side of Cleburne. And there's just, it's just not right. Anyway,
 I'm hoping you all see the logic behind the danger that you all are creating at this intersection and this small stretch of streets, and that you will ask them to go up rather than out. I mean, that was the whole idea of the rezoning from Maple to North was to allow developers to go up and not...
 interfere with the neighborhoods and interfere with the infrastructure. I don't have a problem with going up. I've lived in Dallas, Houston, Atlanta. I've lived downtown. I like up, but traffic or parking, 90 degree parking is just not cool.
 It's just dangerous. If you've ever been in a Walmart neighborhood market parking lot and you're pulling out and there's, what, two SUVs on both sides, what are you doing? You're backing out very slowly so you don't run into somebody. Well, this is a residential street we're talking about, not a parking lot. So I'm not saying not develop it. I'd love for them to develop it.
 I've been waiting since 2007 for the development. I voted for the last one that they had presented. This is just, the parking on this is just wrong. 15 onsite parking spots for 24 apartments and six commercial properties, and the rest of it is on street parking, and this is a residential neighborhood. It just doesn't make sense. I am not disagreeing with the development. I wish they,
 would design it we talk to them we ask them to do it um they obviously either don't have the money don't have the desire or think they can bend the rules so i'm just asking you all to follow the codes uh follow the qualification or follow the guidelines that you all set out when you rezone the area and um
 to play fair with everybody. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you, Ted. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Just Michael Coolish. Okay. Okay, Michael. Hello. Can you hear me? Yes.
 Thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Michael Coolish. I live in Kingston, Washington. I own the property across the street from the development at 855 Pollard. And like Tate, I am not opposed to this development. I look forward to it. I think it will be an amenity to the neighborhood if it's done well. My concern like his is the 90 degree treatment.
 I've been involved in land development both in northwest Arkansas and a number of western cities. I understand what the developer is facing and choices are made and compromises are made. I believe that we can do a better job with the parking situation.
 It would be great if they had a few more square feet on the site in order to accommodate the parking in a way that was still pedestrian friendly and visually appealing. But development responds to constraints. That's the business that they're in. If this constraint is removed, well, then obviously you go with the path of least resistance. So
 It's my hope that a nice development like this can proceed forward while still addressing these issues of the 90-degree parking. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Okay. Now I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay. I would like to say something, Mayor. Sure. Okay.
 I am absolutely thrilled about this development. It sounds like the two people who are concerned about the parking don't have a problem with the development as well. And it's very exciting to see this type of progressive development in this area. This is exactly what we need and want for this corridor.
 I do think we're finding some new way to figure out how to interface with the neighborhood. And because it hasn't been done before, the 90-degree parking, I'm wondering if we're getting a little bit too excited that it might not work if we haven't tried it. My question is, is there a way to try to pilot some 90-degree parking?
 or not because I'm just wondering, this is a new thing and I like the use of space. You know, I like that they're using their space for their building and for the residents and for the offices but if we could figure out a compromise there that I just wonder if there's anything maybe from planning that they,
 that they could offer as a pilot or something with the parking
 Mayor, would you like me to comment on that? Yes, sure. Certainly. I'm not certain of the opportunities to do it on this particular site. Some of the most ready examples I can think of where 90 degree parking already exists in the city is Lewis Plaza on the west side of the university's campus. There's quite a bit of 90 degree parking on Mitchell and I think it's Stone that runs on the north side of that. Both those streets see a fair amount of traffic.
 certainly comparable if not more than Pollard or Cleburne. That may be a good example to see if you're just wanting to see an existing instance. Seeing how it's done in a not necessarily great way, you can see a lot of the businesses on college, the legacy businesses that have 90 degree parking, granted they're on their property, but people are having to back out into college, I think.
 The best way, the most feasible way would be to see what's already existing in, again, Lewis Plaza or possibly, I forget if Willow Heights, I think also might have 90 degree parking too, but I know the traffic up there is considerably lower in volume, given it's on the slope of Sequoia there.
 I mean, if we, Jonathan, if we saw a problem with accidents and safety, is there a way that we could undo it or is it just there forever? I mean, I guess it's...
 That's a good question. I mean, I think a lot of what the city does is we are reactive in instances like this. We do have a lot of traffic calming tools. The engineering division has an entire buffet of traffic calming options that could be incorporated. A lot of those we try to be more discretionary with than the city was in past years with due consideration for the fire department in particular can have a lot of difficulty getting over speed tables.
 But there are a lot of other options, both temporary, whether it's a planter in a street or something more permanent, such as a bumped out curb that can facilitate reducing traffic speeds. As far as approving a parking space and then removing an allowance for it, I'm not familiar with any legal mechanism the city would have to do that.
 No, it's a permanent decision. If you approve this development, then they get to build it, and they get to use it as long as they use it. So it's not something we can go back and say, oh, by the way, we don't like your parking now, and we're taking away from you. We had to pay them for that. So I don't think that's really an option. Yeah, I agree with Ken. I've never seen that done either. Okay. Yeah, I was just wondering about that. I mean, just a question. Thanks. Okay. Okay.
 I would just like to note that the developer did point out several instances where 90 degree parking already exists along the street and has been functioning for as long as it's been there, which has been a long time. So we do have those existing examples there. I do believe it would be possible to reformat it to a more of an angled space, but then we would lose some of the parking spaces. So it would reduce capacity if we wanted to retrofit it later.
 Jonathan, do we know what that capacity reduction would be if they went to either angled or parallel from the current plan? I've not looked at that scenario. I know in the lead up tonight, I think the applicant was looking at options depending on the outcome of this meeting. It may be worth inquiring with them. Would you like me to make a comment on that now? Sure.
 Can park parallel by right on the residential link is our understanding. It would reduce our on-street parking capacity significantly, and it would probably cause us to have to reconsider making this a multi-use building. Without adequate on-street parking for commercial spaces, we can't maintain business in them.
 Can I ask you how many spaces you would have with a 90-degree parking versus how many you would lose? I'm not— Angled parking? Yeah, with the angled parking. With angled parking, two to three spaces would be lost. Okay. All right. Thank you. It's my understanding that this style of parking was put in for more parking spaces to meet the ratio of compact—
 spaces and regular spaces is that, am I understanding that correctly? No, it was mentioned earlier. Either I or the applicant could speak to that. The compact space issue was one of just dimensional standards, they were able to find the spare feet on the property itself to make compact spaces on the property actually standard space in size. Mayor, I have some comments and questions. Sure. Thank you.
 First, I'll say that I've reviewed everything very carefully with SIP and two sets of variances. The packet was quite lengthy, but I did find that it was illuminating. And based on the proximity of right-angle parking that already exists and some of the observations I've made around the city, I don't see a reason to reverse the Planning Commission's decision. That compels me.
 Principally, I reflected on the nature of parking and traffic movements around the square. I understand that that's angled parking and you may be inclined to highlight that as a difference within your own mind. But on the square, which sees relatively high volumes of traffic as compared to typical residential streets, we expect people to back out into traffic.
 universally whenever they park on the square and don't consider it to be a safety issue precisely because people move more slowly because they perceive that it could be more risky. I would expect the same kind of behavior to be exhibited if this project were allowed to proceed as it's been presented. So I'm not convinced that we would be creating
 nor worsening a dangerous traffic situation based on what I've observed in other areas of town that would see more traffic. More than that, or maybe not more than that, but alongside with that, I am a little confused. I understand the legal reasoning, but in practical terms, I am a little perplexed. And I'm not saying this to get an answer, but just a voice that to me, it seems odd
 that a variance based on green space provisions is being used for an appeal of the parking regulations that were passed months ago in January, and for the whole SIP itself. I understood that we could technically separate them.
 But with the most recent actions being in May, being specifically about green spaces, and now this conversation is about a variance that was passed in January, for me it begs questions about the consistency of our process. Well, my understanding was that there was not a final approval of this small scale planning area until the end of the year.
 or whenever the final approval was, and it's my position, and I'm one of the, in fact, I'm gonna present,
 I hope at next meeting a clear make sure that the appeal rules are clear that all of the parts of an approval of a large-scale development or a large area plan or whatever they're all Appealable at one time when the final decision has been made by the Planning Commission to approve the development and
 so that anything like a variance that went into that will all be appealed at the same time and we won't be having multiple appeals coming for every time a variance was approved or not approved so that we hear them all at the same time. And that's why even though this variance was approved, the parking variance was approved a long time ago, I felt like the approval of the large plan
 would be the date that when all the appeals should be heard. And so that's why it relates back all the way to the early parts of this development
 And I think that is the best way to handle this so we don't have multiple appeals and delays that can really hurt a project if you have to keep going to the city council and not and come back to the planning commission. So I think it should all be heard at the same time, which is what we're doing right now. I would like to suspend the rules and go to the second. This is a resolution.
 Oh, okay. I move we, oh, hmm. So if I'm against it, then I say I move we don't approve the resolution? Or no? The reason I put it like this is because the burden is on the appealer, not on people that would be in favor of what the Planning Commission says. So it takes five votes to approve this appeal.
 So the proper motion eventually will be a motion to approve the resolution. And the appellant will have to obtain five votes or else the decision by the Planning Commission will be affirmed. So I move to approve the resolution. You move to approve the resolution. I'll second the motion. Okay. All right. What final comments do we have? Anything? No.
 Okay. What? Can we explain again to make sure we know exactly what we're voting for? Yes. Yeah. If you vote against this, if this does not get five affirmative votes in favor of the resolution to grant the appeal, then the appeal is denied and the decision by the Planning Commission will continue. That was my understanding.
 I'd like to make one comment before we vote. Sure. I walked over there last week and looked around in that area, and I do feel it's very hazardous there. I also pulled in off of College onto Cleburne, and again, it's a very dangerous intersection.
 So I do feel that the neighbors have a legitimate concern. I also think that the traffic is going to increase substantially once this is developed. And if you're only losing two to three parking places, I mean, that is by changing from 90 degree to an angled parking spot. I think that is a small concession if there's serious safety concerns.
 I would ask the developer to take a look at this again, because they're also gonna be living right next to the neighbors. And if you do have safety issues that come up, there'll be some discussion around that. So those are my points of view. Thank you. I have a question. Kids, since we had a change kind of the way this was written
 I mean, is there any way I could delay it for two weeks? Because we've kind of checked what you're talking about, and I think there's a lot of misunderstanding with the neighbors. The only thing you could do at this point is to move to table the motion and second to pass the resolution. So the motion to table is always available until the vote.
 Well, then I move that we table this for two weeks out of respect for the changes that we've had tonight so the neighbors can better understand it and have time to voice their concerns. Second that. Okay. I think that's pretty wise because it's after 10 o'clock, and some of the people that probably would have spoken are not here, so are there. Okay.
 Okay, so we have a motion to second the table for two weeks. What about the other motion? No, this will go right back to where we are. Okay, so we have a motion to second the table for two weeks. I have a question, Mayor. The changes that we're talking about being made to the resolution, did we change anything besides relaxing the criteria by which the appeal could be granted? No, we changed the criteria for variances to use the correct criteria.
 Okay, which are broader than what we were originally? It is a burden on the developer to establish undue hardship for the way I read it there and the public interest that kind of stuff. Okay. It gives the City Council more discretion, but it's still within the council's discretion one way or the other. Okay, thank you. Okay, any other discussion on the table? All right, Karen, would you please call the roll? Turd? Yes. Smith? No.
 Gutierrez? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? No. Scroggins? No. Funch? Yes. The motion table failed five to three so we're back to the motion to approve the resolution. Okay any final comments on that? Okay Kerwoods please call the roll. Kirk? Yes. Smith? No.
 Gutierrez? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? No. Scroggins? He said no. Fudge? Yes. The resolution failed and so the appeal fails and the decision by the planning commission stands. Okay thank you all very much let's move along to number four. Moving right along to number four. All right.
 A resolution to grant the appeal of Kraft and Toll Engineers Incorporated and to approve a large-scale development 20-7031 trails at Paradise Valley Apartments. Jonathan, I believe you have this. I do, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 And if I may begin with the reasons for denial that Mr. Williams alluded to in the previous item. This one is, I think, without a doubt subject to these specific reasons of denial. These are the six reasons that any council members who have seen an appeal before are familiar with. There are six reasons for which particular developments in the city can be denied. They're not submitted in accordance with the law.
 city's development codes, city, state, or federal laws. The applicant is refusing to dedicate right-of-way easement or not build on- or off-site improvements. There is not city water or sewer to the property, and of course, it can create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. With that said, moving into this particular request, the property in question is in North Fayetteville on the northwest corner of Joyce Boulevard and Old Missouri Road.
 It is a largely forested site. Some of you on the council may recall that it did come before the council about a year ago to rezone the property. It was previously zoned RA residential agriculture, and the applicant requested it be split zoned to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and CS along Joyce Boulevard for community services purposes.
 this exhibit is just to give you an idea about where the development sits in regards to the zoning districts as that will have some bearing on the conversation as we move forward.
 The applicant's proposal, which I've reoriented, north is to your right now, but reoriented it so you can see a little bit greater detail, includes about two and a quarter acres of the overall 11 three quarter acre site. There are 240 units proposed, divided up among nine buildings, varying anywhere between 24 and 30 units per building, along with surface parking.
 some of the more notable aspects of the site that are part of this conversation. Sorry, I'm sorry. We're not seeing a map. We're seeing something that looks like edits to a document. Yeah, I think we have a wrong thing on your screen. Let's try that again, apologies. No problem, thanks. Thank you for letting me know. Is that better?
 Yeah, apologies. Let me back up real quick. I'll just do it very briefly. So we had North Fayetteville, northwest corner of Joyce and Mould, Missouri. Hopefully this doesn't count against my 10 minutes. Again, this is the site as a proposal as it relates to the split zone status of the property.
 Again, I flipped it on you. North is to your right now. Joyce is to the left. Some of the main characteristics of the proposal are that the applicant's proposing to widen Old Missouri Road with on-street parking and about 1,200 linear feet of trail. And there are two tree preservation easements, which you can see called out here, one towards the north central portion of the site and one towards the central eastern portion of the site.
 The site project was originally submitted as a large scale development in February. There were quite a bit of challenges with the early stages of development review before it got the planning commission. It visited the commission twice before a motion to approve it failed by a split decision of three to six.
 Over the course of two hearings, the Planning Commission expressed several concerns of which staff gleaned the three main ones being about connectivity, what's called crime prevention through environmental design, passive surveillance, and zoning. I'll go a little bit more detail into those. As far as connectivity goes, this is a very long property north to south.
 You can see here if you measure the distance between the proposed driveways on the side, it is about 875 feet separating those. If you're looking at just public streets, it is about 1400 feet between Starnes and Joyce Boulevard. Although connectivity was a concern, the applicant's not proposing any public streets, so they're not subject to the block link standards in our access management codes, but the commissioners did have
 some concerns about the fact that this would inherently create a super block of sorts. As far as safety goes, just as a
 Very brief primer, CIPTED or crime prevention through environmental design is the use of design tools when laying out a property or designing a building to ensure that passive surveillance happens from day to day. People looking out their kitchen windows into their front yard, people sitting on porches, seeing what's happening, sitting in their bedrooms and seeing what's going on in the parking lot.
 next door to them. A part of the proposal the applicant made to the commission included a long run of parking spaces along the north and western edge of it with no buildings that directly fronted upon it. Additionally, the large tree preservation
 area to the east of it would effectively block any line of sight from any of the buildings along old missouri back towards those uh properties so several commissioners expressed concern that this this condition would lead to or even encourage illicit activities back in that portion of the property uh the last of the main items is uh circles back to the fact that the property is split zone with cs on the southern portion and rmf 24 on the northern portion
 One, although both zoning districts do allow multifamily development on them, one nuance between the two is that the RMF 24 zoning district has a zero to 25 foot build to zone, whereas the CS zoning district has a zero to 10 foot setback before segueing into a 10 to 25 foot build to zone. So this little dash portion of the property here, you can see where building
 i believe it's building one encroached slightly into that setback the applicant has proposed a rezoning amendment to shift that property or that shift that zoning dividing line that will be going to the planning commission this coming monday where they will have the opportunity to take one action or another on it it is worth noting that it's it's
 Although certainly not common, projects are often approved with the condition that a rezoning be approved. And if they can't, they have to redesign a portion of the project that relates to it. In response to the applicant's or the Commission's other comments, the applicant with the submittal to the Council has proposed a pair of 20-foot access easements to the neighboring property to the west.
 and to address the concerns about visibility to the parking spaces along the northwest portion of the site. They've extended a sidewalk along those parking spaces and also incorporated a boardwalk into that tree preservation area. There was a conversation about putting something more active or robust in the tree preservation area, but that didn't happen.
 would effectively defeat the purpose of the preservation area it could potentially damage the trees if you wanted to incorporate something like a dog park or or something that structures that required footers that would have to go into the the roots of trees so the boardwalk was the the the consolation that the applicant is proposing uh today
 That said, staff is recommending approval of the proposal. We did recommend approval of the item at the Planning Commission as well with a series of conditions. And we recommend that the appeal be granted and that the item be approved tonight. To date, we've not received any public comment on the item and I'd be happy to take any of the council's questions. Thanks. Okay, is the applicant here? Yes, Mayor, I trust you can hear me okay? Yeah, hi, Tom.
 Thank you and thank the fellow council members. Appreciate you sticking with us late through the night here. I'd like to share my screen with you if you don't mind just to kind of reiterate a couple of things that that that Jonathan just pointed out. I think I think it's important to note that.
 you can give this piece of property to five different engineers with five different clients and they'll come up with five different designs. This was the design that our client asked us to come up with. We modified it to conform with the unified development code we felt with the sole exception of down here in the southeast corner that Jonathan proposed. Our client brought the rezoning through
 prior to us having a layout done. And so they brought that through with their legal counsel. And then when we had the, once we finally got around to doing a layout on it, we realized that the zoning boundary wasn't as far south as what we needed it to be.
 And so we did file for a correction to that zoning. We realized that that may or may not be approved by y'all, but we would hope that it would be.
 The other points, so it's important to note that this area, the large tree preservation area also serves as the detention for the project. And so this drive back here really serves two purposes. It's an elevated berm and it also provides additional parking. We did understand that there were concerns with the safety back there, so we met
 with Officer Dawson with Fayetteville Police Department and sat down with him to come up with some ideas to help make that a more active space. And based on his recommendations, what we came up with was working with Urban Forestry to prune up the trees that are in this tree preservation area so that there's visibility from
 the east side all the way through there to this, as well as prune up the trees. It's one thing we failed to be able to convince Planning Commission of is that while this project may not have buildings that front that drive, this project has buildings that front this drive. And while the elevation is slightly different,
 The second story apartments in these four buildings have a clear line of sight to this driveway and parking area which will be illuminated. And so in addition to that, this boardwalk will also be illuminated.
 And then having trimmed up everything, we feel like, and the Fayetteville Police Department felt like, that that provided enough activity to bring people walking around here, jogging through here, and enough visibility to this side as well.
 The reason, one of the main reasons for the drive in addition to providing the additional parking was fire access. This, the length of this dry vial exceeds the maximum for either solid waste backing up or for the fire department backing up. And there wasn't enough room to put a hammerhead or a cul-de-sac here without getting into the tree preservation area, again,
 we found ways to incorporate a design that complied with the UDC. So we feel like with the exception of the setback down here in the southeast corner, everything else complies with the Unified Development Code and we would hope that you would agree as well and I can answer any questions you might have. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Other questions? Sure.
 Maybe it's for Jonathan or for the applicant. Jonathan pass it off if you feel it's best. The question is about the access easements that are provided on the west side of the site. Is there already an agreement with the adjacent property owner to provide access or are those access easements merely anticipatory?
 my understanding is yes i can go ahead and do that jonathan we we did uh approach the adjacent property owner uh they were reluctant to provide access um there are uh as i mentioned earlier some grade challenges uh in getting dry vials down there but as a i guess an anticipatory uh measure
 uh planning commission asked us to dedicate those in the event that uh ownership changed uh with the property to the west and they were wanting to connect to this so uh we put those in place uh in anticipation of that thank you sorry mayor uh is there a reason why the one on the sorry the picture is not there anymore um
 To the left, which I think is the south, doesn't line up with the... It kind of goes into one of the neighboring buildings instead of into their natural parking lot. That was at a specific request of one of the planning commissioners. The intent is for that...
 That access easement to create a connection between this, the drive aisle and the street that is to the west, even though there is an apartment building in the way. That's where they requested it. That's where we agreed to grant it. Okay, because it seems like just a few feet to the south is a driveway. Correct. Any other questions from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, let's take... I would like to the applicant to explain why they went with this free form arrangement of buildings instead of doing a traditional grid like a city block.
 Primarily, it's got to do with topography and tree preservation and finding areas where we could keep the grading out of in order to ensure that we could count that as preserved canopy. And so it is kind of a scattered out layout, but it's, it is, if you drive through there,
 you really don't notice the topography until you get on the GIS and check out the contours. And there's a significant amount of fault across the site. What are the questions does council have? I have a question about how many parking spaces are on that back row that was the one in question about the visibility?
 Without counting them right now, I think I remember one of the engineer, the project engineer telling me there were roughly 30 to between 30 and 40 parking spaces. Okay. And looking at the, since the buildings are all spread out all over the site, is this, is it anticipated that that will be kind of like overflow parking for people? Or do you anticipate people will be using that all the time?
 We think people will be using it all the time. And I'll be honest, in the negotiations with Planning Commission and with the Fayetteville Police Department adding the sidewalks and the boardwalk, we thought made a better project. We didn't have that in there to be quite honest with you in the beginning. And by adding those, we think that that makes that parking a lot more user friendly than what it was previously. Okay, all right, thank you, Tom.
 Any other questions from the council? Okay, let's take some public comment. Okay, each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this tonight from the public? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. Will we take this to the second? It's a resolution. I'm gonna re-approve the resolution.
 I had one question before we go, before we decide on this. This butts up to, what's that street to the north, Stearns? Is it Stearns? Yes, ma'am, correct. So sometimes that's kind of a, there's a little low spot in that street, and sometimes there's some flooding, I think, there. Is that correct, or what?
 Do you anticipate that this is going to cause any additional problems or will maybe correct some of their drainage problems over there? I do know that the predominance of runoff flows to the the tree preservation area and is piped to the northwest corner. So it will, it should eliminate or at least
 It won't make it any worse, I can tell you that. We're not discharging water onto Old Missouri or exasperating the problem. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Sonia, I believe you put a motion to pass the resolution? Correct. Okay. Do we have a second? Okay. Well, what shall we do now? I'm not sure. All right, Lottie. All right.
 I guess we'll wait until somebody makes a move. I'll second the motion, but that shouldn't reflect my vote. Okay, thank you Matthew. All right, we have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. All right. The only thing I would like to say as I do in any kind of large-scale development
 that the Supreme Court has said that when a subdivision ordinance specifies as a minimum standards to which a preliminary plat or large scale development must conform, it is arbitrary as a matter of law to deny approval plat that meets those standards. So the standards must be in the Unified Development Code that require certain things. And I guess I'll ask Jonathan whether...
 the large scale development that has been proposed here actually meets the minimum standards, as you know it for the Unified Development Code.
 It does by staff's review of it. Granted that is a conditional approval that was recommended before the Planning Commission. Conditions are very typical of most developments. There's usually small details to be worked out. I believe the one item that was explicitly stated by a commissioner as reason for their vote of denial was the portion of Building 1 on the southeast corner of the site that was sitting in the setback as a,
 that it does not comply with the full requirements of the Unified Development Code since it doesn't meet that setback portion of the Community Services Zoning District. I see that the resolution says that this approval is subject to conditions of approval recommended by the Planning Department. Does that include the rezoning of that one problem? Yes, sir. So that if the rezoning is denied, then this project would not be approved?
 Correct, or it would have to be modified to meet the underlying zoning. Okay. But everything else, it complies with the minimum standards of the Unified Development Code? Yes, I believe so. Sorry, let me get back into the items report again. A bill by right. Yes, it is a bill by right, but they still have to comply with all the Unified Development Code requirements. Correct. You're saying that it's in the confines of the Unified Development Code?
 Correct. No variances are being requested as a part of it. So the only discretionary condition was that associated with the zoning setback. Okay. Okay. Did the Planning Commission's decision cite their reason sufficiently for your legal needs? My understanding is that the single legitimate concern that was presented by the Planning Commission
 was that building one encroached in the setback of a parcel with community services zoning designation. And so that was a problem. And in fact, if the rezoning is not done, well, they're going to have to redesign this because this will not be an approved large-scale development if the zoning is incorrect for that one part of one building.
 So that still has to go through the process, not only through the planning commission, but also back to the city council
 And if the zoning is denied, then the large-scale development would not be satisfactory. They'd have to redesign that to move the building or do something else to make it in full compliance. Okay, I'm not sure that made me understand better. That's all right. Did the Planning Commission approve with conditions, or did the Planning Commission deny the large-scale development?
 They denied, go ahead, in fact, I don't know, maybe I wasn't there, but I'm sure the council was there. But my understanding is they denied the large-scale development by a vote of three to six because of the encroachment of Building 1 into the setback of a parcel. And so that parcel has to be rezoned to remove that setback problem or else it cannot be approved. But their reasoning is sufficient grounds for denial?
 Well, it would not be in this particular case because this resolution says that they must get that zoning changed or this approval is not valid. So that would not be sufficient for the city council to vote against that because that's already a condition of approval that they must obtain before the large-scale development is finally approved.
 What if we tabled this indefinitely and left the Planning Commission's decision to stand? If you deny it and it has met the minimum standards of the Unified Development Code, then you are acting arbitrarily and capriciously. That's why I was asking if the Planning Commission's justification was sufficient to decide that it did not meet the code.
 it might have been at the time but at this point in time the resolution already takes into account the planning department's uh condition that they must get the rezoning approved okay because the planning depart planning staff has has now applied new conditions yes it's a planning department's conditions okay thank you that's the step of the process i was missing appreciate it as a point of clarification if i may mr mayor sure the zoning
 Was a condition of the item when it was before the Planning Commission as well That is not a new condition necessarily It was on the table at the time and as we advised the Commission at the time It is certainly not a common condition, but it is not a typical periodically. We do see these Particular instances where we feel like staff could support a request. Thank you. Okay Yeah the comments
 i'm going to vote uh against this because i believe it's creating an unsafe pedestrian traffic situation um the lack of connectivity um even though you know in particular uh
 The lack of connectivity to the street with the pedestrian sidewalk. And then I have a lot of concerns about this parking along the back. Even if you can see under those trees, I would absolutely not feel safe parking back there and walking through a boardwalk. So I think that the site design leaves a lot to be desired. And that it creates a hostile pedestrian environment. And so that's,
 That is my just one of my justifications for voting no. The condition that you can turn down a preliminary plan or large-scale development is a proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition
 For purpose of this section, a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant due to factors such as, but not limited to, high traffic volume, topography, or the nature of the traffic pattern. So, that's talking about vehicular accidents, and there must be something in the record
 to show that in fact this dangerous traffic condition has been created or compounded by that. Just someone's feelings that they don't like the design or something like that is really insufficient to meet the burden. Right, but there are several areas where adjacent to parking lots where there are not sidewalks which would force pedestrians into the flow of traffic.
 And ultimately, the lack of connectivity for the pedestrian facilities will cause people to cut through places in the parking lot where pedestrians would not normally be expected to be seen. So honestly, this is poor planning. And I think that it's gonna be putting people in parking lots without appropriate pedestrian accommodations where they could encounter vehicles.
 It was my understanding that the sidewalks were added and lighting was added along that back, is that correct? It is, I just think it's incidental safety. For me, it's not any really different than Walker Park, except for it has a lot more eyes on it because there's a second story of dwellings. And so I feel like it's just like a park with housing on one side
 that's looking over the parking and the sidewalk, but hopefully with lighting or benches and sidewalks, it would help. Okay, any other final comments? Okay, we have a motion and a second. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turner? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No. Pinnion? Yes. Petty?
 No. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. And it passes. Okay all right moving along. Number five an ordinance rezoning that property described rezoning petition RZN 20-71-15 for approximately 1.13 acres located at 786 south Sherman avenue from RSF 4
 residential single family four units per acre to RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 We had ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to RMF-24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are excited by a men's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Garner, what do you have on this? Yes, Mayor. This request is about two-tenths of a mile west of the intersection of Highway 16 and Huntsville Road.
 uh the surrounding development is uh there are apartments and some other housing types and some other land uses and the zoning is varied also this is the parcel that is requested for rezoning to rmf 24 and it is adjacent to the community services district and there's the community service district across the street
 The 2040 plan designates this as a future mixed-use center. And as you can see, there's quite a bit of commercial zoning already in place. The adopted plans, in addition, it designates it in a city neighborhood area, encourages a variety of residential building types and uses
 RMF 24, as you'll remember, is a form-based district, zero to 25 foot setback. Creates a transition from the residential that's already in place to the west and the commercial zoning to the east. And it's consistent with the surrounding zoning districts in the area. And there was no opposition at the Planning Commission
 and Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions. The applicant, I believe, is Ricky Hill. Okay, what questions do we have for? Yes, is the applicant here, Mr. Hill? Hello, okay, okay. Mr. Hill. All right, Mr. Hill, would you like to speak for the council? Well, I appreciate everybody being here so late with me and thank you for your time, staff.
 Our client met with the staff a couple times prior to the Planning Commission meeting and set out everything that we have to do to make this application work. And we just feel like this is a good fit for this, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do we have from the council to the applicant or the staff? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Mayor, I understand we have one registrant trying to get online. Okay, we'll wait. Okay. We have been instructed that, never mind, we can't.
 Okay, so there's nobody else in the public to speak, right? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. If somebody pops up, we will listen to them. All right. All right. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Heard. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Okay.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7115 for approximately 1.13 acres, located at 786 South Sherman Avenue, from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Okay, Josh made any kind of connection? Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7115 for approximately 1.13 acres, located at 786 South Sherman Avenue from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council?
 This is located on the box around the city. So I think it's a good place for larger intensity of development. And I have received letters from neighbors in support. So I hope that we'll approve this. Okay. I actually got a message that someone tried to speak in favor, but they weren't able to receive a link to participate. Okay. But yeah.
 They said it was fine and they're in support of it. So I'm not sure what the process is there that got a misconnection, but they said to go ahead and they're in support of this to move it forward. Thank you, Sonia, very much. I'm glad you made that connection. I was very concerned about that. Anybody that wants to speak to the council should be allowed. So whatever glitz that we might have, we will have that repaired by next council meeting.
 All right. Any other final comments from the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move on to number six.
 An ordinance rezoning that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 20-712 for approximately .29 acres located at 1101 West Cato Springs Road from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban Kip.
 Feat. ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to R-I-U Residential Intermediate Urban. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Garner. Yes, Mayor. This parcel is located where Garland Tees into Cato Springs Road. It is just north of the trail and the creek. It traditionally was adjacent to a residential industrial area.
 that is now actually developing residentially and it's residential across the street. There's still some office industrial uses to the west. As you can see, the zoning is still has, is industrial to the west and south. It is RMF 24 to the east and to across the street to the north.
 It's in the Fit Junction Planning Area. It's designated city neighborhood. Infield score is five and six. No issues were identified other than the Planning Commission recommended that the RIU district be used rather than the RMF 24 and adjacent property owner concurred with that.
 and the Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval of the RIU district. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe the applicant is online, Damon McDonald, Mr. McDonald. Okay. If he's patient enough to stay around this long. Yes, Mr. McDonald, would you like to address the council? Yes, sir. Thank you for the opportunity. Okay.
 We are just trying to get this approved and based on one of the neighbors recommendations for we've changed it from the RMF 24 and hope that we can get it approved. Okay. What questions from the council do we have for either the staff or Mr. McDonald? Okay. Let's get some public comment.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of two, three to two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this publicly? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council?
 I would just like to say that this is a property that is next door to my home. And I reached out to the developer and suggested that they change their application to the R.I.U. I feel that that's really consistent with how I intend to develop my property in the future. It is very compatible with the development patterns we see in the neighborhood. We have a high density apartment building across the street.
 duplexes across the street and other single family homes. So I'm excited to see this plot redeveloped. I do hope that they pay special attention to stormwater management because it is entirely within the floodplain. But I'm glad to see that they're working with the neighbors and look forward to what they have planned for the property. So with that, I move that we suspend the rules and move to the second reading. All right. All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? TURK? Yes. SMITH? Yes. GUTIERREZ? Yes. MARSH? Yes. PENYON? Yes. PETTY? Yes. SCROGGIN? Yes. BUNCH? Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7112 for approximately 0.29 acres located at 1101 West Cato Springs Road from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to R-I-U Residential Intermediate Urban. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Okay. Second. I haven't got a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Clerk. Second.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggen? Yes. Bunch?
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-712 for approximately 0.29 acres located at 1101 West Cato Springs Road from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay, any final comments from the council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Okay.
 canyon yes yes scroggins yes yes okay thank you all number seven an ordinance to approve a commercial planned zoning district entitled cpzd 20-7093 for approximately 128.54 acres located northwest of dean solomon road and lori drive to allow a mixed-use development that includes city parkland and 600 and
 to multifamily units with associated parking kit. Get ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approve CPZD 20-7093 as described in exhibits A, B, and C attached to a planning division's agenda memo, section two.
 that this CEPCD approval is subject to the following conditions. Number one, the proposed percent minimum canopy shall be revised to 25% pursuant to Section 16704, Tree Preservation and Protection During Development, which requires a 25% minimum canopy preservation for planned zoning districts unless the applicant receives approval for on-site mitigation or off-site alternatives. Number two.
 Number two, the density allowance in Planning Area 1 shall be amended to 24 units per acre without the proposed variable density. Number three, removal of language in Section 1L, noting that, quote, improvements and or associated fees for the upgrade of Dean Solomon Road shall not be assessed as a result of the development of Planning Area 4, unquote.
 All final street improvements will be determined by the Planning Commission at the time of development review. An applicant may pursue other avenues to reduce expenses, including a cost share or similar mechanism that may be considered by the City Council. Number four, 50% of the park's full perimeter shall have lots that feature buildings fronting the park.
 Lots may be adjoining the park or separated from the park by a street as long as the buildings include front doors to the park. No portion of the perimeter, either developed or undeveloped, shall be exempt from this. This shall be a development requirement with variance subject to Planning Commission consideration. Number five.
 The planning areas where conventional building setbacks are proposed, these shall be replaced by zero to 25 foot build two zones. All planning areas shall have a 50% minimum buildable frontage requirement for lots, with contributing built frontage established by adjacency to either public street or parkland, with a prioritization on parkland.
 This shall be a zoning requirement with reductions subject to staff approval and variances subject to the Board of Adjustment consideration. Section 3, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, is hereby approved to reflect the zoning criteria provided in Section 1 above. Okay. Gordon. Oh, Senator. Jonathan also has this item. Okay. Jonathan. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. Given the critical role that Parkland plays in the request, planning is going to be sharing our time this evening presenting to the council with Ted Jacks from our Park Department. He will be jumping on right after me and
 With due consideration for the late hour, I'll also try to be brief and then make myself most available for questions more than anything else. So that said, on to the project itself. This property is in northwest Fayetteville, includes about 130 acres of land on the east side of Dean Street between Mount Comfort to the south and 112 to the north. That is a largely undeveloped piece of property, the site of the former Razorback Golf Course.
 Beyond its character as a former golf course, it's most known by the fact that it's bisected from east to west by Clabber Creek with a substantial amount of the northern third of the property encumbered by floodway and floodplain associated with Clabber Creek itself.
 as for the request the proposal is a commercial plan zoning district so for those they if they are of sufficient size the applicant will often opt to break down that proposal into more digestible pieces with specific planning areas that act as individual sub-developments if you will to ensure
 Each one is developed in a matter, in a way that they prefer. With this proposal, there are four planning areas being proposed, the first of which is planning area one, just west of the central pond, you can see here, totaling about 16 acres. That's intended to be office and residential use.
 On the east side of the pond, fronting Dean Street, is a similar proposal for some non-residential and residential uses, less focused on offices and more on the medium to small scale non-residential.
 Sandwiched between those is Planning Area 3, or bookending rather, Planning Area 1 is Planning Area 3, which includes the two ponds. Those are intended for development and association with the Planning Area 4 to the south, specifically to incorporate it into the stormwater detention and drainage of water quality, and then ultimately turn it into an amenity rather than just a detention pond behind a fence somewhere in the development.
 And speaking of planning area four, that includes approximately 28 acres. I apologize that I got the acreage wrong in my staff report. That does include the lower end of the project where development is intended to be multifamily primarily with the applicant explicitly noting approximately 600 units of housing proposed there. The balance of the property, as you can see here, is intended to ultimately be parkland.
 The northern portion is intended to be either dedicated to the city as a part of parkland dedication requirements with Development proposal the balance of that will be Donated to the city if the projects approved with planning areas three the two parts that make up planning your three Potentially being donated or being donation to the city ultimately
 As for the design side of the development, it is intended to meet the city's design standards. You can see here some examples or an example of the proposed non-residential uses and the multifamily residential uses on Planning Area 4. Staff does find the request to be compatible and consistent with the surrounding land uses and the city's long-range planning documents.
 Although it does give us some pause to see an area that's predominantly multifamily in use without necessarily plans for incorporating non-residential uses, we feel that this PCD functions as a larger whole. It's not intended for any one area to stand on its own. They're all intended to be integrated together, and we feel that in doing so, it has the potential to create a compact, complete, connected neighborhood.
 Additionally, with the large amounts of parkland being proposed, we feel that it does speak to the city's goal to accrue an enduring green network that would ultimately link up with other portions of Long Cliver Creek that are currently either in conservation easement or parkland.
 This property is a little bit odd when it comes to the future land use map. It is a sandwich of sorts with residential area in the middle and north, natural areas running along the Clabber Creek floodplain corridor and city neighborhood areas along the southern portion of the property, while the
 The proposal again itself and standalone planning years doesn't necessarily fully compliment any one of those future land use map designations. We feel like the project needs to be looked at as a whole and when done so it does compliment our future land use map. One thing I do wanna spend a little bit of time on today
 is with regards to the conditions of approval staff is recommending. These are pretty specific to the project and do may have some nuance that didn't come across in the staff report. The first of which is regarding tree preservation. The UDC does require a minimum 25% tree canopy for PZDs. The tree canopy requirements are based on zoning districts, not land uses.
 The applicant is proposing, depending on the planning area, between 20 and 25%. So a condition of staff's recommended approval is that that be modified so that it's 25% across all planning areas. An odd nuance to this proposal is that planning area one, which is again the planning area just west of the main pond that's intended for office use and the potential for the
 the potential for residential has a temporal density element to it that staff has not seen before. It's initially intended for the first 10 years of the property's life to be limited to four units per acre. After a decade, it will balloon to 24 units per acre. Staff feels that this is contrary to the city's goals to create capacity.
 complete neighborhoods where residential and non-residential uses can exist right next to each other in harmony. We recommend striking that condition and having it just be a stand from the beginning, standing at 24 units per acre. The third item I want to touch upon, and this is something Kit also spoke to, is an element of the PCD, which proposes no requirements for street infrastructure for planning area four, which is the 600 units of multifamily development.
 staff takes issue with that that is that effectively short circuits the development review process when street improvements are determined by our planning commission it's after the full details of a project are submitted and staff and the commission actually have an ability to understand the impacts we don't feel it's appropriate with a zoning proposal to
 grant carte blanche to a piece of property to develop without having to make any street improvements where there could be some very significant impacts created by that proposal.
 uh the last two items i'm going to touch on are the two conditions that the planning commission proposed uh with this staff does not object to these we feel like there are certainly elements of good urban design here that will address some of the issues we see with parkland nationwide where developments adjacent to them have a tendency to turn their backs on the property the first of the two proposals is that the planning commission has proposed a development requirement this is not a zoning requirement so it would go to the planning commission for variance
 for 50% of the park's perimeter to include lots of buildings that front the park. As you can see in the diagram here, I tried to put that in a visual sense. So it basically means that there will be buildings looking at the park. There can be a street in between the buildings in the park. If you think about Wilson Park being the perfect example in Fayetteville, the houses all face the park, but they're on the opposite side of the street. The second condition is one where
 A typical zoning requirement amongst Fayetteville's form-based districts is a minimum buildable street frontage, which means not only do you have to have a building at the street, but a certain portion or percentage of your frontage along that street has to have a building residing within it. And the Planning Commission has proposed a condition where that be extended to also include parkland with a priority of fronting parkland when it is available, and then an optional ability to front a street as an alternative condition.
 That said, staff and the Planning Commission are recommending approval of this CPZD. I'd like to hand it over to Ted Jack next. No, no, no. Oh, there's two minutes left? Okay, Ted, you've got two minutes. Okay, I need to share my screen here. Whatever you can do in two minutes. All right. Well, I have to go very fast then. Yeah.
 We believe the site which you can see here is really a strong site for a community park. It's got great access. It's right in the middle of a very weak area for parks. We really don't need a neighborhood park, we need a community park here. And you can see there's a nice big weak area in the city. So this hits it. It's on the Clabra Creek Trail system.
 It's got the Clabber Creek going through it, which is actually an asset.
 that we can capitalize on it. And then surrounding it, there's great assets like Wilson Spring Preserve to the east. Putting all this together, you start to string something like other cities have, like the Emerald Necklace in Boston. So it's a really great corridor that we could add. It's also cultural history. Ben, he sent out an email about how it had foundations of some of the higher education in the area started here.
 One of the structures still left on the site is a spring house. You can see it here in kind of pristine condition. It's not so pristine today. The roof's terrible, but we can fix that. But you can see how we could use that for something
 um to convey some of that cultural history. Then just some pictures of some of the things we think could be in the park that are suited. Okay, Ted, Ted, time. Staff just 10 minutes. Mayor, I think Ted thought we were looking at his screen but we weren't and I'd like to move to extend his time by five minutes. That will be fine. I first by unanimous consent if no one objects. I don't hear an objection. Okay so Ted you have five minutes.
 Okay, I'm hitting share screen but I don't, do y'all see it now? Yep, yep. Okay, well I'll jump in right back to where I was talking about how this site is right where we really need it for a community park. This is a gap analysis map showing our other community parks and regional parks. And you can see where we have weak areas of coverage. This one really hits the center of that.
 Then jumping to the corridor, it's got the Clabber Creek Trail System, which of course would be great for connectivity. And then I was talking about the creek itself really becomes a great asset. Then surrounding right to the east, the Northwest Arkansas Trust is another great assets that the park will directly link into. So altogether you start to build this really strong corridor that's about 2.2 miles long, 258 acres.
 that could even grow in the future but provide something like Emerald Necklace in Boston. And then I was mentioning the cultural history. The Spring House that's on site is something we can really use. It's interesting. It's in bad shape now but we can work with it. And then just some of the ideas, some images, showing some of the things that people have said they would like to have in the park system.
 And then finally, one of the recommendations of PRAB is for all the great things the Underwoods have done beyond just the donation of a huge amount of this land, 37.5 acres is gonna be donated. We're recommending naming the park after the Underwoods. And I'd be glad to answer any questions. This is just a recap of some of the things why we think it's a great asset for the city. And again, I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Okay. Mr. Mayor, we have Craig Underwood, I believe, leading off for the applicant, followed by Tom Henley. Okay. All right. The applicant has 10 minutes. Craig, you can start, and then Tom will finish up whatever time you leave for him. Okay. I believe I'm unmuted. Can you hear me? Yes, you can. Okay. Perfect. Number one, thank you all for staying so late and for the work you all put in, both the council members and city staff.
 I think most of y'all know that Laura and I purchased this property in 2017 with the intention of holding it for three to five years on the short end, but fully expecting it to be eight to 10 years before we thought it'd be ready for development. But even before we purchased it, we had our first meeting with Mayor Jordan getting advice on what he saw for the future of this area and this part of town and any suggestions or recommendations he had.
 During the next couple of years, we then reached out to everybody who's on city council and we were able to have meetings with the majority of you getting ideas and suggestions of what your input was, of what you thought would be good for this area and for this piece of property.
 We also reached out to different developer friends that we have. We reached out to city staff, had numerous meetings there. And of course, we met with many of the neighbors in the area that were so vocal about some of the previous developments that had been proposed in this area.
 During all of these meetings, we let it be known that one of the things that was important to us was to look at doing a park element on this property. And the reason the park element is so important to us is because of our love of Gully Park. We raised our three kids not too far off from Gully Park, and we had birthday parties there and family outings and music in the park. And our oldest son, Kyle, learned to ride his bike there. He's 30 years old now. So just great family memories, and we want to be able to share that with other people. Thank you.
 So Laura and I obviously believe that parks are a very important part of having a great community. A little over a year ago, my family opened up 50 acres of our land next to Sequoia Woods to allow the Parks Department to put bicycle trails, mountain bike trails on there. Everyone, they're gone? Oh what time? Midnight.
 Are we still there? Keep going, Greg. Keep going. Okay, somebody got cut in. Anyway, Laura was named Volunteer of the Year for the state of Arkansas for her work with the Parks Department. And so needless to say, we have deep roots and this is obviously very important to us. Well, as we discussed the park idea with different people, the park really hit a favorable chord for West Fayetteville.
 And about a year ago, City Council Member Kyle Smith and Parks Board Member Keith Tinkleve approached us and wanted to know two different things. One, if we would move our timeline up significantly as far as when we might be able to give land to the city for a park. And number two, if we look at increasing the size more than the 30 acres. And as you've seen from this proposal, we've more than doubled that.
 so you fast forward that 11 months from when they first contacted us and more than 100 meetings later and here we are today with this park and this pzd
 And when we originally purchased the land, the land has a bill of assurance on it and we fully understood that. It has a capability of being developed with 400 single family homes on it with this bill of assurance. And we anticipated that being the direction of the land. Mr. Kerr, can you put up the slide I put together? I did a Photoshop slide indicating the land. What I did is used the,
 the Crystal Springs layout, which is a neighborhood immediately to the west of us. And I laid that on top of the developable land within the old Razorback Golf Course. And this slide shows what 362 homes would look like. Yes, there it is. 362 homes would look like. And again, we can do up to 400 with the bill of assurance. So this is a full 10% less than that. And so this is an example of what,
 we would be looking at if this is not approved so two final thoughts on my part one rob sharp from the planning commission made this statement he said this is a once in a generation opportunity to get a community park of this size and i think all of you know this will be the largest community park
 within the city of Fayetteville. And number two, if the PCD is deemed unsatisfactory, this land will become one more mass neighborhood in Fayetteville, just as you saw on that slide, and we'll have lost a golden opportunity. So at this point, I'm gonna turn it over to the crew at Kraft and Toll. Thank you. This is Joe Pfeiffer with Kraft and Toll. Can you guys hear me all right? Yes.
 I appreciate the opportunity to speak tonight. We're obviously excited to help Craig and the Underwoods with the generous donation of land. I just want to quickly touch on some of the conditions of approval that Jonathan spoke about. Condition of approval number one regarding the tree preservation percentages.
 Originally, you know, we wanted to just do a straight rezone on the property. We had some meetings early on with the city and it was recommended that we brought it through as a PCD. Each specific planning area mimics a zoning district. Planning Area 1 is RO. 2 would be NSG 3P1 and 4RMF. The only changes we've made.
 to these districts in the PCD booklet have been at the recommendation of staff. So we're really just trying to, we'd like the opportunity to meet the tree percentages that would be required by these districts if we were to do the straight rezone. Currently the site only requires a tree preservation number of 20%.
 as of right now the booklet each each planning area will meet the 20 percent as currently required or or higher one i think plenty area three is 25 percent um regarding the variable density uh in condition of approval number two uh this is really specific to planning area one which mimics ro and ro would have the uh density at rm or at 24 units per acre
 We were proposing to limit the density to four units per acre. This was based on a meeting that we had with one of the leaders from the adjacent neighborhoods. They were more comfortable limiting the density for that 10-year period and then letting it revert back to the 24 units an acre that RO would allow. Condition of approval number three regarding improvements on Dean Solomon.
 So really due to the large value of land being donated with the PCD, we kind of feel like, we feel like our client should not have to bear the cost of the road improvements along planning area four only. It's 650 feet out of the 2200 linear feet of road frontage along Dean Solomon. Really by code.
 we'd be required to donate about 12 acres based on the 602 units in planning area four. We've decided to bank around 15 acres for future development as far as parkland numbers go. So the remaining 37 and a half acres would equate to around the 1.8 million dollar donation in land if you use the current parkland formula. The full build out just in comparison a full build out for a neighborhood link
 a 650 feet will only be around 150 to 200 000 for that section of road specifically again in planning area number four uh if the plan's approved all development within the other planning areas along dean solomon or any area with frontage would be assessed during the development review we're specifically asking for a waiver for planning area four only
 To touch on the conditions from Planning Commission, we revised the PCD to require the minimum buildable frontage of 50% for all the planning areas and also noted that parkland and right of way were both considered frontage. Really this is just to allow the developer, based on the nature of the project, the option to choose which best fits the needs.
 the proposed project at the time and not to not to just make sure it gives them the option to do either or additionally we've added we've changed all the setback requirements in all the planning areas to reflect the 0 to 25 build 2 zone and we've also added the distinction that if a lot had frontage on both parkland and
 right-of-way, public right-of-way, that the Build 2 zone would apply to either. Again, this would just allow the developer in the future the option to choose based on what they're proposing. Really, I'd be happy to answer any questions if you have them. Okay. What questions do we have from the council for the staff or the applicant? Okay. Then we will take some public comment.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Mayor, I see Jim Irwin. Okay, okay, Jim, go ahead. Hello, can you hear me?
 I just want to bring up some things that we've always talked about with this property is the drainage the Dean Solomon Road needs improvement I can see with this development that it could even go to a third lane type one and it's the road is very patchy also you need to make note of the the corridor that would be the Wilson Springs to
 the parkland that would allow for the animals to move freely back and forth between these two lands. But my real concern is one of the additions that the planning commission made, which was from Mr. Hoffman, that added the 50% forward-facing houses to the park.
 for the whole perimeter of the park. Well, I think this is unfair to the developers in how more than 50% of the park is already developed with back-facing windows
 and he said this wouldn't be secure. But I ask you to think about your own house. How much time do you spend in your front yard versus your backyard? I know in my house, I have two windows facing the front yard to the street where I spend very little time. But I have eight windows facing the backyard which looks onto the park and where we spend almost all of our time in the for our friends and family.
 I feel like this is an undue burden on to the developer to require this and would ask that it be re re reduced or rewarded to 50% of the new development area, or to have that removed all total and let the developer do what he was planning. Cause I feel like what he had planned was going to be what the neighborhood really wanted altogether. I feel like the, the,
 Planning Commission bullied him into this and is getting them to spend much more money than what he would have had to spend. I mean, they're not talking hundreds of thousands. I think we're talking we'd be probably talking millions to do what they want. And then he has to worry about recouping his cost for this. So I feel like this is not a fair thing for the developer to meet this 50 percent of the entire parkland area.
 because I know where I live that there are a number of building sites that have been deemed by the Lindsay property to be unbuildable, even if you could build them up and wouldn't be cost effective. So overall, I don't think this is a fair thing. I would like to see it be reduced to 50% of the new development area, not the 50% of the total area of the park.
 And they brought up that it's not safe to be in the parks, like he brought up Walker Park. And we all know that you shouldn't be in the park after 11 o'clock anyways. I don't even feel hardly safe off some of the side streets off of Dixon Street after 11 o'clock. What else I have?
 So I don't feel that's good. He brought up that he didn't like that. We have all these fences like in Gauley park, but when you sit down and look at, there are different style of fences. My neighbor next to me has a wrought iron fix that looks out onto the park. My neighbor past that has no fence at all. So he used the fences to be a deterrent as being that they would back up the park, but we all have different style of fences. Some were, were,
 insisted by the developer of this neighborhood. So we, some of us didn't have any options to do it. So I feel like I would like to see that that 50% be changed from 50% of the entire park to 50% of the new development or just removed altogether and let Mr. Underwood develop it the way he intentionally designed it to be, which I think would be,
 be a great asset to this area. We need the park and neighborhood, surrounding neighborhoods have asked for this. And you know how we fought against the Lindsay development and all. So I think this is what we as a neighborhood, what the developer is giving us, is what we want all total. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council.
 Mayor, I am about as excited as I can possibly be at 1130 at night over this. We've been talking about this for almost a year with Mr. Underwood, and I can't tell you how much I appreciate the time he's put in working with the neighbors on this one. And really, really tailoring to what they're looking for.
 I think if it weren't so late, we would have a stream of public commenters here to rival what we've had in our email lately. But I'm very, very excited to have this for the west side of Fayetteville for all the reasons that have already been stated. So I'm not going to belabor that. But this is going to be a good thing for Northwest Fayetteville. Okay. So are you going to hold it two weeks or what time?
 Yeah, I would like to table this or hold it. We'll just hold it on the first or second reading. That's my preference. It's just late and there's a lot to consider still here. It's a great proposal overall, but there are some details that I'd like to look at a little bit closer. Okay. Okay.
 Yeah, I also agree that we need to hold it. I'd like some more time to digest the 50% requirement and look at that a little closer than I have so far. And I know at this late hour, I'm not going to be able to digest it as well as I need to. Okay.
 I feel the same way. Jonathan, I'm wondering if you could, and Ted, if you could actually provide your PowerPoint slides so we can take a look at that a little bit more in the next couple of weeks. That would be very helpful. Certainly. Thank you. All right, so I guess we'll hold it right here for two weeks. And, wow, that's a...
 concludes our business for the evening it's not a midnight not even midnight I don't usually go to bed much before this time anyway so I'm still good so what announcements do we have I have a few and a few announcements these have been through our media releases in the last few weeks and on the website so I just encourage people to go learn more about it by going to our homepage and the news announcements there but
 We just recently opened some of the trails on the Centennial Park at Millsap Mountain. The learner's permit trail is open and people are invited to come experience that first level trail.
 We have put up a speak up page on the Archibald Yale project, seeking public feedback for the safety improvements that we are going to be designing there or as part of the 71B.
 As I hope you all have heard, the farmers market kicked back in a week ago last Saturday. They are doing very well with social distancing and all kinds of different safeguards so that people can go buy their vegetables at the farmers market on Saturdays and on Tuesday.
 Unfortunately, the Gully Park concert series was canceled for the summer. Swimming pool is not going to open. And then finally, the very last thing I would like to let people know about is there is a culmination of a two-year long software development project for our development services team.
 that will bring down some online permitting. The old system will go down on tomorrow, actually, for the online permitting, and we'll resume early next week with the conversion to the new Intergov software platform that will be available to the different users to be able to interact with an online portal. A great new project. That's all I have, Mayor. Okay, do we have anything else for announcements tonight? No.
 Okay, before we leave tonight, I want to encourage everybody in town to mask up. And the last count I believe I had was over, what do you have, Chief, for the last? I know you had 82,000 masks and been passed out in over 900 businesses. The last count that I had. Yeah, they've handed out, at least in the environment, they've worked hard. They've handed out.
 I can't hardly read my phone. 90,000, over 90,000 masks to 1,100 businesses. Wonderful. Well done. And we've got another 30,000 in inventory right now, so people can come by Station 1 and get them anytime. So I want to thank the Federal Fire Department and the Federal Police Department for their initiative on this and making this a very successful program. So we're setting it up.
 90,000 right now and 1,100 business. That's tremendous. So I encourage everybody to mask up. And I want, when you go out, mask up, do your part and stay six feet apart. Wash your hands frequently. Businesses, be sure to have your staff and your customers mask up. So...
 I say all that to say we're still the numbers were somewhat down today but we're still in a very hot spot in this state so take this virus very seriously mask up save lives and together let's stop COVID-19. Thank you all we're adjourned.