I would like to call this meeting of August the 4th, 2020, City Council to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Petty. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Tarr. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Present. Mayor Jordan. Here. Thank you, Karen. Everyone, please join me in the pledge of allegiance.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Well, welcome, everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Beville City Hall is closed to the public, and this meeting is being held virtually. Thank you.
 I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I am present in the council chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Kit Williams, City Attorney. Chair Paxton, City Clerk, Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Deputy Police Chief Jamie Fields. Fire Chief Brad Hardin. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from the Federal's IT Department. City Council Members, City Staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance to the city of Federal. And we have provided many ways to participate in or view tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting.
 viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's youtube channel joining the zoom conference by phone smartphone tablet or computer staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand we ask that you refrain from doing this until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment
 I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. When recognized, please state your name and address with a record. Public comment should be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they wish to address being open for public comment.
 Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the City Council by unanimous consent or majority vote. If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes.
 the city council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned up person to speak by unanimous consent our majority vote now let us begin first of our business we have tonight is the monthly finance report from paul becker
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm going to try, although this would be a challenge, to give my report with my mask on because of the COVID-19 virus. So we'll see how this works out. You have a little trouble understanding me anyway, so if we have questions, make sure you stop me to repeat something. We're looking at the year-to-date numbers through the month of June. So we're halfway through June,
 the year of 2020. When we look to the general fund, I'll remind you that the sales tax were only down 0.72% for May sales. So, so far through June, we're actually over budget about 1.35% in sales tax, which I'm certainly very happy with. I think that's the best we could expect to be right now. Building permits are strong.
 uh they've been strong in the residential section and now we're starting to see some commercial activity so they've been pretty strong throughout the first half of year franchise fees are up a little bit
 Parks fees obviously have plummeted due to our lack of being able to have programs for parks. Court fees are down about 20%. So when we look at it overall, I'm almost exactly on budget for this point in time through the first six months. And I think, again, I'll repeat, I think that's about as good as we could expect at this point in time.
 i'm looking at the street fund and the street fund turn back uh for motor fuel taxes is down a bit though some of the other turn backs are up a bit so we're just about on budget in the street fund so again that's good news for the street fund we're just about on budget for revenue parking of course we're taking we're taking a hit in parking
 for the month uh for the current month of june we've collected less than a third of what the budget was for that particular month however so far year to date we've collected about 60 of the budget now we do have some reserves there and they're uh they're helping out for operations
 The one thing we've looked at, of course, is some of the temporary parking expenditures for personnel for events, et cetera, we haven't had to use. And the money that we had discussed allocating to support of the arts, we are going to have to use to fund both the bond issue outstanding, the debt service for that, and the continued operations. But we're looking at that very carefully at this point in time. Parks development.
 On a year-to-date basis, we've collected about 80% of the budget for parks development. And again, that's funded by HMR taxes. Again, that's down 20%, but I think when we view everything, that's about as well as we could expect for this point in time also. What this means is,
 I'm not concerned about operations or the parks funding, that's maintenance of weather grounds, things of that nature. But it is going to impact future CIP. And we'll talk more about that when we get into budget time and we're in a position where we can really see the picture a little more clearly. Water and sewer billings are roughly flat compared to budget. That means they're up about 1.9%.
 from last year, but just about online of what we had expected. Now, when we really looked at it carefully, and we will look at water consumption, residential water consumption is up, but commercial consumption is down as businesses have cut back pretty drastically, down almost a third of what we had anticipated.
 So all in all, however, buildings are about on budget. The other thing we have to look at, of course, is we have not been shutting down water and sewer services to customers for non-payment. That was a position we took. That was a position administration took very strongly. We wouldn't do that because, of course, we've got to worry about cleanliness and washing hands.
 and certainly the council has supported that so even though the billings are about on par what we've expected our accounts receivable are is rising because of the delinquency of payment
 So the delinquency is up about $400,000 compared to last year. However, we've got a pretty decent reserve and a water and sewer fund, and that doesn't concern me at this point in time. Remember, we've also got a lot of capital work to do, and we do have the money on hand to do that work for this year for the 2020 budget. Trash and recycling, again, trash and recycling, again, it's down.
 We're seeing a drop essentially in a commercial use as businesses have cut back and then drop box, which is rather optional. So we're seeing revenue down about 5% compared to budget.
 However, I think operations, they're not in jeopardy. We're continuing operations, but we're not getting budget at this point in time. Essentially, we've got a reserve to deal with there in trash and recycling and trash collection.
 The airport is down, fuel is, aviation fuel is about two-thirds of what the budget was. So it's about one-third down. We did receive a subsidy in revenue, $69,000 from the federal government, part of the support. And that is helping out a bit with revenue. However, we're still down for the year.
 Flight activity is down about 10% for the year, but it's picked up pretty rapidly in May and June due to extended military flights and flight school. However, individual flights and especially business flights have certainly not taken place or came up with what we had expected before the pandemic.
 As of now, business travel again is struggling a bit, but flights for the military and the school are up fifth. However, only two thirds of what we anticipated in fuel sales have taken place this year. So we're monitoring that very closely to see if that picks up as we move forward. So I think in summary,
 Again, I'll repeat, I think we're doing as well as we could expect to do under the circumstances. We're moving in toward the budget year. We're gonna start those discussions in September when we discuss levy and what the recommendation for the levy is. I think we need to understand that we need to stay flexible. We need to look at any expense reductions or watch certain expenses, which we have been doing. And we have to be,
 able to adjust to whatever comes forward. We're still adjusting, revenue is still volatile, and we're gonna have to monitor that as we continue with the pandemic. With that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on this? Mayor, I have a question.
 Paul, thank you for going over each of the funds. When you were speaking about the parking fund, you said that we were taking a hit, but we had ample reserves. At the current pace, how long would you expect our reserves to be sufficient? For the parking fund, Matthew, I've looked at that. I would expect we can continue, even with the declining revenue, we're looking at this through the end of the year, making the bond payments. Yes.
 keeping operations as stable as they are now but we're going to have to watch and see if in fact that revenue changes and make the modifications that we need one of the things again that we talked in one of the adjustments that we made as we were not able to use that approximate two hundred thousand dollars for arts support
 that has helped. I anticipate that next year, we're not gonna have that available either. However, I don't have any major concerns at this point in time through the end of this year. What we're gonna have to look at very carefully is the budget and operations there for next year, Matthew. Okay, thank you, Paul. Any other questions? All right, thanks, Paul. Next, Orbitz and Nimes, consent agenda.
 Number one, approval of the July 14th, 2020 Special City Council Meeting Minutes and the 2021-2022
 2020 July 21 2020 City Council meeting minutes number two a resolution authorized contract the Arkansas historic preservation program for acceptance of a certified local government grant any amount of 790 dollars to pay for travel and training expenses and to prove a budget adjustment number three
 a resolution to approve two proposal proposals from king electric contractors incorporated in the amount of thirty six thousand nine hundred and fifty one dollars pursuant to bid number 15-57 for electrical services associated with the church avenue and meadow street sidewalk improvements project and to approve a project contingency in the amount of three thousand six hundred ninety five dollars number four
 a resolution to authorize the purchase of a tandem asphalt roller from h e equipment services of springdale for the amount of 113 600 pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 20-47 and authorize a contract with the Crossland Heavy Contractors Incorporated in the amount of $379,870 for the construction of a new water pumping station and water main facility.
 associated with the Benson Pressure Plane Improvement Project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $56,980.50 and to approve a budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 4 to the proposed for the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkinson Ware Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $81,380 for construction...
 and project management services associated with the Benson Mountain Pressure Plane Improvements Project.
 Number seven, a resolution to approve Amendment Number 3 to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated in the amount of $169,500 for construction phase services related to the East Federal Water System and Township Pressure Plane Improvements Project and to approve the budget adjustment.
 8. A resolution authorized the payment of the electric motor center in the amount of $18,418.42 plus applicable taxes for the repair of pump number 2 at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility.
 And number nine, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $23,746 plus applicable taxes and freight charges from JCI Industries Incorporated for the repair of a pump at the Westside Water Resource Recovery Facilities. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read. Karen, would you please call the roll? For recording purposes, could I please get the person who seconded that motion? Mrs. Mark? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 oh okay thank you all very much let's move along to unfinished business number one an ordinance of wave competitive being authorized a new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement
 And an easement agreement with the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing of Chavo Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve a project contingency in the amount of $32,892.43 and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of $750,000. This is one of our 2019 transportation bond projects. Kit, I believe you...
 Yes, Mayor. This was tabled indefinitely and in order to discuss it, we'll need a motion from one of the council members to remove this from the table so it can be discussed. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to remove this from the table and put it on the agenda ready for discussion. Any comments on that? Now, Karen would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy.
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Chris, I believe you have this one. Yes, thank you, Mayor. And I believe we wanted to start with an amendment to this ordinance.
 which hopefully the council did receive a copy of this afternoon, but I do wanna read this to you. And it's intended to address some of the concerns that have been expressed by members of the council, especially the Transportation Committee. So the ordinance language would be an additional section to the ordinance, section three. Section three reads, execution of these agreements shall not be authorized unless and until
 A, an acceptable alternative to the crossing at University Avenue for pedestrians and bicycles is approved by the city council. And B, approval of a preliminary plan or large scale development for the first phase of development with a minimum of 400 apartment units with the posting of a bond to secure the construction of a connecting roadway to the railroad crossing. So that's the text of the amendment.
 We can certainly talk about other aspects of this, but we wanted to start with that amendment and answer any questions about it first. Okay. We need a motion on the amendment. Is that correct? Yes, that would be in order. Yes. I move that we amend the ordinance to the suggested language. Second. Okay. I have a motion and a second to amend. What discussion do we have on the amendment? I have some questions. Sure. Okay.
 I didn't watch the Transportation Committee meeting the other night. Can somebody expand on the last requirement of the 400 room or apartment complex? Can there be a little bit more of a discussion about that?
 Well, I certainly can start. This project is extending an access into some undeveloped property. And the discussion was that the city is committing to build, spend $750,000 to construct a crossing. What's our return on investment? What are we getting out of it? What could happen there?
 I mean essentially what's happening is there are developers of this property that are interested in submitting development proposals, but they really are looking for assurances from the city that they will be able to have access at this location. So this essentially gives the city some assurance that we will begin to get a return on our investment of this crossing.
 And that the mayor would not sign the agreement with the railroad until that condition is met. That's why that's the purpose of the amendment amended language. At the end of the day, council, I won't sign an agreement with the railroad until we get the assurances of the university crossing being the situation there being resolved. Mayor. Yes. Yes.
 I want to thank staff for working on the amendments. I know that the Transportation Committee made some general comments, and I think this helps address some of the concerns that were expressed by the members. I personally appreciate that the amendment as described would mean that there is some guarantee
 that the investment could be worth it. But I also have an additional question that I hope some of the other council members may weigh in on, and that's the cost itself. I know that this was a bond project and was advertised as a bond project, but we also only budgeted a half million dollars for this project and the cost is now $750,000. It's typical on other projects
 When a cost share or an infrastructural upgrade is proposed by a developer for the necessary capacity, it's typical that our cost shares are one-to-one.
 or proportional to the project, if not one-to-one. And this as written is entirely the city's responsibility for the costs, even though it exceeds our original budget and even though that is somewhat contrary to the precedent we have for other infrastructure improvements.
 So I'm curious to see if there is support for continuing with the planned expenditure, $500,000 which was voted on in the bonds, but structuring this deal such that the overage is the responsibility of the applicant at the time of large scale development. Okay. Do you want to have Devin talk about the project?
 Council Member Petty was asking that question of other council members, but if there is no response to that question of the other council members right now, then we do have more information to share. Okay. You want to hear the information that Devin has, council, or? Yes. Okay. Devin, let's get you queued up. Thank you, Mayor. Are you ready for me to go ahead? Yep. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. In regards to the memo that we shared with you earlier, one of the things that this memo does now that we're a little excited about is not just talk about economic returns, but also introduce the project a little bit more. In 2019, 38.7 acres north of this crossing site was purchased by Richardson Properties, which was led by Mr. Keith Richardson.
 the project in question looking at about 2075 high-end living units that could house as much as 2600 residents how i got to the 2600 number was i just assumed two people in 25 percent of the units and i know that's conservative um that's at 53 units per acre um with the project
 And so when we think about this, built-in phases of 400 units per phase, thus that original number, the pacing of the development could be a little different, which is why we run two different scenarios for you in that. But when we think about full build-out potential annually after all five phases are completed,
 it's easily at over 1.1 million annually in revenue. I feel that's extremely conservative because it takes inflation of only 2% when we have things like internet sales tax climbing at over 10 to 15% that are not equated. Revenue stems a lot from housing just because the purchasing power of those additional residents that are there, specifically internet sales tax, is a very big deal in this equation.
 And so in the memo, you have those different analysis is in these estimates are solely for this housing development. It does not take into account any other additional developments. You know, an example, a restaurant could add another 200,000 annually when we take into HMR.
 And so, and for what it's worth, when we think about this, we also calculated in construction taxes. So we look at recapture of this property. It could do so pretty quickly, likely within two years. Again, that's being conservative. It might do it quicker.
 I'm very excited about this project with Mr. Richardson. I've long admired his work in Central Arkansas from my time there. He's a great developer, really quality product and quality housing. And I'm happy to answer any other questions, but we run a plethora of analysis for this in our memos. Thank you. So what you're saying, Devin, basically the payback will be within two years? I think conservatively we could say that. Okay. Okay.
 Largely it would depend on the pace of that additional phase. But when we looked at this initially with our, and we did another analysis that you have that shows both coming into the cost with this, would really depend on the pacing of the phases, compound interest changes, if it's a three-year or two-year or five-year interval. But we've run different scenarios. I hope that helps because I had to staff run the numbers on how long it would take to,
 get payback on the uh railroad crossings i think that question might come up so we are
 Mary, this was read, I think, the first time, and then it was tabled indefinitely. Now we're at another meeting. It's been off the table, but it probably needs to be read for the second time or else have the rule suspended. So only the title needs to be read for the second time. Since this is another meeting, it's an ordinance. It needs to be read three times. And we have one reading, I think, that we've done. That's correct. I've done it on the first reading. But what about the amendment? The amendment has already been read.
 Haven't we? No, we're discussing the amendment. I'm sorry, I'm getting ahead of myself. I was wanting to get back to the amendment. And then go to the second. You're right. Got ahead of myself. Okay. So we're still discussing the amendment. So what's everybody's thoughts? Can you read the portion again about the railroad crossing on University? Because that's the barrier for me, and I want to make sure that we're addressing keeping that crossing open. What is the exact language on that? I understand that.
 Yes, I can read that again. Execution of these agreements should not be authorized unless and until A, an acceptable alternative to the crossing at University Avenue for pedestrians and bicycles is approved by the City Council. So it would be a design that we would put together, would present to the City Council and it would be passed. Both the design and the budget at the time would be approved by the City Council.
 And do we have a preliminary budget number on that? I mean, I realize we don't have a design, but where is that money coming from? Well, we have an identified funding source, but we have a very rough estimate of approximately $500,000 for the crossing. And do we have any assurance that this new crossing will be in place before they're allowed to close the existing crossing? No.
 Well, we don't, I mean, I think we control that as far as schedule, etc. So there's nothing explicit in here saying that the crossing will have to be in place before the other crossing is closed. I think we need that language. So maybe the city attorney can help us decide what exactly that language should be. But I want no interruption in service of that crossing. Okay.
 So basically, Sarah, you're saying you want that crossing put in first before we do the other one. I want that crossing to remain open to pedestrians and bicyclists. And if that requires building it first before the other one or just delaying, I don't want that crossing on University closed at any point. It needs to maintain pedestrian and cycling accessibility. Okay, I understand.
 So what do we need to do to amend it to ensure that that's going to happen? We've got one amendment going, so I guess you would put an amendment on the amendment. Is that correct? We could do that. We could do that. So we need an amendment on the amendment. Since I motioned to include the amendment, could I amend it and just do it all in one? Okay. So if you all want to buy me again, what do we got here?
 So, Sarah, what I'm looking at is the language in Section A, and I wondered if when you move to amend, you would add the phrase, an acceptable alternative which includes maintaining accessibility to the crossing at University Avenue for pedestrians and bicycles is approved by the City Council. Does that get to your intent?
 I'm not sure that goes far enough. I wish I could see that language right now to help with this. I'll type it to you right quick. Yeah. I can share my screen if you'd like to do that. Yes, please. I'll look at it together. That's better. An acceptable alternative to the crossing at University Avenue for pedestrians and bicycles is approved by the city.
 Can somebody help me with this? Anyone have any ideas on language? Just to basically keep it open. I don't want it closed at any point. Sarah, it sounds like rather than just having it approved by the council, that you are looking to have it in place and open. Yeah, or they could just delay closing the crossing until the new one is built. I don't know that the railroad would do that. So I just, I want that open all the time. So what you're saying, basically, Sarah, you don't want that crossing shut down until April,
 we make the repairs to it which means that we may hold up the other one but you're saying that's you don't want that shut down at all. Yeah. Anytime. We need to maintain that open. Okay. So in other words that's got to be put in place first I would say before the other crossing could be. Before the other crossing could be closed. At the same time I don't know.
 Chris, with the whole thing predicated on open the new one, close an old one, would your conversations with the railroad lead you to think they'd be open to allowing us to keep them both open long enough to get that in place and still work on the northern addition? Or are they going to be like, no, the day that this one opens, the other one must close? How flexible is the railroad going to be? I'm not sure what the...
 what the answer to that may be, but I do think there's enough time in during the construction of the crossing and all the other things that have to happen that we can make the schedules work out. I really think we can get them both done. I do too, I really do. But you know, we got to get- Let me suggest this language, Dan. You leave the language in that was already submitted by Chris and then you add another sentence to A,
 The crossing shall remain open throughout construction. Okay. But what if we want to close it before we start construction? I feel like there's a loophole there. No, it shall remain open throughout construction. And this is talking about the crossing at the University Avenue through its construction. So it'll remain open through its construction.
 Is that what you want, for it to remain open? Yeah, I don't feel like that's strong enough language. I want to, can we just hold this for another meeting and then come back with acceptable language? Well, you're on the first reading. I'm gonna leave that up to y'all, but we're still on the amendment. And so you wanna, y'all wanna, you wanna, Sarah, you wanna hold it then two weeks?
 Yeah, and that also gives the staff time to come up with an acceptable alternative. Okay. Well, I'll leave that up to you all, what you want to do on that. I think that sounds like a good idea. I would rather hold it so that I can really dive deep into the new changes that have been proposed and think about it a little while. I agree, but before we move on, I'd like to speak to Matthew's question because it does occur to me that now that we're talking about
 I think that adding this new crossing at University, the cost of this has more than doubled from what we told voters during the bond election. It's not just that we've gone from half a million dollars to $750,000. We've taken two half million dollar projects, turned them into two $750,000 projects plus another half million dollar project here, plus the cost of losing
 And I do think that we should be considering that sort of intangible cost or non-monetary cost of the closed vehicle access. And I would like to see what considerations there are there to offset the increase in project costs from the development. Thank you, Council Member Smith. Okay, so you all want to hold this another two weeks? Yes. Yes. So moved. Thank you.
 Okay, so what are we going to do with the amendment? I'm going to withdraw my motion to add the amendment, and then we can work on the language and bring that back next week or next meeting. Okay. Well, the amendment will just be left pending, and anybody can suggest language, whatever they want to, in the interim before we meet again in two weeks. Yeah. And we will have some, you know, there's, you know, Devin has the economic numbers on.
 what we could bring into the city from the development of not only this railroad crossing, but the other one we're fixing to talk about here and Washington Regional Hospital.
 If you all want to hold another two weeks, we will. Well, there's a motion to table, I think. Then we'll... Well, we can just leave it on the first reading. I mean, it's now. It's out there. Well, you know, at this meeting, we should read it unless somebody's going to table because this is another meeting that, you know, it was read the first time, now another city council meeting, so either we should read it... Okay. ...or else they can table it if they want to so it stays on the first reading. Well, I would...
 So I believe Matthew Petty, didn't he make a motion to table? I'm sorry, I can't hear you. Did Council Member Petty make a motion to table? Do we need a second? I'll second it. Yes, I did make the motion. Okay, so we're going to table another two weeks. Well, I've got to have a vote. Okay. All right. Caravage Police, call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Brown.
 Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number two. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to authorize a new railroad crossing cost and maintenance agreement with an easement agreement with the Arkansas-Missouri Railroad for a new railroad crossing at Futual Drive and Gregg Avenue to approve project contingency in the amount of $1,000.
 $28,344.86 and to approve a budget adjustment for the estimated total project cost of $750,000. One of our 2019 transportation bond projects. And just like before, there needs to be a motion to remove from the table so we can at least discuss Chris's amendment. Okay. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to take it off the table. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Kara, we can't really hear you. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Well, okay. Thank you all. Chris. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Similar to the last item, we have a proposed amendment to this ordinance as well. It's a little bit simpler, but I'll go ahead and read that. Would you like me to share the screen again? Yes, please. Okay. No, that's the other one. That's the other one. For some reason, my controls don't let me see what I'm sharing. Okay. Try that again. Okay.
 How's that? That's the right one. Okay. So Section 3, execution of these agreements shall be authorized upon development approval of a preliminary plan or large-scale development for the first phase of development with a minimum of 100,000 square feet of commercial employment space with a posting of a bond to secure the construction of a connecting roadway to the railroad crossing.
 And again, this is to address the concern about the investment by the city in developing this railroad crossing. And it would be used and we would see development come to pass out of this crossing. This is Washington Regional Medical Center. I'm sure we sent the letter to you all from Larry Shackford and their expansion of that hospital to that area. So...
 So we're looking for a motion to amend. So moved. Second. Second. All right, thank you all. Before we vote on that, let me, is Garner on the line or someone planning? I would think it'd be a preliminary plat as opposed to a preliminary plan in that wording. Is that right, Garner? Yes, it would be a preliminary plat. Okay, so that's what you'll be voting on. May I have any discussion on the amendment?
 Yes, Mayor. Kind of in the same vein of the last one, it's hard to look at these as two separate issues. They're kind of all wrapped up in one. So as we talk about sort of the
 the escalating costs of combo projects. A lot of times we talk about offsite improvements assessed to a new development and what would be proportional to their development. Clearly the cost of this would go way beyond any sort of proportionality test, but what,
 If we were to assess a proportional surcharge on some of these developments for this overage, what number would we look at as fair? I have no idea. Does anybody have that? Garner? Chris? Devin? Well, I could say, you know, just if the railroad were not there.
 and the developer wanted to make this connection they would be responsible for you know building the road out to the intersection and making any adjustments to the the signal and all of that so that's kind of one way to look at it at least so I mean that that's a
 I guess that's the input that I have. It is a little more expensive kind of on a unit basis because it's such a short distance between the railroad track and the street. And I'll be honest, we estimated pretty high on those costs. I think we can probably do better than what we have shown there, especially if we have transportation do some of the work. We just wanted to make sure we had the budget included to do it.
 okay so chris would that be a conversation that would happen later on at their development or is it appropriate to have have now as we're talking about contract language yeah i mean you know what the what the council could do is just approve these agreements for the railroad and that's the the budget of of uh the the uh just the cost of the railroad agreements and um leave the other part
 out for further discussion if the council wished. But we were really looking at this, the whole package of providing the crossing includes the work between the railroad and the street and modifying the signal. But the council, I mean, what's in front of you is really to approve the agreements with the railroad.
 And as in the last one, we do have more information to talk about the development. The council would approve or just allow Devin to go ahead. I'd really like to hear some more information from Devin. I would love to give it. This is the hospital expansion. We've been working on this for a couple of years. But go ahead, Devin. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, council members.
 And this is a separate memo and I think it's very unique to assess between the two. They're both very different. This is employment driven and the other one's housing driven. And employment is something critically important to this city and so is housing. And so they're two very important projects and how you get to the root revenue for these two very different.
 It's interesting to look at those. And so this project in question in relation to the future crossing, we are very excited to share with you more details tonight. And attached to those memos, as Mayor Jordan referenced, you do have a letter from Larry Shackelford, the Chief Executive Officer and President of Washington Regional that further explains the necessity of these crossings in relation to Washington Regional Medical Center and Drake Farms, the development as a whole.
 We've broken out these projects into likely two separate phases. The first phase including about 100,000 square feet of medical and you may see 150,000 or 150, excuse me, full-time employees, 115 apartments, restaurants, multiple office buildings, etc.,
 And then phase two consisting of an additional 250,000 square feet of healthcare with 600 full-time employees. And as you read Mr. Shackelford's letter, you could probably deduct that's not going to be everything. And so when we think about that all in investment between the first two phases, we can conservatively calculate about $151 million going into the property.
 Sales tax from the project, as I referenced, it's a mix from where it comes from in regards to employment, residential, and restaurant at full build-out. And these are only known projects, and that produces about, when we see these two phases, built out about $650,000 annually. But there will likely be much, much more. This property is being carefully planned and very carefully developed.
 So when we wanted to continue to be conservative and when we think about recapture cost, you'd likely with this one, see it after the first year one, after phase one has been operational for one year, you'd likely be able to conservatively say we have recaptured our funds just given the spend's different and whereas the housing development, it quickly outpaces it over the phases. It just takes a little longer to climb when you're going in units of that.
 And so, and it's also conservative because we based our escalation on 2.2% inflation, which has been the average rate. And as we referenced, e-commerce, things of that nature are climbing much more rapidly. So even construction materials was not adjusted here.
 We're also very excited about these projects as well. There's a lot of other benefits to this property. If you've walked and you visited with Mr. Pendergraf or Neil, excuse me, and you know, I mean, there's true preservation of that historic Black Walnut Grove that was planted by Noah Drake on this property. It's very exciting. So there's much, much more and we hope we get a job explaining that in the memos.
 and the other point that I'll add, the third memo that you do have kind of takes a look at everything as a whole and says, okay, here are the associated costs. We have two projects here producing revenue. What if we pull those together? What does it look like to see total payoff? And so you have that report as well. Happy to answer any questions. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have for Deb? I have a question, Mayor. Yes. You know, I'm trying to understand how...
 I mean, I see and I'm hearing this is a large scale development. There's a lot of money that's coming into this area. But is there a way to compare that with what we're, the railroad crossings that we're removing, just to kind of think about that as a more of a comparison? Does that make sense? I mean, I guess we're saying it's enormously better, but I'm just trying to get a gauge of,
 the amount of difference. Please, I'm not sure you explained for those who are not on the Transportation Committee which railroad crossing this one relates to.
 Okay, yeah, sorry. We started with the amendment and maybe got a little ahead of ourselves, but this particular agreement, the railroad crossing that is tagged with this agreement is the crossing of Garrett Drive, which is just north of Rideout Lumber. So that's kind of an unimproved crossing, really just more of like a...
 a driveway coming out of there. So removing this crossing does require the parallel routing of traffic to come down to the township intersection, but there's not really any cost, any capital cost related to the closure of this crossing.
 All right. Thanks. I do think it is important to think about that business, but I'm just trying to compare what we're talking about. I know that's going to be a huge difference, but I'm familiar. I'll go look over there a little bit closer. But have we heard from that business? I have not. No. I have not.
 I'm also getting concerned that people aren't aware about these closures. And I'm still trying to wrap my head around why we have to close to open to. Can you talk a little bit more on that, Chris? That was essentially what was stipulated by the railroad, just to minimize the number of crossings that they have. Adding crossings is...
 you know, it adds to their liability. So they want to minimize that as much as possible. So that was the stipulation that they placed on these agreements. Okay. So I guess what I'm understanding is like, we're going to value the kind of where the economic development is happening for the best thing for our buck, I guess what I'm saying, for the where we want to put these, the two that we have, you know, that's what I'm hearing. Okay.
 Well, I would say, you know, with regard to the crossing at Garrett, you know, there is access into the property on the two proposed crossings. There is, you know, there's access on the north side, but, you know, this provides more direct access, more direct connections to the Fulbright Expressway and to the, you know, in the case of the hospital, more direct connection to the main campus.
 So, you know, we do feel like these are important connections. Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I think for a hospital campus, that seems, you know, really critical. So I do support that. I'm just still trying to wrap my head around that we have to choose one, you know, over the other. So, okay, thanks. Thanks.
 And that basically, council, is the deal that the railroad gave us. You open up one, you have to close another. Since we had a hospital expansion sitting out there, I thought it was a good investment to put the railroad where the hospital is going to go. I'm going to ask a dirty word or a dirty question because I know that railroads are regulated differently from a lot of other things, but is eminent domain an option when it comes to railroads?
 securing critical access for our city? It would be nice if it was, but it's not. We have to actually work with them and work out an agreement with them. So that's the answer. No, we cannot just go and condemn a crossing and put it where we want to. We had to pay for it regardless.
 I'm a bit concerned that that business on Garrett Street or close to Garrett Street is unaware of this discussion. Can somebody reach out or send a note to them and letting them know that this is being discussed? I realize there's alternatives close by and it's not as much of an inconvenience as it might be in other places.
 but it sure would be nice to make sure they know what's going on. The second comment is I'd really like to look at this a little bit more closely. There's a lot of moving parts here. There's a lot of new analysis that I personally would like to review before we move forward or make any additional decisions on these closures. Okay, I guess you all want to hold this for two weeks too. Okay.
 Mayor, I agree, but I would like to make a comment as well. Sure. I am a little less, I find this one to be a little less problematic than the prior one, but perhaps only marginally so.
 I of course want to acknowledge that the hospital being involved is an important consideration and that's a critical expansion for the city and the region. But I also think it's important to view the proposal in terms of its entire beneficiary beyond the hospital but also the remainder of the Drake Farms project.
 So I have the same concerns that I expressed on the last one, which is simply that we budgeted a certain amount and now the costs, and now we're seeing cost overruns. I understand that the phase one of the bond issue was built with contingency in mind. But I also understand that we can use that contingency for, for a lot of different things. We have the same kind of flexibility for that contingency as we do with the rest of the money that,
 And I'm not certain that we've exhausted our options for...
 achieving these cost overruns. It was expressed earlier that really all we're voting on is a railroad agreement, but I think we need to acknowledge that we're also being asked to vote on a budget adjustment, a fairly substantial one. And so I'm supportive of the amendment. I think the performance agreements are really good, necessary, but I'm not convinced that they're sufficient in the face of these cost overruns and would like to see some,
 some more partnership developed over the next two weeks to address those so that we don't have to be the sole budgetary source for these improvements. The other thing I wanted to say, and this may seem a bit of an afterthought, is the Midtown area near Ridout and Meeks, etc., it's got long-term importance for the city. It's not an area to write off.
 It's centrally located. It's adjacent to the trail system, to a major tributary, to a major arterial, to a major east-west connection. And it's industrial land that's more or less grayfield land with metal buildings, which means it's at some point,
 it's going to be very ripe for development and it's the ideal location for something like a transit station and we need to be aware of the impacts that closing this crossing may have on those future opportunities. Okay, I will take all that back to the hospital folks and I will take it back to the developer and we'll see what we can work out. So we'll let it sit here for two weeks soon. I guess you want a table. There needs to be a motion to table. So moved. Second.
 So what about the amendment that's been? Well, if they want to work, if they want to, you know, go ahead and act on the amendment, they could. But right now there's a motion to table. So if they don't, if that passes, it's just tabled for two weeks. Okay. All right. We have a motion to second the table for two weeks. And then we'll see what we can do with the hospital folks and the developer out there. All right. Karovich, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. We'll move along to number three. All right, an ordinance rezoning that property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7123 for approximately 0.21 acres located at 23 West 5th Street,
 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban. This was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Cambridge, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 The terrace. Yes. And your ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RCN 20-7123 for approximately 0.21 acres located at 23 West 5th Street from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. Governor, what do you have?
 Mayor, I don't have anything to add. We did get an email today indicating that Ms. Hoffman, I believe the owner of the property, would like to address the council. Sure. Laurel Hoffman is up. Okay, Laurel. Hi there. This is Laurel Hoffman. Can you hear me and see me? We can hear you. Okay. Well, I would like for you to be able to see me too, but...
 If I can't sort that out in just a second, we'll just go forward. Anyway, my name is Laurel Hoffman. I own the property at 23 West Fifth. I've lived in the Fayetteville area for 26 years and I recently sold my small business and bought this property to provide security for my retirement.
 The property currently has a small home that is unfortunately beyond repair based on my building inspector's report. My goal with this rezoning is to build small single-family homes that are compatible with the neighborhood. Under the current zoning, this lot could realistically only host one larger and more expensive single-family home.
 This problem is exacerbated by the fact that the property is larger than many others in the neighborhood, but still too small to be subdivided under the current NC zoning. Sorry, hang on. Okay.
 Under NC, I would have to build a home that is, in my opinion, far too large and expensive to be compatible with the old neighborhood, which is very important to me. The new $450,000 house across the street that was recently built from this property illustrates this point pretty well. Because I'd like to build small single-family homes, I originally requested RSF 18 zoning.
 City Planning staff subsequently recommended that RIU would also be compatible and Planning Commission agreed. While I like the flexibility of RIU that RIU provides, my development plans haven't changed and I would be happy with either RSF 18 or RIU
 In either case, I hope that council is able to provide a favorable decision this evening. This is our second reading. Thank you very much for your time. Blake Jorgensen is available to answer any questions that you may have, technical questions, and I'm available for general questions. And that concludes my presentation for the moment. What questions do we have in the council?
 I guess I need to better understand, Ms. Hoffman wanted RSF 18. And I think from what I've heard, she still wants it. But the recommendation that came was RIU, that's what it was approved. And I guess I need a better understanding of the differences so I can see how one would better work for the vision compared to the other.
 Probably for Garner, right? Yeah. Council Member Kenyon, I can address that. Yes, please. The RSF18 is a single family district. The lot dimensions required are 30 feet minimum. The RIU district allows single family, but it also allows duplexes, triplexes, and fourplexes, and the lot dimension is 18 feet. Does that answer your question?
 Well, it does. I guess the R.I.U. would be good, not with the vision that Ms. Hoffman has, but in the future it would be more flexible if for some reason she didn't go through with the development. That happens. But the RSF-18 may be more compatible with the current neighborhood zoning, right? Well, it's zoned neighborhood conservation, yes. But
 Council has been using the RIU district in the Walker Park neighborhood. Given the character of the neighborhood is mixed use, it certainly has more than single family. And it, I think, has resulted in compatible development. But I think both would be in conformance with the plan if that's an issue. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first? Mayor, the hand, Tom Terminella is on the floor. Okay. Go ahead, Tom. Hello. Tom, can you unmute? Okay. Good evening, Mayor, Council. Can somebody explain to me why there wasn't any?
 public comment for the last two items under unfinished business. We had the engineers, the landowners, the stakeholders, the developers all were asked to be on the call. Why, why, why weren't we able to speak to the council under a public comment period? There's, I think there's a lot of confusion going on and we need to be able to have a full dialogue with the council and,
 and staff because I wasn't tracking any of what was being talked about. It's like there's a total different disconnect going on. We have been working on these issues since 2013. The ninth month of 2013 is when the email started.
 And I just respect ask why the public wasn't allowed to visit these items. Tom, it had to do with the order of business. That is it, the items were tabled. The council requested two more weeks because they wanted to study. So there really wasn't discussion other than to table the item with the amendment that was proposed. So they'll be back in two weeks for full discussion. Thank you. We certainly could have provided more information
 and brought clarity to these issues we've been waiting six and a half years the pentagraphs the wg land trust all we want is an opportunity to speak to the council and the citizens of fayetteville okay so we'll be back in two weeks we respectfully ask for the floor so we can articulate our positions and if we had got that far tom to the public comments you would have been allowed to speak but we never got that far because
 They had to have it, they had to take it off the table first and then they put an amendment on there, which they wanted more time to look at it. So there's, I mean, they've got a right to do that. Yeah, the rules did get changed recently so that the amendment is not going to be open for public comment unless the city council. That's right.
 makes a motion to do that or by unanimous consent allows that. That's a new major change that was just passed by the city council a couple, three meetings ago, but that was the procedure that the mayor was operating under. Yep.
 And of course, a motion to table is not really debatable and much less with public comment. And if you followed the beginning of the meeting, Tom, I explained all that in my opening remarks. What I don't understand, there was an amendment, sir, brought up and initiated that has never been shared with myself or the pentagraphs or landowners. And I just respectfully ask that we have an opportunity to talk to the council and you, the mayor, and the city attorney.
 on these issues in a public forum. That's all I ask for. You're going to get that in two weeks. You'll get that in two weeks. As to the item that you're on, we don't have any other public feedback. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wish of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kavage, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. And Orange and Murray, rezone that property as cried and rezone the petition RZN 20-7123 for approximately 0.1 acres located at 23 West 5th Street, Men's Seed and Neighborhood Conservation to R.I.U. Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. What final comments do we have in the council?
 I have one. You know, I'm a bit concerned because, you know, while we may argue whether this is spot zoning or not, there's certainly no R.I.U. in the immediate proximity around this area. And it seems like RSF 18 would be a better fit in stair stepping up the zoning and making this compatible with what the applicant would like.
 So I would like to make a motion that we amend this to RSF 18. I'll second that. Okay, we have a motion and a second to amend the RIU to an RSF 18, correct? I have a question before we do this is, and it deals with, we have RIU before us,
 What exactly does the applicant want because she applied for the RSF 18? Does she want RSF 18? Because I don't see, I see that this is working either way. I just don't want to make it so hard on the applicant that,
 She, you know, got switched to RIU and now she's going to be switched back possibly to RSF 18. I just want to make sure that everything we do works with her plan because this sounds like a perfect little project for down there for an area that could use some, you know, some moderately priced or nice small homes. And I don't want to muddy the water any more than it maybe already has been. So just...
 Can I ask a question of the applicant before we go on? Sure. Laurel, are you still there? Yes. Can you hear me? Yes, I can, ma'am. We're about to possibly vote on switching this back to RSF 18. Is that what you're wanting us to do? Well, yes.
 Will say what just a just a quick sentence about that and then I'm going to turn it over to my civil engineer because He is much more Up on the the setbacks the technical aspects of the the project then I Can be since my you know last encounters with with Fayetteville zoning ordinances. So What
 With that said, I do not plan to change my plans from single family dwellings. But if RIU, and I believe that there are several RIUs already in place and built within just a couple of blocks of my property, I would probably prefer the RIU
 the flexibility that that offers, but I will tell you that I'm not planning on building a fourplex or something like that. Let me, okay. You know, if that works for you, I mean, I just don't want to,
 you know, you can, if you want to build a couple of small houses, you can do that with either one of these zonings, but whatever one, you know, we're possibly going to be changing it if we vote in favor of RSF 18. And I just don't want to basically pull the rug out from under you on, on your options for this property. So I completely appreciate that. And, and
 the R.I.U. zoning would give me more flexibility as to where I place the single family homes. And with that, let me, if I could, let my civil engineer speak more directly to your question. Okay, I guess, Mr. Mayor, is that okay? Yep. Blake Jorgensen is up. Yes, sir, good evening, Mr. Mayor, council.
 I do just want to point out that there is RRU already and very recently voted upon within this district. I mean, at the corner of fifth and college, it's probably 200 feet to the east. We've got it on the seventh and college. We're starting to see this trend to populate that area with this zoning type. And we did go in with RSF 18, but staff did say,
 that as far as the long range planning, our best bet, and I know my client, Ms. Hoffman, has building plans that are compatible with both zonings, but the long range plan, R.I.U. is more compatible. And so we're leaning on staff to stay consistent with what their recommendation is and planning commission.
 And we simply hope that we can continue the trend to add this popular zoning to this area. So I know my client will take either, but I'm an advocate for the RRU, simply for the fact that the planners who study this, they recommend that and I agree with them and I hope we stay with it. But my client's perfectly happy with either one. I simply say that we stick with RRU
 I think it's a good zoning. Okay. So the applicant does not care if it's an R18 or a Riu. Is that what I'm hearing? So we have a motion and a second to vote to change it back to RSF 18. Is that correct? That's what I understand. The best I can understand it right now. That's what's on the table.
 Okay, they could do their building on either one, but it sounds like they really want RIU and that's what our planning department suggested and our planning commission voted on. And I say we stick with RIU, but we've got to vote on the table, I guess. We do. We do.
 I'd like to point out that in the definition of RIU in our municipal code, it says the purpose, RIU residential district is designated to permit and encourage the development of detached and attached dwellings in suitable environments to provide a range of housing types compatible in scale with single family homes and to encourage a diversity of housing types to meet demand for walkable urban living.
 That sounds like exactly what we need in this location, and that's what the zoning, the RAU, is designed to do. Okay. What other comments do we have on the motion on the floor of an R18? Okay. Well, since we  let's see. That's a motion to amend. That's an amendment, so we don't take public comment on that. Not unless the council asks for it. Okay. All right. Any other comments from the council on the R18? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? No. Pinion? Yes. Petty? Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Kirk? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? No. Okay, we're back to the ordinance that was originally submitted here to the City Council. Now we're back to the R.I.U. Okay, any final comments on that?
 Yeah, I would like to take this opportunity to talk a little bit about why it's so important that we approve additional housing units or the opportunity for additional housing units in this area.
 In preparation for this evening, I took it upon myself to research how many homes are available under $200,000 within a mile of downtown. And I chose that metric because a mile is a 15 minute walk for our walk shed. And if we're going to create an affordable city or a walkable city. And within one mile of the square, there are only three properties available under $200,000.
 Two of those are contingent on the sale of a larger home on their property, so they're not actually available yet. And one is a small condominium that doesn't qualify for traditional financing. If we were to zoom out to two miles, which is a 30-minute walk from downtown, we get three additional properties. One is a teardown in a floodplain, and the other two, they're not really great options either. And so...
 in thinking about you know why two hundred thousand dollars that's about the cost to just construction costs of a two bedroom one and a half bath home um and to put that into perspective to purchase a two hundred thousand dollar home um a person would need forty thousand dollars down and an income of over fifty eight thousand dollars a year meanwhile that's far above the average household income in the city of Fayetteville
 So when we talk about having a housing crisis in this city, that's what we're talking about. And that's why it's so important that we build more small units within walking distance of downtown. And it's additionally important from the perspective of supporting city infrastructure.
 If this property owner were to develop one large home on this lot, she would spend, she would have to pay about $425 for a water tap, $575 for a street cut, a little over $1,800 for an impact fee, for a grand total of just under $3,000 towards supporting city services. Alternately, if we were to allow four small units here, that's...
 we would have almost four times those impact fees to collect at almost $15,000 that we could add into our city budget to help offset the impacts of this growth. So with that in mind, when you think about it, what is better for housing affordability, for housing availability, as well as for support of city services? We need RIEU here and we need the additional density that that will allow. Thank you.
 Okay, what other final comments do we have? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Brogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move along to number four.
 An ordinance rezoning that property is cried and rezoning petition RZN 20-7128 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 1355 West Dean Street from RSF 4. Residential single family, four units per acre to RSF 8. Residential single family, eight units per acre. This is on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 I care of which police call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In order to rezone that property described, the rezoning petition RZN 20-7128 for approximately 1.44 acres located at 1355 West Dean Street.
 from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RSF8 residential single family eight units per acre. Yes Mayor, two weeks ago when you first considered this item Council Member Turk asked me to address some issues that were raised by an adjacent resident and property owner
 And I had a chance to review that letter and I'm prepared to address those very quickly. Ms. Bryant asked about cottage housing, whether it had been approved for quote cottage housing. I think she probably meant cluster housing because in 2015, there was a conditional use permit approved by the Planning Commission for 10 cluster housing unit.
 However, that condition of use for it has now expired. So it is now RSF4 zoning. She also asked how many could be built on these three parcels, these three lots. By right, and my staff did some calculations. And if you use the adjacent street right away, you could build four homes under the existing zoning. She also asked, would it be preferable to pursue
 Tandem lots or variances, don't believe there is a hardship involved that would justify Board of Adjustment variances for to allow lot issues to be addressed. Tandem lots, my staff looked at that before the application came in, and it really does provide some issues with
 Dean Street curb cuts and they recommended against that and recommended that We they look at RSF 8 instead Would it be spot zoning was the last question? I think I addressed that two weeks ago With that I'd be happy to answer any questions is the here to speak to the council. Okay, the applicant like speak to the council. I
 Mr. Bauer? Mr. Bauer, would you like to speak to the council? Yes, I would. I'm just looking. I could have had three lots, and I'm just looking. The RSF paid to have four lots. It's a real big parcel. It's about 300 and some feet deep, so it's not going to be overcrowded or anything. And that's it. And I've talked to the city about making that so many curb cuts, like doing a couple shared driveways. And I wanted to leave all the pine trees in the park.
 So I didn't want to get a zone where I'd have to do like a built-to zone where it's right to the street. I want to set the houses back. So I'm just looking for four lots. Okay. If you have any other questions, I can answer them. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant or the staff, the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor.
 Who would like to address this first? Okay, I'm gonna bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? We are on the second reading. This is an ordinance. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion to second, go to the third and final reading. Chair, please tell the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Scroggin. Bunch. Yes. Herb. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 Gutierrez. Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7128 for approximately 1.44 acres, located at 1355 West Dean Street from RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre to RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Yes.
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Okay. Number five.
 an ordinance to thank you council number five an ordinance to amend 155.04 on behalf of resident to use the proper term council member and clarify when appeals can be made and to amend 155.05 appeals from planning commission decisions a appeals to the city council three conditional use requests to reduce the required number of council members needed for an appeal to two
 This is left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 an ordinance amend section 16504 alderman's appeal on behalf of resident to use a proper term council member and clarify when appeals can be made to amend uh and to amend section 15505 appeals from planning commission decisions subsection a appeals to city council subsection three conditional use requests to reduce the required number of council members needed for an appeal to
 i'm following the meeting uh the last meeting where i heard that uh there was request to keep appeals of or keep uh vacations of street right away going to the planning commission before coming to the city council
 I did that and sent those revised ordinances out to you with a memo on July 23rd. There really only were three minor changes that needed to be made to those two different ordinances, this one and the next one coming up.
 uh the one we have here i just had to add from appeals to the city council from the planning commission subsection f which says vacations of street right-of-way so that's the only change on this particular one if you all still want to have the uh street right-of-way decisions initially going to the planning commission rather than coming directly to the city council
 And I'm ready to answer any other questions about this. And then I know that eventually you're going to want to talk about subsection three, conditional use request. Okay. What discussion do we have? Well, I'll say this makes sense to me. I don't have any. I think it's okay for the planning commission to do that. I would need a motion to amend from what is presented to you in your packet to add subsection F, vacation or street right-of-way.
 I amend that, just like you said. Second. Okay. All right. What discussion do we have on that? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay.
 all right the ordinance is in pretty good shape i do know that uh council member turk brought this primarily for subsection 3 conditional use request where it had always been two council members from that ward plus a third one needed for a conditional use appeal to the city council
 And she has proposed that instead of three city council members, only two are required, one of which must be in the ward where the planning commission, where the conditional use is located. So I'll let her explain her reasons for that again if she wants to. Okay. Now, this is the only thing we have to deal with now. We've already amended it to what you wanted. Now we deal with what Teresa wanted to do. We have the amended ordinance, so now we're going to discuss.
 the other amendment. Okay, Teresa, take it away. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, this is a very high bar for a citizen to meet if they would like to appeal a conditional use permit by having to get two city council members from the same ward.
 in which the CUP is enacted and an additional council member, I think that bar is too high. I think we should lower that and make it with one city council member in that ward and an additional city council member from a different ward in order to sponsor the appeal. That would be much more consistent with our other appeal regulations. And I do believe that citizens need to be able to
 take something to the city council if there is a gross, or they perceive it to be a gross misjudgment on the part of the Planning Commission. So that's my pitch. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what discussion do we have among council on this one? Do we need to introduce the amendment now?
 No, it's already on the table. It was presented as amended, as proposed by Council Member Turk.
 And I will only make one correction. Not only for a citizen appeal, but even a landowner who loses his conditional use requires now two council members from that ward plus a third one. This would reduce it to one council member plus another one. So this conditional use is very unusual in that it doesn't give an automatic right for the applicant to appeal to city council.
 virtually every other type of decision, the applicant can appeal, usually totally on their own without even a city council member joining in. I'm glad you pointed out that outcome because it seems to me like that the property owner should have the opportunity to appeal it. So I think that needs to be considered. Well, do we need to make an amendment then? Well, I mean, do you all want to make an amendment or...
 Yes, I want to make an amendment that the property owner can appeal directly to City Council. And that's a friendly amendment. I would second that or agree to that. Okay. That's the right procedure. So basically we're voting on that the property owner can appeal directly to the City Council if they need to. Without any City Council sponsorship. Okay. Okay. I get it. All right. What discussion do we have on that? I'm not sure that I can support that amendment. Okay.
 It seems to take a lot of the power or the decision making that we've invested in the Planning Commission away and almost render them useless for that point. If anything that they would deny is going to come likely to come to us anyway. I'm glad that we are removing the two Aldermen or two Council Members from one ward because that requirement means that we're going to have to
 one election can hamstring an entire ward from being able to get access to the council for an entire four years. Lowering that requirement makes total sense. I'd be more inclined to leave it at three total council members rather than reducing it to two. I'm certainly not comfortable taking it to zero council members. I don't think this has anything to do with the authority. I think it has to do with the respect of the owner of the property that has invested in it
 and so they should have the opportunity not to have to jump through an additional hoop to bring it to city council. What other discussion do we have on that one? Mayor, I guess I might think out loud. I see Mark's point but I also have a concern about the way conditions of approval are made by the planning commission.
 So maybe I'm searching my feelings as I do this. It seems to me that the point of the conditional use permits is to provide an avenue for applicants to go above and beyond the zoning if and only if they can meet the conditions imposed by the planning commission. And I guess as I'm talking through this, I worry that allowing a conditional use permit applicant
 to appeal those conditions, could lead to those conditions being politicized a lot more than they are today. Those conditions are usually very technically oriented and required to be...
 roughly proportional to the impact of the request and to be related, to have nexus with the request. And I worry, I guess as I'm thinking through this, that allowing conditional use permits specifically to be appealed may lead to political appeals on those conditions. So I guess I would prefer that we, personally, that we didn't do that.
 I share Council Member Smith's preference to keep it at three and remove the double award requirement. And if that was the will of the council, I'd go along with it. But I wouldn't characterize my feelings about that as particularly strong. All right. What else do we have?
 Discussion on the amendment, conditional use for owner can appeal and conditional use. Yes, and I think we have a couple experts on the council who have served time on the planning commission, and they might want to share some of their experiences and knowledge about the planning commission and how it deals with conditional use permits. I think that that could be helpful to the other council members who have not served on the planning commission.
 if they'd be willing to do it. Well, I guess or not. Well, they're slow. Yes. Yeah, I had a lot of fun with the conditional use permit specifically around me. I think I would want to study the specific thing we're looking at a little more before I actually talked. I don't know if my experiences actually relate with what we're looking at.
 It's been a while since I was on planning commission, but, you know, I just, I feel like, you know, just thinking about what we did go through on planning commission to the process was pretty, pretty.
 you know, pretty lengthy for some conditional use permits. And much like the process we go through on city council, I mean, it gets a fair deal, I think. So I don't really know that I could not support having, you know, no council involvement to appeal to the city. But, you know, Kit, what exactly do you want us to weigh in on here? Sure.
 Well, just your general experiences. I know that I sat with the Planning Commission for many years, and I have seen lengthy meetings considering conditional use permits and
 And usually this decided and resolved at the planning commission level. There have been a few appeals, not too many, but there have been a few appeals when something seemed extremely wrong with one decision yes or no by the planning commission. I also have seen that sometimes applicants,
 can be pretty forceful. And I think if they are always given a right to appeal to city council, the city council would probably be spending a good deal of a portion of every one of their meetings dealing with the latest conditional use appeal. That was what I saw when I was just watching you all. I've never been on the planning commission myself. I've only watched you all in action.
 Well, that was my experience. And there were a few occasions, I remember, where the Planning Commission voted. I've forgotten if we had voted in favor of a conditional use and then, you know, had it overturned by the council. That happens occasionally. So, you know, I feel like the appeals process is there. But, you know, just, I mean, it's a lengthy process. It takes time.
 Some conditional uses are very detailed and neighborhoods get involved and you know sometimes it's a very lengthy process. But I do believe they get a very fair and equitable process by having the opportunity to appeal to the council if they want to. Yeah I mean I guess I found even though one of them did affect me directly.
 everybody got what I thought was a fair shot. It was a lengthy process, but with conditional use permits, you can literally write in anything. When you have that much granularity, sometimes it is going to take a while. I thought all of them are fair, even when applicants were pretty nasty. What other discussion do we have?
 Okay. Before we get to the vote, can you please read the amendment one more time so that I'm sure about what we're doing here? Well, the amendment that's on the floor would be to add a new subsection G after the one you just added vacations of street right away. And that starts off with owners of record of the property being considered.
 may appeal a decision by the Planning Commission to deny the following requests in accordance with the procedure set forth in Section 155.02. We have several in there, annexation rezoning, required dedication, subdivisions, development, and now we added vacations as Freak-Ride-Away, which were there before, but this particular one would also add conditional use requests so that an applicant would have a right to do that
 by themselves without any support by the city council, no city council members just doing it on their own. And my belief is that this change would, would make a very significant increase in the workload of the city council and the delay and making, get into a final decision for the neighborhood and also for the applicant, just because oftentimes the,
 uh situations i've seen have been very sometimes very contentious and which would almost guarantee if if an applicant doesn't like the conditions that the planning commission came up with even if they maybe approved it subject to those conditions then we would be seeing i think a lot of appeals
 to the city council and having the whole process go forward again, basically from square one. So I think that that's a much more significant change than has been, was originally suggested by Council Member Turk about just reducing the number of council members for any kind of appeal of a conditional use from three to two. Going down to zero is a significant change.
 I'd like to withdraw my second on the amendment on the floor. I feel like you all have made a lot of really good points, and maybe that is too lax in the requirement for a landowner to appeal. I'll withdraw the motion. Okay. Now we're back to where we started. So another question. So are we...
 Is this proposal just to reduce it to two council members total, or is it to three with no ward designation? Let me read it. It says two council members, one of whom must reside in the affected ward, may in unison appeal the decision of the Planning Commission approving or denying a conditional use request. So it requires two aldermen or two council members, one of which must be in the ward in which the conditional use request is located.
 I feel like I could support just changing this to three council members with no requirement of them being in any particular ward, but I think that two council members is probably not quite sufficient of a, yeah, so thank you. Kit, for a rezoning appeal it's just two, right? Oh it's just one. This is a very different. And I'm just trying to make a comparison.
 Okay, if it was a zoning appeal or anything else like that, it only takes a single council member on behalf of a citizen to bring it forward to the city council. And, of course, zoning is going to come automatically, so you don't even have to do that. The applicant can do it, but if it's recommended approval, then it's always going to come to the city council. So that's not even in the appeals chapter because that's not an appeal. That's going to come there directly because only the city council can approve a zoning. Mayor, I have a comment.
 Sure. I just feel like, you know, we're kind of gone from one end to the other. And I feel like what the original intention that Teresa brought, Council Member Turr, that said to reduce it was a good compromise. I think that's an original, that original intent is good. And so I'm going to be supporting that in between, you know, not...
 to two and not to zero. So the two from the same ward and an extra person. So I think this is a good middle area and I'm going to support that original motion. This is original. The original proposal. Which was one in the ward and another council member anywhere. From anywhere. Thank you for correcting me. The original proposal, not the motion today. Yeah, I understand what you're saying.
 On the conditional use permits, I guess this would be for Garner, what do they have to do to bring it back to Planning Commission again? Can't they just change a small thing and just kind of keep coming? Yes, I believe so. I don't think there's a time limit like rezoning or significantly different requests. Okay, so they can kind of just keep on working on it until they get to some agreement. Yes. Thank you.
 I have another comment. I think that
 Council Member Scroggin just made a really good point that the applicant can keep working on this until they kind of get some kind of compromise or some kind of agreement with the Planning Commission. But if there is another citizen that doesn't agree with the Conditional Use Permit, the bar is set very, very high for them. And I think that this is just a historical legacy
 that really needs to be changed so we can be very consistent in our appeals process. So that was my whole reason for bringing this up, and it got kind of added on with changing language, language,
 aldermen to council members and and some other things but my original intent was just to make the appeals process much more consistent and fair for citizens that may want to appeal a decision that was made thank you okay let's see what other discussion do we have among the council okay well let's take some public comment
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this from the public? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the second reading. What's the pleasure of the council? How about we take this to the third reading and final reading? Second. We have a motion and a second to take it to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Okay.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 in order to amend section 165.04 alderman appeal on behalf of resident to use the proper term council member and clarify when appeals can be made to amend section 165.05 appeals from planning commission decisions a appeals to city council three conditional use requests to reduce required number of council members needed for an appeal to two okay what final comments do we have in the council
 I have a lot of concerns about this because you know our planning commission is designed to handle these and a lot of times the people in our city council don't necessarily have the same expertise in order to work out the minutia of these complex issues. I would be comfortable if we were removing this requirement down to three council members with no or keeping it at three council members but removing that ward
 I don't know if that is specificity but as it stands now I feel like this bar is too low for the City Council to be making these sorts of detailed decisions about large development proposals. So I will not be supporting this even though I think there is a lot of good intention here and some good things in it. I just don't think it is the right fit. Councilmember Marsh would you like to phrase that as an amendment? Sure.
 to, I'm not sure what the language would be here, but basically to maintain it at three council members, but they can be from any ward. Okay, let me read what that would be. Conditional use request, three council members may in unison appeal the decision of the Planning Commission approving or denying a conditional use request. From any ward? Yeah, they're not limited, just three council members. Okay.
 Okay. So moved. I'll second that. We have a motion and a second to change it to three council members from anywhere that can file the appeal. Is that correct, Kit? Yeah. We don't have to say from anywhere. They can be from anywhere. Well, yes. From any ward. Just three council members, whoever they are. Okay. What discussion do we have on that? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. No. No.
 Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, I think that passed, so it's now amended as I just read it a second ago. Now we are, we're on the final reading. That's correct.
 With what we have before you is an amended ordinance that is three council members for any ward, any ward. I need an award. Any ward in the city can appeal conditional use. Is that correct? Yes. Three council members may in unison appeal. That's what you have before you. All right. Any comments on that? I have a comment.
 Sure. So, again, I was trying to go for consistency. And this, as it is now, as it's just been amended, is inconsistent with all of our other appeals processes. Usually, I believe, Kit, you can correct me if I'm wrong, but usually there's a requirement to have a member from that particular ward. And now we are completely...
 and taking that away and severing that component. This was better than it was before, but I think we're again being inconsistent. The bar is a bit lower, but I was hoping that we would kind of make it again, more consistent for our fellow citizens so that they can understand our rules and regulations and our logic behind it. Okay.
 Teresa, if you would like to add back in the requirement that one of them be from the ward, I would support that too. But I think we've addressed how the conditional use permits are a substantially different beast than most of what the Planning Commission addresses. So I think there's, from the conversation when this was put in place originally, it was not an accident that it was designed to be a higher burden to
 to keep the more intense discussion at the Planning Commission level. And I think that was a wise decision back then. Okay, so we don't have an amendment though. No, just at this point, the ordinance is ready for a vote. Yeah, so, okay, so all right, let's vote. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Reluctantly, yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's move along to number six. An ordinance to amend 155.06, appeals from staff interpretations and actions to direct more appeals to the Planning Commission rather than to the City Council. This is an ordinance...
 It was left on the first reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. Don't move. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Heady? Yes. Broggan? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 And ordinance demand section 15506, appeals from staff interpretations and actions. Direct more appeals to the Planning Commission rather than to the City Council. After the last meeting when it was decided kind of informally that you wanted the Vacations Street Riderways to go to the Planning Commission, I had to make a couple changes in this proposal.
 One of them is when the development review manager makes a decision to deny a vacation of a public easement. That would have to go then, since that would not go to the planning commission on that one, that had to be added in to the city council. But then if you look under D in the next page
 It says, any staff recommendation to approve or deny some or all of a requested street right-of-way vacation, street right-of-way vacation, shall be considered by the Planning Commission with recommendation to the City Council.
 So an easement could go directly to the city council and will under this, but a street right-of-way vacation would go to the planning commission. Those are the two changes I made in response to what I think I heard you all say at the last meeting. So those would have to be amended to make them part of this particular requested amendment that I have presented to you all.
 And this will be part of exhibit A, since I did not want to have to read the whole thing to you when I suggested the change, which was mainly to direct more appeals to the Planning Commission, some that went directly to the City Council, which were development appeals, and usually development matters should be heard by the Planning Commission first, in my opinion. Okay.
 So we need a motion and a second to take those. To amend those two changes so that public easements will go directly to the city council as what was held before. But also the street right of way vacation requests will be heard by the planning commission first before coming to the city council. Okay. So moved. Second. Second.
 We have a motion to second. All right, what discussion do we have on the amendments? Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay.
 Mr. Mayor, basically this was a housekeeping measure, and I tried to explain it in my memo, but I'll be ready to answer any other questions the council might have. Okay. What questions do we have in the council? All right. Now let's take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address us on this issue? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 This is an ordinance. So on the second reading, what's the wishes of the council? I mean, we take this to the third reading. OK. Do we have a second? Second. OK, we have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Yes. And ordinance amend section 155.06 appeals from staff interpretations and actions to direct more appeals to the planning commission rather than to the city council. What final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Caravage, please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. No. Eddy. Yes. Froggen. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Herg. Yes.
 Gutierrez. Yes. Okay, moving right along to new business. Number one, an ordinance to amend 164.04 urban agricultural fowl, bees, and goats to reduce the minimum square footage requirement for goats. Kent. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal subsection D4 of section 16404, urban agriculture, fowls, bees, and goats, and an act of replacement, subsection D, as follows. Subsection D, goats shall not be permitted on lots smaller than 4,000 square feet. The minimum number of goats kept on a lot that is 4,000 square feet and larger shall be two.
 Lots of 6,000 square feet and larger shall be allowed up to a maximum of three goats. Nursing offspring may be kept on the property until the age of 12 weeks and shall not be included in the number of goats allowed. I think this was brought forward by Council Member Petty. All right. Matthew, would you like to talk to us? Sure. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I'm sure staff can give a little bit more of the history of this particular action, but it does look like that in terms of benchmarking us against other cities, that this appears to be a reasonable proposal, at least according to the benchmarks. I do think it's important to point out what this proposal does not do. This does not change the setbacks that are required for the GOAT PIN.
 does not change any of the husbandry best practices that may be required by the ordinance. And to the extent that any household who is keeping goats is subject to a complaint with respect to the husbandry best practices, those would still need to be reconciled. There is a complaint that was associated with
 this amendment. I've spoken with one of the members of the household who filed the complaint. I don't expect that we are in agreement about this proposal, but with respect to the enforcement of the husbandry best practices and the pen setbacks, we are in agreement. And I personally believe those should continue to be enforced and this proposal leaves them intact.
 With that, I would defer to staff for additional context. Yes, Peter, do you have anything on this? Mayor, I do. Oh, Garner, you've got it. Yeah. Oh, okay. If I can share my screen. Can you see my screen now? Yes. And you can hear me? Yes. So the first point I would make is that the 2014 amendment that city council passed was for miniature goats.
 Agricultural goats, normal sized goats are classified in our zoning ordinance as livestock. And they are only allowed in the RAA residential district. So this is miniature goats allowed in residential districts. This has already been explained by Kit and Council Member Petty. These are the what I call performance standards.
 They have to be female or for pygmy. That's why I mean 85 pounds or not taller than 22 inches. Must have a microchip, must be associated with a single family use or an educational use. Can't slaughter, must be kept like other pets with wholesome food and water.
 have to have a pen of 200 square feet per per go and have to have a shelter the shelter has to be 50 feet from the adjacent residential structure and as council member petty mentioned it has to meet their setbacks and then it's got a general statement kept in a neat or sanitary condition free from offensive orders attraction of flies or vermin uh council member turk asked me to look at what other cities are doing
 So we looked at other cities and these are all miniature goat ordinances. I want to stress that. Lacey, Washington had a 7,500 square foot lot minimum. Charlotte, Virginia no lot minimum. Similar to us, they only allow three miniature goats. I would also add that these other communities have performance standards. It just got too complicated. I didn't want to
 go through those because the amendment really deals with lot size. The Fort Collins had a no minimum lot size. They do have performance standards, some of them which are listed here. Lawrence, Kansas is the closest to us. They have a 10,000 square foot minimum lot size. They require two ministry goats and most of the ordinances require two goats because they tend to be noisier if they're lonesome.
 Asheville, North Carolina, they really go to a permit process, the annual permit with inspection, neighbor interviews. This is the extreme version of keep your goats without causing problems, and we're going to enforce it on an annual basis. Austin, Texas, familiar with that ordinance. The
 has no minimum lot size, and I don't remember any controversy associated with it. In Austin, it was pot-bellied pigs that caused the problems. Seattle, Washington, three goats per lot, no minimum per lot, but no minimum requirement. Can have four, you can go above the three if you have 20,000 square feet.
 Denver, Colorado, no minimum, and had some performance standards. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 2,000 to 10,000 foot lots allowed. So as a summary, I think the state of the art
 the majority focus on performance standards rather than lot size, but we certainly found some cities that have lot sizes and certainly Lawrence, Kansas is identical to Fayetteville's. With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay. What questions do you have for the staff? I have a question. Oh, sorry, go ahead. Go ahead, Teresa.
 Oh thanks Sarah. Garner I just wanted to say thank you so much for going in and reviewing what other cities have in place for goat requirements. Just a comment to our question what does the city do if they have a complaint about about goats? If I could find out what we do here that would be helpful.
 On this particular complaint, we found a lot violation on lot size. So we did notify the owners of the goat and gave them time to correct that, which is still pending. We, since the lot size issue was in question, we also requested an animal control request
 see if the complaint included noise and odor, which is prohibited in our standards. Our animal control officers could not verify that, but they did say that if the complainer can verify it, that would also give us grounds for corrective action.
 And just to follow up how, I'm sorry, Sarah. Go ahead. Follow up on that question. So how would the complainer verify the odor? A good question. I do think that we did, planning staff did, zoning enforcement staff did ascertain that their shelter will need to be moved if you do amend the zoning.
 the lot size. It is too close to the residence. But we didn't ask them to do that because that would be an expense that wouldn't get them in conformance unless the lot size is adjusted. So one, Sarah.
 So, Garner, did you find any cities, even though the 10,000 square foot lot size that we have right now, you know, most of the lot that I drove by and saw the goats, most of it had a house on it. So the actual area that was available for the goats was substantially less than 10,000 square feet. Did you have any cities that...
 that based on the amount of acreage or square footage that was available for the goats? Was there anything in there like that? I did not see any examples of that. I'm sure there are some out there. Okay, thank you. Thank you for all your research. You're welcome.
 Garner, sorry, sorry, Mr. Mayor. No, no, I just, go ahead. Garner, since this was, since this all started with a complaint, would the changes, now you said they would have to move, if we made the changes, they'd still have to move this particular, these particular goat owners would still have to move their, their pen, but would the changes
 they would still be they had like 9 000 square foot lot or something uh aside from moving the pen would this prevent them from having goats in any way or is it just in i believe it's just the pen uh they would still need to meet the other uh requirements that are normally associated with keeping pets which is keeping them sanitary and safe and fed and so forth but the pen itself would but
 I think based on staff's look at the lot they could probably meet that it's going to be close. Okay. Move it to find a location that is both within setbacks and 50 foot from the adjacent property. Okay, thank you. Any other questions for discussion? Okay. Mayor, I think I talked about goats once before. This is just the fact they're goats. Right? Absolutely.
 I'm sorry. Indeed they are. Thank you for that insight. I just wanted to know we had talked about this during the ordinance and it was I think I Sarah Bunch again, I think for me I mean, I I really love goats. I think they're just cute and I I think if I had a bigger place, I would probably have them but as far as
 um the rest of our ordinance you know with chickens you get eggs with tiny goats i don't know what you get other than a pet i guess you could milk them or something i i don't know how hard how easy that would be to do and what you would get out of that but i i the people i know that have had goats had them more as as pets instead of you know um basically agriculture animals i guess so
 Well, I grew up on a goat farm and used to sell, used to show goats at the county fair. So I know a little bit about these things. And pygmy goats, which are the little goats, they are generally raised for milk. And a lot of times they'll be used for, not necessarily for milk consumption, but for artisanal cheeses and for soap making, tend to be kind of the common uses. And also, let's not forget the benefits that they provide in milk.
 land maintenance in terms of reducing mowing and helping to control invasive species because they're really great at eating bush honeysuckle and privet. So the small goats do have benefits as well beyond just being pets. But do they have to stay, they do have to stay in a pen, right? I mean, if I remember correctly, you
 can they free range in your backyard if you have them in a pen you know if you also have you need a serious enclosure um because goats like to escape and they will eat anything i remember they ate the seat off my bicycle when i was a kid um they'll eat aluminum cans they'll eat trash so containing them is crazy
 Well, what I'm asking is, does our ordinance demand that they stay in their enclosure? They have to have an enclosure. Do they have to stay in that? That has to be 50 feet away from the next house. Or can you turn them loose in the backyard and then put them back in the enclosure? I know the ordinance does not allow them to ever be in the front yard, though, so...
 I don't know. I would interpret the ordinance that they need to stay in the pen. Okay. Otherwise you lose all the performance standards of staying away from adjacent properties. So unless you're, you know, so they're not really going to be out clearing out honeysuckle unless it's on the pen. Okay. Thank you. And we've established there's nothing different between a front yard goat and a backyard goat. That was what I was saying to me.
 what other what what other questions do we have mayor i'm just disappointed that there haven't been any puns about the nanny state or all the kidding that's going on here but this doesn't sound too bad uh so so this is what it's come to all right um if there's not any other discussion and i've certainly enjoyed this uh we will take some public comment
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who'd like to address us on this? Mayor Charles Sharpless is up. Okay, Charles. Hi there, can you hear me? Yes, we can. Perfect, thanks. Yes, I'm Charles Sharpless, and I live on Olive next door to the Goats.
 My wife, Jessica, and I are the residents that have unknowingly spurred this city council review when we submitted a service request to planning on May 8th when we discovered one morning that there were goats being kept next door. We have not enjoyed living with the new goats because we find their smells to be awful.
 their noise to be unpleasant. The barnyard smell is pervasive in our backyard and we can hear the goats crying in every room of our house. That being said, we support the existing urban agriculture ordinance and its protections of the rights of neighbors and denser to enjoy their space because it provides clear guidelines for keeping goats in the city limits. We filed our initial service request because the property next door
 backs up to our house simply does not meet these requirements. The lot size, as we've talked about, is smaller than 10,000 square feet. The animal enclosure, as we've talked about, is closer than 50 feet to our house, and the yard is minimally maintained.
 We disagree with the proposed amendment because this amendment weakens the protections that exist in our current law for residents in dense neighborhoods. The amendment lacks the consideration of public health and environmental impact of livestock in the city, and it diminishes the rights of animals themselves to have space and room to live.
 We wrote a letter to the City Council that contained our research regarding urban agriculture policies across our region. And based on our own study, we believe that Fayetteville's current ordinance strikes an appropriate balance between addressing food insecurity and the rights of neighboring residents to a comfortable of life. Further, we found that Fayetteville's ordinance is already very permissible in allowing goats near residences when you compare it to other cities.
 In Arkansas, Little Rock, Bentonville, Springdale, Rogers, Fort Smith, Bella Vista, Conway, and Pine Bluff all have more restrictive policies completely out of the question.
 goats in residential areas or requiring a larger lot size or a greater distance between the goats and a residence Similarly, we looked at Springfield, Missouri Joplin, Missouri Tulsa, Oklahoma Chattanooga, Tennessee Knoxville Memphis Lexington, Kentucky and Athens, Georgia and Athens, Georgia all with more policies
 Jessica and I are both architects and teachers. Sustainable agriculture and food insecurity are serious concerns to us. We passionately support Fayetteville's efforts through the Urban Agriculture Ordinance to address these complex issues. However, please remember that these goats are pets, and they're not providing milk nor meat. Our letter references a great article from 2012 by the urban planner William Butler that gives a good summary.
 of urban ag policy and its history nationwide. He writes, although advocates argue that local food can promote public health and sustainability, the public health reasons that drove animals out of the city in the first place have not been resolved. Concerns about disease and pestilence remain when livestock and people live in close proximity.
 We urge the City Council to consider our position here and arrive at a decision that works for all of Fayetteville's citizens to balance the rights of neighbors, livestock enthusiasts, and the livestock themselves. The current Urban Agriculture Ordinance is clear in its intent and the provisions that it sets forth. Changing this law for a single property is not in the best interest of all of Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the Council.
 This is an ordinance it's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I have a comment. Would it be appropriate for us to schedule a tour next week or some time to actually see where the goats are residing right now?
 I just, when I drove by there, it was very eye-opening to me. And I just wonder if other council members would be interested in doing that, or maybe they've done it on their own. But I just thought I'd bring that up. Okay. I also have a comment on that. I went by after I talked to Mr. Sharpless on the phone, and I think he has...
 a valid complaint. However, as we know from our emails, these two goats are very charismatic and cute and to passersby, they're delightful. And I understand that. But if you have to live next to it 24 hours a day, it's very different than just saying hi to I forgot their names. I said hello to them. They were cute.
 but it's just not an ideal situation. I want to express my appreciation for Mr. Sharpless to do really good research to show that our ordinance as it is is probably a good thing. The research that he did is actually more comparative, I think,
 I'm not against planning staff or anything like that, but I do appreciate the additional information that he provided. And so that has to be taken in consideration when I move forward. So I just wanted to express that there's a lot to think about in...
 because we do very German agriculture and Fayetteville for the intent that we had when we discussed the original ordinance. And the main argument was food insecurity. So I think that that has to be taken in consideration too.
 So anyway, that's my thoughts on the matter at this time. And I certainly am open-minded about considering other things, but I think Mr. Sharpless has a very valid point that he has made. Okay. I think that this is a pretty big change from, what is it, 10,000 square feet to 4,000 square feet.
 And 10,000 is slightly less than a quarter of an acre. So kind of right now, it puts restrictions on who can have goats to a lot of people that live in RSF4 or single family neighborhoods in larger lots. I think, you know, 4,000 square feet is going to be less than an eighth of an acre.
 And that's pretty small, but it does open it up for a lot more people to have these animals. So on that side, I'm kind of, you know, I think that that's kind of a good thing maybe that...
 you know, with COVID-19, more people are staying home. And this is possibly something a lot of people are more engaging with, you know, farming and having a garden and maybe having goats and having chickens or something like that. But I feel that the complaint is pretty valid. And I think that we're maybe making too large of a step, I mean,
 I'm not opposed to changing our ordinance a little bit, but I think this may be too big of a step here. So those are my, that's my opinion. Okay. So is it the wishes of the council to hold it right here and two weeks or what y'all want to do? If we hold it here, I have an additional question for Garner.
 in the collection of comparative cities, city policies you've got, it would be interesting to compare their average population densities to ours. Just to sort of see if we're talking about generally are looking at larger lots of people spaced out or if they're dealing with goats in tighter quarters than maybe even we are. So you would like to see the dense population densities of the cities?
 Either that or just send me your slideshow and I'll look it up myself. Okay, I'll send you the slideshow. Okay. So I take it you all want to hold it here for two weeks and maybe go by and look at the goats or something? Or what do you all want to do? Mayor? Yeah, sure. I feel like the...
 you know, Mr. Charles, I didn't get his last name, made a pretty good reason and gave a lot of great backing on that our current ordinance is great. And so I'm actually, I'm ready to vote on this. But if we want to hold it, I'm open to that as well. But I feel like he, you know, he has a firsthand experience
 and I just think that we need to really honor that. Okay, so what do y'all want to do? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance amends section 16404, urban agriculture, fowl, bees, and goats to reduce the minimum square foot each requirement for goats. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Kevin, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes.
 Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Herb? Yes. Smith? Yes. Pateras? Yes. And ordinance to amend section 16404, urban agriculture, fowl, bees, and goats to reduce the minimum square footage requirement for goats. Okay, what final comments do we have in the council? Okay. Karovich, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Petty? No.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? No. Kirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. I count four to four, Mayor, so do you care to vote? I'm not going to vote. Okay, then the ordinance fails. All right. It's 8.05. I'd like to take a short break for about five to ten minutes.
 $312,710 required match paid by the federal public schools and to approve a budget adjustment. Chief Fields, I believe you have this. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor, City Council Members. Jamie Fields representing Chief Mike Reynolds.
 So I'm here to request City Council approval of the 2020 Community Oriented Policing Services Grant Award and budget adjustment that will allow us to place two additional school resource officers in the Fayetteville Public Schools as requested by Superintendent Dr. John L. Colbert. There is a deadline of Sunday, August the 9th to accept this award.
 The 2020 COPS hiring grant provides $250,000 toward the hire of two police officers over a three-year period with a commitment to retain the officers for the fourth year. The total project amount for the four-year period is $562,710. Less the grant award, the cost share for the city and Fayetteville Public Schools is $312,000.
 and seven hundred and ten dollars this is a split between the fabl public schools in the city of fable based on the number of days sros are in the schools in a few minutes i'll introduce dr megan slocum she's associate superintendent for fable public schools
 I wanted to give you a little bit of a background for this grant award. The School Resource Officer Program at Fayetteville Public Schools is one of the city of Fayetteville's oldest and truest form of community policing. In fact, we've had school resource officers in Fayetteville Public Schools for most of my career.
 On November the 5th, 2019, City Council approved the addition of two school resource officers. At the school's request at that time, Chief Reynolds notified the City Council that Dr. Colbert would be requesting an additional two school resource officers for this school year. On March the 3rd, City Council approved the 2020 COPS Hiring Grant application with resolution number 7320 for this very purpose.
 We received notification of the grant award on June the 25th, and the award must be accepted within 45 days, making the deadline again August the 9th.
 The background on this is on March the 1st, 2018, Governor Asa Hutchinson established the Arkansas School Safety Commission in the wake of the Parkland, Florida school shooting that left 14 students and three staff members dead and 17 others wounded. The purpose of the commission was to advise the governor on school safety across America. 18 individuals representing professional backgrounds in education, mental health and law enforcement, as well as parents served on that commission.
 While school safety was the primary purpose, other areas were examined. As to the topic of school safety, the number one recommendation of the task force quoting from page 20 of the Arkansas School Safety Commission's final report in November of 18, no campus should ever be without an armed presence with staff and children attending class or a major extracurricular activity.
 Additionally, in March of 2018, Fable Public Schools assembled a Superintendent's School Safety and Security Task Force. Some of the members of that task force were Dr. Colbert, Arkansas Representatives David Whitaker and Greg Letting, Chief of Staff Susan Norton,
 Washington County Judge Beth Story-Brien, and University of Arkansas Police Chief Stiga Hagen, and now retired Fayetteville Police Chiefs Greg Tabor and Frank Johnson. The number one recommendation of the task force was for Fayetteville Public Schools to provide an appropriate number of school resource officers for all schools, campuses, and facilities.
 Additionally, School Board President Justin Eichmann at that time mandated that any armed presence must be school resource officers, no arming of teachers or security guards.
 As to the topic of training, we recognize that our school resource officers must have specialized training, and I want the Council to know that all of our school resource officers receive basic and advanced school resource certification through National Association of School Resource Officers, or NASRO, Basic and Advanced Crime Prevention through Environmental SEPTED Training.
 as well as training in online bullying, behavioral health and crisis intervention, child exploitation, child abuse training, and crisis negotiation and de-escalation training. I'll let Dr. Slocum address the duties as she sees them in the public schools, but the primary purpose for SROs in the schools is to provide a safe environment for students, teachers, and staff.
 Out of school, school resource officers conduct SEPTED studies for businesses, schools, and organizations. They host citizen and youth citizens police academies. They patrol the trails. They patrol the trails and the parks.
 participate in community outreach and recruitment. And more importantly, when the schools closed because of COVID-19, the school resource officers maintained correspondence with counselors and building administrators. They performed welfare checks on students where contact was lost after the schools closed. They took students' assignments, delivered school issued Chromebooks and advised students where they could get Wi-Fi for their assignments for students who are able and willing were either
 unwilling or unable to participate in the alternate method of instruction during the pandemic they assisted with the distribution of school lunches took food to students homes when they didn't show up to pick up food at the designated locations and times and made septet adjustments to school facilities as to the financials of this arrangement the hiring of two new school resource two new officers to fill the slots will largely be cost neutral to the city for the first four years in that
 The School Resource Officer Program operates under a memorandum of understanding between Fayetteville Public Schools and the City. All are funded through a cost share of 68-32% based on the days the School Resource Officers are assigned to the schools.
 tenured, experienced officers in the schools. And in fact, the average service time for our current school resource officers is 17 and a half years. So the school pays the corporal step H pay rate for those officers. The school also pays for overtime spent on school activities. They pay for the startup costs for officers and uniforms and equipment, as well as a yearly fee for uniform and equipment.
 In comparison, Springdale School District has 19 school resource officers and they do a 10-month, 2-month cost share with the city. Rogers PD has 6 school resource officers and they're adding 2 additional this year. The city pays 100% of that cost. And Bentonville has 5 school resource officers. The school pays 100% for in-service hours for time spent in the school district.
 So in summary, our topmost priority in placing school resource officers in the schools is to provide safety for the students, teachers, and staff. More specifically, we are there to deter and prevent a school shooting.
 I'm asking you to vote in support of accepting the 2020 COPS hiring grant as requested by Dr. Colbert. And we recognize Dr. Colbert as our local leading authority in what the schools need. And I'll introduce Dr. Megan Slocum, and she's here to represent the Fayetteville Public Schools to the City Council. Yes, Dr. Slocum, welcome. Thank you very much. So you have 10 minutes to address the council as well.
 Wonderful. Thank you very much. And thank you council members for allowing me to be part of your meeting. I have learned a lot, even including the lot size for goats. So I appreciate it. I loved the joke, Mr. Smith. I would like to first speak to the fact that we have a really unique partnership with our school resource officers. And I think that they really serve many purposes in our school as you, as you just heard.
 Those duties do flex and they do take on different forms, definitely during, in the midst of a pandemic, but they have been by our side. They have walked through this process with us and have been a great conduit through the COVID-19 pandemic as they normally are on day-to-day needs that we have in the school.
 Councilmember, I believe Mr. Petty asked about kind of research and like what does the data say? And I provided some information to the chief that are things that we kind of hang our hats on in terms of what we look at for the school resource officers and some of those things that we look at.
 are what is the mentoring possibility for our SRO officers and how that relates to kids. And specifically where that comes into play is with social emotional learning.
 We have and anticipate, you may have heard that one of the duties that teachers have is as they suspect potential abuse in a home or potential neglect happening with the child, that they are to call a 1-800 number. And it is a mandated reporter line that happens. And what we've heard from the research that's come back is that the data from that, that there has been a significant decrease in.
 in the number of cases that are being reported since March. And that decrease is not due to all of a sudden we have solved or cracked the code on abuse happening in homes. It's because our teachers and our resource officers are not having that day-to-day contact with students. And so we feel like that that will be something that is really beneficial to be able to have students back on campus
 our officers back on campus and teachers back on campus to be able to have those interactions with students. And so there is a myriad of research that's out there that talks about that social emotional tie. We also wanna see building
 building those positive student relationships. Many times, oftentimes, some of our students may have had negative experiences with officers, and we want to change that outlook. We want to change that experience for kids to where they understand that these are people who are here to help and serve our community, and this is how they help and assist in our community.
 We want to build the support. We want to do the training that's necessary, as you've heard, kind of the laundry list of training that happens. But our officers that come into schools, they also participate in our special education training. They also participate in training above and beyond what the city needs.
 offers and what they have as officers. And as you've heard, we prefer officers that have more experience so that they're more adept in dealing with the situations that may be presented by students or that teachers need assistance with.
 They also are our resource for those preventative maintenance plans for how do we make sure that we are mitigating as many risks as possible. And in that crisis management, I know that I can get Sergeant Sherry on the phone and he can, we can sit down, we can plan, we can talk. And that day-to-day interaction is really helpful for us to know what's happening out in the city and then what is ultimately going to be coming into our building.
 because schools are only the reflection of the community in which we serve.
 And so it is very helpful for us to have that information beforehand so that we know how to be reactive and how we should react. The other is that positive child. We want that conflict resolution strategies that are in place. And a lot of that positive interaction goes back to the social emotional learning, which is something that our officers all participate in. And ultimately, we want.
 that reception to also be in place with teachers. I think that what we see is that positive interaction happening with the school climate. I think that teachers feel safer coming to work. I think it is definitely a deterrent to activity that might happen on campus. Sometimes it's just simply having a car parked out front. It can make an impact, it can send a statement.
 It also is really helpful as we are working through our crisis planning to determine, okay, what is this gonna look like and how is this gonna look? Who will this impact? How will this impact? And for them to bring the insight from their experience as working in the city so that we can make sure that we're in alignment with what the city of Fayetteville wants us to be doing in our schools. So ultimately, as stated earlier, it is to reduce crime. We want reduced crime in our community and we also want reduced crime in our school community.
 We have noticed that student achievement and graduation rates do correlate with that. And specifically at Fayetteville Public Schools, we have officers that serve 17 campuses. And I will tell you that our enrollment has increased steadily over the last six or seven years. And we still continue to see that climb. And I will say that the other thing that we have seen is that our serious discipline student incidents.
 that have happened where SROs have been assisting through the process in terms of our district-wide student discipline, that we have seen those incidents can steadily decrease from 2017 to 2018 to 2019. And so I have references, if you'd like references of where this research comes from and happy to talk about that further. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. What questions do we have, Dr. Slocum, or...
 It's just too few. Mayor, I have a couple of questions. Sure. Thank you. And thank you to everyone for taking this up tonight and honoring my request to remove this from the consent agenda.
 First, as I start to explain why I requested for the discussion, first I'd like to thank Deputy Chief Fields and Dr. Slocum for being here. This discussion, I expect, as it has been so far, will be entirely professional and civil and based on the facts. And I really appreciate it about the city that we can do that. And in these types of meetings, we are committed to it even though
 the community conversation that surrounds what we do may not be reflective of the kind of standards that we're trying to uphold here. You know, I guess first I should address what is maybe the elephant in the room and that's the idea that if you're skeptical at all
 about claims with respect to our police, there is a sense that perhaps we're being critical of people who choose to be police. And I think that that's not good for our discussion, good for our democracy to have those kinds of assumptions. And I wanna name it before I start to explain why I did this, because I do have skepticism, but I think it's a healthy skepticism. And I think these kinds of questions that I'm going to ask are important questions.
 First I wanted to ask Dr. Slocum, you said that there were 17 campuses, did I hear that right? In the school district system, I see you nodding there. Could you tell us if every one of those campuses has a school counselor on site? Yes. That's great. How many? I don't have a number of counselors, I'm sorry. Yeah.
 I ask because I know that every school counselor I know has a caseload they can't keep up with, of course. And it's something that a lot of the counselors and a lot of the parents do talk about. And I wonder,
 My skepticism comes from a place of not are the school resource officers performing or not performing in the manner that has been described today, but are we able to achieve the same results with similar dollars or with alternative approaches or modified approaches? And so for me, it's not about a yes or no question. Does a school resource officer have benefits? It's about a comparative question.
 are we able to achieve the benefits in a more efficient way or in a way that provides other advantages?
 And I'm not sure what it is, but I also know that we haven't asked the question. It seems like there's been a presumption that if there's a proposal to hire an additional officer that will rubber stamp it without having any deliberations. You know, the point where we're expected to support it automatically.
 within days of the grant application being due. And for, maybe it's ideological, but that's a hard pill for me to swallow because I do think that there are legitimate questions to ask. One of the things I'd like to know is, is there anything that would actually prevent us from imposing an additional requirement that these officers be licensed as social workers or counselors?
 From what I can tell, there's nothing that would prevent us from imposing that as an additional hiring requirement, making it a primary requirement. I think that might set us up to perform ever better at the social emotional learning goals that the district has and that our community has and that are expressed as so important. I think that goes directly
 to our stated goal, not just to end a school shooting if that tragedy were to take place, but to, I think the words were, to deter and to prevent. And I appreciate that we are going beyond the minimum requirements in training these officers, but I also believe that we can do more
 with these grant funds and maybe this is one way to do it. We don't have to say no to this grant, but perhaps we should say yes and. And I think we should consider hiring these officers as social workers, as counselors, especially with the split in time, the agreement that we have with the district, 68% to 32%. That 32% of time they spend outside of the school district, I think would,
 really benefit our community if we were to hire these new officer positions with an eye toward the conversation we're having now about doing more community policing, doing more social work. I think this is a good opportunity to do that and that's why I asked for us to discuss this today. I'm comfortable after discussion making a motion to approve this resolution with that new condition added.
 I'd actually had planned on voting against this when I initially looked at it. When we talked about SROs a year or so ago, I said I don't plan on voting for 15 of these straight without further questions. I wish that this had come to City Council when the grant application was made, not when it was received. So we would have had a lot more time to actually talk about this.
 I think I'm going to stay at a no unless we go with what Matthew Petty had said. I wish I'd heard that before today to look at it a little more, but I think that could bring me over. I like all the great things you said the SROs have been doing, especially during COVID, but I believe they can do all those things without guns.
 So I've got a large issue with bringing more and more weapons onto campus. I know we say that this is to make things safer, but I was looking today and basically there's no evidence that shooters target gun-free zones any more than they target places where there are SROs.
 And there's very few cases where armed guards have actually stopped attacks. So but we do know that there's mental damage done, especially to minorities, that when we bring those guns onto campus.
 I really wish we could have some more time on this. I wish we could table it. So where I'm at right now is, if we can do what Matthew Petty says, what his request was, I can vote for this. But other than that, I can't. I really need to know that the SROs understand the needs of the students and the teachers.
 I believe Assistant Chief Fields has a clarification on the grant process. Yes, ma'am, I do. And to Council Member Scroggins' comment about wishing to see this application rather than the award notice, on March the 3rd of this year, City Council approved the application with resolution 7320. So we did come before the Council
 with a resolution to apply for this particular grant. And then we got the grant award notification on June the 25th, and that's when we were given the 45 days to reply or to accept it. Thank you for that clarification.
 Yes, Sam, and I would also believe that Councilmember Petty began his recommendation with a question about the counselor, hiring the counselor, and I would just say that
 We hire the best candidates that we can. I don't know that we would ever be successful in hiring a police officer who had the training and credentials that you're referring to, bring them into the police department. And just again, the school wants seasoned police officers, and they have an average service of 17 and a half years. And we're just not going to see that hiring in counselors at this time.
 I appreciate that, Deputy Chief Fields, but I feel strongly that it's time to try to do things in a new way. And we have the ability to make the choice to hire a counselor or a mental health therapist. We have the ability to fund the education of existing officer to achieve those credentials if that is the approach that we would prefer to take.
 But as I understand it, I think this is a choice for us. And 32% of the time, these officers are going to work for the city. And if we're talking about hiring a new position and an unfunded liability hanging out there starting in year five, I think personally that it's time to try this.
 I certainly understand your perspective and appreciate that and I will just say that all of the school resource officers that work for Fayetteville Public Schools work on a cost share and we don't currently have any school resource officers that's covered by a grant.
 and better go ahead no go ahead um in relation to hiring uh new applicants and new police officers and fire department officials uh the civil service commission uh has that's that's what we have right now for our uniformed officers both fire and police and the civil service has been granted the power under state law to interview and recommend
 the applicants and to determine their qualifications on their some certainly qualifications under state law that the applicants must meet. And the civil service makes their own rules on this and they establish them over the years about how to not only hire but also promote
 And so it's not really up to the city council to determine what the qualifications would be for the officers. It's the Civil Service Commission and state law that places those requirements on applicants. So it's not something we can just add to a resolution and all of a sudden the civil service rules are changed. That's just not the way the system has been designed. In fact, the Civil Service Commission was brought into existence to remove any political pressure
 from the uniformed officers, either from the mayor or the city council. And so really the request to change something in this resolution that would then require the hiring of social workers as police officers
 I don't think that would actually would be legal at this point in time. I wasn't aware you were gonna suggest this and I would be more prepared, but I really think it's probably beyond what you or the city council can do at this point in time when it comes to the officers. I know that the Civil Service Commission obviously wants to do as best they can and maybe this is something they could look at. We have to also be sure that it's something that can be required under state law
 But certainly they could look at this, but I think they do have the power when it comes to setting the requirements for applicants, both in the fire department and the police department, in order for them to be hired. So it's really not something I think that the city council has immediate control over. Thank you, Kit. Don't recall that the Civil Service Commission has set a requirement that officers be seasoned.
 or that they attend all these extra trainings that have been discussed today. There are minimum qualifications that we expect every hired officer to have achieved. And we certainly don't wanna put our thumbs on the scale for any individual application, which seems to be the intent of what the Civil Service Commission is to prevent. To be frank, this seems like the kind of answers that we get whenever a good idea comes up too quickly, and we're asking for quick action.
 Well, I do agree with you now. I think the additional training and stuff, that is stuff that has been done by the police department administration themselves, the chiefs, when they're trying to, once someone is hired, uh,
 They certainly want to have as much additional education and training as they can have. And that's certainly something that could be supported by the city council. But in hiring the individual, I think that is left to the Civil Service Commission. They do make recommendations and the chief selects from their recommendations. So it's not just the Civil Service Commission, but they do all the initial recommendations
 testing and evaluation, even interviews and situations like that to try to select the best individuals. Now, once someone is a police officer, then obviously the chief and his administrative staff can try to train them as best they can, and I think they've done a very good job, I think.
 But anyway, I can look more into this, but I wasn't aware that you were trying to or going to suggest that we put a new recommendation or requirement of applicants. And so I think you probably cannot, but I wasn't aware that you were going to try to do this. So I really haven't been able to research this like I would like to. Gee, Phil, what kind of sort of training do these officers have? I mean, are they? Let's talk about that a little bit.
 You're referring to new hires or school resource officers specifically? So new hires go through an orientation at the Fayetteville Police Department. They go through firearms training and kind of some expectations of the city and the police department. Some training on Arkansas law and city ordinances. Then they go to the police academy where they're there for several weeks. And then they're in a field training officer program.
 for an additional many weeks, several months actually, before they're ever released. And then throughout their career, we have ongoing training from everything from use of force to deescalation techniques to crisis intervention training, child abuse investigations, just as much training as we can possibly get for our officers we want a well-educated and well-trained police department and Fayetteville is certainly a leading agency for that.
 Are they trained with the school resource officers? They're trained to work in the schools, correct? Yes, sir, they are. I mean, there's got to be some training on that. Yes, sir, they are. And actually, the governor's task force outlined some training recommendations for specialized training, and we're well ahead of that in seeking out the school resource officer certification programs, both basic and advanced. Okay. Yes, sir. I guess, Dr. Slocum, I know that this has been 
 brought up tonight but do you all i i guess if you had the choice between social workers or police officers resource officers which do you all prefer both if we can have both um you know it in in a school it's it's no different than any other area it is all hands on deck so you know i think that is
 we need as much support as we can get. And so what was, as we've outlined kind of the historical perspective of how we got to this point and the reason why we have the feelings that we have and the relationships that have been established with our officers, they are not licensed social workers. However, they do a lot of those type duties as you just heard earlier. Okay, good.
 Mayor, I'd like to follow on your question. Deputy Chief Fields, do we have any social workers on the police force staff today? No, sir, we do not. Do we have any employees at all who have a job description that exceeds the job description set by the Civil Service Commission?
 I'm not sure I understand what you're asking. We have, if you're talking about educational backgrounds, you know, a good percentage of our officers have bachelor's degrees. Some have master's. We have at least one jurist doctorate. And those certainly exceed the, you know, the basic requirements if you're asking about educational level. I think what I'm getting at is that, again,
 I'm getting the impression from the advice that our city attorney is giving us that we are not able to do more than what is required by the Civil Service Commission. But then I also see our exemplary staff and realize that we have hired people with higher qualifications than the Civil Service Commission.
 And it's hard for me to reconcile what I see on the ground and in the staff with what we're being told today. I have to say again that it seems like we're getting an easy no because we're asking for quick action. And I think I can craft a motion that gives us flexibility.
 in case there actually is something that prevents us legally from imposing this requirement. But it still feels like we should give it a shot. And especially when we're talking about new hires, I think we should take the opportunity to be as exemplary as we have been and to exceed our own expectations.
 So I still, and this isn't directed directly, particularly at you, Deputy Chief Fields, but for the city in general, I feel this is something that we should try. We have the opportunity to try it, and it really is as simple as a decision. I think we can craft the resolution after public comment, if you'll give me a chance to craft it, that will allow us the legal flexibility in case Kit's instincts prove to be correct.
 I believe you have very admirable goals in this effort. I do feel that if you amend this ordinance to require that as a minimum standard for this grant opportunity, I do not believe we'll be able to fill this position. Is that due to the speed with which the hiring needs to take place or because you don't think it's possible at all to hire for the requirements as were discussed? I think it's going to be very difficult to hire with those minimum standards.
 At all. I think it's very complicated. Okay. Well, with all due respect, I think we need to try harder. Okay. One of the questions we have in the council. Okay. Well, let's take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. The topic is the school resource officers, hiring of school resource officers. Who would like to address this first?
 Mayor Catherine Snyder is up. Okay. Hi, can you hear me? Yes. Thank you. I'm a citizen in Fayetteville, and I just want to offer to the people that have spoken about this to really dive into your language.
 The quote professionals that are talking about resource officers, you all have used some extremely racist talking points. The data clearly shows that police officers do not make our communities safer, and they target communities that are black and brown and marginalized already. And to put more police officers...
 in schools claiming they help with safety and support is just false, and the data shows that. And it's very disappointing that a city that claims to be inclusive would not even do their research in their own dismantling of
 What we're all living in which is a system of white supremacy. So I just want to offer that that It's extremely painful as a white person to have to listen to this and I cannot imagine What how traumatizing it must be for our black and brown community members. Thank you Next up is Allison Williams. All right. Can y'all hear me? Oh
 Yes. Great, thanks. So I wanted to talk a little bit about just the statistics on school resource officers having police in our schools. Black children make up about 16% of all children enrolled in public schools, or at least they did around about five years ago, but they accounted for 31% of all in school arrests. So 16% of children, 31% of all arrests.
 Department of Education reports that black students are more than twice as likely as white classmates to be referred to in-school law enforcement officers, and they are four times more likely to be charged than white students.
 policing in schools is arbitrary it is excessive it is violent police are more likely to use force in interactions with young people than with adults um it's it's it's absolutely out of control um and you know a lot of people know this we do not need more police in our schools you know what uh council member petty is saying that we need more counselors
 We need more support staff. We absolutely do. And any way that we can get that, get some trained professionals in there to help prevent disruptions, help prevent violence in the schools. Absolutely want to fund that. Not interested in just putting more police officers in the schools to hurt people. I'm all done. Thanks. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Sarah Moore. Okay, go ahead. Sarah.
 Hi, this is Sarah Moore. I live in Ward 2, and my daughter attends Washington Elementary, so I have a lot of skin in this game. I've been at Washington Elementary with my daughter for the last three years, and I'm very invested in those children. I love them very much, but I will tell you that the school-to-prison pipeline is very true, and it's very real. Unfortunately, the federal government has gotten into a really badhas really gotten
 very generous with the money that they will offer to militarize our different jurisdictions across the country. And so there's lots of money coming from the Department of Justice and different opportunities to militarize our police forces and to add additional officers and law enforcement. And so there are lots of these grants that look
 amazing because, you know, we go and apply, we, it's hard to find money and find funders and education is always looking for money. But then we finally, you know, we see this grant and we're like, oh, there's these additional resources that we can use. Hallelujah. Let's apply for this.
 I would just say stop and pause and try harder, like Council Member Petty said. Just because this looks like a good thing or a good opportunity, there are unintended consequences. Some of those data points were brought up from these other speakers. I will tell you as a mother of a soon to be third grader at Washington Elementary School,
 I have seen children coming into the school with trauma. Trauma is so painful that even my adult person can probably not process the things they've dealt with. I've talked to a seven-year-old girl who was worried that a rapist was on the loose in her neighborhood, and I had to get with our school counselor because it's possible where she lives that that could be true. The appropriate way to respond to that trauma is not with law enforcement.
 And I really hope my district is listening with ears wide open that we have to solve this in an appropriate way. When we choose love, when we sign up for the social emotional learning, at the end of the day, we need those people that understand and are trained in that way. We need trauma-informed teaching. We need school social workers. We need educators.
 additional counselors we need behavior interventionists we have young children in our school at six and seven come and bring their trauma and putting that on other children and our schools don't know how to handle that it's a nationwide epidemic what i want to say is let's let's try harder let's go find the funding doesn't have to be the school resource officer doesn't have to be our easy answer easy button approach i know we'll have to work harder and i'm here to do the work with you
 Let's go find the funds that we need, the grant programs, to really get the resources that our kids and our community need so that they can heal and they don't end up in the pipeline that ends with them potentially going into the prison system. And that's what this ends up with. And so I really, I want to charge us all to think more creatively. I've used this word and I say we have an opportunity to be visionary in this.
 The pandemic has opened our eyes very wide to the gaps of care and, you know, the fact that there's food insecurity and housing insecurity. Yeah, we knew that, but like it is eyes wide open right now. I hear Deputy Fields. I appreciate the service that our officers have done, that they stepped up. The community stepped up.
 Our school counselors were working outside of contracts running all over. Genesis Church and their folks were delivering things to our Washington Elementary School of Students.
 St. James Food Pantry, who was servicing 60 families every Tuesday, stepped up whenever I said, you know what, somebody over at Willow Heights are having trouble. They can't get to pantries. She's got a seven-year-old kid. She's a single mom. We started doing a pantry delivery service, and we service 350 families every Tuesday. So
 I understand that the officer stepped up, but our community has stepped up. And I'm asking for my district to really step up and figure out how we get creative when we find the dollars to get the appropriate resources. We don't need guns in our schools. What we need is we need the correct resources that can appropriately handle and take care of the needs of those students in our schools so that they can heal and they can learn and they can thrive in our community. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Madeline Porta.
 Okay. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay, excellent. Thank you. So I want to just kind of echo what some of the other public commenters have said and what Councilmember Petty has brought up in terms of thinking about different ways to go about things. And I just want to also stress that school systems across the country are moving away from and suspending and phasing out ties with the police.
 with the understanding that data, you know, there's been a lot of data that's been collected and it shows that schools with police in them are more likely to refer children to law enforcement, including for non-serious behaviors, as opposed to getting the trauma-informed care that they need. I also want to just kind of stress that
 You know school counselors nurses social workers psychologists. These are the folks that are trained to deal with trauma with kids who are sick and
 stressed, and possibly even acting out as a result of trauma. And police officers are not trained to do this. And they're just not specialists in it. And I think that the officers who have spoken tonight have just kind of reinforced that, that there's no overlap between
 a social worker and a police officer, that they're not going to be able to find somebody who can play both of these roles. And I also want to just point out that the AFT is calling for a separation of school safety from policing and police forces and that people are really looking at this very seriously and recognizing the disproportionate impact that
 additional police officers have, especially on students of color and how they're not addressing the root causes of what may be happening or what may be going on with students. And that's what will actually make our schools safer is when we actually invest in the care, the trauma-informed care of our students and our kids. So thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address?
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mayor, I have sat here doing a lot of listening because I showed up tonight undecided on this one. I'm struggling to separate my role as a representative from my role as a public educator. And what I've finally decided is that those can't be separated in this instance. Next week, I'm going to start my 15th year
 teaching in Northwest Arkansas public schools. And from my personal experience, I have only had the best interactions with school resource officers. I have not taught in Fayetteville, but across Northwest Arkansas, they have a reputation for being amazing people with a spirit for their kids. But I have to keep
 I have to keep in mind that that's my experience interacting with them as a white male adult and that is not always representative of what my students are feeling from those interactions. I know that resource officers are going to make our majority white community feel safer. But the data, I just haven't seen it to back that up. It's inconclusive at best for the research that I've done over the last week.
 reviews of the literature generally start that way. So if better data, more current national data or local data that differs from that, that's what I asked for last week and I haven't seen it. I haven't been able to find it and I've been looking.
 School resource officers, the program nationally started in the 60s as one thing and it changed drastically in the late 90s. What happened to change that was the Columbine shooting. That's when the focus became school resources as these armed guards that are going to protect us from school shootings. Think back to the years since Columbine, all we've had is more and more school shootings and it doesn't seem like this approach is working. and it doesn't seem like this approach is working.
 I think that's how our state and local task forces that came out of the Parkland shooting. At Parkland, their SRO stood outside the building while the gunman was inside. I don't believe that would happen here in Fayetteville. I don't think that that's how our officers would respond, but I wanna be careful not to get caught up in that exceptionalism that says that we are better and we couldn't possibly do that.
 We haven't been tested in that way. God willing, we never will be. I do have a couple of questions that I should have asked earlier but came to me while we were talking. How many, and then I guess this is for Deputy Chief Fields, how many of our officers on the Fayetteville Police Force are non-white? Wow, off the top of my head. I'm sorry, I didn't come prepared to answer that. So I would say including African-American police
 American Indian and Latino, I would say we're probably at 10%. 10%? Maybe better than that. How many of our school resource officer assigned officers are non-white? We have one Latina, and perhaps that's all off the top of my head.
 So I have some concerns about our representation and the image that we put into our schools for our students. What's that? I got somebody else talking through this. That's a concern. And even some non-school concerns that came to me were, you know, we're being asked to make a permanent increase to our head count on an ad hoc basis.
 I think we are in a time where we ought to be looking at how we police. This is a conversation we have had in other contexts lately. Here we are going to continue doing more of the same without taking the time to have a good discussion about it. I appreciate Councilmember Petty's encouragement that we change some of these criteria or increase these criteria. If we are not willing to do that, I don't believe I can vote for this. I would like to know
 what we think change could look like. Honestly, I want our officers safe, I want our community safe, but I think the best way to do that is to start addressing some of these root causes. That's really hard to do out in the community, but our schools are a much more controlled environment, and if we've got a chance to make even incremental change, I think the School Resource Officer Program is
 probably our our easiest opportunity to do that so what could this look like for us okay what else do we have here i have another question and then i think i might be ready to make a motion
 And to preface my question first, I'd like to, it's a question for Deputy Chief Fields again. And Deputy Chief, I'd just like to say what's true, acknowledge what's true, which is that you have by far more experience and a better sense of the hiring process than what we're able to do with it than I do. I'm only speculating and hopeful. And I'm comfortable admitting that.
 but still I want to rest in my hope for what we could do with these positions. And so I wanted to ask you, even though you're skeptical, I appreciate you being straightforward as always with me, even though you're skeptical, if we, if we ask you to do this, what does a good faith effort to hire with this extra qualification look like to you?
 Well, you know that your police department is always looking to be progressive, and we expect change. You know that you have a progressive and professional police department that always seeks to be out way ahead of the curve. I feel like this would be a nearly impossible task to hire entry-level police officers with a qualification that they're also licensed counselors.
 Now, what I can tell you is that all of our school resource officers are crisis intervention trained. But as far as them being licensed counselors, I just don't see that that is a possibility at this time. I think it would be near impossible for us to hire entry-level police officers that are licensed counselors. And I can tell you that.
 I don't know that we've ever had one apply as a police officer. Now, I'm not saying that we haven't. I just don't remember that being the case. Thank you. You just said something that caught in my mind. You were talking about hiring entry-level police officers, but I was given the impression earlier that we were looking to hire police officers with substantial experience to be in our schools. So I'd love to explain that.
 The reason I said that this grant opportunity and hiring these two police officers for the first four years is largely cost neutral for the city is because we will apply for this grant to hire two new police officers. That's entry-level police officers. But what the school wants to hire is experienced police officers, and they pay for that. And so they pay for...
 a step-age police corporal and so the difference in that in the hourly rate is quite different. So my wife is a mental health counselor, licensed with a private practice. She cut her teeth at Owl Creek Elementary School while working for Ozark Guidance as a school-based counselor.
 I'm sure you're familiar with how hard it is to leave a lot of the caseload at the office whenever you have a job like that. And you see and hear the things that you do from students and from parents and teachers and even school resource officers. I also know what the salary expectations are for social workers and for mental health counselors. And I have to believe that it is...
 comparable or even less than an experienced officer, the step you described. So I am naive with respect to the hiring process for police or ignorant, but I am also hopeful. And so I would like to make a motion.
 which I think will acknowledge my ignorance of the process and respect W. Chief Fields what you've told us and also will respect the advice, the tentative advice that we have from our city attorney. Here's the motion. A motion to approve the resolution and to make licensure and social work, behavioral or cognitive therapy or a similar qualification, a hiring requirement unless
 strictly prohibited by law or proven unachievable through a good faith hiring effort. I wrote this motion in this way to memorialize the hope that I and other council members have expressed for the position that we've heard tonight and also to place trust in our administrators and their efforts to honor the council's intent if we pass this. I'll second that motion.
 Okay, so we have a motion and a second to part of the hiring requirement that the officers would have some sort of social work background. Is that what I'm hearing? Is it for like future hiring or is it hiring of the two officers that are going to be funded by this? And keep in mind, we only do hiring at certain times of the year.
 So, I'm trying to understand your motion.
 Yes, the motion is with respect to the grant application that is before us and it's limited to that application and the related hiring. However, the question is well taken and I would hope that if we are able to hire to meet these qualifications that we would make this a requirement for all SROs. If we fail, fair enough. I'll trust that we made a good faith effort.
 and we can talk about how to get more social workers into our police force and our schools in the future with other venues. So does that mean that what we have before us now, the motion is to pass this but look to hire? Would you like me to read it again? Yeah, I'm trying to get some understanding of what you're wanting to do right here.
 We have a grant before us that has certain qualifications. I'll do my best to make this as simple as possible. All right. The motion is to approve the resolution and to add a new hiring requirement. That hiring requirement is licensure and social work, behavioral or cognitive therapy, or a similar qualification. Unless it's strictly prohibited by law, as a city attorney has advised it may be, or
 if our hiring process conducted in good faith proves that requirement is unachievable? So what you're saying is we look at that and if it's legal to do by law and that we can't achieve it, then we work toward that, but with this one tonight that we have, we have certain specifications on the grant, correct?
 Not hiring specifications for the grant, but my concern would be with the civil service competitive testing component. So the civil service...
 by state law civil service has competitive testing and applicants have to meet minimum hiring requirements and once they meet those requirements and they take a test they take a written test that's established by the civil service commission then they must pass a physical fitness requirement and then they have to pass an interview and all of these things
 amount of points and based on their point system, based on how many points they achieve, they're ranked on the civil service certified list. And the chief can only hire from the top three from that certified list. And so what you're proposing, I don't see that that's possible based on civil service commission guidelines or state law. I don't think it's possible to do that when the chief can only hire
 from the top three from the Civil Service Commission certified list. I appreciate that point. I would expect anyone with double qualifications would be an exceptional candidate and would hopefully be elevated by the Civil Service Commission, the top of that list. I see that we have excellent hiring where we have
 deputy chiefs who exceed the minimum qualifications we have field officers who exceed the minimum qualifications corporals captains etc etc i don't see this as being any different we are asking to exceed the minimum of qualifications and you know what if we can't do it we can't do it but if the council passes this resolution i think the expectation is that the administration would try like hell to hire somebody with a double qualification okay so i agree
 Put the burden on the Civil Service Commission. Right. The Civil Service Commission is pretty much in charge with the hiring and promotion of most officers. Everyone but the chief who is still. Next week I'll hire him.
 I feel like it's important to point out that we use job boards and job descriptions, and there's additional narrative besides the minimum of qualifications that the Civil Service Commission puts out. I have to say again, these answers seem like answers to me, a layperson, that are the kinds of answers we get when we ask for quick action.
 Why can't we advertise on all the places that we advertise for somebody with these double qualifications? It's just a decision about what we put on a job board and seeing if we get qualified candidates to come in. I would expect, again, that anybody who can actually meet double qualification
 is an exceptional candidate. And if they're not, then we've made a good faith effort and it's failed. And the administration is absolved of the responsibility, at least as the motion has been worded and seconded. Okay, what discussion do we have on this from the council? Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon? Mr. Mayor, I want to stop this for one second. I think probably...
 There should be a motion to amend the resolution to what you want it to say and then a motion to pass the resolution rather than a motion to pass resolution that adds other stuff to it. I don't know. I will certainly look at the rules of civil procedure, the Civil Service Commission, the requirements of state law, the civil service rules that have been adopted over the years.
 and see if anything like that is possible. But I think I have to agree with Deputy Chief that the way the civil service has operated through these many years in setting the minimum standards, they can't be changed overnight. And they are the ones that have to change them rather than city council.
 I'm sorry if that's a confusing answer or an answer you don't like, but that's probably one of the reasons the Civil Service Commission was established in the first place is to provide more uniformity for the selection and promotion of our uniformed officers. I think it's very clear, Kit, but it also sounds like what we're saying is that we won't even advertise it this way on a job board. We can only advertise or request what the members...
 The motion and the second seems clear to the council. If it's not, somebody should speak up. It seems like we have a meeting of the minds. Kit, I would like to, I mean, to me, the motion sounds reasonable, but I don't, I'm not an expert on the Civil Service Committee and the way they do their selection.
 Okay, you can go ahead and vote on the motion. That will pass the resolution, and I will do what I can looking at what...
 Council Member Petty has applied to the motion and I'll try to get a more complete answer to the city council as soon as I have a chance to actually research this. I just wish, you know, we have really experienced council members here, been on the council for a decade or longer with many of these sorts of grant applications that have been approved and resource officers or other ones added.
 And so I'm surprised that I did not hear anything through all those years or before this meeting about what was going to be requested so that I would have had at least some opportunity to actually research this and give you a better and more sure answer. But I will try to do that as soon as I can this week after this has passed.
 Okay, so can we clarify is the vote we're taking now? Is this a motion to amend or a motion? No, it's a motion to pass the resolution and add this other requirement for hiring if it's legally possible. And so that's what I'll be looking at to see whether or not this is within your power, your authority as a city council to do that. Returning back to Kit's original statement, I would much prefer that this be a clean motion to amend and then to let us discuss the resolution in its own right.
 I agree. Fair enough. I'll revise the motion to add a new section to the resolution that reads, licensure and social work, behavioral or cognitive therapy, or a similar qualification shall be a hiring requirement unless strictly prohibited by law or proven unachievable through a good faith hiring process. Okay.
 So if we pass this tonight and get research and say we can't legally do it, then what do we do with the vote then? Well, it's fine because it's still the resolution will be passed. And what I have to do is look at the law. And the law is primarily the law that establishes the city's right to establish this.
 Civil Service Commission and then it tells what the Civil Service Commission can do and it also talks about minimum standards now It doesn't mean I don't think I'll have to look at this whether the Civil Service Commission can go beyond those minimum standards I hope they can But I think that that really is their choice and not the city's choice not And that that's why the Civil Service Commission was there an established was to protect the officers from
 Interference, basically. So whether you like it or not, that's probably what the Civil Service Commission is all about. It doesn't mean that they wouldn't willingly see what you're doing and say, that's a great idea, let's do that, and change their own rules, in which they very well might be able to under state law. So how, okay. So in effect, the resolution with what we have on it,
 would pass and the resource officers would be hired. But if we can hire them with the social skills, and if it's legal to do that, then that's the route we will go. Yes, that would be a new Section 3 to the resolution. But we don't know if we can do it, but we will look at it. Okay. Okay. Well, what discussion do we have on the amendment then? Anything? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. So did that pass as amended? 5-2. All right, so now you have the amended resolution, but you still need a motion to approve that. I'll make the motion to approve and my very final comment, very brief is
 Even if we aren't able to make this a strict hiring requirement, if we fail to make a good faith effort to do this, I feel that we won't have followed the spirit of the intention of the amendment that just passed. So I hope we will. I trust that we will. I'm moved to approve the resolution. Okay. Seconds. Okay. Second.
 I have a question. Can I make a comment before we vote? Sure. Go ahead, Theresa. I'm going to vote for this because I believe that we do need to have some school resource officers. I appreciate the conversation that's been led by Councilmember Petty.
 But I also want to make sure that we have trained and adequate police officers. And if we can't find police officers with these special skills, we need to keep moving forward. We need to respect our police force. They've been doing a very good job. Sure, we can always do better. But I really do not want to hold up this funding. So I'm going to support this with that caveat that...
 I think we're setting the bar too high. Yes, it's great to strive for this, but I want to make sure that these officers are hired. Thank you. I would agree with Council Member Turk's statement because two years ago,
 I can assure you, I was a lot of citizens were calling my office, wanting more police officers on the trails in the downtown area and in the schools. And I do know that the task force voted to hire these resource officers. Now I, I think, um,
 to look at these other qualifications, but I certainly want to be sure the main thing we're gonna do here tonight is to get those resource officers in the school and to protect the students, the teachers and the staff. So with that, let's go. Yes. Sorry.
 I supported the amendment because I think the sentiment is better than nothing. But I think that the conversation we've had tonight also indicates that it is entirely unlikely to make a difference. The rest of the conversation tonight has also shown me that I don't think we are ready to have a conversation about changing how school resource officers operate.
 and not sure that we are ready to lead a conversation about how we change policing in general, but it sounds like our system is so inflexible and rigid that we can't even figure out how to make the most minuscule changes. We have a program in our schools that has no data to support its efficacy. I'm not sure that it's meeting its goal, but even if it is, we can't prove it.
 Meanwhile, there are other programs that do have data to support their ability to achieve the same goal. And I think we should be looking at how we can make our schools better, our community better, through proven methods instead of things that feel good to the majority of us who've had a good experience with police officers in our past. Because that really is the basis for...
 for expanding the school resource officer program at this point and Until we're ready to have a more Honest conversation about about changing the actual procedures with nothing. We talked about addressed Sloan's concern about about Guns being in our in our buildings in our hallways. I can't support this Mayor I got disconnected for about a
 the last seven minutes and I need to catch up. We're getting ready to vote on the amendment? No we're about the the amendment passed. Okay I missed okay sorry technical difficulties. Okay yeah I also will be voting against this. I just have an issue with guns in the schools.
 I absolutely support the police. I've been on the RFQ for items with the police station. I support the police station. I support further training. Part of my platform was trail cops and I asked at the last RSO, are we going to turn any of these into trail cops? And I haven't heard that at all.
 today. Uh, so, um, I absolutely want more, more cops, more trial cops. Uh, my issue is, uh, I'd rather have counselors with that money, uh, in the school instead of, uh, counselors with guns or pseudo counselors, uh, with guns. So, um,
 Hopefully people can understand that I'm not playing both sides on it. I really, I just have issues with guns. I don't think that's going to ever help mental health of somebody. If they're talking to you while they are armed. I have a comment, Mayor. Sure.
 Yes. I will also be voting against this. I feel like we're really missing the voice of our people of color, students that attend the schools. And I wish we had more time to kind of talk to them and get their feedback. But we just don't have the time.
 You know, we're hearing the data for that more policing for people of color is, it makes it for a
 you know, when you have more opportunities, it results in worse outcomes. And so, you know, I really want to lean on that data that the public spoke about. And so I guess I'm voting against this because I feel like it really goes that extra step. While I supported the amendment in terms of the spirit of trying hard, I feel like it's not going far enough to...
 Like if we don't find those qualified people, basically, we still have the armed officer in the school building. And so I'm voting against it because I feel like it's not going far enough. And so while I also support the state of the art facility for the police officers, I'm just not feeling confident to have police officers.
 on campus, especially because given the current climate that we're now in, I voted for pursuing the grant, you know, in March. And I'm, you know, really trying hard to be able to
 to be more open and aware of the situation outside of myself, even though I am a person of color, I have a certain even privilege being a woman and my skin being less dark. So I have to always think about that as well. And so I'm, I'm learning to think about that more and I just, just feel like those voices of those students are not present today. And I'm just going to give them the benefit of the doubt to just,
 say no to this. Thank you. So I'm really struggling with this, because on one hand, the school district has asked for this. We do have more violence in our community these days. And I do believe in FPD and the work that they do. I think that we have a great police force.
 But I feel like we're putting too much responsibility on the backs of our officers. And by the time that these issues become somebody with a student with a gun wanting to kill their classmates, we failed. That this needs, we need preventative measures. We need mental health resources. We need trauma informed care.
 I think about the times that I spent in Fayetteville Public Schools as a student. And a lot of the people I associated with were probably considered at risk and engaging in not necessarily the healthiest or most legal behaviors. And it was the ones that actually had run ins with the justice system that had far worse outcomes in terms of,
 you know being locked in juvenile detention facilities um their addiction issues were you know went from casual drug use to to full-scale addiction they did not have a good outcomes um and i feel like if they'd actually had access to real counselors uh in trauma-informed care
 before they got to that point, that really could have made a much more significant difference in their lives and in the lives of their families and ultimately in the safety of our community.
 So I'm looking forward to hearing from some of the other council members before I decide how I'm going to vote. You know, I think that having those additional more qualified officers would help me support this. And maybe we're not we aren't able to hire those. But if we could support training and professional development of our existing officers and, of course, compensate them appropriately for that additional.
 training and accomplishment, then I would fully support that. But I'm just really uncomfortable with us being asked to decide this tonight, because I think there's just been a greater awareness in our community of some of the issues that that people of color and minorities are facing with police officers and we need to listen to that and be sensitive to that. And I just think about all the kids that are shooting up their schools and
 There had to have been a million warning signs before it got to that point. And I think that's when the intervention happened, not with a cop with a gun. Thank you. Okay. Again, I was disconnected for some of this. Matthew, I was on when you made the amendment, and it sounds to me like that was a good compromise. And there's people that are a little uncomfortable with it. Okay.
 tell me a little bit, I think I probably missed the end. You're still standing behind your amendment and think that that makes this an acceptable resolution with as it is amended, right? Oh, that's a fair question. I think it makes it better. I feel...
 as the administration, tonight's city attorney and W.G. Fields have tried to mitigate the hopes that I had for the resolution. It seems like some of the other council members are expressing the same sentiment. So I offer the amendment in good faith that it will make the resolution acceptable if we can achieve it, but I'm skeptical we can achieve it even though I believe strongly that we should try if the
 the resolution passes. That said, I still believe that there are better ways to do this if it does pass, I'm glad the amendment is there, but I don't think I'm going to vote for the acceptance of the grant generally. Okay, thank you, because I'm trying to balance this out. Wouldn't it have been Benjamin Franklin that said the virtue of compromise is no one wins, but everyone wins? And I think that we have seen tonight that there is an opportunity to still
 when our point without diminishing an opportunity that the school has asked us and that we did have a, I know where you think, I know where you're coming from when we're talking about the city attorney and the deputy police chief are mitigating the opportunity that you've presented.
 But I think that by passing this resolution from, and I'll listen to everyone else, that by passing this resolution, it says that we have a compromise that is necessary.
 good compared to the original resolution and that we could move forward with setting a precedent that this is what our expectations are. And I think that certainly that's my expectations. Again, I want to reiterate what Ms. Marsh said, the experience in Fayetteville has to be the experience in Fayetteville. It's not the experience in other
 We do look at the statistics, but we also have to look specifically at what our school system is doing and what they have asked for. It seems to me like that they're asking for us to accept this grant, and we had a real problem with that, the way that it was originally presented.
 But there has been a compromise offered that will set a precedent and a serious note from city council saying this is what we expect and this is what we demand in the future. So I think that at this point, I would certainly support it as amended. I would not have supported it otherwise. And again, I think it's because it is a compromise that is,
 So that is where I am standing at this point. I would add that I asked an agenda session for local data to compare against the national data. Unfortunately, I have not seen that yet. It is hard to know what our experience here is in Fayetteville if we do not collect the data to demonstrate it. I think I would feel better about this, especially with the data that we have collected. I think we have a lot of data that we are not collecting.
 the amendment that we passed if I felt there was more of a commitment to achieving it from the administration, but what I don't sense that. I sense a lot of roadblocks and skepticism that we're capable of achieving that. And I feel like, if there was a deeper commitment to ensuring that we were able to meet that additional criteria, I think I would have more confidence in it and be willing to support it.
 um but overwhelmingly i think we've just heard skeptic skepticism that we that's even possible and that that erodes my confidence in in voting for it um you know i feel like you know so many things have changed when since we first looked at this in march a lot has changed but we approved applying for the grant in march and now we're being asked
 uh you know that that they're going to send in the i believe it's august uh ninth i think they have to have everything in by um and the school district is asking us for these are the officers in the school um
 I understand and I hear everyone's comments and I kind of agree with a lot of them, but I think in my perspective, the best thing we can do is we can compromise a little bit and we approve the resolution, we approve the amendment and we possibly get some change out of that amendment. If we can't accomplish that, then we'll know that,
 how to better approach it in the future and maybe come out again and, and, you know, try and accomplish something there. I just feel like I think I'm going to vote in favor of this. So, but I do, I do appreciate and respect all of my fellow council members for,
 and the comments that have been made. And I understand the frustration of trying to say, hey, we want to do something better and feeling like you're hitting roadblocks. But this amendment was just presented tonight and they didn't really have a lot of time to prepare.
 And I don't understand all of the things about the civil service commission and how, how I don't understand all of the voting practices. And I feel like a deputy chief feels has really valid points that she's making. And I don't think she's trying to be evasive. I think she's just saying, look, here's, here's what, from her perspective, here's what she has to deal with. And she's being asked to make these answer these things right away.
 spur of the moment on something that we voted in favor of in March. So even though things have changed a lot since then, I'm going to be in favor of this. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? Okay. Let's vote. Marsh. I'm not ready to vote. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Scroggins. No. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 No. Gutierrez? No. Mr. Mayor, I believe it's a tie vote. Do you care to vote? Yes, I do. I'm going to vote yes. All right. The resolution as amended passes. Okay. Let's move on to number three. Okay.
 Resolution to award bid number 20-54 in the authorized contract with CB&I Storage Tank Resolutions, LLC, in the amount of $2,517,000 for the construction of a new elevated water storage tank on Gully Road to approve a project contingency in the amount of $251,700 and to approve a budget adjustment. Tim, I believe you have this.
 Thank you, Mayor. The existing infrastructure in the Gully Pressure Plane provides water service and fire protection to customers located within an area that runs between East Gully Road and the White River north and south, and between Crossover and Haberton Road east and west. It is also the only source of water for the Goshen water system as well.
 The demands in the Gully and Goshen systems have reached levels where the existing Gully infrastructure can no longer meet the water demands or provide adequate fire protection for all customers in both systems. Several options were investigated and the recommended improvement is to construct a 750,000 gallon elevated storage tank at the current Gully tank site along with an accompanying pump station and water lines. This project is for the tank construction portion of those improvements.
 On July 1st, the City of Fayetteville accepted sealed bids for the Gully Road Water Tank Project and CB&I Storage Tank Solutions LLC submitted the lowest bid of $2,517,000. This new water tank will be located adjacent to the city's existing water tank on Gully Road east of Fayetteville. The new tank will be of identical shape and capacity as the existing tank and will help the city's water system meet the demands for water use both today and into the future.
 This tank was recommended in the city's water master plan. If you remember, in 2017, the utility set aside $2,688,000 for this east side water storage tank. Additional budgeted funds will be moved and utilized from the water system rehabilitation and replacement project to cover the total construction costs and the contingency. Thank you.
 This item was presented to the Water and Sewer and Solid Waste Committee on July 14th with a unanimous vote to forward to the City Council for consideration for approval. Do you have any answering questions? What questions do we have for Tim? I have a question, but it's not about this issue. I would like to change my vote on the previous item. Is it possible to do that? Yeah. You can move to reconsider since you're in the majority that approved the resolution.
 Okay, I would like to move to reconsider the previous issue. Second. Okay, well, let's go back to item number two. And, uh, Josh, right before the vote. So it's time to vote. All right, Caravage Police, call the roll. Marsh? No. Question. Is this a vote on the motion to reconsider or a vote on the previous item?
 Okay, yeah, the vote, there needs to be a vote on the motion to reconsider first. Okay, all right, thank you for that clarification. Then yes, I do move to vote to reconsider. Kenyon? No. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? This is a vote to reconsider, right? Yes. Fudge? Fudge? Yes. Tirk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Warren?
 the motion to reconsider passes so we're right before we took the vote um okay well let's go back all right any other final comments then eric call the roll again marsh no kenyon yes petty scroggins no fudge yes turk yes smith no peteras no
 The resolution fails. Okay. Cool resource, officers. Okay. Now let's move on to number three. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff on the water storage tank? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. I thought somebody started off the question. Sarah, didn't you have a question? Okay. Let's take it to some public comment.
 each speaker has one turn to speak each figure is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor who would like to address this this is on the water tank yes it is we have tom terminella okay go ahead tom the topic is the water tank good evening mayor um question for yourself or tim is this bunny
 Did I hear coming from the general fund or is it coming from the water and sewer fund? Paul can answer that. Water and sewer fund. Is the location of the tank in or out of the city limits of Fayetteville? I'm pretty sure it's outside the city limits, although Tim could answer that better. I believe it is, Mr. Kim. Actually, I thought it was in, but it could be out. It is in our service area, of course. Right. All right.
 Okay. Is it primarily needed because of the demand that the adjoining city is putting on us? Doesn't Goshen have an issue with lack of service, lack of volume? Well, Goshen is growing, yes, but our first lack of volume is on Sassafras Hill Road. But since it's all within Fayetteville's service area, it is our responsibility to keep everyone serviced.
 And so we're going to be asking the citizens to pay $2.7 million so we can provide adequate water service to people outside the city limits and to another municipality. Now, if you heard the Gulley pressure plane goes from Crossover to Haberton and then from East Gulley down to the White River. So it's some in and some out.
 So primarily that whole region is outside the city limits of Fayetteville. My recommendation would be to annex all of that property so we could fully take advantage of the tax base to offset the $2.7 million that we're asking the citizens to pay for. I don't understand why we would be spending $2.7 million and not asking for any participation from the people that are getting the benefit.
 Actually, the people that are getting the benefit are paying for this. It's the rate payers who have paid into the funds who are paying for this. And they include citizens of Fayetteville, but also everybody within our water district, which is very large, as I'm sure you know. And so it's the rate payers that are paying for this and not the citizens. And the rate payers are getting the benefits. That's right. Paul, what would you like to add? Well, those were very accurate comments. We're talking about this being funded by the...
 ratepayers or the users of that of the water system is they're not strictly citizens of Fayetteville these are all the ratepayer and it's for the system okay I just questioning do we have the money in a time of declining sales tax collection and sinking revenues and 2.7 million dollars
 is a very large amount of money. And if we're servicing the whole Eastern region of this County, and they're not within the annex boundaries of Fayetteville, I think that needs to be looked at. Thank you for your time. All right, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Everybody keep in mind, rate payers are paying for the tower, water tank. Okay, any other comments from the public? Okay.
 Bring it back to the council. I move we approve the resolution. Second. All right, we have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? I want to say, as the chairman of the Water, Sewer, Solid Waste Committee, again, let's emphasize that this is an enterprise fund, and it's supported by those people that are paying rates into the enterprise fund.
 We've managed this fund very aggressively in order to have reserves to pay for this type of project. So it's already there. And we had a master plan that we approved, I guess, two or three years ago, and we looked at all the pressure points across the system.
 And this was critical that we had better pressure over here on this side. So this is absolutely the right thing to do. And it is not capital funds and it is not sales tax. Let's just clarify. That's right. Thank you, Mark. Is there still land to be purchased on this project? No, we are. There are easements to be purchased when we do the line work. As far as the tank is concerned, we're putting it on existing city-owned property.
 Okay but to make this work I believe you have to buy more land or get an easement. I believe the land that you're purchasing I've had a financial interest with that person. So I assume I need to recuse? Well this is actually just for the tank project only. The line work or the pump station will be a different project to be brought before the council. Is that Kit's opinion?
 No, that was mine. Well, does Kits match yours? Sorry. I don't think you probably need to recuse. I mean, you can if you want to, just because there's a very tenuous link to another project that is going to be made possible by this. So, you know, to be very careful, it might not be a bad idea for you to go ahead and recuse here. Okay, I will do that.
 I don't really know how to leave the room virtually to do that. We don't require you to leave the room. Just don't get engaged in the comments nor vote. Okay, thank you. Any other final comments from the council? Yes, Mayor, I have a question about capacity. I understand the need to keep the quality of service up for existing rate payers that are out there.
 What does this do for capacity? Is this going to produce enough excess capacity out there to stimulate growth, or is this just bringing us up to a baseline for the current residents? This is a match in the old tank, so we've got two 750,000-gallon tanks now. It will provide adequate fire flow for future growth. Yes. Anything else? Okay. We have the...
 long-range plan, the future land use map available. I can probably pull it up on my own screen. Anybody there can find it. Are we ready to vote or? Any other comments from the council? Okay, Kerwood, please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Kateras? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number four, a resolution to adopt the 2021 employee benefits package. Ms. Yebb, do you have this? Yes, thank you, Mayor and Council. This evening, I bring forward to you the result of our annual benefits renewal that we did with Gallagher and Associates.
 to look at our plan designs, our utilization, and all of our rate structures that we have on our benefits offerings, which are a very important part of our total compensation for our staff. So the one thing that we did say was, based on our utilization, we're looking at a 6% increase for 2021 in our health insurance. So we looked at some plan design changes on our two most utilized plans, the HSA Compliance High
 high deductible plan and the ppo low deductible plan and by doing that we're able to mitigate that six percent down to four percent on the high deductible plan and uh 5.5 on the ppo plan
 The rest of our benefits plans, we are getting rate holds. Our dental plan, we are fortunate to get a 3% premium decrease. So certainly good news there. So we would like to present this to you and open it up for questions and go from there. Questions for Missy? Okay, where are we? Missy just presented and we've asked for questions from the council for Missy.
 Okay, what questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address us tonight on the benefits package? Tom Terminella. Yes, go ahead, Tom. Good evening again, Mayor. Question for you, sir. Since the pandemic hit,
 Has there been any furlough of any essential or non-essential staff employees for the city of Fayetteville? And how many employees do we currently have employed at the city of Fayetteville? We, not that I know, no essential staff has been furloughed. Is that correct, Paul? Yes, we have not furloughed staff. That's true. There's been no staff reduction or furloughs since the pandemic hit. Not at this point in time.
 We have, if I could address that, we have held off on hiring temporary seasonal staff and those types of things. And the number of full-time employees that are receiving benefits for the city of Fayetteville? We have 765 eligible full-time benefit employees. And again, excuse me for being repetitive, nobody has been furloughed and City Hall remains closed.
 We have not furloughed any of our full-time staff. That is correct. Do we have an understanding of when City Hall will reopen and the employees will get back to their offices? Maybe when the pandemic ends? Well, it's a little bit, the City Hall is closed to the public. However, many of us come to City Hall and work every day.
 We don't have all the employees here. For example, I have one of my employees who's working from home, but my other employee is here working with me. So City Hall is closed to the public, but employees still come into work. And maintain rigorous work schedules that we actually go over weekly. So I don't believe there are any city functions not being conducted. Okay.
 Yes, ma'am. I understand I have friends in different departments in the city and they haven't seen their department heads in months. I'm just curious of when we're going to get back to some normalcy of the city employees and the city staff being back in their positions and City Hall being opened up to the public. Any other comments for Missy or questions for Missy? Tom, do you have anything else? Okay.
 No, sir, I don't. I'm just curious when we're going to get back to opening things up and social distancing and wearing masks. And I'm concerned that with no furloughs and the direction that this sales tax and the business climate is here in Fayetteville, we're going to be in financial trouble. Okay, well, if we get in financial trouble, we will certainly address that, Tom. I can assure you that. Yeah, I think it already should have been addressed personally, but thank you for your time.
 Thank you very much for your comments. What other questions do we have? Okay, I'll bring back to the council. What's wishes council? We approve the resolution. Second that. All right, we have motion to pass the resolution. Kerriman please call the roll. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Smith? Yes. It's Harris. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five. An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with Stonebrook Acquisitions LLC for the installation of a 36-inch storm sewer with a refund in the amount of not to exceed $165,829.60 to be paid $165,829.60
 by the city of federal for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,000. Kip? Whereas on March 23, 2020, the Planning Commission approved the Stonebrook subdivision located south and east of the intersection of South River Meadows Drive and East Huntsville Road.
 And whereas the city and residents in the area expressed concern over an existing drainage problem along Roberts Road that can be resolved more easily at the time of construction of the subdivision than at a later time. And whereas the city proposes to enter into an agreement for the developer to install a 36-inch storm sewer with refund from the city in an amount of up to $165,829.60,
 which represents the estimated cost of the improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact and whereas the city will benefit from this arrangement as it will provide resolution to a long-standing drainage issue that occupies time and materials of the transportation department
 And whereas allowing the developer to utilize its own contractors for the development will allow the city to achieve significant savings. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fable Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost share agreement with Stonebrook acquisitions LLC for the installation of a 36 inch storm sewer with a refund in amount not to exceed one hundred sixty five thousand eight hundred and twenty nine
 dollars and 60 cents to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $25,000. Okay. Chris, do you have this?
 Yes, sir. Thank you. Kitt's ordinance does a really good job of explaining what the problem is. This is a longstanding problem as noted. It's basically a pond or a bowl that doesn't have an outfall. So as the water continues to flow into the area, it piles up. And when we get too much rainfall, as we did in the last time, 2017, it, it,
 pond so much that it does get into a couple of structures along Roberts Road. So we really didn't have an easy fix for this. So as this development came online, we saw the opportunity to connect to some storm drainage back to the west. And so that's what this does. It carries a pipe through the subdivision that's to be constructed and connects to an existing pipe off to the west. And I'll answer any questions. Okay.
 What questions do we have for Chris on this? Okay. What public comment? Every, each speaker has one turn to speak, and the, uh, each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff monitor. Who would like to address this on? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is a ordinance. We're on the first reading.
 What's the wish of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Yteras? Yes.
 in order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with stonebrook acquisitions llc for the installation of a 36 inch storm sewer with a refund in the amount not to exceed 165 thousand eight hundred and twenty nine dollars and sixty cents to be paid by the city of favo for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of twenty five thousand dollars
 I move we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. Second. Third reading. You're seconding the third, right? Yes. Okay. The motion is saying go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Thur. Yes. Smith. Yes. Torres. Yes.
 Yes. In order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Stonebrook Acquisitions LLC for the installation of a 36-inch storm sewer with a refund in the amount not to exceed $165,829.60 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $25,000. What final comments do we have in the council on this?
 Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number six, an ordinance to approve vacation 20-7136 for property located at 310 South Willow Avenue to vacate a portion of street right-of-way.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of a street right-of-way is not required for corporate purposes. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates a portion of a street right-of-way as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, a 20-foot easement shall be dedicated to SWEPCO from the middle phase to the south, running the length of the property. Carter, what do you have on this? Good evening, Mayor and Council, again. Thank you, Mayor.
 We, the city, has extra right-of-way at Willow and Martin Luther King Boulevard. The applicant wishes to build residential development on this property and wishes to use the excess right-of-way. The property is zoned Downtown General and Neighborhood Conservation on the eastern end. The MLK at this location is designated in 2040 plan as a neighborhood link
 And the neighborhood link calls for a flexible right away from 27 foot from point five from the center line to 33.5 from the center line.
 Staff's interpretation is that the minimum amount of the right-of-way is reserved for site-specific challenges. Since we already own this right-of-way, we view that as not as not applicable and the 33.5 foot right-of-way is the conservative position because we might need it at some later date and I'll explain that a little bit.
 So the neighborhood link is context specific, but the general idea is it's supposed to be very comfortable walking. So it recommends a wide sidewalk, eight foot, very comfortable for riding a bicycle, a separate bike lane, also eight feet, a 10 foot green. So it's got a very generous green associated with it.
 This particular option shows one parking lane and two-way traffic. This neighborhood lane was designed to be contact specific, so there are various other versions that are possible that are discussed in the footnotes to the right.
 If you vacate the applicants request, it would be the colored portion plus this crosshatch portion. The Planning Commission recommended that you vacate the full request. Staff recommends approval of the request from 33.5 from the center line. I might add
 that the last year's bond issue approved or earmarked money for sidewalks on this section of MLK. And they're very badly needed. I was down there today and it's very spotty and it's very difficult for pedestrians to use this section of MLK.
 And we do believe that the additional right-of-way will provide better options, the extra six feet that we're recommending that we keep. Remember, this is not right-of-way that we're extracting from the developer. This is right-of-way we already have. So our recommendation is that we keep that six feet because it will allow us to
 to do a more generous green or maybe some future date actually have on street parking. I'm happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have for Garner? Oh, is Mr. Lazenby here, the applicant? Who? We did, Mayor, we did send a contact information to him today. To Mr. Lazenby, right? Yeah, yes. I talked to him yesterday
 He's not here right now. Okay, very good then. What questions do we have in the City Council? Okay. What public comment do we have? Everybody gets one turn to speak. Speakers allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this first? Blake Murray. Okay, Mr. Murray. Thank you.
 Hi, yes, I'm Blake with ESI, and I'm filling in for Daniel Asmey tonight. We're working on this project together, and he was unable to attend tonight, so I'm also happy to try to address any questions that the council might have. Okay, any questions from the council? Doesn't seem to be any. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council then. This is an ordinance. We're on the first reading. What's your wish as the council? I have a question. Okay. Just a point of clarification. Okay.
 So the proposed ordinance we have before us is the one that was approved by the Planning Commission that actually grants more of the right-of-way to the applicant, is that correct? Yes, typically City Attorney writes the ordinance according to the applicant's request and the Planning Commission recommendation.
 Okay, so I would like to make a motion to amend. I'd like to amend this ordinance to have that greater right-of-way that's recommended by city staff. Second. And I think we can amend it that way if planning has an exhibit that will be able to be used both for the legal description and the map.
 that's called for in this ordinance. Do you have that or can you get that to me tomorrow if this thing is amended? Yes, we do have an exhibit. Okay, so the amendment would be that you're going to this new exhibit B and a new exhibit A that would reflect the planning department's recommendation. That's correct. Yes.
 I may have to have GIS amend this Exhibit A, but that can be easily done. This is the exhibit right now, but the ordinance, I think it references the entire 19 feet, and it would be 13 and some change. Okay. So I think we understand that the motion to amend was to amend to your recommendation, Garner. Yes. And we'll get you the Exhibit A change tomorrow.
 Okay, well then we'll have to hold. No, we don't have to hold. We can pass it and we'll just change it out. Although the motion to amend must be passed before we can do that. Okay, I got you. All right, what discussion do we have on the amendment? Okay. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Marsh. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Herb. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 Yes. Chair has. Yes. Okay, the amendment passed. Okay. So, this is an ordinance. We're on the first reading. We've amended it. I think that's correct. I'd like to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Yes, okay. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? March? Kenyon?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herd? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance approved, DAC 20-7136 will probably be located at 310 South Willow Avenue to vacate a portion of Street Right-of-Way. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh?
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. And your ordinance approved, DAC 20-7136, with property located at 310 South Willow Avenue, to vacate a portion of street right-of-way. What final comments do we have in the council? Karen, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Erk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay. Number seven. An ordinance to approve vacation 20-7137 property located at 1468 South Cooper's Cove to vacate a portion of a general utility easement kit.
 whereas the city council has the authority under hca 14-54-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the city council has determined that the following described portion of general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore be ordained by the city council the city of fable arkansas section 1
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of the general utility easement as described in Exhibit B, attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section 2. A copy of this ordinance, duly certified by the City Clerk, along with the map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk,
 In Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Okay. Garner. Garner. Uh-oh. Garner, we can't hear you. I apologize. I didn't unmute myself, but I'll get right back there. Oh, no. I didn't do it right. I'm sorry. Uh-oh.
 hours late there you go you got it you got it i need it i need to reduce the size of it a little bit okay uh this is on the far southeast subdivision uh in uh in fayetteville it is uh a simple utility easement uh vacation it's a vacant lot it backs on to a little lake um and uh
 There's no identified need for this easement and Planning Commission and staff recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have regarding all this? Okay, let's take some public comment. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this on this vacation? I think we've got less of them there. Okay.
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance as we're on the first reading, and what's the wishes of the council? I move to go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Warren.
 In order to approve DAC 20-7137 for property located at 1468 South Cooper's Cove, to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Mayor, I have a question. Yes. Under, actually, I guess I have a question for Garner. Under the recommendations, it says that any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's expense. Is that, are you asking for us to amend to add that, or is that?
 That is in the ordinance. It's a border plate condition. I don't believe there are any utilities in this easement, but it is that is a border plate condition that's associated with all the easement vacations just to cover ourselves. Okay, great. So we can leave it as is and that's covered is what you're saying? Yes, ma'am. Awesome, thank you. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third reading. Yes.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call her up? Marsh. Kenyon. Uh-oh. Just losing people. I've got to have six. Kenyon. Yes. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to approve DAC 20-7137 were properly located at 1468 South Cooper's Cove to vacate a portion of a general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Carriage, please call the roll. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number eight, an ordinance to rezone a property described in the zoning petition RZN 20-7149 for approximately 0.34 acres located northwest of Old Missouri Road and Joyce Boulevard from CS Community Services to RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. Ken.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from CS Community Services to RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre.
 Section 2, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville are to hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. You've seen this particular project recently. There was an appeal from the Planning Commission, which you approved. This is to accommodate the setback on one building in this apartment complex.
 So the community services district would be reduced by this amount and added to the RMF 24 to make the proposed corner apartment complex meet the setback requirements. It's in the city neighborhood area. It encourages different uses and residential building types.
 The project aligns with the long-term land use plans and current surroundings, and Planning Commission and staff do recommend approval. We'll be happy to answer any questions. Mayor, I think Tom Henley, if he's still up, is the applicant's representative. Okay. Yes, Tom. Okay, well, let's hang on. What questions then do we have for staff from the council? Okay.
 well let's take some public comment then each speaker has one turn to speak each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken in segments of three and two minutes which staff will monitor who would like to address this um i'm sorry i just jumped away that's um barry williams okay yes uh mr mayor and members of the council my name is barry williams i'm actually with craft and tall
 Tom was unable to attend the meeting tonight, and so I'm here to represent the project, should you have any questions. Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant? Okay. What public comment? Have I asked for public comment? Yes. Any other public comment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Second.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 20-7149 for approximately 0.34 acres located northwest of Old Missouri Road and Joyce Boulevard from CS Community Services to RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. No.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Err? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-7149 for approximately 0.34 acres located northwest of Old Missouri Road and Joyce Boulevard from CS Community Services to RMF 24 residential multifamily 24 units per acre.
 Okay, final comments from the council. Okay, can you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Number nine, an ordinance to amend Chapter 120, Real Estate Sale and Leasing Regulations by Enacting 120.02, Landlords Representative Registry to require all landlords leasing more than two residential properties to provide accurate contact information. As many of the persons renting or leasing houses and apartments provide clear contact information to their tenants...
 And many other landlords operate using a corporate LLC or other type of entity that can be difficult to contact if a tenant has a problem or issue with the lease premises. And whereas neighbors of tenants may need to contact a landlord or landlord's representative if there are shared property concerns such as changes to fencing, landscaping, tree maintenance, or other neighbor or neighborhood associated changes.
 And whereas neighbors of tenants may also need to contact the landlord or landlord's representative if the tenants are damaging or neglecting property, creating a nuisance or otherwise behaving inappropriately to the detriment of the neighbors or the neighborhood.
 and whereas the city should provide a landlord's representative registry promptly identifying the responsible human who will promptly respond to their tenant or the tenant's neighbors. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enact Section 120.02 Landlords' Representative Registry into the Fayetteville Code as follows, quote, Section 120.02 Landlords' Representative Registry, subsection A, every person, partnership, corporation, LLC, or other entity which owns, operates, manages, or otherwise controls more than two residential properties that are rented or leased in Fayetteville, Arkansas,
 shall designate a person residing or working in Washington, Benton, or Madison County, Arkansas, to be the landlord's representative, which may be the landlord owner who lives or works in one of these counties, with the power and responsibility to respond to questions, issues, and problems or with the legal tenets of such residential rental property,
 and to be an additional agent for service of process for the landlord. The owners of only short-term rentals shall not be required to designate and register their landlord's representative into the registry at this time. Subsection B, the landlord's representative shall be identified by correct full name, mailing address, email address, and telephone number.
 The landlord shall ensure at a minimum that the landlord's representative answers or promptly returns calls or emails made by their tenants or neighbors of their tenants between the hours of 7.30 a.m. until 6 p.m. When a landlord representative leaves employment or otherwise no longer serves as a landlord's representative, the landlord must within seven days replace the departed representative with another qualified and properly identified landlord's representative.
 Notify all relevant tenants of such change, including the change in contact information, and enter the change into the city's landlord's representative registry. Subsection C. The city shall supply a free landlord's representative registry through the planning department and offer such registry online for easy access by tenants and the public. Subsection D. Subsection C.
 This Landlord's Representative Registry shall be available for landlords to begin registering their representatives, which can be the landlords themselves, if they live or work in Washington, Benton, Crawford, or Madison County on December 1, 2020. Proper and accurate registration shall be required of all landlords renting or leasing more than two residential properties in Fayetteville to tenants by April 30, 2021.
 Subsection E, any person or entity leasing or renting more than two residential properties located in Fayetteville, as identified in subsection A, who fails to properly and timely register a proper and qualified landlord's representative and any needed successor landlord's representative, or fails to obey any requirement of this section, shall be subject to the penalties permitted pursuant to section 10.99 general penalty of the Fayetteville Code.
 Okay. Teresa, I believe you have this. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I'm bringing this ordinance forward due to my own experience, but also those of the neighborhood. So when I've tried to get in touch with an owner next door for like a fence issue, it's been very difficult to make that contact, especially if they're an LLC and they're out of town. Okay.
 I've had lots and lots of neighbors want to get a hold of the owners of rental units because the tenants were they had some issue it was a noise issue. So rather than call the police and tie up those resources. They'd rather address it with the landlord, and they've had a very difficult time of that.
 finding that individual, especially if they're out of town or a corporation. The third thing is I have heard from just a few people that are renters that have had a difficult time getting in touch with the landlord. And so I've tried to solve all three of those kind of issues, practical issues with this proposed ordinance. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. Okay, what questions do we have in the council?
 Okay, let's take some public comment then. Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Who would like to address this? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I guess I should have asked this when we're asking questions. What's the reason...
 um the the overnight rentals are excluded because i actually get more people complaining about that than i do uh long-term renters so um my rationale would be that we're gonna i think we're gonna have a discussion about short-term rentals in the future and so i didn't want to kind of mix that up i figured that that would be a part of that discussion at that time
 Yes, if I may address that. We presently require business licenses for three and above. So we have the mechanism to collect this information and then harvest it out of Intergov and create the registry. We would not have that ability for short-term rentals until that ordinance is passed. Now, the ordinance did contemplate
 asking them to get a business license. So they could be added. Okay. I have a question, Mayor. Yes.
 So, Teresa, why don't we go ahead and just get the registry for everyone? Why two and more? Because, you know, if you have that issue with that one person that only has one piece of property, that's still causing a 911 call when we could have reached out to the, you know, to the landlord. But I want to understand where that rationale is.
 I would love to have every landlord on the registry, but we don't have, we don't require a business license if they just have one rental property. So what I'd probably like to do right now is that start here and maybe there's a way for us to expand it in the future because I completely agree with you. Yeah.
 I think this is an awesome, really amazing thing. I appreciate you, Councilmember Turk, bringing this forward. I've been a renter for almost all of my 30 years here in Fayetteville.
 And I could have, you know, this could have been super helpful for lots of different reasons. I always had access to, to my, my landlord, but not necessarily other ones next door to me where other seems like a lot of rent houses kind of come together. So I appreciate you doing this. And I think it can help a lot of people, you know, in, in, that are renters. So I appreciate that. All right. Anything else, Mark? Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you were keyed up. Yeah.
 Yeah, I didn't get any public comment. We're on a, it's an ordinance, we're on the first reading, where, what's the wishes of the council? Mayor, I hope we will hold it here tonight. I have some messages for folks that they, it's late, and they would like to consider this when we have a little pressure brain. I have some concerns about the four-county limit and whether that's,
 wide enough for the folks that may own a small number of properties and service themselves without forcing them to now have staff but we'll talk about that later I hope. I support tabling. We just hold it on first reading. However I did notice that there in fact is a typo in the subsection A
 It says Washington-Benton or Madison County. It should say Washington-Benton-Crawford or Madison County like it does later on. So I ask that you amend subsection A to include Crawford County. So I'd like to make that motion to amend to add Crawford County. Okay. Okay, we have a motion and second to amend to add Crawford County. Any discussion on that from the council? Caravage, please call the roll. Marsh. Marsh.
 Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, now we have it amended. So what's the wish of the council? You want to hold it here? What you, you know, Tracy, you're the sponsor of this. Do you want to hold it? What you want to do?
 Yes, Mayor. I'd like to hold it. It is very late at night and I don't want to rush anything like this ordinance through. So I'd like people to be fresh and able to discuss it and be aware of it. Okay, great. Then we'll hold it right here. Okay, let's move on to number 10.
 An ordinance to amend 171.02 general provisions and adopt the minimum street standards 2020 addition and to amend various provisions in chapter 151 definitions chapter 166 development chapter 171 streets and sidewalks and chapter 172 parking and loading of the unified development code to be consistent with the changes in the city's master street plan. Kip.
 Save the most exciting for the last whereas pursuant to our soft code annotated 14-55-207 The city may adopt by ordinance technical codes regulations or standards without including the full text of the regulations in the city code and whereas the minimum street standards 2020 addition has been developed to incorporate changes to the city's master street plan as well as other changes discussed in the city engineers memo
 And whereas various provisions of the Unified Development Code also need to be updated to reflect the recent changes to the Master Street Plan. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Subsection A1 of Section 171.02, General Provisions in Chapter 171, Streets and Sidewalks of the Unified Development Code, and enact a new Subsection A1 as follows.
 Quote, subsection one, adoption and enforcement of minimum street standards. The city adopts the minimum street standards 2020 edition as recommended by the city engineer and attached to the enacting ordinance. All technical procedures and design standards contained within the minimum street standards 2020 edition shall be enforceable as part of the Unified Development Code.
 through enforcement procedures of Chapter 153 as well as Section 150.12, Penalties. Section 2, that the City Council with the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Section 151.01 definitions as shown in Exhibit A attached here to Section 3.
 At the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amends subsection B3G, Streetlights, of section 16604, Required Infrastructure Improvements, Development and City Limits, as shown in Exhibit B, attached here too. Section 4, at the City Council, the City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby amends section 16608, Street Design and Access Management Standards, as shown in Exhibit C, attached here too.
 section five that the city council city of fable arcs are here by men section one six six one one conformance to plans and regulations as shown in exhibit t d attached here to section six at the city council city of fable archer here by men section 171.06 procedure for closing public utility easements and street lights of way as shown in exhibit e attached here too
 Section 7, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Oxford are hereby amend Section 171.1.3, property owner to construct sidewalk or contribute cost to sidewalk, as shown in Exhibit F attached here to...
 Section A, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas are hereby amend subsection A2, minimum width of sidewalks of section 171.14, sidewalk, driveway, and trail specification, by changing the minimum width from four feet to five feet. Section 9, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas are hereby amend subsection F4, entrances and aisle...
 Entrances and internal aisle design for parking lots containing nine or more parking spaces of section 172.04 parking lot design standards as shown in Exhibit G attached here too. And I'm sorry, I know this is very exciting for Chris. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, yes. All right, thank you. Well, even I can agree that this is not the most exciting document, but it is a very necessary and important document that we use every day to help guide our street design and construction.
 So most of these changes are just to match up with the master street plan changes, mainly changes in the in the designations of our streets. We went from collectors and arterials to neighborhood links and regional links. So you'll you'll see that change throughout the document.
 But we also took the opportunity to update many other things to match up with the current best practices for design and construction. This document was updated in 2015. Before that, it was not updated since the 1990s. So it was a very large update in 2015 and we,
 We missed a few things, had a few typos, other errata, et cetera. So we took the opportunity to clean up a lot of those things.
 Similarly, the UDC amendments are mostly to match up that nomenclature with the Master Street Plan. I do want to make sure and make note of a couple of items in Chapter 171. One is changing the process for easement vacation request.
 Before those went to the Planning Commission, the current ordinance, they go to the Planning Commission and then to the City Council, which creates quite a long timeframe for what usually has very little, if any, discussion regarding those easement vacations. So we did remove that from the Planning Commission and that goes directly to City Council. It saves...
 in many cases can save several weeks of time for developments. And again, there's usually not much discussion. Right-of-way vacations like you had tonight will still go to Planning Commission.
 And the other item is changing the fee in lieu of sidewalk construction. For any time a developer doesn't want to build the sidewalk, we can accept a fee in lieu if approved by the engineering division. That fee amount was a flat fee for single-family homes. We've removed that flat fee. There was another option for $3 per square foot.
 for the sidewalk and we're recommending changing that to $5 per square foot and that's just a match up with current construction costs that have changed over time. So those are the only items that I'll go through. There certainly are a lot of other changes and the memo goes through all of that if you care to read it, but it is quite a few changes, but for the most part, this document stayed the same.
 in this iteration. So with that, I'll answer any questions. What questions do we have from the council on this? I have a question. Sure.
 Chris, I just want to reconfirm that everything that is in this proposal tonight or in this ordinance is just an update, with the exception of those two items that you just mentioned, the change in the procedure, where it would just go straight to City Council and then the fee in lieu for the sidewalk. Is that accurate? With regard to the UDC amendments, yes.
 Yes, those are the only changes other than just updating names. Now, the minimum street standards document, there are other changes. We've added chapters and made some other changes. So I could go through those if you'd like, if you want to hear some of that more detailed. But one thing, and I'll just give you an example, we typically require a 
 a traffic study for certain size developments, but we did not have a chapter in the minimum street standards that provide guidance and requirements when that was required. And so we often got questions about, why are you making me do a traffic study? How can you make me do that? So this has added a chapter that talks about when it's required and what the requirements are. So that's probably one of the bigger changes in the actual minimum street standards document.
 Okay, thank you. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor who would like to address us. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. We're on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council?
 Mayor, it's late. I'd like to hold this on the first reading if we can. And actually, I might geek out and read the whole thing. I don't know. But I can't read it tonight. So it would be nice if we could hold it here. Okay. All right. We'll hold it right here, I suppose. Okay. That concludes our business. What announcements do we have? I don't have any, Mayor. Okay. All right.
 All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.