I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of August 16th 2022 care would you please call the row? Jones here Kenyon here Whitaker here Scroggins president bench Turk here Hertzberg here
 Harvey here mayor Jordan here. Would you join me in a pledge of allegiance? Good evening everyone I
 The first order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda, and I understand that Councilmember Jones would like to pull A2, which is the resolution to congratulate the University of Arkansas Athletic Department for being selected by CBS Sports as the fifth best in the nation. And you want to put that on new business agenda.
 Yes. We don't have to take any action on that, do we, Kit? No, it will be heard immediately after consent agenda. Okay. So the first order of business we have tonight is the consent, number one, approval of the August 2, 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Item two has been pulled. All right.
 Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the professional engineering services agreement with Burns McDonnell Engineering Company Incorporated in the amount of $33,880 for a hydraulic analysis and survey associated with a project to address scour at the South Armstrong Avenue Bridge Overtown Branch. Number four.
 A resolution to approve change order number five to the contract with TriStar Contractors LLC for additional work associated with the Zion Road Vantage Drive to Crossover Road project in the amount of $264,597.22.
 to approve a project contingency in the amount of 120 000 and to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2019 transportation bond project number five a resolution to authorize a contract with crossland heavy contractors incorporated
 pursuant to RFQ 22-07 in the initial amount of $78,550 to provide construction manager at-risk services for the Midtown Corridor project and to approve budget adjustment. Number six, a resolution to approve contract amendment with the Boston Mountain Solid Waste District for Environmental Education and Outreach Services.
 through the end of 2022 in the amount of $9,500. Number seven, a resolution to approve the purchase of a phone system recorder from Commercial Electronics Corporation in the amount of $139,125.90 plus any applicable taxes and shipping charges pursuant to a Houston-Galveston Area Council Co-operative Purchasing Contract.
 8. A resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $364,580 to fund site preparation work prior to the installation of the thermal dryer at the biosolids management site. 9. A resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Professional Architectural Services Agreement with Miller, Poskus, Black, Architects, B.A.,
 in the amount of seven hundred seven hundred and fifty four thousand two hundred dollars for architectural services associated with the yvonne richardson community center expansion and to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2022 park improvement bond project number 10 a resolution to approve change order number five to the contract with jbz incorporated dba ellingson contracting
 any amount of $148,038 for additional construction associated with the Woolsey Farmstead restoration project. And number 11, a resolution to approve change order number 11 to the contract with Knab Holtz Construction
 Corporation in the amount of $4,984,952 for West Avenue improvements and the Greenway Trail improvements related to the Cultural Arts Corridor project and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2022 Cultural Arts Corridor bond project. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent.
 consent agenda is read so move second we have a motion second to accept the consent agenda as read here would you please call the roll Jones yes Indian yes yes Scroggins yes her yes Ertzberg yes RV yes
 Okay, thank you all. Under unfinished business, we have one item. Mayor, we're actually going to the item you removed from consent. That's the one to be heard right now. Oh, I thought he was going to move it to new business. The real say is heard immediately after consent. Okay, very good then. All right, what we have then...
 is a resolution to congratulate the University of Arkansas athletic department for being selected by the CB by CBS Sports as fifth best in the nation Yondra, I believe this is your item Good evening mayor and City Council as mayor Jordan stated the University of Arkansas remarkable
 athletic success continues to garner national recognition. And the Razorbacks have been ranked first in the Southeastern Conference and fifth nationally in a recent announcement released by CBS Sports, best in college sports.
 And we all know that the University of Arkansas Razorbacks, they continue to contribute to Fayetteville's quality of life. And I thought that it would be appropriate for the city of Fayetteville to make a presentation tonight to a member of the Razorback staff. And I believe we have the Associate Director of Athletics here, Mayor Jordan, to accept a certificate from you and the city council. Okay. Where did I come up?
 So, is there any comments from the council? We do have a problem. Yeah, we do, yes. As some cleanup work, though, we do have a resolution, so it will have to be voted on. So is there anyone from the public who would like to comment on this? Okay, I will entertain a motion to accept the resolution. So moved. Seconded.
 okay we have a motion in a second any final comments or anything care which you please call the road jones yes indian yes wedeker yes scroggins yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes okay here comes the certificate all right
 Thank you.
 And probably you all are speaking to the microphone. Again, I'm Dorita Dawkins. I'm associate vice chancellor and deputy athletic director. These have been some remarkable two years that we've had in the athletic department. The pandemic did not slow us down. It seemed to give us a little extra energy. So we've won 18 SEC championships over the last two years. And again, thank you.
 Alright, go hogs. Yes indeed. Alright, so now we're on unfinished business. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-025 located at 507 South Church Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately .17 acres.
 from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Now what I have, this was left on the second reading, correct, Kara? I mean we read it, tabled it, and it is now on the Yeah, it was left on the first, but now we're on the second. Okay. All right. Do you need to read it or do you want to take it? Well, I can read the body or they can suspend the rules and I'll just read the title. I'll entertain a motion to suspend the rules and go to the
 Second read I'm if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second All right. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading care, which please call the roll Jones. Yes Indian yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, her yes Hertzberg yes RV yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-025, located at 507 South Church Avenue in Ward 1, for approximately 0.17 acres, from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good afternoon, Council, or evening at this point. I'm Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. The property in question is about four blocks south of where we sit today, south of the Fayetteville Square. It's southwest of the intersection of Fifth and Church, as you can see in the aerial image here. It is unique in that it's characterized by an unbuilt right-of-way of Fifth Street that continues along the northern property line of the property.
 Otherwise, it's a fairly standard lot for the Walker Park area. It's built with a single-family home and an accessory structure. The request before Council tonight is to rezone the property from NC, Neighborhood Conservation, as it was zoned under the Walker Park Neighborhood Master Plan, to RIU, Residential Intermediate Urban,
 When the request was considered from a land use standpoint, staff does find it to be compatible. Whether you're familiar with this area or not, or have just looked at the aerial imagery and seen the staff's report, there's significant variety of different residential uses in this area. As you get to the blocks further west of here and further south towards MLK and school, there's a wide variety of non-residential uses, restaurants, churches, and other activities that would be complimentary of residential uses.
 With that in mind, staff feels that the allowances under RIEU, including one, two, three, and four family dwellings would be, again, fully compatible. When looking at it from a long range perspective, staff found it to be very consistent with our city's planning documents that have been adopted. As a residential neighborhood area, the intent of that designation in our future land use map is to promote a wide variety of residential uses.
 While RAU doesn't allow larger residential uses like multi-family structures, it does break down the residential building sizes into those that may be more complimentary of the single family character of this area.
 When looking at it through the lens of the adopted goals of City Plan 2040, staff found it to be similarly consistent. This is certainly infill, an appropriate infill as staff finds it to be and not sprawl. So in that case, it definitely addresses those two goals of City Plan. Similarly, it has access to transit and trails and services and the wider street network. And in that sense, again, we feel it is complementary of those goals.
 Lastly, when it gets to the infill rating for the property, it is fairly high. Again, perhaps unsurprisingly given how close we are to the core of the city, it has access to all the usual amenities you'd expect, water, sewer, streets, fire response times. Additionally, there's a very tight street grid in this part of town representing its historic development pattern. It also has access to grocery, the neighborhood markets to the west on the other side of school, as well as parks and trails.
 As for unique issues with this request, this did originally come to the Planning Commission with a proposal for DG, Downtown General. The biggest distinction between RIU and DG is the allowance of non-residential uses and multifamily uses in DG.
 Ultimately, when considering the request, the Planning Commission felt that was too much or unnecessarily entitled at this property. So in forwarding it to the City Council, they amended the request to RIU, and that is why the ordinance written before you is as it is.
 Otherwise, we have received one piece of public comment leading up to the City Council meeting. I believe the Council saw that about a month ago. One of the neighbors had asked for time to contact and work with the applicant to see what their plans were. I've not been able to determine if they did have that contact or not, but there has been a month since this had its first reading.
 That said, staff is recommending in favor of the request. Again, the Planning Commission forwarded it to Council, recommending in favor of it. It was a slightly split vote, though, by eight to one. Those in favor of the request felt that the townhouse and residential uses allowed in RIE were fully appropriate and compensated.
 The one dissenting vote felt that the NC neighborhood conservation zoning district that's in place today is more appropriate and reflects what they anticipate to be the compatible development in the area. And as Mayor and Mr. Williams noted, this was tabled at your second meeting in July, and that was at the applicant's request.
 I'm here to take questions and I believe Sarah Gertz is available as the applicant for this item. Yes, would the applicant like to speak before the council? You have 10 minutes.
 My name is Sarah Gertz, I'm with Earth Plan Design Alternatives and the intent was not to put a five-story building up. I understood that was a concern and the RIU fit the need, the client's need for the property. If there are questions, the client is here in the audience and I'm here, we can address.
 Questions? Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or staff? Question? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I was wondering if you did hear from an immediate neighbor that had that concern? That was the only comment that we, that I know of that we received. We have not. The client was out of the country visiting family at that point, so he was not contacted.
 yeah thanks we have not heard personally from him it was just a comment that jonathan let us know about thank you anything else okay then let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this issue? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Council, this is an ordinance. It is on the second reading. So what action would you like to take or what discussion would you like to have?
 if there aren't any questions i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second okay all right carol would you please call the wrong jones yes kenyon yes ledeker yes scroggin yes kirk yes herzberg yes harvey yes
 And the Ordinance to Rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-025 located at 507 South Church Avenue in Ward 1 for approximately .17 acres from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Okay. Is there any final comments from the council? Yes, Mayor. I have one.
 I think that the current zoning is appropriate. I can look around the room and see that that's probably not going to be what my other colleagues vote on, but these lots are very small, and I don't think that having RAU in an NC neighborhood, because this will be the first RAU in that area. I mean, a couple of blocks over there's RAU, but not in that immediate vicinity, and so I'm not going to be in support of this. Thank you.
 Okay, any other final comments? Okay, Caravage, please call the roll. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Kirk? No. Ertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now let's go on to new business. A resolution to authorize and accept the acceptance of a 50-50 matching grant for up to
 $1,400,000 from the Walton Family Foundation to construct an expansion of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center and support public engagement and programming and to approve a budget adjustment. This is a 2019 park improvement bond project. Alice.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. This is a request to accept a 50-50 matching grant from the Walton Family Foundation for the construction of the Yvonne Richardson Community Center Expansion Project. You all agreed for us to apply for this grant on July 5th, and since then we were very excited to learn that the grant was approved.
 The funding will provide up to $1.4 million for the construction and continued community engagement. The original bond funding and scope included a ground level expansion and this funding will allow us to build an expanded scope that includes a second level floor.
 The second level will be built out and prepped for finish out, however the finish out of that will be dependent on fundraising and or future capital funds. However, adding the second level now will allow us to take advantage of construction efficiencies and minimize disruptions to programming. The grant terms included metrics and they centered around two outputs and two outcomes. Those include the physical expansion of the space.
 increasing the number and diversity of programs and events that are focused on health, teen engagement, building social connections, increasing the number of participants in the programs, and promoting a sense of belonging in the community.
 The grant terms are described in detail in the grant letter. And lastly, we would like to express our sincere gratitude to the Walton Family Foundation for supporting this important project. And with that, I will take any questions.
 Okay. I'm sorry, Mayor. We do have a couple of visuals. There we go. Okay. I wanted to point out. I'm so sorry I forgot. Let's have the visuals. And, Jack, if you could flip to the next, it will show the expansion coming out towards the street. And these are just conceptuals. We still have to go through the design development that was approved on consent agenda. And this shows the second level of the expansion.
 So sorry about that. So what questions do we have for Allison? And I might remind the audience to silence your phones please. Any questions for Allison on this one? Okay, then let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address, those participating by Zoom,
 will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom Susan? No one has raised their hand Mayor. Okay is there anyone in the chamber that would like to speak on this issue? Okay I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What's the wishes of the council or what discussion would the council like to have?
 Well, I'd like to express the appreciation also to the Walton Family Foundation. I know that there's been an effort for several years to get this construction project going, and this is such a gift to that area of town. There is a real need for youth services. A lot of times in the summer they're bused over to the—
 club on Ruppel Road, I guess. And this is going to allow study areas, computer labs, as well as recreational rooms. So it's a very appreciated addition to the Vaughn Richardson Center in this part of town. So just wanted to mention that.
 Anything else? I just wanted to, you know, I am very pleased with this and so thrilled that we could get, you know, get this and the conceptual drawings look fantastic. In addition to providing services, it's going to be a really good looking building in this part of town too, which I think is important as well. So I'm going to be in support of it.
 And we approve the resolution. Second. We have a motion and second to approve resolution. Any final comments from the council? I too would like to thank the Walton Foundation for their very generous gift. And I want to thank Alison for all her hard work on this project as well. So thank you Alison very much. If there's nothing yet. Okay. So with that, Kara, would you please call the roll?
 Jones yes Kenyon yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes
 Number two, a resolution to approve the 2022 Community Development Block Grant CDBG Action Plan to authorize Mayor Jordan to execute the CDBG agreement for 2022 in the amount of $725,638 when received. Yolanda, I believe you have this one.
 Yes, good evening, Mayor, Council. What you have before you is our staff recommendation for you all to provide, to give the mayor the authority to sign the 2022 CDBG grant agreement once it's received. The actual funding for the action plan was approved by council as part of the 2022 budget, and that was approved December 7th
 of 21 it was resolution 306-21 all of our sub-recipients that we have included in the action plan we were very lucky to be able to fund all of our eligible applicants this year so that that was really wonderful and these items were presented to our advisory board on september 15th of 2021 and they voted uh in support of
 at this point, do we have any questions? Okay. Does the council have any questions for staff on this? Okay. I'll take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have?
 zoom suit no one is raise their hand mayor there's no one no one with your hand raised all right who would like to address this in the check okay I'm gonna bring it back to the council this is a resolution what action or what discussions with the council like to have our take there aren't any questions I'm if we approve the resolution second we have a motion in a second to approve the resolution any final comments from the council
 I do have a final comment. I know a lot of people have not had a chance to look at this plan, and it always comes up during the year, what are we doing with CDBG money? And if you look at this outline, housing rehabilitation gets the majority of it. It gets 501,000 out of the 725,000 total.
 dollars that will be available and redevelopment gets $74,576. So I just wanted to mention that because there's always a question about where's the CDBG, the Community Block Development Grant going. That's where it's going. All right, I'm ready now. Okay, anybody else? Everybody good? All right, Kara, would you please call the roll?
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes. Irving? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number three, an ordinance to waive competitive bidding and to approve Griffin residuals trying as a service agreement with the City of Federal to approve a contingency
 amount of $81,250 into approved budget adjustment kit. Whereas drying sludge from a wastewater plant to reduce its weight prior to placing it in a landfill or converting it into fertilizer or other useful product requires highly specialized equipment and processes often protected as trade secrets.
 and whereas utility staff has investigated numerous industry of options and determined that Griffin Residuals equipment and processes to dry sludge is the best and unique option to best serve the wastewater plants.
 And whereas the City of Fayetteville would like to hire Griffin Residuals LLC to install, operate, and train our staff to operate a biosolids sludge dryer to replace the previous biosolids dryer that suffered a catastrophic failure on December 13, 2021.
 And whereas machinery owned by Griffin Residuals LLC will be installed and initially operated and maintained by Griffin Residuals LLC, who will receive a per ton sludge processing rate of $65 per ton with an estimated monthly sludge process amount of 1,250 tons.
 and whereas after an initial three-year operation to confirm the quality and ability of Griffin Residuals machinery and operation, the City of Fayetteville will have the option to exercise a buyout of this sludge processing equipment for a set price of $1,995,000.
 and whereas the unique and proprietary equipment and process offered by Griffin Residuals to the City make competitive bidding neither feasible nor practical, so that the City Council should weigh the requirements of competitive bidding in this case. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves the drying as a service agreement with Griffin Residuals LLC with a contingency amount of $81,250 together with Appendix A, B, and C and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign this agreement
 and section 2 that the city council or the city of fable arcs are hereby approves a budget adjustment a copy of which is attached to this ordinance
 and thank you mayor i'll recap a little bit uh kit did explain it very well but on december the 13th of 2021 is when our biosolids drum type dryer had a catastrophic failure and ceased to operate and we knew at that time that we had to do something because we immediately the next day had to start taking our biosolids to the landfill because we produce it every day
 We looked for a method that was cutting edge as well as something that we could install as quick as possible. I know that eight months doesn't sound very quick, but indeed it is rather quick when you're looking at something of this magnitude. The drawing as a service agreement between Griffin Residuals and the city is a business relationship. Griffin Residuals will invest the capital, the dryer and the conveyors, all the equipment
 Electronics type of deal to hook up this dryer. We're going to do the make ready cause of running the water and sewer lines rerouting the gas line We're going to install a conveyor for our benefit we're going to upgrade our electrical service and these type of deals are make ready cost and
 And then Griffith will come in with their staff and they will train the wastewater staff in several weeks to how to operate the dryer efficiently. Griffith Residual will also pay for the duration of this agreement all the electrical and natural gas charges that is incurred by this drying deal, this drying agreement.
 Like I said, the machinery is owned by Griffin Residuals and after the three year period the city will have the option if they think it's a viable option to purchase all the equipment for a set price of $1,995,000. That's a very good deal. We've looked at other options and we had estimates as high as $30 million to install drying into the wastewater plants.
 The biosolids drying is a specialized service. Our options whenever this dryer failed were either purchase a brand new dryer, send the solids to the landfill indefinitely, or search for a drying as a service. And that's what we did. It was selected because it provides us the opportunity to temporarily utilize this cutting edge technology. And if we like it, then we can buy it at a reasonable price. If we don't like it, they will come and remove it at no cost to the city.
 This item was presented to the Water and Sewer Committee on July 12th with unanimous vote for it to the council. I would like to show a spreadsheet, a comparison of the landfill charges versus drying as a service.
 Right now, well before April, all the landfill costs were going through Jacobs, our contractor. We negotiated a price directly with the landfill for basically to eliminate the markup cost that Jacobs has in their O&M contract. We also got a slightly better rate.
 And I'm sorry, I can't really read that chart. I don't have one in front of me. But when you go over to the right side and we compare, if we're drying at $65 a ton, we're also going to have our fertilizer that we sell to the farmers, a finished product that will offset the cost of the drying as a service. And what you have in the end is the cost of drying as a service is about $10.
 Around four to five dollars more per ton compared to take it to the landfill two things about the landfill that we know one They could call us in the morning and say you can't bring it here anymore. They've done it before And and there's no nothing you can do about that. You just have to think of other ways right now We've been taking our solids to two waste management landfills one in Taneytown and one in Yale County, Arkansas and
 When we needed to which is quite a trip one load Per employee per day is all you can do and so
 The other option is to buy a brand new dryer, which is very expensive. The drying as a service, I think, is the best option for the city. We've been having weekly meetings with Griffin Residual since January, ironing out this agreement and what each entity's responsibilities are. We've come up with what we think is a very good plan that will dry our biosolids, let us take a look at this technology, and prepare for the future. Do you have any answering questions?
 Okay, what questions do we have for Tim on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Okay.
 No one has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. Would anyone in the chamber like to address us on this issue? Oh, surely. I thought we would have a lot of people. You must be waiting on something else. All right. Well, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So it is an ordinance. It is a discussion. Would you like to have or what action would you like to take?
 I'd just really like to thank Tim and his staff for investigating this really difficult and challenging issue. I don't think it's consistent with our goals and ethics in Fayetteville to send our bio-solid waste to the landfill. Then there's also the issue of trucking it all the way to Yale County and consuming all that gasoline. I mean, that's just...
 So I think this is a really great situation where we can try this out. We can see if this new technology really works for us. We can test it out. And if we don't like it or if there's a better technology in the next couple of years, we can go a different way. So I'm very much in support of this. And thank you, Tim. I know this has been a very challenging situation to deal with and real problematic for the last couple of years. Thanks.
 any other mayor excuse me real quick i've been asked to remind council members to please speak into their microphones some folks in the room are having a hard time hearing
 I'd say it's nice to see that this is finally put to rest. I know that Chairman Turk took it over after I left. We're going to miss that drum dryer. It was put together with rubber bands and some real fixer-up. Yeah, a lot of maybe tape, but this is a great...
 investment because it was so tough when we were looking at it was so expensive that we knew we had to do something so thank you and your committee for continuing this work
 Mr. Mayor, we thank Councilmember Kenyon for leaving the committee so we could make this progress. I appreciate that. Well, then they're sad. This is simply an investment in a piece of equipment. And if you knew what we paid per ton, and if you can dry that material out so it weighs only a portion of what it did, it eventually pays for itself. And so this is a sound investment for the residents of Fayetteville. Thank you.
 Yeah, I agree. This is kind of nice. Instead of just a salesman saying that this is going to work, they're moving it here and showing us that it's going to work. So I move to spin rules and go to second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Jones yes Indian yes Whittaker yes Scroggins yes yes yes Ertz yes Ertzberg yes Harvey yes and nor is to waive competitive bidding and approve the Griffin residuals drying as a service agreement with the city of Fayetteville to approve a contingency amount of eighty one thousand two hundred fifty dollars and to approve a budget adjustment
 Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Lederker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Yes.
 in order to waive competitive bidding and approve the griffin residuals drying as a service agreement with the city of fayetteville to approve a contingency amount of 81 250 and to approve a budget adjustment any final comments from the council all right care which please call the row jones yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Ertsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number four, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign
 and offer to purchase approximately 1.74 acres of land located at 1125, 1137, 1153, and 1189 Northwest N Avenue for the amount of $1,390,000 plus closing costs to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,000 and to approve a budget adjustment. Chris? I believe Alan has this, Mayor. I'm sorry.
 Yeah, thank you. As you can see here, I'll show a few slides from a previous presentation that we did so
 Council can refresh their memories and there's also some pictures in the packet that we supplied. But essentially what we have here, West End Apartments I think we're all familiar with. In 2017 they flooded fairly significantly. At that time we began a flood study to determine what we could do to improve the flooding situation in this area. Unfortunately for these particular structures, mainly due to the fact they're located in the floodway, which is a highly flood prone area.
 that we were not able to come up with really feasible engineering solutions to reduce the flooding on these structures. So at that time, the recommendation was to purchase these. They've recently come up for sale, and we are here before you tonight to recommend the purchase of these structures, the eventual demolition of these structures, which is not included in this current resolution,
 and the potential for some restoration work to occur in the future. We are researching funding opportunities
 for the remainder of the work. Some of those opportunities may be some federal grants that we could receive, or if council decides to move forward with that, certainly we could identify some local funding for it. The photos before you, just for reference, are from May of this year, where those apartments flooded again. It seems like they're on about a five-year cycle, unfortunately, that they get significantly flooded.
 There are about 50 units currently in those apartments with a laundry room. And I'd be happy to answer any questions that the council may have. What questions do we have for Alan on this from the council? Okay, well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Please stay on topic.
 please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will are will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom susan gladys tiffany okay go ahead glass good hello can you hear me yes um my question is this is gladys tiffany from 105 north willow fatville
 My question is whether the ultimate use of that property would be low income housing or what the intended purpose of the land would be if the city owns it. Who wants to answer that? Who has that? Alan can respond to that. Okay, Alan. Sure, thank you.
 Our recommendation at this point is that that property remain green space just to the high flood prone area that it is. We're looking at the potential to do some improvements that would provide some flood plain storage there that may help to reduce some flooding on other residents there in that localized area in the West End, Weddington, Valley Drive location. So ultimately our recommendation would be that it remain green space.
 Is there any other opportunity for low-income housing that could be exchanged for that then? Because there were a number of people who lost their housing after that and are now homeless. Certainly we do understand that. I might kick that question back to potentially Yolanda who helps with that effort in finding locations for those residents to live or Susan if one of y'all wanted to handle that piece.
 Is Yolanda still here? She has several different programs that help with those services.
 I believe that the HEARTH program is Permanent Supportive Housing and there are just lots of different avenues. I'm not sure exactly what the residents did when they had to be rescued. They did seek services elsewhere. I understand that the unit is completely unoccupied, is that correct, Alan? That is my understanding, yes.
 That's how, that's what I have to respond. And I am here, I'm sorry if I missed a question. Thank you Yolanda. Would you like to add anything about opportunities for housing for residents of the West End? Oh, well, yeah, right. When that actually happened originally and we did have individuals housed there, we were assisting them with either hotel stays or information on other locations. At this point, there are no residents at that location.
 Thank you. I did just want to emphasize that there really needs to be the continuing need for low income housing in this area is just really, really critical and keeping it well in mind as we're thinking about land use is really important. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Susan, who do you have? No one else has their hand raised, Mayor.
 Who would like to address this in the chamber? Hello, my name is Monique Pierre, I'm 1352 North Izzard Lane. Take your mask down if you wish. I apologize.
 1352 North Izzard Lane in Fayetteville, Arkansas. And I just had a thought. One of the concerns with being able to provide affordable or sustainable or attainable housing is that the cost of land. And I would like to mention to the body that
 perhaps because once you've purchased it and it becomes property of the city, if you decide to resell it, I believe that the rule applies that it has to be sold at fair market value and perhaps in consideration of the ability to maybe purchase
 develop it for housing in the future, that a consideration could be made to resell it at a reasonable rate to nonprofit or other minded individuals who would have modestly affordable housing or modest income housing. So I'm just considering that once you take it into your inventory, then the rules of resale apply that would make it sometimes more expensive to redevelop in the future.
 So, that was my comment. Thank you. Mayor, I believe Paul would like to address that comment about the resale. Good evening. I would like to mention when we talk about reselling that property, remember this property is being purchased through the bond fund.
 Therefore, that has to be for infrastructure. So we've got to make that a part of our infrastructure, at least until the time those bonds are paid off, and that will be quite a while. So before we could entertain actually selling that or going in that direction, those bonds would have to be paid off. So right now we're restricted from selling that at this point of time. We need to keep it as part of our infrastructure for flood control, et cetera.
 Good evening. Mayor, it's nice to see you, City Council. Nice to see you. Just this week we began the process of moving my father back into his home on Valley Drive. That's adjacent to this West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about your experience with the West End. I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit
 Apartments, the local restoration companies and subcontractors were quite impressive this round. Northwest Restoration out of Springdale under Aaron Davis worked skillfully and quickly to restore my family's home.
 Of course, we kept up with neighbors and friends in that community surrounding the West End Apartments. And there was a consensus, 100% to be exact, showing unequivocal support of this resolution to purchase the West End Apartments in hopes that it is retention space for water. Just a few weeks ago, this community was very distressed.
 The conversations that I had or overheard at the beginning of the year focused on mitigation. And after May's flood event, there was a nagging realization that perhaps we should just let go and sell our homes and do the brave thing. Well, we feel like this resolution is intended to give us a shot to stay dry and therefore stay safe just a bit longer. I think it's important to comment on what can be preserved
 in this neighborhood and it's just one example. My father moved here in the 70s. He joined the Air Force before he finished high school. He later completed his GED. He went on to become the first African-American male carrier for the city of Springdale. My mother was from a prominent family in Elkins. Her father was a dentist and owned a significant amount of land and when she presented him
 As her lifelong partner, family ties were severed, and she was later denied her birthright. This house
 more than just a home and it is not in our nature to be pushed off of it because of the water or because what the city deems as economic or logistical infeasibility. I asked my father why he wanted to raise a family in Fayetteville and he said that the people here had a friendly nature and this translated into being good neighbors and this in which it contributed to my idyllic childhood on Valley Drive.
 They found that Fayetteville was a place that they could be in public together and that their children would be treated fairly and kindly. This fact has always endeared Fayetteville to me and my siblings. My sentimentality over my family home is not a compelling reason to spend this bond money on purchasing the Westin apartments. Rather, there's an entire community of Fayetteville originals that have lived in this area for decades paying taxes for the city of Fayetteville for decades.
 And anyone that cries foul at the demolition of these Weston apartments in the name of affordable housing has completely lost the plot here. Because this is precisely what the resolution is intending to do, is to invest in affordable housing. This community needs someone to go to bat for them, which brings me to Alan Pugh.
 Well played, sir. He is in a pressure cooker situation because of the rain, the influx of the people, and the infill. I personally believe in the personhood behind the position and have faith behind his leadership that it will be someone that is trying to look out for people first. So, Alan, City Council, these are some of the people you will be helping to protect. We've got David Ball next to us who hung electric lines, worked for the electric company for 40 years.
 Gail and Susan, both with Pinnacle Foods, retired. Vonda with Superior Foods, retired. Barbara, U of A administrative assistant, retired. The story is next to us with three young children under the age of five.
 Mike Rhodes, Navy veteran, John Mouse, Darcy, Robert and his wife, Hattie Lee, Catherine Dill, 98 years old, whose husband actually built the houses on our street. She said she would not call you because she cannot hear, but she did invite me in for dinner and she told me over a visit that she would like to be able to walk up and down the street and feel a bit more safe in her community.
 April is an enduring pest on the monthly calendar, and it will bring us more water. So you would be a perfectly competent government in reading this three times and passing it tonight. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address on this?
 Hello, my name is Gail McKenzie and I live on Valley Drive close to the West End Apartments. I've lived there for 40 years and I am very sympathetic to the people who need low income housing. However, I do not think that putting apartments back up on West End Avenue will help with this because it will flood again.
 And these poor people who live in these apartments will lose everything they own all over again. Going through the flood, which I have done
 three times since I've lived there is a very frightening experience and so far we've been very lucky that no one has been injured or severely hurt or lost due to flooding and I am really really happy to hear that you are going to try and purchase this property
 to alleviate some of the flooding conditions in that area because i think it's a very good investment for the city and i'm very happy to hear that that's what you're going to do thank you thank you thank you who else would like to address this good evening mayor and council kyle smith 2801 west dove drive first yes this is a good and appropriate thing to do
 The voters knew that acquiring properties that flood regularly was one of the purposes when they approved Question 4. This is a good and, from the sound of it, necessary thing for the surrounding neighborhood and the affordable housing in the greater area. So I hope that we will go through with this. But here's the thing. This is a good plan for a city with flood problems. It is only half a plan for a city in a housing crisis.
 I imagine if we had a collaboration between departments instead of piecemealing our problems, where our administrators of our flood bond money and our community resources were talking about more than just how to put displaced residents into existing programs that are already packed to the gills. A question was asked, where did these people go? They're not living there now. That's because they've lost their homes.
 We may have put a few of them up in hotels. Some of them may be living under our overpasses. Most of them are probably couch surfing at the risk of running afoul of our occupancy limits with a friend. And most of them, quite frankly, have probably left town and moved to a cheaper community. It is time for a whole of government action on housing and poverty in this town.
 We cannot continue to piecemeal these things. We have to look at the consequences. And I feel like this is forgetting the consequences of losing 50 affordable housing units. I'm not asking to put this on hold or to do something other than tear these down because they need to go. But I'm asking, where is the plan? Where is the next step to replace these?
 West End is well known as a last chance housing opportunity. There's not very many places in town for these folks to move. In the room tonight, I've been told I lived there when I was 18 because it was the only thing I could afford.
 In the last several weeks, I've heard folks talk about their family members that when they got out of jail, moved into West End because it was the only place that would rent to them, even though they could afford other options. So I guess my question is,
 Where does this fit in the big picture? There's kind of a theme throughout tonight's agenda in some of the recent weeks. You can see it here as we forget to consider that part. How are we going to work to replace those housing units in our community, whether it's through public funds or working with the private markets?
 You can see it in how we allocated our public assistance funding in CDBG through a very narrow process that excludes a lot of public input. We'll see it later when we talk about law enforcement policy and the impacts of that on communities of color and our areas of poverty. We can put a pin on that for later when we talk about school prison pipelines.
 Please do, please do vote for this. Three readings would be great. It's time for those to go. But please, please talk about what's next. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us? Mary, I have one more on Zoom who's raised a hand. Back to Zoom, Sarah Lewis.
 I'm at 1908 West Berry here in, Berry Street here in Fayetteville. And had the chance to work on a lot of stormwater and watershed initiatives through and with the city over the years and still do that type of work. And I want to compliment the city staff and the city council and the Environmental Action Committee and everyone and the mayor for the work that you're doing. And I want to thank you all for your time today.
 And so, I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important. And I think that's really important.
 I hope to see proactive types of purchases prior to development in the future. So I wonder how to take the spirit of this and really apply it to planning so that we're not having to purchase things.
 properties. Rather, we've acquired them before they've been developed, and that can be at a lower cost. So the work has been done through the Enduring Green Network and through the watershed organizations. And I think that that may come up during future discussions with stormwater, but wanted to highlight that here as an opportunity. This is a fantastic opportunity
 proposal here. I hope that the council will vote yes for this. And I just want to commend everyone for doing that. And then also thinking how to take this idea and put it towards future planning. So thank you so much. Thank you, mayor. Thank you. Thank you, Sarah. Anyone else? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is resolution. So what discussion and what action would the council like to have our take?
 I think I actually sent an email April 2017 about needing to purchase these and turn it into a park with the floods that happened then. This has been an issue for quite a while. I absolutely agree that we need to find...
 places that are cheap for people to stay, but as is, this is one of those things that kind of keep people in poverty. You live there and then it floods every four or five years and then you're out. I recently went to a community event and they talked about that if you're on food stamps, once you reach a certain amount of savings, they kick you out.
 And then it stops sending you checks. And that amount is probably lower than the amount of stuff people lose every time this place floods. And so they just end up in a cycle. And we've got to make sure that the places that seem nice, because yes, it's cheap
 for this moment, but ultimately keep you in poverty. We need to start removing those. And then this would be a great place for a detention pond, something to help the area. I know Europe has a lot of parks that are intentionally designed to be parks
 And most of the time, except for that one flood every two, three, four years where the park floods instead of people's houses. So I hope that we can look at some of those opportunities there. But I think it's time that we go ahead and purchase this and stop giving people kind of a false sense of hope that here's a cheap place to stay until it becomes devastating because somebody has to come rescue you. So I'll be supporting this.
 I also agree this is a great opportunity. I mean, low income people deserve healthy and safe housing and that's what the West End Avenue apartments were or not.
 So we really need, while we have this opportunity, we really need to purchase that property, demolish the West End apartments. And I hope we will look to other opportunities to find affordable housing for folks that is cheap, that is not full of mold, that doesn't flood and wipe out all their valuables and all their savings. So I hope we will look into that.
 And looking toward the future too, I hope that development services and the council and the planning commission will also think about not approving development in a floodplain or a floodway. We need to kind of stop this cycle now. We don't wanna allow development to occur, have all these floods occur, happen, and then we have to go in and buy these homes out. That just seems ridiculous.
 We've got climate change coming. I think it's everywhere and getting worse. So we need to be thinking about resiliency and how we develop our city to where we don't have flooding issues in the future. I'll be supporting this of course. Mayor, a question for Alan. Do we have an appraisal on this property?
 We do. We are currently offering the appraised amount. It's listed for $1.4 million. The appraisal we have shows it at $1.39 million, so we would be offering slightly lower than what it's listed at. Thank you.
 Anything else? Yes, Mr. Mayor, I also support this for two reasons. One, the flood insurance rate as calculated for the residents of the city of Fayetteville is primarily impacted by structures that repeatedly flood. And that's the only reason that communities undertake the expensive task of purchasing properties. And they only purchase properties that repeat flood repeatedly and have that negative impact.
 And secondly, I'm not just looking at the flood way, but the flood plain. And so even though we're going to perhaps purchase and demolish this, we could have a greenfield park there. I will be advocating in the future for not just a detention facility, but something of substantial detention.
 Much like the city of Tulsa did with Centennial Park, where they actually had a floodway. They created a detention pond, but beautifully landscaped it, put a track around it, so that the community had something beautiful and engaging that they could walk around. And this type of detention facility doesn't just benefit Tulsa.
 people who no longer flood, but I'm looking at the neighboring properties that are also in a flood plain currently and if we're going to make this investment, I think we need to consider in the future the investment that would reduce the flooding that also occurs in the surrounding properties, and that's why I can't be supportive enough of this. I'm wholeheartedly behind it. Thank you. Anybody else?
 this is a resolution oh just one last comment i want to thank everyone who came to speak um and to let us know that you're that you're supporting it um it's very helpful when we hear from you so we appreciate your time and energy and we do get your messages um so um with that i i move we approve the resolution second motion and a second to pass resolution any final comments from the council
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Hinnion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's go on to number five. Resolution to approve the addition of a new full-time equivalent police officer position to be assigned to the Federal Public School District
 as a school resource officer beginning in the 2022-2023 school year to express the intent of the city council to add two new school resource officer positions each year thereafter
 Until every school in the district is able to have it an officer on-site Each school day and to approve a budget adjustment Holly I believe you brought this full. Yes, I thank you Good evening mayor and council I'm bringing forward this resolution in order to ensure the safety and security of students faculty and staff within the Fayetteville Public Schools and
 As we were tragically reminded on May 24th, school violence is a continuing threat that needs to be taken seriously. The City of Fayetteville has a responsibility to ensure all possible measures are in place to prevent and defend against this type of evil.
 According to the Arkansas School Safety Commission, no campus should ever be without an armed presence at all times when staff and children are attending class or a major extracurricular activity. The Fayetteville Public School District has six school resource officers covering 15 schools, which means we are severely behind in meeting the recommendations of the Arkansas School Safety Commission. This resolution will bring us one step closer to meeting these important safety goals. And I have Chief Reynolds, who has a presentation to give to us.
 Thank you. Good evening, Council. Good evening, Mayor. How are you? Good. Go ahead. So since 1999, Columbine massacre, there's been approximately 330 school shootings in the grades K through 12 in the United States. These shootings have resulted in 185 children.
 Educators or others being killed and another 369 injured. After the Parkland shooting in February of 2018 where 17 people were killed and 17 people were injured, Governor Asa Hutchinson created the Arkansas School Safety Commission Task Force to study the epidemic of these school shootings. In March of 2018, the Fayetteville Public School System assembled their own task force to study security of their facilities,
 Also, student mental health and faculty training. After the Uvalde, Texas shooting on May 24th of this year, Governor Hutchinson reconvened his School Safety Commission Task Force. And over the past five years, these two committees and the Fayetteville Public Schools have made several recommendations to enhance emergency operations and also communications.
 enhance mental health awareness and behavioral threat assessments, and also harden their facilities. The number one recommendation, as Councilmember Hertzberg mentioned, was that no school should be without a school resource officer on their campus or an armed presence. This recommendation was adopted by the Fayetteville Public School Board on July 26, 2018.
 Currently, your police department has six school resource officers for 15 facilities. I think they currently have the 16th under construction. Our SROs are carefully selected and specifically trained in topics such as basic and advanced school resource officer certification, basic and advanced crime prevention through environmental design certification, behavioral health, youth mental health first aid, and crisis intervention
 Child exploitation and child abuse training, along with crisis negotiation and de-escalation training as well. The current financial agreement between the Fayetteville Police Department and the Fayetteville Public Schools has the Fayetteville Public Schools paying the officers hourly rate for 178 days out of the year. The city covers the health and benefits for the remaining 82 days of the officer's annual
 I believe that I sent you a packet on Monday via email and that packet was also included in the agenda as well. That is outlined in the statistical report that I gave you. It's also outlined in the MOU draft that I attached to that as well. Our school resource officers' number one responsibility is to help and provide a safe learning environment, which is accomplished through a collaborative effort with the Fayetteville Public Schools Administration. The school resource officers are teachers.
 informal counselors, their friends to the students and faculty, but above all, they are law enforcement officers. Jack, would you put up the first slide, please? During the 2021-2020 school year, it was certainly one of the busiest that I've seen in my 29-year career as a Fayetteville police officer. When the pandemic hit, a number of students lost what gave their lives structure. They were cut off from going to school,
 and isolated from their peers and also their teachers as well. During this past school year, our school resource officers encountered 123 students who had committed some type of violation of the law. 102 or 83% of those encounters resulted in a student referral to the Fayetteville Public Schools Administration. The SROs were removed from that process.
 The remaining 21 students were referred to the juvenile court system. This was a 58% decrease from the 2016 through 2020 school years. Of those 21 students, 18 of those students were given a citation and released to their parents. Three of the remaining students were arrested and taken to the juvenile detention center. Some of the crimes that we encountered were aggravated assault, terroristic threatening, battery, and carrying a weapon.
 Basically, some of the most serious were threatening school shootings and bringing guns, replica guns, to school. 72% of these encounters were initiated by the school, 25% were initiated by my school resource officers, and 3% were complaint driven. My SROs advocated for 67 students and two teachers who had been victimized by these crimes last year.
 A comprehensive statistical report from the 2021-2022 school year has been included in your packets. The school resource officers are just one piece of Fayetteville Public Schools' overall safety and security plan. I believe that a comprehensive safety and security plan will take a cross-functional approach as outlined in the Arkansas School Safety Commission's 31
 See, they say that again, 31 recommendations that were supported by Dr. Colbert's School Safety Task Force and adopted by the Fayetteville School Board. Council members, we have an outstanding school resource officer program. It's been in existence for nearly 20 years.
 I'm confident that my police officers will continue to provide the frontline defense, which is the vital layer of protection for our school system's overall safety plan. After the Uvalde shooting and inexcusable response by law enforcement, I've heard the criticism that my officers would respond similarly. Council members, the similarity stops
 with this uniform, this badge, and this gun that I'm wearing. You have an amazing police department, and I'm proud to be their chief. Actions certainly speak louder than words, so I have a couple of videos to demonstrate your police department's response to what an active shooter looks like. Please, please pay particular attention to the gunfire in these two videos and how my officers respond. Jack, would you please cue up those videos?
 Hey, fell down. All right. Hey, listen. Don't be. Hey, listen.
 Where's that? I don't know, man. Hey, man. I don't know. I'm about to go. Yeah. Get up. Where? Where? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Who? The cop. The cop. Who? Two guys. The cop. Go and put him in the locker room. There. Hey. Hey, the cop. You ain't never doing that again. Hey, man. What's going on?
 I see him! Where you trying to go? Hey, get here! Hey! Woo! Hands up! Hands up! What's in your pocket? Do not reach. Yes, I have one. Listen, listen, listen. I gotta do something. What's? I'm gonna throw out the rake. Look. The guy, it was a guy in that car. F***ing guy. Listen. Hands on the car. Look, I was fighting. I'm gonna get that back. Yeah, I'm cool. Let's be the name. I'm cool. He's got a gun. It's hot. It's hot.
 Yeah, I'm sorry. Yes, of course. You got to start with me first. I'll come back. You got it. I'm cooperating. I'm cool. I ain't got no problem. It's over here. OK, I'm afraid we're out of time. It's about a ten minute limit. So move to add ten minutes. Second. Second. All right. So everybody agreement. Everybody good. OK, go ahead, Chief. Mayor, council, that's an active shooter.
 It's what my officers deal with on a periodic basis, and that's how they respond. As you can see, they run to the gunfire. They don't hide. They will lay their life down for you, you, Mary, and you. They're brave, and their actions save lives. And they are ready to continue to protect students and the faculty at the Fayetteville Public School systems. I'd be remiss if I didn't say I'm thankful for Councilmember Hertzberg.
 And I hope you support her resolution and the Fayetteville Public Schools request for additional school resource officers. Mayor, I believe there's other presenters. I'll be happy to answer questions now. I'll come back after the presenters. Mayor Weill. Why don't we, Holly, what do you want to do? Holly Peltz. First of all, thank you, Chief Reynolds. I appreciate your presentation. It was very enlightening. I thank you for that.
 Mayor, we also have Dr. Cheryl May who is with the Arkansas School Safety Commission. If the council would be okay to give her some time for the presentation, maybe five to ten minutes. Well, yes. Okay. All right. Thank you. Mayor, could I give a little background on Dr. May real quick? So my good friend Dr. Cheryl May is joining us tonight. Dr. May has been with the University of Arkansas Criminal Justice Institute since 1995.
 where she currently serves as a director. Since 2014, Dr. May has served as the chair of the Division of Elementary and Secondary Education Safe Schools Committee. In 2018, Dr. May was appointed as chair of Governor Asa Hutchinson's Arkansas School Safety Commission, which recently reconvened after the Uvalde, Texas shooting.
 Her accolades are long and certainly great. I just couldn't do enough justice, but please let me introduce Dr. Cheryl May. Thank you. Thank you, Chief Reynolds. Can you all hear me okay? Yes, ma'am. Great. Mayor Jordan, council members, thank you for the opportunity to be before you this evening. When we talk about school safety, right,
 there's not one particular thing that's going to make a school safe.
 So we can't tell you if you do this one thing, your school's going to end up being safe. As Chief Reynolds very eloquently indicated, we advocate for a comprehensive and layered program. And a critically important part of that program are school resource officers. But I also want to make sure that all the council members understand
 understand that it's not just school resource officers, it's school resource officers, all the physical security elements, the audits, emergency operation plans and drills. It's also a huge piece of mental health. There's so much, too many of our kids are suffering mental health crises.
 And a lot of the research and data seem to indicate that some of these kids do ultimately end up going down this pathway to violence and that it's critically important that we not...
 but we try to identify them as as as soon as possible and try to get them the kind of services they need. We have been involved in training school resource officer professionals for a very long time at the Arkansas Center for School Safety and through the Commission in the center and the division of elementary and secondary education. We all agree that there has to be professional standards.
 for these individuals. We felt this way so strongly that Acts 551 and 622 of 2021 were passed. And those particular acts, one came out of the House, the other came out of the Senate,
 primarily on how to define what a school resource officer is, because there can be a variety of different research that it's not well defined. And it's very difficult. But now in Arkansas we are very defined, and if it is a sworn law enforcement officer on the school premises during the instructional day, then they are a school resource officer, which means if they are, then they
 Complete certain training requirements. Not just a 40-hour basic school resource officer class, which includes things about the teen brain and why teens think differently, trauma-informed response skills.
 but also how to deal with active shooters. They have to have 16 hours of continuing education every year, 12 hours. They have to have 16 hours of refresher every five years. And because school resource officers
 And so, we have a lot of contact with our kids and a lot of our kids trust and depend on school resource officers. We also require them to have certification in youth mental health first aid because the emphasis is not to get kids in trouble. The emphasis is to help kids. And by combining school resource officers with a variety of these other mental health and prevention efforts like behavioral threat assessment
 It's important also that we have to understand that sometimes it's not the school resource officer, but it's the school staff that must misunderstand what a school resource officer is supposed to do. School resource officers should never be involved in discipline. That is the role of the administrator and school staff. And oftentimes, when they don't understand that, it causes a lot of problems.
 We corrected that in this legislation and we mandated that school administrators and anyone supervising an SRO has to take a roles and responsibilities class that identifies what school resource officers are supposed to do and unequivocally identifies that their role is not to not handle discipline.
 There was also Act 1084 that was passed that had to do with how to appropriately restrain students. SROs can only participate in restraining a student if they are appropriately trained and on one of these crisis intervention teams.
 So we have taken great strides, I think, in this state to make sure that our SROs are professional and knowing Chief Reynolds as well as I do and for as long as I have and his extraordinary staff, there's no doubt in my mind that they unequivocally implement these requirements properly.
 to a very, very high degree. And I know their officers and I know how dedicated they are, not just to the citizens, but also to the students in those schools. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. May. I also have one other speaker, Dr. Megan Duncan with Fayetteville Public Schools.
 That would require some more minutes, Council. Yes, if we could have any extra time. Six more minutes, five minutes. Thank you. Okay. Yes, hello, Mayor. Thank you so much for allowing us to have this time. And to each of the council members, we really do appreciate it. I agree and concur with Dr. May, everything that she just said. And I also want to speak kudos to the Chief and Captain Brown.
 Lieutenant French, you have an amazing staff doing amazing things, not only for us at Fayetteville Public Schools, but across the city. I would echo all of the sentiments that you've heard. School resource officers are a very small component of.
 of the overall process of a child. And so if your experience or your last experience in a school was when you were a student, what we do in schools today in comparison to what we did in schools years ago is very different. We really do focus on the entire child. We make sure that they are safe. We also wanna make sure that their stomachs are full, that they have the medical needs being met, that their families have what they need,
 and offer so many wraparound services in Fayetteville Public Schools to make sure that that is the case. We have with us Dr. John Alcovert, who is our superintendent leading the charge for us to see these programs and efforts in place. Not only that, we have our school board members and Ms. Niko Aitman is here with us as board president to talk with you about the viewpoint from the board. But it's easy to say those things, but I also want you to keep in mind that
 In the last 12 months, we've invested $6.4 million in social-emotional wraparound supports for students. And that includes everything from social workers to student support specialists to SE on learning programs.
 And Ms. Joy Shirley is here and Dr. Tammy Tucker are here and they can speak about that along with Dr. Kelly Dugan who can speak to the data. We appreciate the opportunity to come before you and we also appreciate the opportunity to share what our vision looks like and...
 for you to hear and understand how important student safety is to us and to understand that it's not something that we will compromise on our end. It's something we want to make sure that we have a diligent effort. And unfortunately, it's not something that we think about only when we hear about a school tragedy. It's something we start with every day. We have to start every day with the possibility that something could happen and prepare for that day.
 So, Ms. Weitzman, if you would like to speak on behalf of the board member, Mayor Jordan, if that's permissible. Well, we're good? All right, I'm just checking. Yes, sir. Yes, it is.
 Yes, sir. Thank you. Ms. Waitsman? Okay. Thank you. Thank you, Councilmembers, for this opportunity. I'm Nika Waitsman, President of the Fayetteville Board of Education, and I want to thank you for considering this proposed resolution to help Fayetteville Public Schools make progress towards our goal of having an SRO assigned to each one of our school campuses.
 We are so grateful for the six SROs that currently serve our school community, but we have 16 separate school campuses, if you include our virtual academy, and over 10,000 students and over 1,500 employees.
 We need more than six police officers focused on ensuring the safety of these buildings and the adults and the children that occupy them. We also recognize the value of a trained professional police officer on our school campuses.
 As mentioned previously, guidance from the Criminal Justice Institute recommends that SROs be sworn law enforcement officers. Many school districts choose to hire their own security force, but we have not done so because we value the expertise of the FPD and the unified effort that ensures for our students. Thank you.
 Because of this established partnership, we must have your agreement as well in order to properly fund and manage these positions. The Fayetteville City Strategic Plan emphasizes the safety of our citizens, investment in safety and security resources, and the importance of collaboration and coordination with the school board. We feel that this resolution fits well within those objectives.
 Our school resource officers are treasured and respected members of our team. They provide a service that others cannot. These officers often serve as informal mentors to our students. They work to develop relationships of trust.
 As Chief Reynolds noted, the vast majority of students involved in situations that required the intervention of an SRO ended up being sent home or referred to the school for disciplinary action. They were not arrested or sent to juvenile detention. These officers are focused on de-escalating situations while keeping the school community safe, and they have been successful towards that effort.
 As Dr. May mentioned, these officers receive specialized training, including de-escalation tactics. Our school principals, teachers, and counselors are still the first to respond to situations and to discern whether or not an SRO is needed. And of course, our school personnel are highly focused on student welfare.
 Unfortunately, this world has become less safe for our school children. We cannot stand by hoping and praying such a crisis never comes to Fayetteville. We have to do everything we possibly can to ensure the safety of our children. As has been said before, our school buildings should be the very safest buildings in town. They should be places where children safely learn and grow and play and make friends.
 Scalable Public Schools is simply asking for your partnership towards that goal. The Board is fully supportive of any opportunity we can find to add an SRO to our team, in spite of past obstacles. The Board has remained forward-focused and hopeful for improved city-school coordination. While this salary partnership creates an added layer of approval for the expenditure, it also affords our community a unified effort, which is what it deserves.
 Please recognize the importance of this vote and approve this resolution tonight. It is a step in the right direction, both towards the enhanced safety it will provide to our children and toward the collaborative relationship it supports. Thank you.
 how many more speakers do you have that that was our last speaker uh thank you mayor and council for um allowing the number of secret speakers that we had i know that this was unusual but i just want this to illustrate the collaborative effort that we've gone to to make sure that our police force and our school board and our school administration is on the same page so thank you
 of that yes mayor we we do have several other members of the schools and uh the public who have signed up to speak and i know dr colbert wanted to make some remarks at the very end of the school district personnel okay dr colbert are you i haven't seen i didn't see you yes yes
 Good evening. I'm John L. Colbert, Superintendent of the Fairbanks Public Schools System and a citizen, 1725 West Hossler Road, and also a dad of two graduates of Fairbanks Public Schools who went through all the schools here with SROs, as well as a granddaughter who is a 10th grader at FHS who is also there with an SRO. I stand before you asking that you support this resolution.
 And as I look at the research, the research talked about having a model program of SROs. And it has a checklist. That checklist says if you have a successful SRO program, one, you must have a good collaboration between the Fayetteville Public Schools and the Fayetteville Police Department. Check, we have that. And I must say, Chief Reynolds,
 The relationship that we have is outstanding. So that is a model program, so that you have to have the relationship, and we do. And not only do we have it with the police department, we have it with the city. Check.
 That's what makes a successful program. Then this is also the training. Making sure that the SROs are trained. Check, they are. Not only the SROs, it's very important that all the staff members are trained as well. Check, they are trained so that we can be effective with what we have.
 And then also about responsibility. I must say that in order to have a model program, we need to have the roles and responsibility in a MOU. CHECK is there telling us exactly what the SROs are responsible for. As you know, they are not there to dismantle this. That's not their job. That's the job of my administrators. CHECK that takes place. That's a model program.
 So therefore, not only that you heard from Dr. Duncan about the amount of money that we have put into the mental piece of this, because we realized that SRO is just a very small piece of safety and making sure that our kids are safe and comfortable at school.
 We have that in place. You know, spending that money has been allocated because we feel that is what is right, what is good for the kids so that they can come to school, be able to learn without worrying about what's going to happen. And you know, as I talk and listen to people read some of the information that I got from citizens, I appreciate that. It says that African Americans are distorted, they are really disturbed,
 I must say that I have two daughters, very sound, very easy to get along with. They told me, they said, Dad, why aren't you talking about the SROs that was in the building when we went through the schools? We felt comfortable. We felt safe.
 Those are my daughters. And so of course, he would say, well, you're superintendent, of course, they're gonna say that. So therefore, I had to do a little sampling of other students of color who looks like me, because after reading that information, I had to make sure that I was here representing them. So I went and talked to a group of African American kids and as well as their parents, and guess what they told me? They said, Dr. Colbert,
 We feel safe. We want SROs in our buildings. It makes a difference. They said that, y'all. The research, yes, that's a national research. That is not Fayetteville, Arkansas. This person standing before you has been here for 50 years. I know Fayetteville. I know the police officers. I know the city. I know what we stand for. We are different.
 We are special. And I always tell some of my friends that we have a well-hidden secret in Fayetteville, Arkansas, because of the collaboration, how we work together. And I must sit here and think, the police officer, as I remember last year, there was a gathering here in Fayetteville. They came to that gathering, not with armor,
 all the guns and all, but they were just like us. Very successful. Now I'm not gonna say the same thing about a little place up north having a similar situation. Police came with armors and everything else. But what? Not the end of Arkansas. We do things differently. We take care of our citizens. And I must say,
 we take care of our kids to ensure that they are safe in every school in Febvis, Arkansas. You are able to make us accomplish that by starting tonight approving the resolution. So I encourage you to vote for the safety of our kids. Thank you. Thank you. Susan, who do we have next?
 Are we ready for public comment? I mean, let's, I mean, we've got a few rules of order and procedures. We're ready for public comment. Well, are you all ready for public comment? All right. I had a question. Yes, yeah, if you all have any questions. I'm sorry, very, very, very quick. Thank you. No, that's all right. Thank you.
 Chief Reynolds, one of the concerns that I know that I've received in the data that has been presented, and I believe in 2020 that was a big concern about African-American students and brown students. And if you could share with the council and the community your relationship with the black community and how the Fayetteville Police Department has consistently since then,
 consistently showed up in a way that the relationships are certainly something that as Dr. Colburn said and I echo his sentiments that we can be proud of.
 Well, I think my bias might show here because I think I have a great relationship with the African American community. But I think in listening with Dr. Colbert, he explained the relationship that he had not only with me, but with my police officers as well. He has my number. He can pick up the phone any time and call me directly if he has an issue with our police officers.
 The same goes for Pastor Curtis Smith, the historic St. James Baptist Church. He can pick up the phone and call me at any time. We communicate. Certainly, I've tried to diversify my school resource officers. I've...
 assigned two African American school resource officers into the Fayetteville Public Schools to try to diversify our program. Also work with a lot of different entities throughout the community. We work with the food pantry on every other Tuesday to deliver food to those who have food insecurities. So we're accessible there.
 We certainly do a lot of different things with, you know, backpack initiatives for the schools as well. That's for the entire community. We work with Nate Walls. Everyone I think on the council and most everybody probably in the audience knows who Nate Walls is.
 We've collaborated with him on a number of community engagement and community outreach initiatives. And Mighty by Design is another great partner for the Fayetteville Police Department. But I could certainly, I think, go on and on and on, but those are several examples.
 And so I try to listen. I think I've proven as the chief for three years that I listen. I listen to the council members and I listen to the community and I try to strike a balance, whether it's the marijuana issue or whether it's.
 you know, over policing in our schools and, you know, what we can do to collaborate to reduce the number of arrests. I think a 58% decrease goes a long way in what I've tried to do as the chief and what my officers have done to execute that vision. And thank you so much in chief because of that. I remember in February, you were, you received the award as a racial justice champion. So thank you for your work.
 Receiving the data, I want to ask this. The victims, from what I understand, we talk a lot about what can happen to our African American children, but what about those students who are being impacted by violence? I feel that sometimes their voice is not heard and that's not addressed. Could you share just a little bit about that?
 Well, certainly. I mean, I think I tried to mention that in my presentation. You know, it's important for us as police officers to advocate for victims. I think a lot of times victims get forgotten about. And to me, that's the most important thing as a police officer. And that's what I try to instill into my police officers as well. And I think they do an outstanding job of advocating for the victims.
 And certainly if you look at the numbers, yes, we've had a disproportionality in a number of encounters where students are violating the law. But also if you look at those statistics, there's a large disproportionality in the number of victims that are students of color. And it's our job to advocate for them as well. Thank you, Chief Reynolds.
 I have a question also for Chief Reynolds. Excuse me, I'll try and get closer to this microphone. So Chief, tell us a little bit about when we have an SRO, we know the school pays a portion so many days.
 What are they doing in the time that they're not working at the school? Kind of remind us what the role that they play in the community if they're not at the school. That's a great question. So I mentioned 178 days out of the year the school pays the hourly rate. 82 days out of the year the city pays the hourly rate. Those 82 days out of the year we do three engagements with our youth.
 That's in the summertime. We do two two-week Youth Citizens Police Academies, which affect approximately 100 to 125 of our students. And then we do one week for the younger students, grades, I believe it's sixth through eighth grade. And we focus on them and that affects another 50 students.
 That's a portion of our school resource officers during that five-week period. During the other time, they focused their efforts on our parks and our trails. Specifically this year, especially in Ward 1, we had a lot of complaints in the Walker Park area. And so we had to focus a lot of our efforts in the Walker Park area and see what we could do to help those that are battling homelessness.
 help those that have mental health crisis, and connect those with the services that they need and try to do the best we could to connect them with our social worker and also our crisis intervention trained officer. Okay, thank you very much. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Any other questions for the...
 public comment. Sean, you had something? I have an amendment that I'm hoping to propose. This was emailed out a couple hours ago. We're talking about partnerships and all the jobs that unfortunately SRs have to do. It's not just police. They have to be counselors. They have to be social workers. So I've got an amendment basically to add $3,000.
 For the school resource officers, not a mandate, but something that they can do, they can be applied towards social work certificates, college level classes, if they're interested in earning like social worker counseling credits towards a bachelor's or master's. So Kit, what's the process for this?
 Well, with any amendment, you would just make a motion as the person that's doing this that the handout that I did to effectuate your proposed amendment be adopted and amend the ordinance to include that new section four and a slight change of the title that also reflect that. And then there would need to be a second and then discussion. Okay. I'll give you all a second to read that.
 But I'd like to move to amend to add section 4 and change the title Second, okay There's just up for the City Council discuss that and then vote That'd be correct chief The popular guy So do you see any do you have any issue with as long as it's not a mandate for the officers to?
 Is our officers to pursue this? No, Mayor. I mean, oh, I welcome this with open arms. I'm all about resources. I'm all about resources for my police department, for the community and for the officers. And I see this as a win win. Certainly, as Dr. Colbert and his staff mentioned, you know, and also Dr. Cheryl May, the Arkansas state statute requires certain training for school resource officers.
 I think this certainly just builds on that and, you know, hopefully, you know, my school resource officers would love to take this opportunity that's being offered if you so pass it.
 And I guess the financial obligation, that was another question. I talked with our finance director today. Sloan gave me a call and asked me, or Councilmember Scroggins, I'm sorry, gave me a call today and asked me how I felt about this. And then I talked with our finance director and, you know, we're talking six school resource officers until the end of the year is $18,000. I can cover that within my budget. I can promise you we've been physically conservative enough to cover $18,000.
 I appreciate all that. I know people were interested in mandating social work. I understand that that doesn't work. You can't even fill the ranks that you have now. It's difficult, not just for police officers, basically everything. So I don't want a mandate. I want more opportunities. And I think this presents it. Thank you. Okay. What discussion do we have on this? Well, we have a motion and a second to pass. Yes.
 i move that we accept the amendment that sloan has provided second okay we can double move it's fine i thought it was doing a little double duty but that'll work you gotta care right there's not any further discussion would you please call the roll
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay. Alright, is there anything else before we take public comment? This is the amended resolution now. Alright, everybody gets one turn to speak, and everybody gets five minutes.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. The topic is whether you are in agreement with the request from the federal public schools for the resource officers and I'm going to keep you on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom
 will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Okay, who you have on Zoom Susan? First up, Lance Reed. Okay, go ahead Lance. Good evening Council, Mayor Jordan. City Council, I urge you to vote in favor of the SROs. As Dr. Colbert stated,
 The issues that we talk about in Fayetteville are different. You will hear arguments about data and different things. I think it's very disrespectful and it's actually even more racist to disregard
 black voices and black leadership and to disregard and present a different set of facts and a different set of circumstances to push a narrative. So I think that the city council should support the RSO passage. Two years ago, we didn't get that passage because we were in the same situation, the same exact time
 same exact situation. And that outcome was hopefully, hopefully this outcome will be different than that outcome. So I hope you will support that. The Fayetteville Police Department had social worker department, have social workers on staff in their police department. We've helped, I helped write a grant for that.
 for that initiative. So we know that social workers in the Fayetteville Police Department are working with the University of Arkansas and collaborating and doing a lot of great things to help
 provide the resources necessary to keep our community safe. And so I think that we need to be careful about national data and presenting it as the fallible truth of what's going on here in Fayetteville to push a narrative of defunding the police and this agenda that is happening here in Fayetteville. So please vote for this initiative. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, we have Denise Nelson. Okay. Denise, please unmute. Please unmute.
 Yes, I'm Denise Nelson. I was a retired teacher from Fayetteville Public Schools in 2014. I've had very positive experiences with SROs through the years. It may be just a stroke of luck, but it started, I worked at Uptown School and then I worked at West Campus and Reentry Center and then Woodland Junior High.
 And I just, I want to see, I would like to see a team effort between, and it sounds like maybe that's what's going to happen here, a team effort between SROs and counselors and social workers.
 because I think they play an invaluable role with kids, and I have witnessed that firsthand. A lot of times, kids, whether they're coming and going to GV or in or out or whatever, there are things that goes on. They're more likely a lot of times to go speak to an officer that they trust and like. In my experience, I retired in 2014, but I'm saying in my years of experience,
 A good officer and a good selection process of having a good resource officer is that's that's the key right there. So it may be that these people that were selected were just people that just by luck happened to turn out to be the perfect people to go into the schools because I've seen nothing but good relationships happen.
 with young people of all races, with young people, minorities and white, you know, brown, black, white, and building positive relationships with law enforcement, which is so important. And the officers have been mentors, and they have been guidance counselors. They have been social workers, and they would be sought after for a lot of, uh, uh,
 for a lot of problems that counselors and social workers and psychologists in the building would not be looked for. They had a relationship with a lot of at-risk kids, and I've had a lot of experience with at-risk kids, a lot of...
 professional experience with that. So I just, it sounds like that the city council may work out some sort of thing, and I am a Democrat, but I'm not an anti-police, and I really worry about people getting the wrong impression because I have a lot of Democratic, it's not a party thing, I have a lot of Democrat older people that my age that feel the same way I do that have been in the public school system as teachers and have had positive experiences
 and see the need and want to build on this. I know the statistics. I'm not, I know how to Google and find out all the statistics. There's all kinds of horror stories that are disgusting and terrible, but that's not been my experience in my history with Fayetteville. Our community is different, and to me, this is a golden opportunity to build what we've all been wanting for, part of our community.
 Republican, Democrat, we all want to have the best possible relationship and reforms that we can put into policing in America. And this is just
 Safety first, our students need to be safe and they need to be in their educators. Police officers, resource officers can be educators to do intervention, to do prevention of juvenile crime, to mentor and to be caring people
 that kids can turn to in crisis when they are in crisis. And they're encouragers for kids that have come out of hard situations, and they can build trust. And sometimes they can build it. I've been a counselor too. They can build it easier with a police officer that they trust than they can with any of the other teachers and staff
 on in the building. So just because there's an officer there, that doesn't mean that somebody to fear and somebody who is going to be detrimental or do the prison to pipeline. No, this is somebody that hopefully is going to put a stop
 so and intervenes so that you don't have a school prison to pipeline situation with all kids so that's all I wanted to say and I see my mitt my seconds are running out thank you very much thank you Warren Collier
 Go ahead. Warren Collier, Associate Principal, Fayetteville High School Hello, everyone. My name is Warren Collier. I was previously the associate principal at Fayetteville High School, and I currently serve as the principal of the Janelle Colbert Middle School, which will be opening next year. And I just want to share my perspective and experiences working with school resource officers. So I mean, first thing I think about are names, Officer Freeman, Officer Sherry, Officer Bell,
 officer carroll you know those are resource officers that i've worked with in the past and you know i consider them my friends so uh the relationship uh point that was uh previously stated is definitely there and um it's been stated too that our resource officers are
 counselors and working with the mental health. And I get to see that often, student in crisis, I can remember saying, oh, I need to go see Officer Freeman. I need to go see Officer Freeman. And Officer Freeman was able to help that student with their situation. And that happens time and time again, or situations where, you know, unfortunately, certain things make it into the school, right? Whether it's domestic issues, drug, violence, abuse,
 whatever it may be that goes to a criminal extent, is good to have school resource officers there who could provide their knowledge and resources when it goes beyond the school level, but it's brought to our attention at the school. So having them there as a resource. And I also think about last week of school
 there was a Walmart employee who we were informed made a threat against the schools. And I felt very safe knowing that there were school resource officers already on campus and not having to travel to my campus to, to keep us safe. So knowing the fact that we have six resource officers and over 16 buildings that need, need, need that staffing and all the other resources that they provide that I mentioned, I think,
 I think it is very resourceful and being proactive rather than reactive to approve this item. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thaddeus McCleary. Okay, go ahead. Hello, yes, my name is Thaddeus McCleary. I'm a resident of 890 South Washington Avenue. And I'm also a parent of two current Fayetteville Public School students, one in the junior high, maybe junior high, and one in the high school.
 And honestly, I was disappointed when I heard about this request that was first mentioned in the July school board meeting. I was disappointed because it was brought up in the context of school safety in active shooter situations. And the ones that keep being brought up, Uvalde and Parkland, are actually examples of times that school resource officers did not help.
 And it's not to blame school resource officers. In fact, they have no legal obligation to protect anyone who's not in custody. So I'm confused as to why that is the primary argument that's brought up this time around in making this request. I know that the Arkansas School Safety Commission report mentions the use of school resource officers as well as other things, but I don't think it's fair to evaluate the need or purpose of school resource officers based on what they can't be held accountable for doing.
 Instead, we know that case law has been pretty clear. When a Supreme Court decision in 2005, Castle Rodney Gonzalez found that police could not be held accountable for a child abduction or murder after a husband violated a restraining order. I mentioned that case because in December 2020, the US Court of Appeals upheld a lower court ruling related to the Parkland shooting, that police could not be held liable for failing to protect students.
 So, though our faithful police department may have the intention of wanting to help, and they may believe that that's what they would be doing if this terrible thing were to happen locally, I know that we can't actually hold them accountable.
 we can't legally hold them liable for how they were to respond so i don't feel like that's a fair line of argument or fair reasoning that would necessitate school resource officers particularly adding them to middle schools and elementary schools which is what this request would do
 I still feel like more recent data provided by the police department raises red flags. I'm glad to hear that the overall number of interactions between school resource officers and students has declined, but I still see the same disproportionality. And I find that concerning. I think everyone should.
 But I think we should also not be surprised that when school resource officers or officers enter schools, that what they do is make arrests. That is their jobs. That is what we can hold them accountable for doing. And I also know that the same trend that was brought to light in the 2016 to 2020 statistics continue where most of these interactions are actually initiated by school staff. And I find that really disappointing. I find it disappointing that...
 The teachers potentially of my kids, school staff are criminalizing student behavior. And we're looking into the future with this proposal to add school resource officers potentially in younger grades. And I think that we should all as a community expect that if that were to happen, we would see arrests, we would see interactions, negative interactions between officers and younger children. And I find that very concerning.
 As a parent, I want to see the school use the police department, whether or not their school resource officer is present, as a last resort. I'm more interested in seeing the district and individual schools work together to develop a comprehensive strategy that would handle discipline issues of classroom behavior, classroom management. What I've seen as a parent is a variety, a wide variety, usually teacher-initiated.
 And so different teachers will have different methods, but I think as an educator myself, as a parent, I know that the more consistent that a code can be adopted and applied, the easier it will be for students to understand what's expected. And the overall attitude of students will be one of understanding, understanding where teachers are coming from and seeing the whole community as working together.
 So I would like to see some of the other ideas brought up in the School Safety Commission's report, such as social workers, adding additional counselors, but other things such as reducing class sizes, increasing the amount of adults per classroom, teacher aides, improving the pay of teacher aides. I feel like there's so many different ways we could spend these resources to improve the experience of students, to give them the help they need, and also make sure that teachers feel like they have the support they need.
 I don't feel like that school resource officers are the solution here, certainly not to mass shootings. So I ask the council please to reject this idea. Okay, thank you. Dr. Kelly Dugan. Okay, go ahead. Yes, my name is Kelly Dugan and I'm the director of assessment, research and accountability.
 for federal public schools. So I wanted to go back and talk about some of the research that has already been brought up and I'm assuming probably will be brought up later on. So when you look at the research about what are the positive effects of having a school resource officer in the schools, uh,
 Those positive effects have been shown whenever you train the school resource officers effectively, when there is definite lines about what they can and cannot do, which as Dr. May has already said, that now we have that in Arkansas law.
 So those questions about whether or not our school resource officers are trained correctly, I think those have been taken care of in the past few years because of the changes in Arkansas law and the different expectations. One of the things, too, that we know about students who...
 who commit some of our more violent acts at school, that they actually come from a background where they've experienced more trauma than maybe some of our other students. In fact, when a student experiences three or more trauma events, that increases their likelihood of becoming or having some sort of altercation later on when they're students by up to 300%.
 So one of the things that I think it's really important when we're looking at the data that Chief Reynolds presented is that we know that COVID-19 increased the amounts of trauma that the students were experiencing at home. And that's for various reasons. But one of the things that this, the data that has been presented here tonight highlights is the fact that
 And through the partnership of the federal public schools and the federal police department, you can see that we have reduced the number of times that students actually have some sort of interaction of a legal nature in school. In fact, you can tell that at a time when everywhere else in the country that students are actually isolated.
 basically experiencing a lot more trauma. They're coming to school traumatized and they're actually committing some, maybe more violent effects than if we'd never experienced COVID-19.
 Our students are actually, we're going the other way. We're reducing those statistics. So I think this is proof that the concepts that the Arkansas legislator put into affecting the laws and about defining what a school resource officer does and how it's just a piece of the puzzle that, again, supports the whole child is...
 And I think that Federal Public Schools has done a really good job of defining it and leading the charge in this type of supportive teamwork where we are looking for how we can help students before it gets to more serious outcomes for those students. So I vote, well, I would like to ask you to vote for this resolution. Thank you.
 Okay. Thanks, Mayor. We have a participant with their hand raised. The only indicator I have on the screen is iPhone. And so if iPhone has a name, would you please tell us? iPhone is up.
 Yes, sorry about that. My name is John Coger and I live at one one zero one North Kings Drive Thank You mayor and council members My wife and I have two children in the federal public school system one at route one at me there And I just had two quick points At the end of the school year last year at route route had an awesome field day and in the afternoon carried on to the evening lot a bit we had a big big turnout and and
 That was the first time we noticed the police were present. This was right after the Texas shooting. And I had a couple, it made me feel safer. I had a couple of other parents mention it to myself.
 And it made my, I know my daughter mentioned it, that it made her feel safer. So I just want to point that out. And then I just want to say, we all know our school staff takes on a lot. It's amazing what they do. And it would just be nice to give them this extra security and hopefully, you know, peace of mind. And I just hope that y'all approve this resolution tonight. And that's it, I appreciate you. And next, Curtis Smith. Good evening, Mayor, City Council.
 those that are engaged. I just wanted to share with you historic St. James Baptist Church, where we have hundreds of students in the Fairville Public Schools. I am in full support of adding the additional student resource officers. Schools should be a safe haven, a place to develop and to learn
 a place to be nurtured, preparation for our students. And so I am just really excited about the opportunity to share that, but with the increase in violence across the nation,
 SROs provide the necessary support for students to not be distracted by the violence, drugs, or any other illegal activity, both internally and externally. And so they serve not only as deterrents, but also, as someone alluded to earlier, as role models for thousands of students. And I think all of us would be deeply troubled if something were to happen, if we could have done something about it. So proactively,
 ensuring safety is in the best interest of all. One thing that we do at our church is pray, but we also are action-oriented. The Bible tells us that faith without works is dead. And so what money can't bring, a life bag, money can't restore, family loss. And I don't know if we would ever want to live with the idea
 of losing someone or someone's life being destroyed because we did not do something that we could do in terms of the basic things of protecting our students and our faculty and staff and administration on campus. So I want to encourage all of you to be in support of adding student resource officers. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Pastor Schmidt. Go ahead.
 Rob, can you unmute? Yes, can you hear me now? Yes, I can hear you. Hello, Council and Mayor. Mayor, it's great to see you back at it. I just wanted to bring up a few points that I thought I may maybe miss a little bit. I also had a question with Read-Off. Do we know if we can hear you? Rob, I'm sorry. We're having a hard time hearing you. If you could speak more closely into a mic. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Rob, I'm sorry if you could come back to us and just speak more closely into the mic. Looks like Rob lost his audio. Rob, if you're able to come back, we will let you join back. But right now, we'll go to Joy Shirley. Joy Shirley.
 I'm Joy Shirley, and I'm the Director of Student Services for Fayetteville Public Schools. And I just wanted to address earlier, I understood there was an expression that we criminalize student behavior. And so, I just wanted to just let you know.
 individuals know the work that we're doing in Fayetteville Public Schools. And it just really begins with that unconditional positive regard that we have for every student that walks in our doors. We've worked tremendously hard through the years to be able to provide multiple trainings for our staff and faculty on trauma-informed, how to have classrooms that are set, that are building connection before correction, that we are establishing relationships that are authentic and based on trust.
 so that our students can really thrive in the environment academically, which is, you know, our ultimate goal is to help them to be successful in all realms. Within that, we've brought mental health awareness,
 and talked about overall mental wellness for our students. And by doing that, we know that that begins with a strong social-emotional component. Our district has invested greatly in Capturing Kids' Hearts, which is a social-emotional program that provides curriculum, but also just allows us to be able to know how to better engage with our students and to deepen those relationships with all
 We've looked at restorative practices. And so we have schools who are doing great work with that. We also know that we've worked very diligently on our response intervention with behavior. And so within that, we have tiered levels of approaches that we're using positive behavior intervention strategies. We're identifying behaviors, we're drilling down on data to really know how to best individualize and support each student. And so just please know that every decision we make
 that students are at the center of that. We take it very personal. We strive for each one to have success. And so I just wanted to be able to share that because we come to work every day to make a difference in the lives of our students. And just want our community to feel confident in where we are in supporting Fayetteville public school students. Now, thank you. Rob, Rob is back. Rob Qualls. Okay, go ahead.
 Can you hear me? Yes. Great, yes. Much better. Sorry about that. I was just saying that it was great to see you, Mayor and Council, even though virtually. I did have a question. I don't know if anyone can answer it right now, but just maybe later. But I was curious if there was a plan for where SROs would be added. I know we already have SROs in the high school and junior high. It seems that the...
 as we expand this one officer and then if we commit to two per year, we'll really be expanding into elementary and middle school, I believe. Does anyone know if that's correct? No.
 I'll jump up here real quick. I don't know that I can answer that. I can tell you that we collaborate with Fayetteville Public School System and they're the customer. They make their decision where the need is and then we place the SRO there. So I don't know what the strategic plan is for placing the school resource officers. Maybe someone from Fayetteville Public Schools can speak to that. Okay. John L., can you answer that?
 We are hoping to go ahead and if this is approved, go ahead and place them into the middle schools. Since we have the high school and the junior high apps, next level would be the middle schools. Okay. And after that, hopefully we can get to the elementary schools. Thank you. Thank you. That helps. A lot of the conversation I've heard is centered around violence and drugs and breaking up fights. And that aspect of it, as far as the older grades, is not going to change.
 The practical impact of this is going to be into middle school and elementary school. So I thought that clarification might be helpful a little bit. Hopefully we don't have a whole lot of violence of drugs in K-4. But I also wanted to say that, you know, I understand concern about national data, but our local data has shown that minority groups were disproportionately impacted.
 basically by school staff calling the police on them. And that occurred in 2020, and I was really heartened to see that under Chief Reynolds' leadership, the number of interactions has decreased significantly. I think that's great progress, it's something to keep watching for. I really appreciate that approach.
 I was also very happy to see that the memorandum of understanding was, there's a draft there that has more reporting and meeting requirements in it. I think that we saw, one of the things we saw with the tragedy, Rob Elementary in Uvalde, Texas, was that
 how important it is for all the agencies, all the groups to work together for the school district and the police department and the state police and even at the federal level work together. So I think that if what comes out of this is a memorandum of understanding in black and white,
 holding everyone accountable for keeping the data, reviewing the data, and making a plan to change, I think that will be very positive. I mean, I think that the support's there from council to pass this, but I think it's really important to acknowledge that
 you know, we can improve that relationship and build more confidence. Because frankly, after 2020 discussions, I really didn't have a lot of confidence in the district's ability to take the disproportionality seriously or to answer questions in a timely manner. But I really appreciate Chief Reynold's reports and data that was recently provided for us. So that's all I had. Thank you. Thank you, Rob. Ellen Weintraut.
 Okay, go ahead. Yes, my name is Ellen Weintraut. I am a resident 2533 East Sharon. I'm here today as a mother of two elementary students in Fayetteville, as well as a volunteer with our local chapter of Moms Demand Action. I would like to say upfront, thank you all for the time and thank you to the Fayetteville Police. I have the utmost respect for our local police department.
 However, I don't support the expansion of these SROs in our schools, and especially the idea of having a full-time armed police officer in our elementary schools if this current plan goes forward. I don't think that guns always make us safer, and I agree with some of the
 I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point. I think that's a great point.
 Again, no disrespect to the Fayetteville Police Department, no offense to anyone, but accidents happen, and if we don't,
 If we don't invite armed officers to come into the school, then there's less of a chance of these kinds of accidents happening and firearms ending up in the hands of children, and especially young children. And so you have addressed some of the issues that we had with this two years ago about the disparate impact on different racial groups.
 I still think even if those are national statistics and not local statistics, those are important points that need to be considered. In addition, nationally, the statistics show that these...
 and the city council and for the police. I have no interest in defunding the police or taking away any power. I just don't see more guns in our schools is the answer. And especially if we're talking about safety and safety of the students. I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue. And I think that's a big issue.
 and I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing. And I think that's a really important thing.
 Okay, thank you There we have no one else on zoom. Yeah, no, no one else on zoom at the moment Okay, let's take everyone that wants to speak on this in the chamber We have lots of people signed up and sometimes we do try to just do the sign-up sheets But I think mayor will just go ahead and do as you would like no as you would of course
 Let's, all right. Please give us your name and address. Good evening. My name is Savannah Connor. I live at 1609 East Brighton Place. I'm a parent of four children, three of whom are students at Butterfield Elementary, and my youngest will be there in 2023. I am honored to serve as the PTO president there this year. We love our school and we love Fayetteville.
 I will be brief and to the point. Within the U.S. today, the value of the presence of SROs in schools is a complex argument that is emotionally charged. I do not wish to oversimplify the answer. However, I do want to let you know that there is research to support the benefit of school resource officers in regards to community relationships, and many have already attested to that tonight.
 One example of such research is by Morris in 2021, and I quote, School resource officers can provide a variety of benefits, not only to schools, but to individual students and local police departments.
 These benefits, as analyzed below, include promoting school safety, addressing the root causes of student misbehavior, and decreasing juvenile delinquency petitions where SROs are properly utilized. Further, SROs can improve relationships between students and law enforcement, serve as protectors for victimized students, and reduce the burden on local law enforcement.
 I know there are concerns about the increase of police presence due to issues of diversity, race, and discipline. These concerns cannot be ignored, but I do believe they can be addressed with effective training for the SROs and a commitment to community relationships being fostered.
 As a licensed professional counselor with the state of Arkansas and a PhD in counselor education and supervision, I cannot emphasize enough the priority of creating safe schools for our students. Our children have been exposed to one too many tragedies and fear.
 Today, you may hear arguments that the funds would be better allocated towards mental health resources. And I would say, yes, we need more funds to help provide adequate services to those in need. But that issue gets to be separate from our need for school resource officers. We thankfully are not putting those issues in competition against each other tonight. They get to coexist. School resource officers do not necessarily prevent horrific events.
 tragedies, but their engagement in schools can change patterns of interactions and build healthier communities. I've seen it in my career and I know it's possible. We urge you to help us create systemic change with the support of additional SROs in Fayetteville Public Schools.
 Please let us follow the lead of so many other cities in our area and increase the number of SROs. Our world seems to have so many things to be divided over, but I think we all agree that we want to protect our children. We want school to be a safe place where students can grow academically, emotionally, and socially. The children in our community deserve our best.
 And I know we can do more in regards to safety parameters to prevent horrific tragedies and to build community relationships. Let's start tonight with your vote to approve an additional SRO for this coming year and a commitment to add more in the following years. Thank you. Thank you. Hi. Hi, I'm Richard Tiffany, 105 North Willow in Fayetteville. I spoke a couple of years ago when the school resource officer issue came up.
 My memory is that it was five or six hours of people speaking. 90% were saying that we had other things that were a better use of the money. I came on fairly short notice, I think, when we have another reading that there'll be a lot longer line of people to speak. And probably, like last time, most of them will be opposed.
 I was a little bit troubled tonight by the initial presentation by the officer that gave statistics about how many schools had shootings and stuff without mentioning that schools are one of the safest places in our community. I was even more troubled by his fear videos that he showed of active shooters.
 um trying to stir up fear and people to to get them to say yeah we need more police but i also think that we should note that if more police and more guns made us safer the second video showed that that isn't true thanks thank you good evening again mayor and council kyle smith 17 years in public school classroom i oppose this
 Two years ago, I opposed this also because we had a lack of information about the efficacy of our program. Half of you joined me in that and we turned down a similar proposal. Two weeks later, we talked about it again and at that point we had more information and the information, it wasn't good. We turned it down again. So when we know better, we can do better and we've proven that here in the Fayetteville City Council.
 The new data for 2021 and 2022 that Chief Reynolds presented is a major improvement. It shows clear effort to correct some of the things that we saw, demonstrates incremental results and improvements. And so I believe in credit and congratulations and thanks where it's due. So thank you, Chief Reynolds, for your work on that and also to the school board.
 And to that, on that note, I would also like to credit the school resource officers that I have worked with. I don't believe that we have any individual school resource officers who are a problem.
 it is also possible for good people to work in a system that has negative effects. And I think that's what we have here. We still have issues as presented with disproportionate action with regards to race, but I'm going to take a cue from Councilmember Jones' social media. I'm not going to talk about that because we have other voices in the room who can. I want to address the impacts on all students. These are system-wide impacts and
 I sent you all, well, I sent you all several rather lengthy emails on Sunday, but one of them was a list of recent academic peer-reviewed and credibly published research into the effects and the efficacy of school resource officers.
 Fayetteville is blessed, not many cities have this many PhDs, master's degrees, bachelor's degrees in hard sciences, lifetimes of experience managing complex systems. You all know how to look at data and how to interpret it, and that's why I sent most of that without comment, just highlighting what was in the abstracts, and I hope you had a chance to look at some of that.
 Some of the highlights from that were that there is mixed results on whether or not SROs are effective at crime prevention. Some studies say they are. More studies say they're not. The more recent ones lean towards no impact. There is no demonstrated impact on their ability to prevent or discourage a mass shooting.
 When mass shootings happen, and this was the heartbreaker, it's from a JAMA article, when a mass shooting happens on a campus where guns are present, they are 2.8 times more deadly. They bring higher body counts when a mass shooting happens on a campus with guns present on a regular basis. Now this is
 not studied as to why. There's some ideas that you know, one of the studies I found so that SRO interactions lessens a student's connectedness to school and that is also theorized to be one of the factors that encourages or leaves one susceptible to violence. It's also thought that maybe shooters come more prepared when they know what's on campus.
 The one thing that was consistently effective was controlled locked doors. And my SRO at school was talking about this morning as we wanted kids through our metal detector. I thought that was not what I expected. But on every axis that really matters, school-based policing fails.
 We have actual data, and I know folks want to hate on data, but data is how we make reasoned decisions. The mythology, the common mythology that we've heard repeated over and over tonight is a fear-based policy.
 And in the 30 seconds I have left, the speaker before me mentioned a research article by a person named Morris. It is actually an opposing viewpoints essay. The first sentence of that reads, "'Schools have always been a place "'where parents expect their children "'to be safe and protected.
 Student Resource Officer programs were created to protect students from violence, but in practice, the safety benefits are often outweighed by their negative effects. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Jordan DeFani and I live at 1935 West Berry Street. I'm a constituent of Ward 4 with Holly Hertzberg and Teresa Turk. I've got three children. Brooks is six. I have two daughters, twin girls that are in preschool. My
 My son goes to Leverett Elementary. I first want to express my sincere appreciation to the City Council for the opportunity to speak on behalf of many parents I've spoken to in our city regarding the important priority of school safety and security. And specifically to Holly Hertzberg for her initiative in developing this resolution to increase the number of school resource officers in our public schools.
 I'm also grateful for the leadership of Fayetteville Public Schools and their responsiveness to questions and concerns I have personally expressed regarding school safety and security. I know I want to personally express my deep condolences and sorrow for the families of the 21 victims at Uvalde Elementary School. Being the father of my three children, uncle to seven nieces and nephews, and a Sunday school teacher to elementary students.
 at my church, it crushes my heart to know that innocent lives were lost in this terrible tragedy. I personally shed tears for these families that lost children and spouses. I've read their stories, who they were, what they meant to their families and their community, and for the children, what they wanted to be when they grew up.
 As I watched news reports and researched to learn more about what happened in Uvalde, I learned about these families' impact and the parents' passion, sorrow, and their interviews. A passion and sense of personal responsibility grew inside me to honor these families. This is not simply a fear-based response.
 We have an obligation as adults to protect our children to best ensure they're able to fully live out their potential and make a positive impact in this world. As is often quoted, the only thing necessary for evil to triumph in the world and in Fayetteville is that good men and women do nothing.
 Councilmember Holly Hertzberg has refused to do nothing and has proposed a resolution that we know would add one school resource officer this year and two each year thereafter until each of our schools has an SRO. As you all know, our district currently has six and Governor Hutchinson has organized the Arkansas School Safety Commission and they're recommending one per school.
 I'm going to summarize a little bit. In 2018, as you know, our school board created our own safety and security task force. Their number one recommendation was compliance with this recommendation by the state commission, and their stated goal is for Fayetteville to provide a world-class safety program for all facilities
 Today, as you know, we've got 16 schools and only four SROs, only four campuses have an SRO on campus. In 2019, our school board met with the city council and requested to simply apply for a grant to hire an additional SRO and their request was denied.
 Also regarding physical security, as others have mentioned, there's so many factors that go into this. Our district has made improvements and there's still opportunity to improve. For example, the new recommendations of the State Committee is that all classroom doors to school buildings must remain closed and
 and locked during school hours and all schools must have a procedure in place to ensure every classroom door remains closed and locked during school hours. I personally experienced that interior doors at Leverett can only be locked from the outside with a key and not from the inside and that the doors are left unlocked. I have simply turned the handle and walked right into my son's kindergarten classroom when I visited for lunch.
 Again, today we're seeking to address the opportunity to hire additional school resource officers, but I would like to ask for the City's full support to prioritize school safety and security in Fayetteville and help ensure we meet the recommendation of the Arkansas School Safety Committee. I've counted approximately 40 committees
 I've counted 40 committees that manage and develop everything in our city from the master plans, our botanical gardens and parking, but we do not have a committee for school safety and security that can play a lead role in partnering with our Fayetteville Public School Board and administration to ensure we have a world-class safety program for all our facilities to best ensure we keep our kids safe.
 Personally, I would recommend and ask for your investment to hire one SRO for each school in Fayetteville within the next 12 months. I know that's a big investment, but as an example, Springdale currently has 21 school resource officers, fully trained police officers.
 In addition to our SSOs, SROs providing physical security presence, many reports have cited how SROs are able to play a leadership role in ensuring their school is compliant with the district and state safety and security plan. They're also able to serve as an ambassador for the city police department to our students and staff, developing trusting relationships with law enforcement. Again, thank you for the opportunity to speak. We are a top ranked city for so many reasons. Todd.
 My name is Scott Byrne. I live at 2716 North Candlewood in Ward 3. Few times in life do we get an opportunity for do-overs. Two years ago, the City Council, and I understand the makeup was different at that time, made a decision that quite frankly was shocking to the vast majority of Fayetteville citizens when they refused to allow Fayetteville Police Department to accept the grant money to fund the two SROs.
 This decision came after previously authorizing Chief Reynolds to apply for the grant. The original SRO request was made to Fayetteville Police Department by Fayetteville Public Schools. The meeting lasted until 2.30 in the morning. I know because I stayed up until 2.30 in the morning. Actually, I stayed up all night because I was so mad afterwards I couldn't sleep. It's still the most disgusting display I believe I ever witnessed towards our great men and women of the Fayetteville Police Department.
 They were called racist and white supremacist by people calling in from all over the region, some not even from Fayetteville. We all know this is not true, and our department is one of the most well-respected departments in this region and widely considered the most progressive department in this region. And I had no intention of saying this, but after watching the video, the second video was when Officer Carr was shot. And anybody that questions
 whether those officers would run to the scene versus run away. Didn't see those officers that night when they come into my funeral home and they pay respects to officer Carr at one, two o'clock in the morning. And then they back right up from that casket and they salute that casket or they wipe a tear away from their eye. And then they turn right around and go after their cruiser and protect the city. While we slept in our beds, they were out there protecting our city.
 And for them to be called racist and white supremacists like that is inexcusable. As with the night two years ago, you'll probably hear again tonight, a lot of distorted numbers thrown around about how SROs are bad. What I'd like to point out, and what should throw up a red flag to us all, people against SROs will tell you that it's no SROs. We only want counselors, social workers, no need for SROs. That doesn't seem logical to me.
 Supporters of SROs though, they say we want counselors. Counselors are important. Counselors are important to the overall educational environment. That combined effort to me is logical. Please note in the facts that the chief gave us, 72% of the SRO involvements are district initiated. Think about that for a second. That means at least in my eyes,
 that a student has acted out to the point the teacher, the counselor, or the administrator, in their opinion, need help or they wouldn't call the SROs. If the student is involved in a fight, makes threats to other students, brings guns to school or football practice, I'm pretty sure we're past the point of needing counselors. I think we need SROs to have a safe educational environment
 Counselors and SROs should work hand in hand together. In closing, when I was in the corporate world, one of the worst parts of my job, when corporate, we called it the ivory tower, made decisions and mandates, but didn't understand the practical application of what they were dictating to the men and women on the ground that had to implement it. We called ourselves the boots on the ground.
 The City Council decision two years ago is a perfect example of that. None of the City Council at that time were police officers. Please don't make the same mistake we made two years ago. The experts who work the educational environment. Okay. Please vote yes.
 I'm Jason Edwards. I'm the principal at Root Elementary School here in Fayetteville. And thank you, Mayor and City Council, for giving us the opportunity to speak. I think this is an important piece of our students' education. SROs make an impact on our students. We love having them in our buildings in the elementary, our kindergarteners to fourth grade. They're community helpers that we learn from, and we build a community with them.
 They reach out, they love our kids, they're trained. They know that. I think our statistics from our superintendent and offices of department learning have talked and the U of A have spoke on what impact they have.
 We train our teachers and we train our staff on social emotional learning. The resource officers have that training too and I have full faith that our Fayetteville PD is training them to protect us. But the peace of mind going into school every day with a resource officer on campus and I know they're a phone call away and I know their action plan to take action if there is a crisis is a huge piece not only to me
 as a building leader, but to our families and to our teachers. And to have that resource officer, as one of our parents spoke earlier, is at events we have resource officers come. It gives a peace of mind as our teachers have their number one job is to educate our students. If our teachers have angst or worried about things as we see these unthoughtful things that we can't imagine happen, if we have somebody there, I ask you,
 for the future of our students and the future of Fayetteville to vote for this because one day kids at 475 of my kids at root could be in your seat but if we vote no against this they may not be in your seat because unfortunately the times are here they may not be here they may not be alive to sit in your seat if we don't take action
 They are trained officers and I have faith in the chief and everyone he trains. I want them in my building. I want those people to take action and if it's one life they can save because they are present on the scene, that is enough to vote yes for this. It's a huge piece
 for us, our teachers, our students and our families to have trained professionals to help our students grow. That's what we are here to do is grow. We grow our kids, we grow our communities, we grow. There may be some negative interactions, but I still think the power and training and the reputation and community builder that it has is such a value.
 I will just say that we are for having resource officers and I think it gives us a better sense to protect our children. Thank you. My name is Robert Williams. I live at 3949 Mountain View Drive in Ward 4. I'm here tonight to offer my support for this resolution.
 We've heard tonight how proud the district is of their resource officer program and how critical it is to them. And we've heard from those that don't agree with it. Let's be honest, what we're really talking about is a worst case scenario where a violent criminal chooses to commit the heinous crime of attacking one of our schools. Our schools are not really designed to prevent this kind of attack. All it takes is a brick or a rock to gain entry or shoot your way in.
 It is naive to believe otherwise. Having an officer on campus shortens the response time to the absolute minimum to evaluate the situation and determine the best course of action to minimize the loss of life and injuries. We just don't have enough officers to patrol close to each school all day, every day in case something happens. Every minute counts. We've heard from Chief Reynolds what his expectations are from his officers
 if there's an active shooter situation. Not long ago, the council voted to actually return grant money. We were awarded for new resource officers. This resolution offers a chance to reverse that mistake. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Good evening, I'm Stephanie Kendall. I'm at 3490 East Fredericksburg Circle and I'm big into research and I'm big into numbers, but everyone's covered all of the things beautifully and So I listen to the experts and I listen to the people that know exactly what they're talking about and we've heard it from everyone the experts the teachers the school board the superintendent asked us and
 for extra school resource officers. And two years ago we said, or y'all said, no. And I've been mad for two years about that because that was you choosing to not take care of my children to the best of your ability. I have a daughter and a son and they were both involved in a school, in a situation at the school last year. One had an SRO there, I think,
 just randomly and the other one did not. Their perceptions of what was going on are two completely different things. One kid had to hide in a closet for, she said, two hours. I don't think it was that long. And the other one felt safe because he had an SRO there to protect him. There's that. And so choosing not to protect my children when you can is embarrassing and it's just sad. Choosing not to listen to the experts who ask you
 or asking for your help is really sad. And I get it, we want to make, and we all, like Scott said, I want more social workers, I want more counselors. And just for a little number, because no one wrote this up and I like numbers, but Fayetteville currently has, I think, 28 school counselors, six social workers, and 16 school nurses.
 That's a lot. And so we're covering that fairly well, I think, but I know we can do more and I think that's great. I think the school board has done a great job of trying to make sure that we're safe and they're doing all the building things and all they should be doing, but it's up to us to make sure that we provide the school resource officers. Because let me tell you, if something happens to my daughter in an elementary school, can we say today that we did everything we could to protect our kids?
 and your answer is no it's just not and so you know i pray that you vote yes because it will be a huge letdown if you say no um and i wish we could have 16 tomorrow but i know they have to be trained and they're very well trained um and so please vote yes all right thank you
 Hello, my name is Brittany Hurlbut. I live at 1610 East Amber Drive. I have three children and I am currently serving as the PTO president at Root Elementary. I am here to express my support of school resource officers in our schools. While I cannot speak on behalf of all of the families that attend Root, I have spoken with many parents who would like to see SROs in all of our Fayetteville public schools.
 No matter what you believe or where your opinions lie, we can all agree that keeping our children safe is the most important duty we have as parents and as a community. I have received feedback from parents at Root and another elementary school that police presence yesterday on the first day of school was not only welcomed but comforting. These police officers police officers were only sitting in their cars and parked across the street from our schools.
 but the visual of the parked police cars was enough to allow families to feel protected and secure. This is a scenario that we could look into in the short term while we plan for the long term. Now on to the long term. I believe the relationship SROs can have on students is impactful. I graduated from Springdale High School almost 20 years ago, a diverse community, and I can still remember our SRO, Officer Hignight.
 He was accountable, courageous, approachable, and engaging. All the qualities an SRO should possess.
 I realize that everyone has their own unique experience with law enforcement. However, having SROs in our schools can provide an opportunity for both students and law enforcement to bridge, to build a bridge of education and understanding. Another crucial point that I would like you guys to think about is while the opinions of us as parents matter, the school staff's opinion matters. It is just as equally important in this decision.
 They are the ones in the schools with our children. Our teachers love and protect our children daily, but do they feel safe? Having an SRO on campus could not only provide safety and security for our children, but also our teachers and our staff. Finally, picture yourself walking into the doors of a sporting event.
 or a church, or a concert. These are just a few places that you see law enforcement present. Why would we not have the same security for our schools, for our children? The city of Fayetteville is very fortunate to have one of the best police departments in all of the nation. I am hopeful that we are the perfect city to have an SRO program that can effectively keep our kids safe, as well as improve relationships in our community. Thank you. Thank you.
 Okay, who else? Mayor, City Council. My name is Nick White. I'm the president of the Attorney Order of Police here in Fayetteville. I'd like to take a couple minutes and point out that a couple years ago, we went through a night similar to this one and it was pretty crushing within the walls of the police department to hear the things that were said. And tonight, I think that
 locally, the sentiment is resoundingly that the officers that I represent in my organization have earned people's trust and respect time and again. And I just, I can't think
 enough for speaking up and speaking out on their behalf. Appreciate Scott Byrne and his passion and plea, his service to us as FOP members. But I want to point out that our members do prevent school shootings annually. We investigate reports of threatened violence
 to a successful conclusion. Sometimes those conclusions result in arrest, but almost always positive intervention of some sort. So I did want to point that out. There's a lot of focus on active shooter incidents, but I do want to point out that we do prevent it on the front end. We prevent those things from happening. My members actually see, unfortunately, children who've passed before their time.
 We've held them with our hands, we've seen them with our eyes, we've shed tears with their parents, we've shed tears in private, we've hidden tears from our families. As we go through those moments, it's difficult, it's very difficult. And so these things that we're talking about tonight are held in the highest regard by my membership.
 and taken very seriously. And we want nothing but the safety for these children. You know, I will say that in 15 years, I've never pulled the trigger on my duty weapon. And I hope that it remains that way forever. And this is just another mechanism to keep us safe. Thank you, sir. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address us?
 Thank you. My name is Beth Coger. I live at 3661 Embrey Drive, Fayetteville. And can you hear me okay if I stand back? Because back there we've been having trouble hearing when some people are too close to the microphone. Okay. First of all, everyone wants their schools to be safe. That's our number one priority, our top, top priority. But what does that mean? I want to tell you what it meant to me before 2019 and what it means to me now.
 So what happened in 2019? I began working in criminal justice reform. I'm co-founder of Arkansas...
 oh my gosh arkansas justice reform coalition believe it or not i do know that name okay i co-founded that in 2019 and since then we've been working like i said with criminal justice reform and uh in that capacity i interact with people in the criminal justice system i hear stories from them i hear stories from parents with children with young people with in the criminal justice system i hear stories from
 from people who are themselves involved in the criminal justice system. And those stories that I hear are not always, they gave me a different outlook on having police in schools.
 And I want to share with you some of that. And first of all, I have great respect for Chief Reynolds and my interactions with Chief Reynolds with everyone in the Fayetteville Police Department has always been very professional and very kind. And Chief Reynolds went into some of the background about how we came to have police officers in school. It started really in the 1950s, but it really got, it really intensified after Columbine in 1999.
 And so since then, and it's hard for me to even say this and think about how terrible it actually is. We've had over 330 school shootings. That's awful. It's a fear we live with every day. I have a grandson who is in school in Texas, and I say a prayer every day for him to be safe there. But out of those 330 school shootings, to my knowledge, none were stopped because we had an armed officer in the school.
 Certainly, it didn't help with some of the worst school shootings, those that have had the highest casualties because every school shooting is the worst school shooting, specifically Parkland or in Texas in May. And a study by the Consortium of Chicago Schools found that relationships between students and staff and staff and parents created safer schools.
 Even disadvantaged schools with good relationships were safer than advantaged schools with poor relationships. A comment was made, and I believe it was by Dr. May, I think with reference to identifying students in need. Is a police officer more qualified to identify a student in need than a trained counselor, a teacher, child psychologist, or a peer?
 Is a child in need more likely to approach an armed officer than a trusted teacher, peer, counselor, psychologist, or mental health expert? A study by the U.S. Department of Justice Office of Justice Programs found that schools with police officers had nearly five times the number of arrests in schools without police officers. The study found that incidents that might ordinarily have been handled by teachers, administration, or parents.
 when a police officer was involved or present, it was more likely to result in the student being referred to the juvenile court or the criminal justice system. Last year, Education Week found that in 43 states in the District of Columbia, black students were arrested in disproportionately high levels, sometimes as many as 20 percentage points higher than the black student enrollment. That was also true of other students of colors.
 of color according to a centers a Bazelon Center of study in 2021 replacing school police with services that work they found that 90 percent of students attend public schools for the number of social workers psychologists and counselors fall short of recommended standards more than 14 million students attend schools with police but no social worker psychologist or counselor
 Another study from 2021, the Thin Blue Line, by the University of Albany found police officers in school increased the odds of firearm-related incidents on campuses. Police officers in schools did reduce some forms of violence in schools, but they did not prevent school shootings or gun-related incidents.
 Studies also link incidents of students being referred to juvenile justice system to the broader concept of school-to-prison pipeline. I'm sorry. Okay, I had no idea. Okay, well thank you and I'm going to ask that you please vote against this.
 Hi Council and Mayor. My name is Sarah Moore. I live in Ward 2. I have for over 12 years. I'm the mom to two kids in Washington Elementary School, a first grader, and now a fifth grader in Owl Creek Middle School. I've been in the Fayetteville public school system for the past six years.
 I love the city of Fayetteville. I believe in the city of Fayetteville and I trust and care for my Fayetteville public schools and their success and their students and family success.
 Whenever I first began my public school journey six years ago, I was a very eager parent. I was a stay-at-home mom after being in the corporate world. I dug right in being very active in my PTO. I'm actually wearing a shirt that I helped design at my elementary school, Go Washington Wildcats.
 I saw students that were coming, especially in Washington Elementary, about 50% free and reduced school lunch with high poverty and trauma. And I really saw the school struggle to meet those needs. And so often those kids would have stories that they would share with you and confide as you built trust, telling of parents or loved ones being pulled away by police. It was hard to fathom given the surroundings that I gave my kids.
 And I really said at that time, just like many well-meaning people are saying here today, if only they would just interact with a good police officer, an SRO, or someone in the school to model good behavior and be a good role model, you know, that would do it. You know, that would be very beneficial for the student. Well, fast forward as I got into work and became an advocate within the community and dug into the data and metrics.
 And I was really surprised to learn that unfortunately our well-meaning intentions sometimes can have unintended consequences. And really, you know, the data has already been talked about and vetted this evening, so I won't revisit it. But what I really want to talk about is.
 what can we really envision as community safety and within our schools? We can have, we have a huge opportunity to dream and be visionary about what can happen. We need more trauma-informed resources to work together with. What you might know,
 or might not know is that in the state of Arkansas, we're in mental health crisis. There are mental health working groups happening in Little Rock at the state legislature that I've been a part of. Arkansas Children's Hospital, one of the things, you know, as we look at the whole health and safety of students, we have to think about their mental health and overall well-being. One in five children are living with a significant mental illness. 50% of all lifetime mental illnesses start by age 14, and suicide is the second leading cause of death among children and adolescents.
 When they gave that report in May, they said that suicidal ideation into children's ERs in May had already given the total number that they had seen in the previous full calendar year.
 I'm incredibly concerned about the anxiety and stress that we have with students and the studies that are out there. That it's say that the hardening of our schools, the lack of resources to address their high anxiety and needs coming out of the pandemic can be a barrier for improving their safety and well-being.
 You might not be aware that while each building at Fayetteville Public Schools has a counselor, as was mentioned earlier, all buildings don't have a social worker, a behavior interventionist, aides, or extra hands if teachers need. There are no psychologists. What would it look like to have investment from the city and the district, like we talked about in 2020, on additional school counselors and social workers?
 School Counselor Association recommends a 250 to 1 ratio not in place in Fayetteville Public Schools today. Dr. Shirley actually said there's 364 to 1. The National Association of Social Workers recommends a 250 to 1 ratio for schools. And Fayetteville Public Schools, by Dr. Shirley's accounts in a recent article, were 1,700 students to 1.
 And they actually need 1 to 15 intensive need areas.
 Additionally, if we can think about the fact that not only is it the student that's in trauma looking at community supports that are needed within our community, the Vera Institute of Justice has incredible resources that have done this work for 40 and 50 years and talks about and has the data and research to lead us in those investments that when we put a dollar into after school programs, we're able to, for every year spent, we're actually reducing crime five to $30 in savings.
 Additionally, as we talked about budgets and there's a $50 million grant that's been put out there for safety in the state legislature, there's been no definition of what this can be spent on at school safety. And so we have an opportunity again. I apologize. Thank you. No, no, it's fine. Time's up.
 Good evening, City Council, Mayor. My name is Monique Jones and I reside in Ward 4. You know, I came to this meeting because I believe in bringing resolutions to issues. But I'm going to tell you, my heart is heavy as a mother. My heart is heavy because I'm a mother of seven black children. My heart is heavy because I'm a mother of eight black and mixed grandchildren.
 And people continue to advocate for school resource officers in schools. And my son was impacted by a school resource officer in the sixth grade. He's 31 years old now, and that's still on his record. He became an electrical engineer, and you know, a couple of years ago he resigned, and he became a school teacher because he wanted other kids to see black and brown teachers that looked like him. But it impacted him.
 And it makes me sad that I have to fight and fight, but you know what? I'm going to be black until I die. And so were my children when they have to go through these schools. Yes, I had a child that graduated from Fayetteville High School. Katara Robinson graduated in 2013. Anastasia Jones now is a ninth grader at Fayetteville High School. She also has an intellectual disability. SROs impact black and brown children, especially children with disabilities, at a disappropriate rate.
 Let's talk about real stuff. Okay, I don't want to talk about statistics. I want to talk about I've been impacted as a parent. I want to talk about my son is 31 and still trying to seal his record. He's a teacher. He's still trying to seal his record because he was impacted by an SRO that wanted to intervene where he shouldn't have been intervening then.
 So I'm going to give you what I am bringing to the table as resolutions, because it seems like everybody has made up their mind. Everybody has already advocated for it. We've already made the resolution. Let me help you add to it.
 If we're going to move to advocate for this, I advocate to the local school board, the school safety staff, Fayetteville Police Department, and City Council that the primary disciplinary responsibility for the students where needed must reside with the teachers and principal in the school and the school system.
 I urge all school districts and city council, school staff, school safety committee, and Fayetteville Police Department with SROs to narrow the scope of responsibility of SROs to only intervene in potentially life-threatening situations.
 I advocate that a standard for SRO policy and procedure manuals describing SRO duties that distinguish them from those of school administrators is developed for city and use that the SRO duties are included with the student code of conduct and the disciplinary matrix. I received this, 111 pages. I read it when Anastasia started school on Monday.
 In here, I only found two sections, policy 5.17 about student discipline, didn't talk about SROs. And if you go to the back, they says there's an annual report. On the annual report, one time each school year, the superintendent will report to the Fayetteville Public School Board of Education at a public meeting.
 regarding discipline in the district, including the number of incidents of bullying reported and the actions taken regarding the reported incident of bullying does not talk about reporting on the impact of SROs to black and brown individuals in a school.
 I also advocate and ask that the school safety committee, as well as the city council and the police department use the annual report along with the data from the U.S. Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights Data Collections to educate communities about racial disparities in school-based arrest. And we'll advocate to local school districts, city council, and our safety committee, and
 and agencies to eliminate racial disparities in this school-based arrest. I advocate for the legislation or other appropriate
 action that prohibits SROs from engaging in racial profiling and stop-risk policies. I advocate for the school district to have appropriate action to mandate that all SROs must have specific annual yearly training in child development, de-escalation techniques, mental and physical limitations, and trauma in recognizing and addressing implicit bias.
 I also advocate for SRO policies to empower parents or the responsible adult for the child to intervene on the child's behalf before the child is questioned or legally detained. Last but not least, I just want you to understand I don't have an issue with police. I don't have an issue with SROs. I have an issue with the adverse impact that it has on black and brown children in schools today. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello Council, Mr. Mayor. I want to elevate what Ms. Bodie Jones said. That was right on. My name is Walt Kelly. I live in Fayetteville, 1123 Overcrest Street. SROs provide only a false sense of safety and security to those who find comfort in their presence. It makes us feel better. I've heard a lot of parents talk about the emotions of how good it makes us feel. My goal,
 is for our schools to provide a healthy and safe environment for our children to learn. There's no empirical evidence that they increase security, safety, or reduce harm. Decades of data show us that this legislation is costly and reactionary. We have no business delegating tax dollars to this frivolous, feel-good program until our educational obligations to our children
 are met, including healthy, safe places of learning, supportive staff and services, and fostering environments and emotional resources that are shown to truly work in reducing school violence. It kind of seems like we're giving up on our schools, and we're going to bring that over-policing that we do in society right to our schools.
 I don't think we need to do that. Promises to invest in properly educating and training these officers are promises we've made to our kids long ago, and we failed to meet them. Chief Reynolds said tonight, our officers in schools are law enforcement officers. And I hear a lot of people from the school system talking about
 how we need, our schools are so underfunded and we've gotten so far off course right now, where they need those SROs because they need extra staff and forming relationships. So we need them to be mentors, counselors, educators, all those things when our schools need to be schools.
 shame on us for committing more resources to SROs than we have to our children. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us? Good evening. My name is Laura Murphy. I'm at 1779 North Applebury Drive from Ward 3.
 I'm sure everybody's hungry, so forgive me if you hear a growl from my stomach. I am the mother of two boys. One is at FHS in 10th grade and loves school, and I also have a child with disabilities.
 And I'm a huge public education fan and a big supporter of our teachers and support staff and special education, of course. And so one of my reasons for being here today
 disability has not really been discussed much tonight. And that's not unusual. We're frequently excluded from the conversation. And so I just wanted to share with you why disability needs to be strongly considered when you're making these decisions, because this population is very significantly impacted by having SROs in the building.
 So many of you all know, I'm sure at this point, that students with disabilities and students of color are disproportionately impacted by disciplinary action and are also
 at greater risk for being thrust into the school to prison pipeline. And so what does that look like down the road? Well, according to the Bureau of Justice,
 a report that was published in 2021, survey of prisoners, close to 40% state and federal prisoners reported to have at least one disability and 23% of those reported that they were identified to have cognitive disabilities.
 Why this is important is my son has an intellectual disability, he is autistic, and he also spent the first four and a half years of his life in a Ukrainian orphanage, so has undergone an enormous amount of trauma. And I've spent the better part of the last decade advocating for trauma-informed care, their social-emotional learning in our schools.
 and so this is why I bring up some of these statistics with you. Also, students with disabilities are
 more significantly exposed to trauma. Substantial research indicates that especially children with intellectual disabilities experience adverse life events, trauma and abuse at significantly higher rates when compared to their non-disabled peers.
 When it comes to our school district, the Fayetteville Public Schools, from 2016 to 2019, discipline data shows significant disproportionality in how they discipline students with disabilities and students of color, especially black students. And so again, we cannot leave disability out of this conversation.
 Another reason to look at disability and how it intersects with trauma and also how it impacts the decision that we're making tonight in
 I'm sorry, I'm a little off my focus here. But Arkansas ranks, as you all know, as one of the highest in the country for adverse childhood experiences. So again, trauma-informed care is an important component to the discussion tonight. So...
 depending on what you guys decide, I really would like for you all to include the disability community and consider how they are more highly exposed to trauma and how that may look to an untrained school resource officer. What kind of training are school resource officers getting?
 and we need greater transparency between our, we need greater transparency about the contact that SROs have with students with disabilities. Good evening, Council Mayor. I'm just gonna read what I have written. Approaching this issue in fear-based reactions puts our kids at risk.
 We have an obligation to rely on what we do know and we have the data. Since Columbine, when this data started being compiled, there has been a measurable fear-based knee reaction, knee-jerk reaction to increase police presence in schools following tragic incidents. All the research shows this to be followed by more harm done to students of historically marginalized communities, including those with disabilities and minorities.
 Also, in a time of vast underfunding of public education and staff shortages, our children are already missing the instructional and supportive services that they are owed. We are currently failing to meet the bare minimum for our kids. Using funds to increase debunked methods such as SROs while denying our kids proven methods is harmful, dangerous, and downright wrong. Thank you.
 We get her name and oh, I'm sorry, which give us your name. I should have gotten it on sherry wrangler 513 Fallon I
 Hello, Mayor, Council. My name is Chris Haas. I'm at 2786 Boardwalk Court in Fayetteville. I have three children in the Fayetteville School District. I've had two that have already moved on to the University of Arkansas. Two of mine are at high school this year and one is at Root Elementary. I've got a second grade daughter. We love Fayetteville. We love the school district. We love being a part of this community.
 I would like to speak in favor of adding RSOs and accepting the funding that we are considering here tonight. I want you to know that my interaction with RSOs has always been very positive.
 and very good. As a parent who has been to Woodland Junior High on hundreds of occasions, I have always found the RSO there to be friendly and professional. I have watched as students have come up to that RSO and engaged in conversation. And I would just like to say this, I am deeply saddened by the disproportionate impact that
 this has potentially had on some in our community in the past. But I would like to say this, it doesn't have to be that way. Through great training and great people, we can staff RSOs in our schools where that is no longer the case. So it does not have to be a national statistic, it can be something very different. Now I'm wearing a Yellowstone t-shirt tonight on purpose to this meeting.
 I came from a ninth grade football game where I happened to look down the stands and see one of the officers there at the football game. And I want you to know that as a parent in this community who pays taxes and who wants the best for my children, I want both a great education and I want safety. I demand safety because I am a parent.
 And that is my responsibility to my children. And I believe that this is very vital and important to our kids. On a lighter note, on a family vacation, my son decided he'd like to get close to a moose in Yellowstone Park. He had gone down a hill, was getting close to this female moose. There happened to be a park ranger who had pulled up. And he said, does anybody know whose kid that is?
 And that was my kid. He said, hey, we need to get him, we need to bring him back. We need to bring him back up the hill. He's getting too close. And so that's exactly what he did. And so as he's coming back up, he said, son, I'd like to talk to you. He goes, am I in trouble? He said, no, you're not in trouble, but I do want to talk to you. And he talked to him about safety. He talked to him about not disturbing wildlife. He talked to him about the important things. He was a good park ranger.
 He was doing his job. He was bringing a kid back who might have wandered into something that might have gotten him in trouble, looking down the barrel of a female moose who had a younger moose with her. Now, I say that to bring a little humor to this discussion. We all know that human nature in children, we were all children. And whenever there is a person of authority,
 who happens to be around, how does that affect you? How did that affect you as a child, as a high school student? What it does is it puts your thought in your mind, hey, wait a second, hey, wait a second, let me think about this action. I know I'm not talking about violence or even something that's illegal. I'm just talking about things that a kid shouldn't do.
 And I'm telling you this, I believe that by having people of authority who are there, who are friendly, professional, well-trained, that we can prevent a lot of moose charges in the future here in Fayetteville High School. Now my principal at Root Elementary spoke earlier. I heard him say this on opening when we welcomed all the parents. He said, hey parents, I want you to know we're doing everything we can
 for the safety of your children. But there was one comment that I've thought about many times. He said, listen, we can have the police here in five minutes. Guys, that's too long. Five minutes is too long. That's not good enough. That's not good enough for me as a parent and for me as a father. And so I wanna ask you guys to vote in favor of funding additional resource officers. Thank you very much. Thank you. Okay.
 Who else do we have? Okay, I'm going to bring you back to the council. Oh, here's another one. All right. You can start the clock. This might take me a moment. My name is Kayla Moore. I'm a resident of Fayetteville, Arkansas, board four, I believe.
 my mind works in bullet points so thank you for having me counsel and mayor i'm having just a little bit of trouble thank you for having me council mayor everybody else might be a little close but yeah no is this better all right um it took me off guard when i heard someone say that um
 that we've done better. It's not like what it used to be in school. Well I don't know, she's probably my age. I'm 33 going on 34 now. I went from Texarkana, Arkansas High, the whites were a minority and I loved it. We had four RSOs, and I was the only one who
 RISO, informational resource officers at Arkansas High and we had a rivalry Texas High. We had four ghettos have, they may have expanded in Texarkana, I hope not. But these, I looked up to the SIROs, informational, I think that makes quite a difference to me because they were in
 They're informational outside of the classroom as to as to the reality More so than a teacher that had been there for 40 years and couldn't stand me because I couldn't say Me me querido which was my brother's name and that was his favorite her favorite student. She once sent us to my brother and I to our the assistant
 principle World War II veteran, he set us both down and he wanted us to in unison say the Lord's Prayer. So was that? I don't know. Anyways, I don't know if this is going towards... it's not... I'm gonna stop me right there.
 It was weird. I was suspended for three days out of school. My brother went straight back to the class because he was the teacher's favorite, and he made a little. And I was just Kayla. And let me read this. Thank you. It'll help me. I appreciate everything that I've heard. Some of it's horrific moving forward. And...
 from people that aren't within the school. Like, I'm sorry, patrolling outside of the school? That's patrolling, that's not inside the school. That doesn't make anybody feel safe. It's like, what is that cop doing out there? I'm sorry, but really, that's ludicrous to me. We should know that, we should be honored that. That's why I've got the radar on my phone and,
 i want to know what's happening in my neighborhood um i'm finding it i appreciate all of you i do love this community and i love kids you can't tell oh gosh here we go oh i do believe uh my main thing was um if we're gonna do this which
 I'm not completely against. A lot of things nationwide, worldwide scare the dickens out of me. But student council meetings, SROs should be there. Parent teacher conferences, they should be involved. Parent SRO conferences, please.
 IT COULD TAKE FIVE HOURS, BUT WHY NOT? WE NEED TO BE THAT INVOLVED. NEW SPEAKER, YOUR TIME IS UP. NEW SPEAKER, OKAY. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER, IT'S OKAY. NEW SPEAKER, I APPRECIATE IT. NEW SPEAKER, WHO ELSE WOULD LIKE TO ADDRESS US? NOW I'M GOING TO BRING IT BACK TO THE
 Add some comments that I made today After receiving like all of the my other peers on the City Council Receiving numerous emails and even text messages even phone calls about this issue I do appreciate those comments that I've received tonight and over the past couple of weeks I
 And as a black man, I am grateful for those who stand up for justice and those who show concern for children of color. When I was elected, I made a promise, and that promise was not to make everyone happy. That promise was to work to keep Fayetteville safe. This past week, I was notified of an incident involving a junior high student bringing a gun to football practice.
 Fortunately, the school research officer was present and intervened. At the high school, Officer Malik works with Fayetteville High School black male students who are part of the African American Male Initiative. He attends their meetings and has become a mentor.
 big brother and father figure. His presence and involvement has the potential to change the fair trajectory. Officer Marlig's presence has calmed the fears and anxiety of many students, preventing a potential dangerous situation. This past week, I've spoken to numerous black parents. A vast majority of them verbalized their support for resource officers.
 There are many layers to the challenges our students face. Mental health, social support, and other programs focused on improving the quality of life of students are critical. I look forward to doing what I can as a council member to assure that our students have access to these programs. In the meantime,
 In the meantime, we must collaborate with our schools and police department and provide a physical and stable presence. The Fayetteville Police Department is more than capable of protecting our children. We have heard horror stories of police brutality and shenanigans in other places, and that is unfortunate.
 But for the sake of our children, we must turn our attention to Fayetteville and our children and put our children's well-being over political agendas, the national climate, and perhaps a personal axe to grind. I fully support this. Holly, thank you so much for your work in showing support for our school children.
 I even had conversations with a few students, and I echo the sentiment of Dr. Colbert that they want school resource officers. Tonight we heard from Pastor Curtis Smith, pastor of the largest African-American church in Northwest Arkansas. When we talk about race, St. James has been on the front lines of addressing race.
 Racial issues in Northwest Arkansas, but they've also been on the front lines of working with our police department Fairville City Council members we have a responsibility and that responsibility Is to keep our students safe this is not either or and or we can do both But in the meantime the responsibility is to provide safety and security for our students teachers
 and administrators. Mayor Jordan, I fully support this. Chief Reynolds, thank you for your leadership. They couldn't pay me enough money to do what you do, but you do it so well. You're so gracious. You're so kind. Thank you. Dr. Colbert, thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you for doing all what you do.
 in the name of education and making sure that every student is taken care of. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, what other? I've got a few things to say. Sure. As we move forward on this, certainly compared to the last time we were faced with something similar, it's evident that the community has
 been very engaged with the City Council and they have, I think, brought a lot of information to the City Council. We certainly got a lot of emails and phone calls and texts to bring their support for this officer. Last time I think there was a lot of interference from people that they have a point of view that is valid based on their values.
 And I respect that. But what we've heard in this argument is a shift in the voices and the information that we have received through emails and texts and phone messages. It makes it clear that many people in our community want officers in the school, not
 for many reasons. We talk about active shooters. Okay, that's one of the reasons. We want a response. We want protection. But there's so much more to a resource officer, as we've heard tonight, if they're present in the schools. It also is okay to give a sense of assurance because of their presence that there is safety
 at the school that is being offered and taken seriously. It's evident that we've heard that there's a comprehensive planning and training that's dynamic,
 and cooperative with the police, the school administration, school board, city administration, and city council. That makes this a local issue. That makes this specific to our community. And so we do have the ability to offer a resource officer or resource officers throughout the community with cooperation and the community
 Cooperation that we have should bring a real broad sense of respect across all parts of the community. I know that will happen. When we considered this before, at that time, the city council was made up differently. And I was the only one that supported taking the issue forward, the other members not.
 uh tabled it indefinitely which effectively prevented it from being further considered but with the voices that we've heard this evening and with the information we've received from the community i think that we understand better the value of a resource officer in public schools and
 i think that without a doubt i have to support this i supported it last time and i believe that we have seen that you will get the support of the city council best i know i can't speak for them but it's certainly been a different conversation this time than we had last time and i thank everyone for showing up and speaking up both sides both sides we have an engaged community
 And this engagement brings a lot of information on both sides of the issue. But I mention that because I don't think it is both sides. I think both sides can work together, work together to bring services into the community that you've mentioned without denying the other side what they would like. And that's a resource officer. So. Okay.
 The discussion has been powerful, it was last time, and impactful and informative.
 But we certainly have received a lot of information and a lot of contact with our community that does support the resource officer. And certainly I will support this again. It's unfortunate last time it didn't pass, that would have funded two resource officers at no cost to the city. It's unfortunate that we did not respect the school board as they had already done.
 made the decision to participate in the grant. It's unfortunate that we offered our support of applying for the grant and then we didn't follow through with what we passed initially. So I think today we can make up for that to a degree by offering support and passing this resolution.
 Okay, who else would, what other final comments do we have? I have just a few comments, Mr. Mayor. One of the things that I feel is extremely different about this particular proposal and what we faced last time, or at least this has been my experience. I have been contacted by, I've been emailed, text.
 You know, people have stopped me on the street, but everyone I've talked to has been incredibly considerate of both sides. I mean, I haven't had the animosity and the anger directed at me personally that I did the last time for whatever, you know, what my vote was. And there seems to be a really, that that strikes me as very different.
 And that there is a real coming together of the school, the city, the police, and it's just everybody's had a big learning experience over this.
 One of the things that I, one of the emails I received was from Nika Waitsman, and she did an excellent job of outlining all of the things that the city, or excuse me, that the school does, did do, and all of the changes they have made up to where we're at today, and really made a strong case for how the SRO is doing.
 fits into that, but it's a small, you know, it's not the big picture. I had so many people tell me that they understand that there's, that this is just one tool that we have. And it's kind of a, you know, it's very sad in a way to have people say, well, I understand there's other things at play, there's other issues here that you can't fix, that the school can't fix, but this resource officer can help a little bit.
 And so the comprehensive effort and the collaboration I think is really important. And it's something that's been enlightening for me because I just, I've just been, I've
 I just really felt how people feel so strongly about this, but also how they understand. I've gotten lots of people that are in support of the SROs that really feel an understanding for the people that don't support the SROs. And I didn't feel like that was present at the last time. It was really super divided. But anyway, I appreciate everybody showing up tonight and all of your input.
 It really helps us make our decision, I think, and it gives us a lot to consider. Thank you. Okay, one other final comment. We haven't made a motion in the second-to-last resolution yet, but anyway. Mr. Mayor, if I may. My wife and I, Mrs. Whittaker, moved to Fayetteville after two years of research, and tonight's conversation is a part of why we chose Fayetteville.
 This dialogue and this conversation and the breadth of perspective, I can assure you, does not take place in every community in this country. There's plenty of wonderful places to live. Fayetteville is one of them. And you're always skeptical when you hear, but we're special and we're different.
 But there's something to the concept of civil discourse, civil disagreement, and there being actual dialogue that says, please elected representatives hear my voice. And I think we're no smarter than any other city council, we're certainly no better looking than any other city council, but there's something about the concept having marinated and ruminated and been
 mulled over and discussed not just at a council meeting, but within the community and with parent teacher organizations and amongst the school board. And I feel like that I want to make it very clear when I say we're no better than any other city council. I think seeds were planted in good soil and God love the city of Fayetteville. It is good soil.
 So that's the first thing I want to acknowledge this level of discourse does not happen like this everywhere. The second is I'm trained as a statistician. I just happen to like people on the side, but I love numbers. And so part of what data cannot tell us is what did not happen.
 So we have lots of data on what did happen. And the question that remains unanswerable, because it cannot be, is what did not happen because of the presence of a trained representative of the police department? So I just want to put that out there that I love data too, but data doesn't answer every question. There are other questions about what never transpired
 The next thing is cause and effect. We've mentioned the presence of a school resource officer statistically indicates that in fact the severity of a school shooting is increased. I would just say that
 There's a perfect correlation between ice cream sales and drownings. And there's absolutely no causal relationship between those two. We happen to eat ice cream during the warm months when people are swimming and both of those things increase during that time. No causality. I would add that it would in fact, as we've heard tonight, be false
 to believe the presence of an SRO would prevent a school shooting. And the reason I say that is because we are finite human beings and we cannot be everywhere at one time. And that's absolutely true. But the presence of SROs do, in fact, have a significant impact on a kid that's getting picked on or a kid that is, in fact, assaulted
 a kid that feels concerned about their home life and looking for someone that might be an ally for them. And so there's a whole lot more to this than just is it shooting or non-shooting. We heard the presence of firearms being an issue. And I'm not sure if the concern is about a sworn peace officer being armed,
 And that being the concern, you want an unarmed police officer on the campus? Disarming a police officer is never going to happen. And would be an unrealistic and unfair expectation. When I'm standing in the line in the grocery store behind a police officer,
 They don't have their service weapon, but they have a weapon on them. I can assure you of that. And I commend them for being prepared at all times to render aid to one of us that would be in need. And so, again, I would close by saying I don't believe we're any smarter. I think we benefit from a gracious service.
 intelligent community that has mulled this over and said you know what we're talking about adding one officer the debate wasn't remove the six
 The debate wasn't that that's completely inappropriate, eliminate the program and save the funding. The debate is we'd like to add one with the intention of adding additional ones. And I just believe that that is actually a prudent, rational thing to do, not because we're smart, but because the school district has done so much
 with the resources they have to move the ball forward globally for the benefit of the emotional, intellectual, and physical security of their students. And it's my privilege to be a part of this body regardless of how we vote. You've got my respect. And so I'm just pleased to be here and be a part of the team, Mr. Mayor. And that's enough for me.
 What other comments do we have? Are someone going to make a motion? Are we going to make a motion? Well, I was getting ready to. Yes. I made that we accept the resolution.
 I think that was another comment. You didn't pass the resolution. I mean, go on with the comments. I'm going to take care of it. I'll make it short because a lot of people have already really pretty much said what I'm going to say. It is, the conversation has changed quite a bit. I was on that last council. I did vote against it. The data that was presented to us wasn't good. What we have today, it's different.
 A lot of effort has been made. A lot of good faith effort has been made. State effort has been made. School effort has been made. Committee effort has been made. The things that we were really concerned about have been, a lot of it has been addressed. And I think we have a more realistic expectation of what the SRO does in the schools. And so I'm...
 I came in with a certain feeling that probably, you know, things maybe really haven't changed. But what has changed is the way that we're seeing framing the conversation for us and for everyone that SROs are a key part of the puzzle. And that's a big change for me personally, that everyone's recognizing that. So I just want to commend everyone for coming to speak two years ago or however long that was. It doesn't seem like very long ago. And again tonight, because a lot of people are here
 again. So we're seeing that and hearing that. But the conversation has changed. And I do think that we've made a lot of progress. And I want to thank everybody who's worked incredibly diligently hard. The schools...
 um and the the committees and the parents and the everybody so thank you so much for making this shift to where we can see that this is this is a realistic a good direction for what we're looking at so um i'll be supporting it um i don't have any further comments
 just want to make one final comment and thank everyone involved especially chief reynolds dr duncan paul becker chief or the city attorney kit williams and blake pennington mayor jordan and everyone on the school board everybody who's helped me with this and put in a lot of effort so i appreciate all of your work and i ask that you all would support this thank you
 I have one last thing I'd like to add and that is a I want to tell Holly how much I really appreciate the efforts that she went to to see that this was put together and brought forward in the right way and it was addressed on multiple levels and you know Kit and his office I know they were very active in this as well and all of the people from the school, the police department, Chief Reynolds, I called him this morning. He said,
 Bless his heart. He always takes my call. And he's very patient and takes time with me to answer all my questions. And, you know, so I just appreciate the staff at the city and everyone that's been active in this. Thank you very much. Anything else? I move we pass the resolution. Second. Okay. You got that. Well, I want to make a couple of comments before we vote. Okay.
 Now, I supported the SROs the last time the vote was here. Two years ago, I supported it, broke the tie, and then the rest is kind of history. Councilmember changed their vote, and they re-voted, and I lost. And I feel much better about the conversations tonight than I heard a couple years ago. We took it back two weeks later, voted down 7-1.
 I mean, I supported it then and I support it now. And I support it. First, I want to thank you, Holly, for bringing it. That takes courage. And I'm going to, the three reasons I support this. First of all, I want you to know that I support our police department. I think we've got the most outstanding, progressive, best trained police force that anybody could have. And we've got the best police chief that anybody could have in this state.
 So thank you all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm not one for emotional outbursts. Just hear me. Next, I want the school, the school system, federal public schools to know that I support you. John L., we've known each other for 35 years. You know me and I know you. You know you have my support. We've got the best education.
 school system that anybody can have in the state and you all know that and John L is a great leader and he's an all-around great person and thank you for being not only a great superintendent But being my friend John L And lastly and most importantly we're going to keep the children safe. We're going to keep them protected Now I will tell you this
 I had four children. John L talked about he had his children. I had four children in the school system, and I have seven grandchildren. So it's not like I don't have, as they say, some skin in the game. Because I wanted my children protected, and I want my grandchildren protected. And you know what?
 I'll let you know right now. I will do everything in my power as a mayor to see that Parents that your children are protected and school has my support and the police department has my support Carol, let's vote Jones Yes, Indian. Yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins. Yes. Oh
 Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. All right. Let's take a small. All right, all right. We're going to get that adjoining. Let's take a break. I need one. I do too. Let's go. Yeah. Yeah.
 Okay. Okay. The next order of business that we have tonight...
 is an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 22-028 located at 1466 North Great Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 0.43 acres from RS4 residential single family four units per acre to RI12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and their legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Addendum Memo from RSF-4, Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to RI-12, Residential Intermediate, 12 units per acre.
 In Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are to hear by amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Allow me to pull this up real quick. Here we go.
 The property in question is in north central Fayetteville. It's located in Ward 2 on the east side of Gregg Avenue, which you can see running along the western boundary of the property here on the aerial image. It's about halfway between North Street to the south and Sycamore to the north. It's sandwiched between two other properties that were both zoned in 2018.
 To the north is zoned RIEU, residential intermediate urban, which was rezoned in November of 2018. And the property to the south, which is zoned RI12, residential intermediate 12 units per acre, which was rezoned a month earlier in 2018. It's currently undeveloped and partially located within the city's hilltop hillside overlay district.
 The request tonight is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre, to RI12.
 While the neighborhoods of the southeast is largely characterized by single-family homes, when looking at the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, planning staff has identified the significant amount of varied residential uses in the area. Immediately to the northeast, to the north, to the southeast, and to the southwest is a variety of residential uses, largely most of which are attached in nature.
 Additionally, the property is only accessed by Gregg, whereas if this rezoning request were on Lawson, it may cause some concern given the narrowness of the street. Gregg Avenue in this area affords access to an almost fully improved major thoroughfare in the city.
 With that in mind, planning staff or staff finds this request to be compatible from a land use perspective. Looking at it through a long range planning lens, staff finds the request to be similarly consistent with our future land use map and our city plan goals. This property has direct access to a major thoroughfare, as I noted a moment ago, Gregg Avenue.
 It's in somewhat close proximity to the Skull Creek Trail, although it is worth noting that there's not a direct access from this property to Skull Creek. You do have to proceed about a half mile to either the north or the south, either Sycamore or north to get directly onto that trail. Otherwise, it has access to many of the other infrastructure elements that you'd expect to find with something that makes infill appropriate, including water and sewer.
 As far as issues with the request, staff did not identify any, but there is one item I would like to correct a comment that I made or an answer I gave incorrectly at the agenda session. I think it was Councilmember Turk asked me what the height differences are between RIU and RI12.
 And I said they were different. That's incorrect. They're exactly the same as each other. They both have a step-back requirement. So within 10 feet of the front property line, you can only have a two-story building. Once you get beyond that, it's allowed to go up to three stories. So I apologize for that misinformation.
 Moving on to the recommendation, staff does support the request. Again, we find it to be compatible from a land use standpoint and consistent from a land use plan standpoint. The Planning Commission agreed, supporting the request unanimously, forwarding it to the City Council recommending approval. To date, staff has not received any public comment. I'm happy to take any questions and I believe Matthew Scott is available online for the item. Yes, would the applicant like to speak to the council? You have 10 minutes.
 Mr. Scott, go ahead. Can you guys hear me? Yes. Okay. Good evening, guys. I just wanted to say that Jonathan pretty much covered everything. We actually have a development rough sketch of what we would be doing on this property. If you guys have any questions, I'm more than open to answer anything you guys have. Thank you.
 That's pretty much it. So let me know if you guys need anything. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the applicant or staff? Okie dokie. Well, let's take a little public comment. We're old hands at this right now. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. I'm sure you've heard this tonight. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic.
 please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do we have on zoom no one has raised their hand mayor do we have anyone in the chamber that would like to speak to us on this issue item okay seeing none i'll bring it back to the council so this is an ordinance it's on the first reading what discussion would you all like to have or what action would you like to take
 Well, let's see, this is in the north. Whose ward is this? It's ward two. Ward two. It's ward two, yeah. Any ward two input from ward two folks? I have not heard anyone have any complaint or anyone that's supporting. This is an area that's being redeveloped kind of piecemeal, but we've done a lot of rezoning and there's a lot of plans there.
 I my question was how do you get in and out of this property it is good point because Greg is it only Greg Street or did you say there was a that's correct Greg Avenue is the only street access to the property because that is it's already there's no restricted entrance or exit
 in these properties and so they're going right out onto Gregg which is a high traffic area. I can't remember, let's see Spruce Street, you're going down a hill here so I don't guess that's, well anyway that was my only concern but no one else seemed concerned about it so did you all, did any of that come up with any discussion?
 I can certainly speak to it, but it'd be more from a development standpoint than a zoning standpoint. We do have our access management standards in Fayetteville. And given Greg's classification of the street, given its volume, in turn, depending what they build, it may have limited access rights to the street. And that's a complicated way of saying likely have to have a shared driveway. There wouldn't necessarily be individual curb cuts if they built individual units on the property. So it'd be similar to...
 If you saw it on the aerial, there's a property that recently redeveloped to the north, six units that all share one driveway. Well, I'm cool with it. I mean, it seems compatible.
 You're good with it then, Mark. I'm good with it. You're good with it. I am good with it, but I am a little concerned because, you know, I'm an old man. Almost good with it. I am an old man, and I don't like people pulling out in front of me. Me either. Nor do I, particularly at my age. Well...
 Any other discussion? This is an ordinance, and it's on the first reading. I do have a quick question. I don't know if there's anybody here for transportation. I'm on transportation committee. So, Greg, currently it's four lanes and the turning lane? It's late, and I'm trying to remember.
 Okay, it doesn't have the center turning. Is there a plan for that? No, currently the traffic counts on Greggs, just as well below its anticipated volume. It's one of our few overbuilt streets in Fayetteville, which tend to run north-south as opposed to east-west where we could use, of course, more volume or more connectivity. And then is there a bus stop nearby that section?
 I still have yet to follow up with you about bus shelters with multifamily zonings but that's something that I'm wanting to bring forward at some point but I really I think because it's a major thoroughfare what multifamily on there and the board doesn't have a problem with it
 I'm gonna move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turd? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-028,
 located at 1466 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF 4 residential single-family four units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre. And so I move that we suspend the rules and go to the next the third reading and second we have a motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Jones? Yes.
 Indian? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. And Norlinson rezoned that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-028 located at 1466 North Gregg Avenue in Ward 2 for approximately 0.43 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RI 12 residential intermediate 12 units per acre.
 Any final comments from the council final comment is that I believe that I'm I must have misheard that the street is overbuilt and Mr. Mayor, I'll assure you there are no overbuilt streets in Fayetteville Just add 53,000 residents and you'll be glad for every street you have and that's my final comment And you're good with that yes, all right any other any other comments I
 all right care which police call well jones yes kenyon yes wedeker yes scroggins yes bunch yes kirk yes erksberg yes harvey yes susan did i ask you if anybody was on zoom on that one you probably did and there's nobody there probably did okay
 If I didn't, I'll hear about it tomorrow. All right, number seven, an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 22-029 located at 1678 West Palmer Place in Ward 1 for approximately 0.35 acres from RSF4 residential single family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban kit.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map Exhibit A and the legal description Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban.
 and section two that the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one jonathan thank you mayor there we are
 This property is west of the main University of Arkansas campus. It's located in Ward 1. It's about three blocks west of Razorback Road and the track and field facility of the University of Arkansas. Dialing in a little bit more tightly, it's located between Center Street to the north and Nettleship to the south, both of which you can see.
 on the aerial map here on the southeast corner of Hartman and Palmer. It is currently developed with a single family home that has access to both Palmer and Hartman. It is a corner lot and the northwestern most corner of the property is located within the HHOD. But I'll talk about topography a little bit more towards the end of the presentation. As to the request before council,
 The applicant is requesting to rezone the property from RSF4 residential single-family, four units per acre to RIU, residential intermediate urban, on appeal from the Planning Commission's denial. When looking at the request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff did have some mixed findings. If you look at the immediate vicinity, at least to the north, east, and west of this property, it is a uniformly single-family area.
 Taking a little bit more broader scope, you do immediately see apartments out the back door to the southeast of this property. This is largely reflected in the colors you see here. As you venture more into the orange areas of the map to the south and further east towards the university campus, you begin to see more of a diversity of housing, much more in the way of attached residential housing.
 diving a little bit deeper stop did identify the the the the potentially challenging issue of some of the infrastructure in the area there is water and sewer but the streets that are immediately adjacent to the property do tell two very different stories Hartman's fairly wide it does accommodate on street parking whereas
 and does have curb and gutter, whereas Palmer is fairly narrow. It appears to barely meet, or if only meet the fire code minimum requirement of 20 feet of paved width with open ditches on both the north and south sides of it.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, rezoning would certainly place additional housing near what arguably the city's largest attraction or amenity or employer, however you'd like to phrase the University of Arkansas as its role is in Fayetteville.
 So, it would create the opportunity for more housing near there, additionally, more housing near Martin Luther King with all its associated services and restaurants and the needs of that nature. However, it also does not necessarily pose the most appropriate amount of infill requirements
 infill development as you can see in its infill rating, which is fair to mid. It's about a seven with getting credit for the fire response times from the station at Hollywood, the proximity to Ramey Junior High to the southwest, the trail along Razorback, of course, and Hotts Park to the north being the most prominent. Of course, Razorback Transit, perhaps unsurprisingly, does have two stops within very close proximity to the northeast and southeast of this property along Graham.
 As far as other issues go, I've mentioned this before, but again, it does bear mentioning it. Again, is the street infrastructure. Hartman, again, is a partially improved street. It does have the width of a typical residential street that can accommodate on-street parking with curb and gutter to help direct stormwater. Whereas Palmer on the north side of the property lacks both of those things and has open ditches on both the north and south.
 Another issue that was certainly considered by staff and discussed by the commission at some length was the
 institutionalized or codified lack of density allowance in the RIU zoning district from staff's perspective that is only a perceived lack of density requirement if you look at a zoning code through the lens of our development requirements there are a number of other things that help mold and limit our density allowances in any of the zoning districts in the city whether it's the building height that's built into the code or parking requirements or other standards.
 So from that standpoint, staff feels that density is not necessarily a concern. The Planning Commission felt otherwise and did not, at least not all of them felt that the development code would adequately address that. Additionally, there has been a significant amount of public comment since the Planning Commission. At the Planning Commission itself, there was only one piece of public comment. There was quite a bit that was received today.
 would be used by 10 minutes if I was trying to summarize all of it. So I'll try to characterize it briefly because it does merit understanding what was said. It was definitely mixed, but almost fully in opposition. The comments and support did note, similar to what I said earlier, that it is close proximity to the University of Arkansas. The alternative to this would likely see redevelopment of this house as a bigger house or a comparable house and not necessarily contribute to the city's housing stock.
 Those opposed listed numerous concerns. From an urban design standpoint, people felt nettleship to the south should be the natural border between the more apartments and attached residential areas of this part of the city. There were concerns expressed about flooding and drainage, tree removal. There was concern about what manner of...
 Housing occupants would be there, whether it was renters with a more short-term tenure as opposed to owners. There's also a lot of comments about parking. There have been large areas of this part of town that have been signed for no parking, but there have been enforcement issues and concerns about that, especially with the large numbers of students that live in the area.
 And then in a similar vein, there were concerns about overcrowding and the city's ability to enforce that if this was rented out on a bedroom by bedroom basis, which is not uncommon in Fayetteville.
 All that said, and on the balance of issues, staff did end up recommending approval of the request to rezone the property to RIU. I noted previously the Planning Commission denied the request by a vote of two to five. This was on a motion to forward it to the council so that the supporting votes, the two in favor, stated some sentiments similar to what I've expressed from staff, which is this is an opportunity to introduce a more diverse housing stock to this area.
 and the density could be naturally limited by our development standards. Those opposed felt that the RAU zoning district was inherently incompatible and shared some similar concerns to the public regarding occupant tenure. And as for what's before the council tonight, it is on appeal again. There was a bill of assurance that was shared. It's in your packet. The three main pieces of it are it's limited to single or two-family housing where RAU allows single, two, three, and four-family housing.
 The bill of assurance would also limit development on the property to four units on up to four lots So basically four units is the main number to be keeping an eye on and that one whether it could be for single-family homes on four lots or two duplexes however you want to slice it and
 Lastly, in the cover of the tour briefly, since I know not everybody was able to attend, it was well attended. About half the council was there. There were legal representatives from a neighbor and from the applicant. And there were quite a few residents in attendance as well who were there to share their concerns. A lot of that conversation revolved around the street condition, particularly Palmer again, which is open ditch.
 parking in that area and wanting to have a better understanding of what was proposed and what kind of street improvements may be associated with that. There are also questions about topography similar to what Councilmember Turk brought up at agenda session. Despite only the northwest corner of the property being designated as hillside hilltop overlay district, the overall property does have a just shy of a 15% slope going from northwest towards the peak of Markham down to the southeast.
 There was a question also about easements on this property and offsite that I believe Councilmember Whitaker asked about. On the left hand side you can see the subject property. There's a 10-foot easement along the south property line which runs up the east property line, but at that point it's split between it and the neighbor to the east. And also downhill where the water runs for drainage purposes
 There's a ditch and there was a question whether that was in a drainage easement that the city would maintain. It is a utility easement, which is not typically an easement in which the city is able or willing to go excavate into for clearing drainage ditches because it could have utilities in it.
 That said, I'm happy to take questions. Again, staff is in favor of the request. The Commission did deny it and it is on appeal to Council. I'm happy to take any questions and I believe Will Kjellstrom is available as the applicant for the application. Would the applicant like to speak before the Council? You have 10 minutes. Good evening. Will Kjellstrom on behalf of the applicant.
 So we are like Jonathan said, we are asking this be rezoned from RSF4 to RIU. A little bit of history on this. When this went to Planning Commission, there were a couple of things considered that Jonathan didn't mention or maybe not consider, but they were at least said out loud. One of those was that the minimum lot width is 18 feet and that the density has no limit under the code.
 They also considered that this is a corner lot that has 250 feet of frontage and they took that to mean with an unlimited density that you could somehow split this into 14 lots.
 They also discussed the fact that all 14 of those lots might be able to have two of their own ADUs by right. So I know that four of you attended the site visit out there and I've asked, can you guys imagine 14 homes on that lot with each of them having ADUs while satisfying parking sidewalks and drainage requirements? I don't think so.
 I certainly can't imagine it. So like Jonathan said, there is a real physical impractical limit on the density that you can build on this under an R.I.U. zoning. I think that the Planning Commission failed to consider that.
 However, I think that's kind of irrelevant now. The point I'm making is that the considerations that got us to a 5-2 denial, I don't think were really realistic considerations. But in any event, like I said, I think that's all irrelevant now because we're offering a bill of assurance tonight.
 that will limit us to single family dwellings or two family dwellings, and will limit us to four units overall, and restricts ADUs being built on the property. So what you're looking at tonight is four units max, four units only with no ADUs.
 So, what this, I think what this bill of assurance has done is it's really distilled this request down into one question, which is, is up to four units appropriate on this property? I'm going to argue that it is. And I think that the Fayetteville City Plan 2040 also agrees with that.
 So, the Fayetteville City Plan 2040, it talks a lot about missing middle housing and increasing density and promoting infill. That's what we're doing here. The plan talks about, and I have some excerpts tonight, but I think granted that it's almost 10 o'clock, I'm going to keep this shorter. But what the city plan talks about is missing middle housing, increasing density and promoting infill and in particular, places that are close to employment centers.
 centers. This is close to a pretty big one, the University of Arkansas. So this is what we're doing. We're trying to build what the city plan 2040 asked for. As far as I can tell from reading all the plans of Fayetteville, this is what y'all are looking for. It would create a mix of housing types near major employment center.
 And I'd like to point out here that students are not the only ones that attend the university. There's also professors, administrators, and other employees. It's not only students that might want to live near the university. So I want to talk for a second about the house, the house itself that's there. Four of you got to see it at the site visit yesterday.
 This house sits lower than the road and from the road there is a steep drop off into a badly eroded drainage ditch. Because of the water problems of the house, it's got foundation problems and the house isn't in super good shape. It's probably the worst house on that street. So without a reason, we're basically left with two options. One of those is.
 rent it out to college kids or rent it out to whoever. You're going to hear from the neighbors that they don't want that. We don't really want to do that either. The other option is with the amount that we put into the home in order to sell it or develop it or redevelop it, we'd have to put a million-plus dollar house there, and I don't think that's really what Fayetteville is looking for either. Like Jonathan said, it doesn't really help the housing stock.
 And it doesn't really create a mix of housing types or an inclusive housing situation. So I want to go over some of the neighbors concerns that I expect you'll hear tonight and that I heard of the site visit. One of these is drainage. There are apparently some drainage problems out there. Like I said, there's already a drainage dish here that you can tell is pretty badly eroded.
 This is how the city fixes drainage problems. When developers come in and they add more impervious surface, your code addresses how they are to mitigate that. They have to possibly put in curb and gutter. They have to add impervious surfaces. But this is one of the ways the city mitigates its drainage problems by asking the developer to fix the problem that they cause. Parking.
 we're going to have to adhere to all parking requirements we plan to alley load this if we were to do street parking we would have to bring the street out far enough to put street parking on our own property but the point being that we will address the parking because the code requires us to and the last one that i imagine you're going to hear a lot is that they don't want college kids living there
 So I want to make it clear, we don't plan to put college kids there. We plan to build four units and sell them. Of course, you guys can't consider that because you have to think about what's going to happen if we don't build on it. We sell it to someone else.
 This is a college town. There's nothing that's going to stop anyone from living, anyone from renting any of the houses in this neighborhood to college kids. If whether someone was going to build something to rent it to college kids was a real consideration of this town, I don't really know how we'd get any rezoning done. But to wrap this all up, I think that this is what the City Plan 2040 is looking for. It gives a mix of housing types.
 These old big lots may have been appropriate in the 1950s, but we have 97,000 people here now. We need to allow for denser housing. So with that, I'm here if you guys have any questions. Thank you. Okay, council have any questions for the applicant or the staff? I do, something that did come up for me, when I went to the tour, I was parking on, let's see here, I'm gonna look at the streets. Parkland Hartman.
 And it seemed like you could only park possibly on one side. Is that correct? I mean, basically the closest parking was about four or five houses down. There were cars there, but if somebody wanted to park on the street, they can't park on Palmer, right? I mean, I don't think you can. That's correct. It's very incredibly narrow and you can't park. So it would almost, from the code stand, the development stand for from the city, it would
 Do we take that into consideration and that we require them to have the parking on site or do they just have to park far and try to come in?
 We are minimum. We do have minimum parking standards for residential. I'm sure many of you heard that we don't have minimums for non-residential, which allows people to redevelop downtown and elsewhere more easily. But we do have residential minimums on parking, and those have to be provided for on-site. There are a few exceptions to that, which are worth noting. One is that you can count on-street parking in front of your property if
 it is parkable. So for example, taking this property and what you recall from the tour, one option on Palmer and one thing we do see some developers do when they redevelop a property is they may improve their street footage to be wider to accommodate that on street parking. That is the only way they'd be able to get credit for parking in the public right of way. Otherwise, it would need to be accommodated on their property.
 Yeah, thank you. I mean, there were many other issues which you outlined very well and we were able to talk to the neighbors, which thank you for the tours, very helpful. And for all the neighbors and everyone and the owner to show up, we appreciate you showing up and answering all of our questions. I don't have anything else right now. I have a question for you, Jonathan. I meant to ask you yesterday and thank you for putting together that tour. That was great.
 So under the current zoning, how many houses could they build right now?
 I believe from what I have seen and I'm not seeing a survey, it's probably just one house. I think the property is about 15,000 square feet and RSF4 would require or requires 8,000 square feet per lot. So the applicant may be able to answer the actual lot area of the property better if they know that. So they could build a single family house and an ADU right now? Correct, yes. Okay, great. Thank you.
 Remind me, Jonathan, if you don't mind, about the ADUs. Can there be a detached one and an attached one or I've forgotten? There is an allowance where each property could have two ADUs, but then it begins to
 much more sticking points. We built a framework about occupancy when it comes to having two ADUs on a property where one of the ADUs has to be occupied by someone who's living on the property and that starts to nibble away the overall property occupancy allowance that you're afforded with ADUs if that makes sense. Okay, so yeah, so if it's an attached, it would need to have the owner would need to occupy one of the units.
 Okay, thank you. Anything else from the council? Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. Have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do we have on Zoom? Lisa Orton. Okay, go ahead.
 Hello, this is Lisa Orton and I live at 1663 West Hossle Road in Ward 4, which is the neighborhood just north of this neighborhood. Although we consider ourselves one big old happy family. I'm opposed to the rezoning. This is a really difficult area to build on. There are a number of reasons why it's difficult. Okay.
 There's the storm water drainage problem. You're probably already aware of the drainage issues that people repeatedly call in about in the neighborhoods.
 on the slope, this slope of Markham Hill, because of the development, the big house that was built on the street parallel to Hartman. It just caused, like, for Paul Waddell and other neighbors rushing, dirty water rushing through their yard. And, you know, when these
 problems happen, it is really difficult and takes time and money to fix. And often the other property owners have to deal with it. And it's just a real pain. As you know, how flooding and drainage problems are occurring all over Fayetteville. But this is a residential area on a slope.
 And it's just been difficult. Another area of concern is tree preservation. Every time there's an upzoning, rezoning to higher densities, it often results in either total deforestation or decreased tree cover of Fayetteville's trees. And you know how we all value our trees for not only their beauty and shade and birds and wildlife, but also for the environmental and ecological benefits.
 you know, to clean our water and air and help prevent flooding. Another area of concern is, you know, we like in our low density residential area, we like owner occupied homes. And, you know, many residents in our neighborhoods prefer owner occupied homes rather than Airbnbs and other short term rentals.
 Because we value building long-term relationships, you know, and long-term support of the local schools, the neighborhood schools, and investing in beautifying our yards and homes and having walkable streets without too much traffic and these illegal parking issues.
 And another area of concern, as you've heard, is the parking and the noise issues. And the Fayetteville Police Department is already aware of the many calls in residential neighborhoods, but especially this one.
 where higher density and increased occupancy of unrelated people in homes cause, you know, illegal and crowded parking where emergency vehicles have difficulty, like on Hartman, you know, and Palmer. And also just disturbing the peace with too much noise. I mean, you can just talk to the police. They know about all the calls they get from those areas. Yes.
 And so the property requesting and upzoning is on the edge of our lower density residential area, but it's still part of us. And most of us just don't want a high density creep into our older historic neighborhood. And we are a historic neighborhood, and I'm sure eventually it will become official as
 this continue the grant to study all the old houses in our neighborhood um so anyway i'm against any up zoning um in parcels within our low density uh neighborhood
 But I like the bill of assurance. I think it's a great, I really respect the owners for offering that. I would love to see the city council look into another, creating another kind of zoning criteria that meets the needs of these older historic neighborhoods and have really strict drainage stormwater guidelines.
 And I'm running out of time, but you know, preserves our older trees and things like that. But I think strict drainage stormwater criteria is really, really important because we are so tired of having to take care of other problems caused by development on our hillside neighborhoods. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Who else? Nobody else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay, who do we have in the chamber like to speak to this? My name is Tom Bohannon. I live at 48 South Palmer. Okay, I'll start again. My name is Tom Bohannon. I live at 48 South Palmer. The numbers don't really jive, but the house is
 that 1678 Palmer that is in issue here is actually two houses from mine, so ignore the numbers. But we're a 40-year resident of that area, so we're pretty familiar with the people and what they wish in that area. And the rezoning would be totally different from any other resident in this area.
 In fact, it ruins a long time single family residential area. Residents that are there are strongly opposed to the changes that are proposed in the rezoning. Most of those people have been there for years. They have nice yards.
 and they like having the space, you condense all of these buildings they're building, you're gonna have houses that are stuck 10 feet apart with no green space around them, which is gonna ruin the neighborhood. The, along that same term, you're going to inherit for everybody that moves in there, traffic and drainage problems both.
 That is, as was stated, narrow streets doesn't have reserve area for parking. I think that if zoning is left where it is at this time, that you would have a greater appreciation of the area.
 I respectfully request that the City Council honor the wishes of the residents and decline the rezoning.
 i think everybody in that neighborhood would be gratefully appreciated and the places would hold the value instead of declining by having numerous buildings built on one small location thank you much appreciate it thanks tom who else would like to address nobody excuse me good evening my name is robert
 I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill and I've been hired by two of the neighbors to speak against this rezoning. In that regard, I would hope that you all had a chance to read my communication that I sent out this afternoon.
 So I'll not read it again, but I would like to hit a few things that I, excuse me, that I heard tonight. Will said that the Planning Commission
 I guess was maybe led to believe by perhaps myself that the capacity or the density with the IRU zoning would be incredibly large. Well, I think the Planning Commission knew at that time that on that acre, it couldn't be,
 unlimited, that it would be restricted by various and sundry things, whether it was parking or whether it was drainage or what have you. Further, he verbally said that he would do a bill of assurance, which indeed he now has done, and so even with that in their mind, they still turned it down five to two. So I just don't think you ought to believe that the Planning Commission voted that down
 voted the way they voted because they thought this was going to have a monstrous density. They knew it didn't. First of all, or another matter is, and I think Ms. Wharton, who just spoke via Zoom, I thought she made a lot of really good points, and one of them was about the trees. The tree canopy, I think, is 25% for RSF4. It's 15% for RIU.
 I think this developer would tell you that if he doesn't get this rezoning, then he's flat out of luck. Well, my clients built a really nice house right across the street. And as we've already heard, you can build anything.
 what is a nice house and then another dwelling, another stand-aside dwelling. My point of that is that the only use is not what the developer is asking for. You can build a regular old house and that would work just fine. And this is a crazy notion, it would be compatible with the rest of the neighborhood.
 Now, y'all, when you're thinking about rezonings, every rezoning that I've ever looked at, you start out with this form that the city gives you, and number one, you pay your fees, so on and so forth.
 But the fourth thing on every rezoning, you have to have a statement explaining the compatibility of this rezoning, proposed rezoning, with neighboring property and explaining why the proposed rezoning will not unreasonably adversely affect or conflict with surrounding land uses. I'm not saying that in their petition they didn't give an explanation. I'm saying it just wasn't a very good explanation.
 What I'm saying is that what they are suggesting compared to all those single-family homes on Palmer does unreasonably and adversely affect or conflict with the surrounding land uses. It just does. And, you know, I know you may be kind of tempted to say, okay, well, this is a good infill. Gosh, we've got to go with this. This is a good infill.
 Well, I don't think you can disregard that requirement of compatibility and just try to go toward, well, we'll have more affordable houses. We've got infill. You've got to first make sure it's compatible. And I don't think you can get past that. So I'd ask you again, please do not pass this and I'd be ready, willing, able to answer any questions that you might have. Thank you for your time. Okay. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. We used to keep the city goals displayed on those two screens behind y'all and it was great to have a reminder for the council and the public.
 what councils that came before you had unanimously decided were important priorities for running the city. One that was always flashing by up there was our need for attainable housing and I worry that we may have forgotten that with some of our actions lately. Let's talk about compatibility because this is a neighborhood and
 Its current zoning allows for houses full of people that reside there. That's basically all that's allowed. The new zoning would allow for housing full of people who live there. If we're saying that people are not compatible in the neighborhood, now we're starting to parse lines on which people. We hear that we don't want students there.
 Folks, that's discrimination, whether it's age discrimination against the young, whether it's income discrimination against folks who can't afford larger, more expensive houses. It's kind of gross, and I really wish that we could let the anti-student sentiment die two blocks from campus.
 you know how i feel about the bill of assurance it's a lifetime limit that's going to far surpass any of the neighbors in the neighborhood now that object to the uses but it's fine whatever has to happen here to to allow this property its next logical increment because the developer or the applicant has explained to you two possible two possibilities here they can develop it sustainably with a few small houses they can develop it
 financially sustainably with one large house, but they left out the third option. And if we remember that the university is once again bringing in a record-sized freshman class that they are not prepared to house, they're housing freshmen off campus in hotels, don't believe for a second that that's going to change.
 But someday they may decide that they need to build more housing of their own to house their students. And when the university comes knocking to buy the property two blocks away, they're not going to pay attention to our zoning. They're going to do with it whatever they want and they're not going to worry too much what the neighbors think. Now, I never suggest someone leave Fayetteville because I believe this town has room for everyone.
 but when retirees living two blocks from campus don't want students, I wonder if the problem is not the students. Okay, thank you, Kyle. Anybody else? Yes, please. Hello. My name is Karen Peers. I live at 1634 West Hotts. Part of my yard is touching Palmer. We don't have a problem with students.
 At all. About every third house probably rents to students. We have a problem with the student parking. They are on the street. Right now the police are on our streets getting hundreds of cars that are parked illegally. They bless their hearts they can't read those don't park on this side of the road sign. We try to help them. They haven't figured it out yet.
 We can't get fire trucks or ambulances down our streets, probably three nights a week. That's a problem. Palmer is one of the more narrow streets in the neighborhood. The parking on this lot that they're wanting to put four homes on, they will be parking on Hartman, which is already totally congested, especially at night.
 That's our main thing. We love the students. They are fun. We've got all of our old folk and we've got our college kids. That's one of the reasons we do like being there. We love the university. So I oppose this because mainly the safety of emergency vehicles getting to my home. There is the drainage issue. That's an ongoing thing. Nettleship is known for some beautiful town homes.
 The second you turn off of Nettleship onto Hartman, you know you're in an older area. It's like the lady who called an historic area. It's wonderful. It's called Professor Hill and it does have a lot of beautiful homes, a lot of students, a lot of retirees. We all get along except for the parking.
 That's my main thing. I do not understand why the gentleman said he would have to build a million dollar home. We don't have but a few million dollar homes in the neighborhood. It's, we're not, we do have a few, but he wouldn't have to do that. Thank you. Thank you. I oppose it. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So,
 i don't have to ask the ward one uh council members if they've heard from anyone so we can we can cut that one to the chase yes oh sorry sorry i'm doing this i didn't see it
 so you haven't heard from several people yes we heard from several people and then you know we also were greeted with some signs by the neighbors as well for asking for support so I felt like there was pretty
 There was a group effort from the neighbors, which is always helpful. It's very helpful when the neighbors come together to get kind of what they want, how they want it. It is a very clear, distinct vibe from when you come into Hartman.
 And if you look at the map from the aerial, you can see it's RSF4. And, you know, they're really crowded with the multifamily all around. And it kind of feels nice to kind of come in and have that
 be a different feeling and a different vibe. And I do think that that does bring a diversity. Diversity also includes more big expensive homes that maybe a professor or somebody could live there or dean or somebody. But just on the other side, just three houses down, there's tons and tons of row houses and tons of multifamily dwelling and everything. So I think we have a variety there. So the character for me, I think, you know,
 Attorney Rhodes said it really well that that's the distinction besides that the grade also was that was very helpful 14 and a half percent grade. I mean, it just kind of goes straight down and got to see that road a ditch. And I know we had some questions about if that was something we could work on.
 for the city because it's we had neighbors trying to pour concrete in there to try to fix the ditch themselves and anyways so um there's some long-term infrastructure issues that really can't to me doesn't support um a lot of housing in there so i won't i won't be supporting the rezoned i don't have any other comments
 That tour yesterday was really enlightening. There is a very, very steep slope, 14.5%. And behind it in that corner as it's sloping down, there are huge retaining walls that that apartment complex has had to build. So to me it looks like there's been really long-term issues, and we've also heard from the neighbors about long-term drainage issues.
 The more impervious surface we put there, the worse this is going to get. And I do not believe that our drainage standards or the requirements that would be made with these developers would mitigate that. There's just the slope is too steep. There's too much water that's flowing down there.
 as we talked about before the parking the streets are extremely narrow I've personally gotten several phone calls from neighbors in that area even though it's Ward 1 Ward 4 boundary is just one block over and about what can we do with all the parking problems who can we call with the police department this is this is an ongoing issue it's a continual issue right now with this level of density
 Those the streets are extremely narrow. And, you know, I kind of feel like when you purchase a property, you know what the zoning is already. There's no guarantee that you can rezone anything. You know that when you buy that property, that's an RSF for property.
 and if you make a bad business decision it's not our place to rezone it so that you can make money you know you know what the zoning is when you go in there especially in this neighborhood that has a really distinct vibe and character and feel about it so i i will definitely not be supporting uh the rezoning for all those issues
 If the slope were different, I might be a little bit more open to additional housing, but it is just way too steep there, and there's already been problems, historic problems in a historic neighborhood. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Jones? Yes. Yes.
 Inion? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property ascribed, rezone and petition RZN 22-029 located at 1678 West Palmer Place in Ward 1.
 Approximately 0.35 acres from RSF4 residential single family, four units per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Move the motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Caravans, please call the roll.
 Jones Yes Kenyon Yes Whitaker Yes Scroggin Yes Bunch Yes Kirk Yes Hertzberg Yes Harvey Yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-029, located at 1678 West Palmer Place, in Ward 1 for approximately 0.35 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, 4 units per acre, to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay, a yes vote would be for the appeal, and no vote would be against the appeal, correct? A yes vote would pass the zoning.
 it takes five votes to pass the zoning and a no vote would not pass the zoning the zoning would remain as it is right now okay i was just reading it was an appeal so anyway okay here would you uh any final comments sorry you know um jonathan um they have enough lot width
 I wish they had enough total square footage to be able to keep RSF4 zoning do a lot split. I think two homes would actually work in the neighborhood, be a win-win for everybody. And so I know we don't have the exact measurement on the depth, but I mentioned that because they do have enough width to go ahead and develop two lots.
 Mr. Mayor, I have to admit that my primary concern is, despite having stormwater management standards given the slopes and soils of the city of Fayetteville, and despite people's best intentions.
 we end up getting a significant number of calls for people living downhill from developments that feel they're impacted despite all of our best intentions and there was a comment earlier that we may need to actually again continue to review our stormwater management guidelines and I think that this is an instance where that's actually would be entirely appropriate and so I
 That's all I have to say, sir. Okay. I've got a question for staff. The water that's coming here is mostly coming from RSF4 lots, correct? That's correct. Yeah. So I mean, like the argument to not go above RS4 is weird because you're like, oh, their RS4 is messing up this.
 So, I feel like we're kind of chasing our tails that like the zoning that's causing the problem is the reason that we can't go to different zoning. So I'm going to vote against the appeal just because of Palmer. But that logic, I hope we kind of think about that more as we go forward.
 RSF4 is actually causing the problem. That's now the excuse for not going higher than RS4 here. I know this close to the university and we should think about this, it'll just turn into an Airbnb. That's the thing that makes the most sense being this close to the university. So we kind of, if we're close to stuff that people want to be and we don't kind of upzone it.
 It's just gonna turn into Airbnbs and that's gonna be an issue just across the city. People wanna be somewhere. I assume somebody may buy all this up at some point and then turn the whole thing into something larger, which that might be the university. I think the university could literally buy all of Palmer and turn it into student housing. The other final comments. Well, I understand the neighbors
 compatibility argument. Living in a neighborhood that is also across the street from the university and knowing how the parking is, that is tough. We have narrow streets, but Palmer, all the streets over there, they're not developed. So I can only imagine, I think there is a valid argument that there's a lot of parking there and it would be hard for an emergency vehicle to come and go.
 The slope there is peculiar. It's my understanding that the hillside protection is next to it, but it's not on this. So really, it's right at the edge of what we're protecting anyway. And we can make all the assumptions in the world, but on the hillside protection, it is there. It is not on this property, but it's close enough that I think that you have to consider that as...
 reason to look at the runoff and the stormwater management and I do think that it's a historical neighborhood that has a neighborhood vibe everyone's calling it and if you want to know what's going on in a neighborhood I say this all the time go talk to the neighbors you know I can make all the assumptions in the world that this is a neighborhood that has a history of being
 You've lived there a long time, of being very tight-knit community. It is a community that is diverse, and I just don't think it's compatible if you change it. So I understand the logic of keeping it what it is. Anybody else? Okay. Kerridge, please call the roll. Jones? No. Ginnion? No.
 Whitaker? No. Scroggins? No. Fudge? No. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Harvey? No. Okay, well let's move along to number eight. Oh, mercy me. A resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign an energy savings performance contract with Johnson Controls Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 20-06-20.
 in the amount of four million four hundred and forty eight thousand three hundred ninety nine dollars to authorize mayor jordan to negotiate and sign agreements with the advertising and promotion commission and the federal public library for the payment of their respective projects costs and to approve a budget adjustment peter
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. One final item for you this evening. I'll try to be as brief as possible. Staff is recommending on this item approval of an energy savings performance contract with Johnson Controls to execute 84 energy efficiency upgrades across 47 different city buildings.
 The energy performance contract will save the city nearly $4 million over 20 years and will reduce our city building energy consumption by 27%. The completion of this project, including the deductive alternates, will also increase the city's clean energy consumption percentage to 75%.
 For the benefit of our newer council members and for the public, I did want to just give a brief history on this project and on the city's energy action plan, which was adopted by the Fayetteville City Council in 2018 and was the city's first energy action plan. It had an overarching goal of reducing the city's greenhouse gas carbon emissions by 80% by the year 2050.
 And underneath that goal are sub-goals of reducing government building energy consumption by 3% per year and increasing the city government building energy consumption of clean energy to 100% clean energy.
 by the year 2050. Since that plan was adopted in 2018, the city's made some huge steps forward on our clean energy goals. We've moved from 16% all the way to 72% clean energy by bringing on two large solar arrays at our wastewater treatment plants, along with battery storage at those wastewater treatment plants.
 But at the same time, our energy usage, our energy consumption has been increasing due to the footprint growth of the city, the number of buildings we have, the number of employees we have, and the number of services that we offer. So later in 2019, the sustainability department identified the state of Arkansas's energy performance contracting program as the best pathway forward to achieve large scale energy efficiency and reduce energy consumption at our city buildings.
 In May of 2020, we advertised a request for qualifications for energy performance contracting contractors. And in February of 2021, the City Council approved a contract with Johnson Controls for a project development agreement to begin audits on 250 city buildings, parks, facilities, outdoor lighting, and other assets that we own.
 If this contract that's before you tonight is approved, then that will begin an 18-month construction period for us to execute 84 energy efficiency, weatherization, water conservation, solar energy, lighting, and other energy efficiency upgrade projects across 47 of our buildings.
 The fully scoped energy performance contract within your packet is $8,087,014. However, the city has elected to take a number of deductive alternates by eliminating some projects that were originally scoped for City Hall, for the old police headquarters building next door, for our town center and for our library.
 The project cost after exercising those deductive alternates is the contract price before you tonight, which is $4,448,399.
 The city is continuing to work with and negotiate with the Advertising and Promotions Commission and the Library Board on the terms for reimbursements for the solar and HVAC projects at their facilities. And if we can reach a reimbursement agreement with those two entities within a 60-day period, then we'll bring those projects back into the mix and those prices are locked in for 60 days.
 Ultimately, the energy performance contract will generate nearly $4 million in savings over 20 years with $2.8 million of those savings legally guaranteed and tracked through a 10-year measurement and verification agreement with Johnson Controls.
 Some might ask the question why we would want to spend $4.4 million to save only $4 million. And at agenda session, Council Member Whittaker asked a question that got at that point. I'm trying to understand what projects would need to be completed in the near term. So we were able to get an answer to that. And the answer there is that the 45 HVAC improvements that are included in this scope are
 that are HVAC systems that are either 20 plus years old or have refrigerants that are no longer readily available and all the lighting upgrades that are included in the project, which are upgrades from non-LED lighting to LED lighting. The total between those two,
 project types is $1.1 million. So I think that answers that question for you. There was another question about grants and rebates being included in the project. I wanted to report that we've identified around $70,000 in standard utility rebates for the lighting projects that are included in the project. And then on top of that, there'll be additional customized utility rebates for the HVAC, for many of the HVAC and controls projects.
 Those amounts won't be determined until we actually make application with the utility companies once we've started the project. So that savings will be in addition to the $4 million savings that we've already accounted for here. Also, we did speak with Johnson & Patrols to clarify about grant opportunities.
 There have not been any grant opportunities identified as of yet to fund these projects, but if any do become available, then they will absolutely be our partner and have experience helping other clients identify and achieve and pursue those successful grant opportunities.
 So just in summary, we've got 84 efficiency upgrades detailed in this contract. They'll reduce our city energy consumption in our city-owned buildings by 27%. They'll also reduce our water consumption by 10%. If we get all four solar arrays included in the project, including the ones at the town center and the library brought back into the project, then we'll have another half a megawatt of solar clean energy generated added to our portfolio. That's an additional 3%
 3%, taking us from 72% up to 75%. And the combined reduction in energy consumption and clean energy added to our portfolio will reduce our greenhouse gas emissions, our annual greenhouse gas emissions by over 1400 metric tons annually. And again, we'll save the city nearly $4 million in maintenance and energy over 20 years.
 The total cost, again after exercising the deductive alternates, is $4,448,399 and is being funded primarily out of the city's reserve fund. I would also be remiss if I didn't mention that last evening the project was discussed at the city's Environmental Action Committee and they voted in unanimous support of this project.
 uh with that i would be glad to take any questions i also have representatives from johnson controls on zoom if you have any questions for them about the project mark i guess i don't understand about the public the fayetteville public library and the a p uh the terms of the repayment we don't have correct but yet we have the amount that we want to finance
 Right. The cost of their projects is not included in the 4.0. It's not included? It's not included. Okay, that's what I needed to understand. But we have their pricing locked in for 60 days. So we're talking to both organizations. If we're able to come to repayment terms with them, then the price that the contractor has given us for those two projects. Perhaps I'm remiss, do we have what that locked in pricing is?
 It is in the packet. I don't know those numbers off the top of my head. It's for the two of them, it's approximately a million and a half. It's between 1.5 and 1.6 million. Those have been deducted like Peter said. The 4 million four we're talking about is strictly for city buildings. Okay. Yeah. That's what I wanted to know, cause I don't,
 Sarah, have we talked about this at AMP meeting? I mean just we've talked about it but not about terms. I don't know. I don't think we talked about terms ever. So that's what I'm concerned about because I'll look into it. Thanks Peter. Somehow I missed that when I was looking at the information. How much do we pay for the solar arrays, the wastewater treatment plants?
 Those were approximately $23 million investments. The amount that we put into those projects was approximately $800,000 worth of what we called make-ready costs. There were utility upgrades that had to be made at the two wastewater treatment plants.
 We don't own those solar arrays outright. We have a small share in the ownership. The primary ownership is with today's power, the solar developer. So we have a 20 year agreement to buy all of the electricity at a set rate.
 for those two projects. So the comparisons between that and this, where we would own these solar arrays is a little bit of apples and oranges in terms of the terms between the two. And what's the payback period for those solar arrays? Those- Like water? Yeah. Like our initial 800,000? It was around just a little bit under five years
 This is 20? Yeah, yeah. The larger scale of those arrays, ground-mounted being generally a lot more cost-effective than roof-mounted, generally improves the payback for those type of large-scale ground-mounted facilities. Yeah, I mean, I'm kind of looking at this, and I'm just wondering why we don't do that again. As a matter of fact... We would go to 100% clean energy and have a quicker return.
 Yeah, so we are working on an RFP right now to do additional ground-mounted solar arrays. So what you're seeing before you tonight and additional ground-mounted solar array. I don't, to me, it's not a question of either or. It's a both and type of a decision to try to maximize our solar and clean energy generation potential. Yes, I've instructed Peter to start to work on solar panels. Meaning?
 but we're just starting right now on what we got but your points will take it slow all right thank you and to be honest with you i'm trying to lock down the prices of our buildings because it's going to get if we don't lock it in before the first of september then the buildings they they won't hold their prices like a lot of people i'm discovering this day doesn't hold their prices
 But since we're working on the financings with the library and the A&P, they gave us 60 days, but they wanted to lock these 84 buildings in before the 1st of September. So we have to make a decision tonight, is what you're saying? Either that or I'll have to call a special council meeting. I know some...
 well okay if you'd rather me call it I move we approve the resolution second oh but we haven't had public comment yet sorry pause I'm getting that I have no hands raised on the same mayor do we have anybody wants addresses in the chamber okay right back to council and if we approve the resolution second okay
 I do have a comment. Yeah, I've got comments too. Sure. Okay. I guess since we haven't discussed it at advertising and promotion, and it's a big deal about how we're financing things right now on capital projects, I don't feel like I can vote for this because there is such a big unknown, but maybe it's just me. I don't know. I do not.
 I'm sorry. Sorry. Paul, you know, I don't think we did. I don't either. I can't remember. Let's rediscuss the issue.
 What we're talking about right now is lax to send for $4.4 million. Those are the other buildings. Those are not A&P and those are not the library. But it also says in here that it gives the mayor the right to negotiate and I appreciate that but does that mean to negotiate and approve the terms?
 Well, he would. Okay. He would or could bring it back either way. But it'll come back either way. We could come back with it. And we have 60 days to do that. So you would have two months from now.
 make that decision the ANP and the library they'll hold the prices through y'all for the ANP and the library yeah well I was just like I say the biggest thing is we've been talking about capital improvements especially at the town center in the our meetings and setting priorities and this I don't think that we have discussed that much about the terms so I was a little surprised okay
 All I can say is I talked to Molly a little bit about that and she'll have discussions with you. I don't think you've discussed it in depth is my understanding. Like I said, that's my understanding. I don't know I wasn't there. But that gives 60 days to make that decision with the prices held if you do it currently. Well, it's nice to have the prices locked in. Right.
 and i've got until the first september i believe right the first september they said there's going to be a price increase they wouldn't hold it any longer than that and it was over 200 000 increase but they did agree to hold the prices for those two as deductive alternatives okay if in fact we decide to go with them they're not in there now but they'll hold the estimated prices
 and a decision would be made within 60 days, which as Lionel said, he would bring back to you with any terms, depending on what way the library and the A&P Commission go. Okay. Can I see the timeline on this again? Y'all showed one earlier about when y'all started discussions on this. When was the first time that as a council we would have been able to see this
 if we weren't following what other committees we weren't part of were doing. So the project development agreement was brought to you all in February of 2021, and that is what kicked off the energy audits for all the projects. And I guess the next time that we would have heard about this is here.
 I provided an update at the energy, as part of the energy action plan update last June. So I would have told you a little bit about it in June of last year, but we weren't super far into it at that point. Okay. And had you picked the company up at that point? Yeah. Okay. Okay. I mean, this is, you know, I mentioned at the last meeting that sometimes I feel like
 And I mentioned all departments and stuff is brought to us and it's like it's a take it or leave it. And we don't really have time to go through all of the stuff. Because it seems like there's two entities, the public library and the A&P commission that don't even really
 know what they're going to be agreeing to or not. So that's kind of problematic. I'll probably vote for this. But hopefully, I was trying to lock down the prize. I mean, they came to me and they said this is all we will do. So I had to make a call. And I did the best we could do. So but they said
 First of September was it because they've extended it once Right, we did ask them and to extend it once I think did we know about that extension? Pardon me. Did we know about that extension the council council? No, we didn't come to the council with that Okay, but we did that to try it. We did that to try to hold in the prices as best we could I think I
 The best answer we can give you Sloan is that nobody had anticipated This was a long project that took them a long time to vent these and look at exactly what Evaluate exactly the timelines the paybacks what could be done that would benefit us nobody ever anticipated inflation hitting at the point of time of debt and
 So there was no urgency at one point. And then all of a sudden, when these inflationary costs started hitting, we would have had to have it immediately. I think the original one, Peter, you can correct me if I'm wrong, they were looking at us turning it around in like a week or two, which there was no way we could do that.
 We asked them to defer it a bit, which we did, and then we brought it forward completed to you. But the actual answer is we never anticipated the inflationary cost that we faced early this year.
 Well, I am seldom contrary about things like this, but I know what we're talking about in advertising and promotion and the town center, and somehow it's not matching up with what we've been talking about, and then this comes along. When's our next A&P meeting? I don't have my calendar with me. We'll see. September 1st.
 Well anyway that's my concern. It's the second week is it? It is the second week in September but I'm sorry I have to I can't support it because I just don't feel confident that I'm representing the committee that I've been elected to responsibly if I had supported it. I will add one comment just that I realized that from Molly's perspective she's not here right now but she and I
 Paul and Molly have talked, Molly and I have talked, Molly and the Mayor and I are about to talk to at least begin the discussion about what's possible so that she can bring it to your A&P Commission. But we haven't done that. I'm under the impression Molly doesn't think the terms work. That would be fair.
 So I'm getting a little confused here tonight because if we pass this, this doesn't necessarily mean that those solar panels or energy improvements are going to be implemented at the AMP, right? And also at the library. It just means that those rates are locked in, right? So you can always say that doesn't work for those groups or those buildings. Yeah, I think somehow we're not being clear.
 What we're doing is holding the price that they had offered to do the library and the NP commission. Now, true, there's not been a lot of discussion with the commissions of either one of them. They're holding the price. They're not in this agreement, okay? They're essentially taken out and would allow us to put it back in the agreement with an
 to go forward. So what we're really talking about here that would be locked in is the other buildings. We could bring them back in roughly with a change order for those two buildings if in fact it went in that direction. We'd have 60 days to work that out if in fact they're interested. So that's kind of where we are. Does that help clear it up, Teresa?
 That's where I thought we were. I just wanted to make sure the rest of the council understood that. So we just locked the price in, but we're not locking ourselves in to the library or the A&P. So I see the risk here is that we lose this price, this good price for the needs that we have right now on our city buildings, right?
 So I hope that you all will be in support of this. It really gets us 3% ahead, where we were from 72% to 75%. And then Peter's going to have some other projects coming on in the near future that will hopefully get us to 100% real soon. I mean, wouldn't that be cool to be the first city government in the state to have 100% renewable? I'm not aware of any others that...
 where we are so it would be cool I get it I just I still well it's good if you were at our previous meetings over there and we were talking about capital and permits and this didn't really come up as an issue and then suddenly we're faced with I guess I'm taking
 I think the issue is if you pass this tonight, you have the option. Option. That's correct. You're just ensuring you have the option if you pass this tonight. It's up to the A&P Commission whether you want to do it. Okay. Well, that's, I understand. Mark, it's the fourth. I misspoke. It's not the second Monday. It's the fourth Monday of the month. So we'll probably be hearing about it at our next meeting. I hope so.
 Okay, well I guess when it said negotiate and sign agreements, I thought we were signing an agreement that was there. No, they're just agreeable. Because that's what it says here. It is the agreement with the city buildings, but it's not with the A&P Commission or the library. Well, that's not what this says. I know what you're saying. I read that. Advertising and promotion...
 Commission and the Fayetteville library. Okay. This would authorize the mayor to agree to that if the A&P Commission offers to do that and the same thing with the library. Okay. They just needed more time and we needed more time, but they gave us 60 days for those. I'm just trying to be responsible with my duties and it is a big deal of how we're trying to manage the town center right now.
 there's capital needs there so i was just trying to be responsible it's good okay so mr wedeker takes a turn here we started with an rfq and four firms responded so we didn't just pluck this firm out we had a prior relationship with them perhaps i don't know but we've been working with them
 The business decision for us to make is, is it better to piecemeal these things that we're needing to do, which sometimes it is, or do we have a global master plan that's going to save us money in the long run? What I heard is that we're going to spend 25% of this amount on simple equipment replacement anyway. So I'm looking at, you know, 3.3 million of additional expense
 up front with the hope that that's going to save me four million on the back end down the road. And so I'm looking at that 3.3 to 4 million ratio and saying if it saves us money,
 That's a good thing. We have no interest We're carrying because we're paying this out of reserves and the only expense is what income would you have earned off of those reserves? versus the savings on inflation by purchasing it all contractually upfront and locking in a price and The market is not bearing the kind of return that says We're beating inflation right now. And so from my perspective I
 If the library whom I trust has the ability as a board and with their director to say we do not want to participate in this and they have that authority and latitude, then we're not harming the library in any way. We're simply affording them an opportunity to participate or not.
 A lot of work went into this. I think the questions that are being asked are perfectly appropriate and legitimate. It was helpful for me for you to ask those, but I don't think we're committing anyone other than ourselves. And again, I look at it as a $3.3 million investment with a $4 million savings. And therefore, I can wholeheartedly support this.
 Even though it's a big price tag that makes me gulp. It's actually added to value for the residents of Fayetteville So whoever did this research I commend you. It's It's a big deal. I think it's good Okay, so we have did we have a moment when motion second vote Kara cold row Jones Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Erzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Very challenging evening. What announcements do we have? None, thank you, Mayor. Anybody got anything? Ready to go home? Yes, sir. This Saturday, the Washington County Historic Society's annual Ice Cream Social is taking place from 3 to 6 p.m.
 And everyone loves ice cream. Everyone loves ice cream. Be there or be square.