I would like to call to order the City Council meeting of October 1st, 2019. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Eddy. Here. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Well, look, Paul, all these people are here for your finance report. First order of business is Paul Becker's monthly finance report.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report is for the month of August. So that's eight months of the fiscal year or two-thirds of the year through. As you will recall, sales tax is up about 4.6 percent compared to last year for the month of August. That puts us behind in sales tax compared to budget about 0.07 percent. So we're catching up, nearing budget actually.
 If we look at the entire revenue collections so far this year, we are actually up 0.7% as franchise fees are up along with a couple of other fees, alcohol taxes, et cetera.
 General fund is right around on budget at this point in time remember that we had a hope to see sales tax Increase in a four to five percent range, but that's not going to happen this year However, it looks like we will need budget at this point in time for us the street fund street funds revenue is up four percent that's being driven basically by a increase in collections for the for the
 for the half cent sales tax on gasoline. Expenses are down generally, so the street fund is doing well at this point in time. Parking's up about 3%. Parking fees are up, but citations are down. I guess that's a good thing, actually. But total revenue is up 3%. We're down compared to last year, but we are
 Might ask you all to silence your phones, please. Go ahead Paul. Okay, but we are up 3% in total revenue Compared to budget for this year as far as parks development is concerned. We're up about 3% also on HMR taxes and
 So that fund expenditures are in line with what we expected at this point in time. Water and sewer sales are about 2% over budget at this point in time. So that's slowing down a little bit. Water usage is declining a bit during this period. As far as trash and recycling,
 The revenue is up about 5% compared to budget now remember that we budgeted We did not budget the increased rates and I have not adjusted for the increased rates that you all approved earlier this year We did in fact however budget expenses for the for the new parameters of the recycling and trash collection for the increased services there and
 So roughly we're just about in line with revenue expenditures, even though revenue is up 5%. That's about in line with where we should be compared to expenses. So we're doing well as far as the recycling and trash collection fund is concerned. Airport.
 Airport jet fuel sales are down about 7.6% compared to last year. However, they're flat compared to budget. So we're just about on budget with the airport, and expenditures are in line with, again, what I expected at this point in time. So through the month of August, we're doing well. We're pretty well on budget in all of our funds, and I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have for Paul on the financial support?
 Okay, thank you Paul. Thank you. We now have the Ozark Regional Transit report. Thank you Mayor, ladies and gentlemen of the council. My name is Jeff Hatley. I'm the public information officer for Ozark Regional Transit. Here to give my periodic report and I will be brief. We have finally turned around at ORT after the fire we had in January 2017 completely.
 Overall ridership for 2019 year to date is 168,994 and that's compared to only 151,118 year to date 2018. These are August numbers.
 That's an 11.8% increase in ridership as we finally turn around. Specifically, in August, 22,146 passengers used ORT compared to 17,983 for August 2018. Year-to-date ridership in Fayetteville increased.
 is 107,657, which is compared to 81,483 year-to-date in August 2018. Fixed route daily ridership is up 29% from a year ago. If you remember, August 20 of 2018 is when we made all the changes coordinating with Razorback Transit and made everything frequent and also the fare box is free now to the end user.
 Of all the Fayetteville daily riders, five and a half on average daily were wheelchair accompanied and 18 were bicycle accompanied. Daily ridership for July was 1,084, and though it dipped just a bit in August, we are seeing daily ridership back up to our pre-fire 2016 levels.
 Back in 2016 we had a record year and we were averaging 1,100 riders a day.
 Last week we received the final bus off of the assembly line from a grant received in April 2018 restoring every bus that we lost in the fire January 17th, January 2017. So we're completely restored. We've got 20 new buses over the course of the last two years from the 20 that we lost on that in that fire.
 The new tracking system has been installed in all of these new buses. As you can imagine, when we lost the buses, we also lost the GPS tracking system, so you couldn't have a phone app that worked.
 Those are being installed and eventually we will be able to track the number of patrons actually using each bus stop so we'll be able to give you better numbers as needed per bus stop and be able to design better routes around that.
 We're tweaking some bugs in the system right now. There's one particular bus stop that's showing that we have a whole lot of ridership there and we don't. There's no way it's possible. I think it's picking up two different transfer points. Passio Go is the name of the system and it happens to be the same one that Razorback Transit uses.
 Lastly, we've entered into a contract with an architectural and engineering firm, Tim Risely and Associates from Fort Smith, to design our new information and administration center. We hope to break ground before the end of the year and get that thing finished before Walmart gets started on their home office, and there's a lack of contractors to go around. So with that, that's basically what we've got, and I'm happy to address any questions or comments or concerns.
 What questions do we have for Jeff? Anything? Thank you, Jeff. Thank you. Okay. The next order of business we have tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the September 3rd, 2019 council meeting minutes. Number two.
 A resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olsen Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $37,408 for the design engineering surveying construction administration services. The expansion of any improvements to the township street parking lot at Gully Park to approve a project contingency in the amount of $1,592 and to approve the budget adjustment.
 Number three, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01, any amount of $65,950 for conceptual drainage design services associated with flooding near East Fairlane Street, South Elmhurst Avenue, and East Clinton Street, and to approve budget adjustment.
 Number four, a resolution to approve the purchase of Peterson TL3, the lightning loader truck from Peterson Industries, in the amount of $181,558.46 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source will co-opted purchasing contract for use by the Recycling and Trash Collection Division and approved budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve the purchase and installation of a vehicle lift and lighting system for the fleet shop from Mohawk,
 resources LTD and the amount of $124,831.23 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source well co-opted purchasing contract approved project contingency and the amount of $12,483. Number six, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with FTN Associates LTD pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $63,466.
 for the completion of phase one of an assessment of the lake federal spillway capacity and recommended improvements as required by the Arkansas Natural Resources Commission. Number seven, a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Olsen Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 and the amount of $114,220 for planning and design services associated with the lake Sequoia dredging operations and water quality improvements project.
 A resolution to approve the fourth amendment to the water tower attachment communication side agreement with Sailco partnership DBA Verizon Wireless to extend the lease for two additional five-year terms and increase the rental amount for the cellular communications equipment in the Gully Park water tank. And number nine, a resolution to approve an out of scope agreement with CH2M Hill engineers
 Incorporated any amount of noctic seed, $38,860 for software upgrades to the SCADA systems used by the wastewater treatment facility, operations lift, operations in water,
 distribution system operations and approved budget adjustment I will entertain a motion except consent agendas well Sarah I have moved that we accept the consent agenda is read mark I will second that we have a motion in second to accept consent agendas read Lisa would you please call the roll Marsh yes Kenyon yes Eddie yes yes yes yes yes yes yes it's yours yes
 Okay, thank you all. On our unfinished business, number one, an ordinance to amend Senate 2.18 Residential Parking Permit Program for the Entertainment District Parking Zone, Federal City Code to expand residential-only parking in the north zone of the Entertainment District Parking Zone. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Mark? I move that we go to the third and final reading. Sarah? Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. And in order to amend section 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the city of Fable Cove to expand residential only parking in the north zone of the entertainment district parking zone.
 Okay, mark you won't start it off you want staff to I'll be happy to start it. Okay There's a unique situation in the north side of the neighborhood north of our South I'm sorry south of Wilson Park and north of Maple Street. They're two very large sorority event centers that bring in a great deal of Parking
 Well, people looking for parking, and there's not parking for these events that are occurring at the two event centers. They're sorority houses, but really they have the capacity to entertain around 300 or more persons for events, and that capacity –
 It brings in a lot of people that the neighborhood simply can't handle with parking. Additionally, a lot of the persons that are affiliated with these sororities utilize the parking spaces as garage parking basically because they park there and their cars are stored there for days at a time and so it's not exactly a come-and-go parking situation. The additional
 hazard that is faced by people on Isla Street, and somewhat on Louise, but primarily Isla, is parking on both sides of the street in a haphazard way, and that's what we see a lot, prevents the easy access for emergency vehicles to come and go into the neighborhood on Isla Street. So there is certainly a safety concern there. If indeed there were lines and parking spaces
 That would eliminate some of this haphazard parking and make it safer in the streets that are currently very tight. Especially, it would be especially tight for an emergency responder if it were a fire truck, for instance. So at the request and a petition presented to me by neighbors that live in this area, I brought forth to city council the request.
 ordinance change that would expand the residential parking into the neighborhood. And that's what I did. That's what I was requested to do, and I think it's needed. Anyone that is in the neighborhood on a Monday evening when they're having their meetings at the sorority house knows how incredibly impossible it is to get through the neighborhood because of all this haphazard parking. So that's why I brought it forward.
 thanks okay any questions for mark i know that i had justin run a few numbers so you can look at costs and there's three or four options here that you can look at i thought you would want to see those
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. So, yeah, at our last council meeting when this item was discussed, staff was asked to look at the entire neighborhood from Louise on the north, Park on the east, Maple on the south, and Wilson on the west. Kind of do a parking analysis and come up with some different strategies or concepts that might apply there.
 to further this discussion. And so just going kind of back to the way things exist currently. So I don't know if you can see this in the audience or not, but this is Louise...
 Park, Maple, Wilson. The stretch of Isla is currently residential permit only. We've been conducting counts since the middle of August. This resident only section on average is utilized about 65% of the time, has a peak around 6
 The proposal that Council Member Kenyon brought forward was to expand the Dixon Street Entertainment District residential parking permit program to one more block of Isla Street and then these two blocks of Vandivenner.
 As previously stated, they are highly utilized, averaging about 87% utilization, but pretty well sustained morning to midday peak, lessening some in the evening. We also looked at the entire area of that neighborhood. And so if you looked at all the streets and...
 estimated the number of parking spaces that are included on those streets. It's about 66% average utilization, the morning peak and utilization lessening in the evening. Again, that was a two-week count from mid to late August. We've actually continued those counts.
 that utilization for the entire area has decreased slightly, uh, right around 59% on average for a little bit over a month's time. Um, again, a morning and early evening peak lessening, um, uh, in the evening. Um, just to kind of, this may be a better map to show the entire, uh, area here, uh, that we were looking at, um, for this analysis, uh,
 And so when coming up with potential policy strategies and concepts, we looked at different policy goals. So administrative feasibility, how easy is it to enforce, to implement? Is it flexible? What are the total net social and cost benefits? Is it equitable to both residents and non-residents?
 spaces utilized appropriately. You know, this is a valuable parking supply, so we wanna make sure that any policies are making the most and best use of parking supply. Perhaps most importantly, does it have resident buy-in? Does it have the ability to service non-residents? Is it something that you all would be willing to endorse and adopt?
 And then is it replicable? This probably isn't the only neighborhood adjoining the university where parking challenges exist. So is this something that we could expand upon in the future?
 So we looked at four different concepts, an examination of the existing conditions or the status quo, an expansion of our current residential permit parking program that we have in the entertainment district, a signage strategy aimed at deterring non-residents from parking in the neighborhood, and then a shared parking district.
 So examining each one of those very quickly, the status quo. So we have residential permits for that one block of Isla that's enforced by the parking division. The rest of the neighborhood is largely unregulated and enforced by the police department. There's high utilization on Vandiver and on those western portions of Isla and Louise. They continue to see at or above 80% utilization consistently.
 And there's illegal parking vehicles and blocking driveways, impeding trash pickup, things of that nature. If we look at expanding our current residential program that we have in the entertainment district, it's an existing program that would probably be easy to implement. There's no cost for the residents to participate in that program. It's subsidized by parking revenues.
 Of course, it does limit access to those parking spaces only to permit holders. Our signage only strategy, so obviously this is probably the simplest to implement, though the most difficult to actually enforce. It probably appeals to the better angels of the non-residents and uses the power of suggestion to deter them from parking in the neighborhood.
 that we looked at is a shared parking district. So no cost permits for residents and then hourly rate parking for non-residents. We also examined a way to determine the number of permits that could be allocated and issuing a cap on those permits based on parcel size, so in this example,
 We use the square footage of the parcel to determine how many permits a particular property would be eligible for. I should probably mention here that this is wholly an example and not at all a fully baked proposal for your consideration, but hopefully it just kind of gives you an idea of some different concepts that could potentially be pursued.
 When we talk about costs, very quickly, these are the costs associated with our current residential program that we have in the entertainment district. So this is as things exist today. We have hard costs for the permits themselves. And then we, if you figure our labor and operational costs on a,
 per space allocation basis. You can see that we're absorbing over $21,000 in costs for those 208 residential-only spaces that exist today. If we expanded those to
 over 160 spaces within that neighborhood, then we would increase that cost by over $15,000. We would absorb $15,000 worth of costs associated with management and operations. The signage only strategy, about $1,400 in costs, and then the shared parking benefit district is the only concept that actually has the potential for generating revenue.
 which would hopefully offset some of the costs or actually in this example, um, would actually, uh, net a little bit of revenue. So, you know, based on that, we would recommend, um, pursuing something similar to a shared residential parking district, um,
 I think what, you know, the purpose of this exercise, I think, is to get an idea of some solutions that you might want us to continue to pursue. And our recommendation, you know, based on whatever that is, I think we need to sit down with the neighborhood, with the sororities, with the university, and really workshop the details of that particular plan.
 Get that in ordinance form come back to you all with something to formally consider but based on our analysis We think some sort of shared Shared district would be worthwhile to continue to pursue Okay, what questions do we have for trace Thank You mayor Um Justin I read through your the plan here and maybe I'm a little confused or it was an oversight on my part in your shared neighborhood parking district and
 Wouldn't you have to be able to install some of those kiosks so that people could pay? And I didn't see any of the cost illustrated in there. Sure. It's a great question. I think our recommendation would be to make it a mobile payment only area.
 where you download our pay-by-phone mobile app that we have in the entertainment district that wouldn't require any infrastructure to be installed in the neighborhood. The only installation that would need to take place would be signage, educating people on what the regulations are and how to comply with them.
 Okay, a couple more questions. I assume that, but I didn't quite see that listed in here. In your residential parking only signage, you kind of showed that this would be a $1,400 deficit, but there was no exploration in the text about maybe charging some of the residents $10 or $20 for a residential parking permit, and thereby making it not cost the city any money?
 So it would be nice to kind of see some more options like that to be explored rather than just only going to a shared neighborhood parking benefit option. Okay. So as a way to achieve some cost recovery, charging for the residential permit. Exactly. It could be very minimal because it seems like a lot of your justification is
 for the staff recommending the neighborhood parking benefit district is because of the cost.
 And then I wondered if there was going to be any discussion about consideration from the fire department because, you know, I walked down Isla today and it was really tight. And I can't imagine getting a fire truck down there if there's another oncoming car and some other things. And so it would be nice to actually...
 maybe ask them what they have to say. Just from a safety point of view, it seemed like having only one side with parking, even though that reduces the parking quite a bit, it seemed like from a safety point of view that that would be something that would need to be considered in the mix. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Chief, you want to? So I don't have...
 I'm Brad Hardin, Fire Chief. I don't have the exact measurements of the street, but when we went and visited, we looked at it, and I believe it is wide enough to have parking on one side. Garner, do you know the measurements of it? It is something that is a concern, but I believe 26 or 27 foot, do you know the exact number on the width? Do you know, I mean, for parking on one side? I believe it is wide enough to have parking on one side. I've had a lot of requirements.
 our minimum requirement is 28 feet parking on one side it's assuming eight feet for the parking and 20 feet uh free zone or uh fire access that's what i have in my neighborhood that's actually be sure to explain two things that's for new development uh many streets in philadelphia do not achieve that goal
 And it's widely accepted around the country that adequate fire access can be provided with much narrow aisles of that. Okay. I guess the issue, just to clarify, is that right now there's parking on both sides of the street. And so it seems to me, I don't know what we're talking about the rules right here, but to limit that to one side might be...
 something that should be analyzed instead of both sides. I mean, that'll reduce the number of parking spaces, but I'm just concerned that you all be able to have access in there if there's an emergency. Yeah, so that is a valid concern, and we can look into that and see. Like I said, I don't know the exact width of that. I have not measured it, but we would apply, as Garner had said, the exact measurements. I'm not certain of, though. Okay.
 Okay, do we have any other questions? All right. Let's take some public comment. Okay, everybody, here's the rules. Everybody gets one turn at the mic. You have five-minute duration and less by a majority vote of the city council to give you more time, or they have questions for you. Keep your comments addressed to me. I don't want any questions.
 rude comments I don't want anybody engaged in a council member or anybody in the public those will be strictly enforced I want you to stay on topic of course the topic is about the parking situation that we're looking at right now and if you would give us your name and address who would like to be first
 Well come right on up. Looks like we have all the time in the world tonight. My name is Melinda Jones and I have lived for 38 years at 408 Isla Street. In that time, every house in the 400 block of Isla Street is now owner-occupied except for one. That house doesn't have a driveway.
 And as I've listened to people speaking tonight, I did see one glaring oversight. It has not been mentioned that if you go up Iowa Street from where I live, and also on the block where I live, there are places where there are no driveways.
 there is no place to park except on the street. Now if you go up the street past Vance Center, there are quite a few places on the high side of Iowa that have no driveways, period. They have to park on the street. Therefore, if you remove some of these parking places from these people who are parking on the street and own their own houses and pay taxes on their own houses, then you have just taken away their right to park
 in front of their house. This was a later remark I was going to make, but I'm going to make it now. If you own a house on Isla Street, which has gone up remarkably in value since I bought mine, because it is a unique street in Fayetteville. It has a unique location. It has unique architecture. Everything about it, its proximity to the university, to the park, to the Dixon Street Entertainment District, is unique. It is not as...
 it was pointed out, if you're looking for replicable studies, this will never be a replicable study. There is no other neighborhood that meets the same obvious criteria that Iowa Street does. We're unique in that way. So, I initially started thinking about this, and when I was reading the plan that has been introduced,
 It also occurred to me that it said that the background for this study was based by graduate students in 2014. I'm not exactly sure what that means, but I do think that it's irrelevant, and it's certainly dated, and should be disregarded. And the study that you have put out by our parking person over here was done over two weeks. Just two weeks. Two weeks.
 August the 14th to August the 29th, I believe. So that was two weeks that you looked at it. When I walked out my door at 5.30 tonight, there was one place to park on the 400 block of Isla Street. Now, that gets me to the next thing, is let's define what a visitor is. In the world of visitors, I consider visitors people that come to my house, and they have to park on my street, and I have to give them a hang tag to do it.
 They are not students. Students are not visitors. Sorority houses, those girls, very lovely girls, they are not visitors. The expansion of the sorority houses made happen a situation where they, as Mark pointed out, there was not a plan in place to accommodate their parking needs. Therefore, they had to spill out onto our area. They have no place else to go.
 Now we have a new sorority house that's also going to face Wilson coming in. And I don't know how big that's supposed to be, but I know all those lots got bought up. And I don't know how many people they intend to house, but there probably won't be enough parking for them either. So now we've got another problem that's getting ready to bloom right in our neighborhood again. Let me look at this for a minute. We pay property tax. Our property tax has gone up quite a bit.
 Because we are in a very desirable neighborhood. I think I mentioned that now if you take away our parking places Up this from us on 400 block our property values are going to go down I'm thinking that they will if you make sure that the people that live up the street and around the corner and all that Have a place to park I'm going to say their property values are going to go up because they will be guaranteed a parking place for the house that they paid money for good money for I'm also concerned about the
 my neighbors, which is the first reason that we came down here years ago, to have our little block. Actually, I don't know if we tried to include other people or not, but we had three disabled people. My name is Rebecca LaTourette.
 And I am a hang tag visitor to Isla Street on a frequent basis. So I am there visiting a personal friend. In fact, I have several personal friends who live on Isla Street. One of them happens to live close to a sorority house, and that's where the parking problem is, of course, the worst. I appreciate being able to get a hang tag so I can park right in front of her house and go in and visit.
 And one of the problems I see with the shared parking where, based on however many square foot your lot has, you get so many hang tags is, correct me if I'm wrong, but wouldn't that give the sorority house
 the option to have over 14 spots on that one block, and wouldn't that kind of be unfair to the people who actually live on that block who have actual visitors who are there for social visits? That's just, I see that there's a problem with this sort of shared parking in terms of how it's,
 divided between the sorority and then the people who actually live on that block. And I'm interested in this problem here because I see coming to my neighborhoods that we might be, you know, just parking is going to be an issue. I think we need to think carefully.
 about this. I do think it's a problem that businesses are not required to provide adequate parking for the people they bring to their business and their employees, and that's a problem, and it's going to continue to be a problem. And an event center is business, in my opinion. Thank you. Thank you. Hello, everyone. My name is Frank Head. I live at
 402 Iowa Street. That's the block that currently has the Entertainment District residential parking. Not sure if you're all familiar from all this description how it works, but since that was brought about we get two passes for the house, permanent passes, and then additional hang tags for
 visitors. As my neighbor Melinda pointed out, I don't really, if I'm having some of my adult children who I've raised in that house and now live in Fayetteville and pay property taxes along with me, if I have them over for a Thanksgiving dinner with our grandchildren, I don't really look at them as visitors. They're my family. And I guess I would
 I don't recognize anybody other than one person that lives immediately in our area, but I just ask you to think, before you choose on which is the appropriate method, like what if we propose that the entire city of Fayetteville pay a fee to park and that the entire city of Fayetteville, including each of you, if you had a dinner party, that beyond, say, two people, you don't mind...
 asking your guests to pay a dollar or two an hour to park if there is a parking space. Kind of a feeling it wouldn't seem too pleasant to you. So you might say, yeah, Mr. Headbutt, but you bought your house knowing where you were. Well, we bought our house in 1983. It actually looked a lot like it does today. We raised six children there. There were young kids running up and down our block 30, 40 years ago, 20,
 I've aged, our neighborhood's aged. For a while, we didn't have a lot of young kids. But the way it works with neighborhoods, it's turned over. And now we have a lot of young kids running around.
 I fought hard to keep that a neighborhood. In the 90s, we were really threatened. We were threatened by large churches that wanted to buy up properties in our neighborhood and did. There was a lot of conflict, but it was resolved peaceably. Everybody worked it out. Churches built their own parking lots. There were some trees lost. There was some anger over the trees, but...
 Trees have grown and we have parking there and we don't have houses in that neighborhood. This is a small neighborhood, so if you try to impose something that works for the whole city, you're going to fail because there isn't anywhere quite like it. But our parking problems are not because we moved to a small town and now our small town became a big city.
 We moved to a neighborhood where about the same number of people live. It's not that we've put up high-rise apartments down the street from us and now we have to deal with the parking. But somebody who I don't see represented here tonight, which is the University of Arkansas, did decide to expand from rough numbers 20,000 to 30,000. Okay, I think actual numbers maybe 28,000.
 Rough numbers, I believe that about half of those students are out of state. Rough numbers, I believe tuition is about $9,000, $9,000 to $10,000 for in-state. If you take, again, very rough numbers, 30,000 students at 10,000, that's $300 million.
 We're estimating the cost of expanding for our little six block area, the entertainment district parking process to be $15,000 to the city.
 Maybe the city could borrow $15,000 from the university out of that $300 million because the impact is because of their decision to expand and because of the extra income in the millions that they receive. So I'm being facetious, and pardon me, I don't mean to be rude, but it feels like we're being asked to pay a price for something we didn't ask for. We love those young women.
 They're smart. They come here. They add a lot to the university. But they don't live in their neighborhood for 30 years and pay $2,000 to $3,000 a year in property taxes. And they don't fight to maintain their houses and stay in. So I ask you to please accept the, I believe it's option two, but expand the current district. Todd Frank. Thanks. All right. Who else would like to address this?
 I hate speaking in public. I refuse to do it, but suddenly here I am. What did you call me? My name is Eileen Toma. You need to pull the mic. It's a mic. My name is Eileen Toma. I live at 414 West Isla. My daughter wasn't able to be here tonight to make me sound really eloquent, so please just be patient with me. The thing that I think that I find the most upsetting is when the Pi Phi house was being...
 developed. We had a very nice woman come by our door. She actually knocked on every one of our doors to assure us that what they were getting ready to build wouldn't impact us at all, that we didn't need to worry, that they had parking figured out, and that they wouldn't overflow into our neighborhood. And I was a bit rude, and I said, well, actually, I don't believe you, but I'm lucky enough
 that my city council was kind enough to just barely get a vote in to give us residential parking. And that has saved us. So I won't scream and yell and throw a big tantrum on the disaster that you guys are getting ready to build because I'm protected. But I'm hoping that some of my other neighbors might stand up and say something, which I think they did.
 When that thing got built, besides the filth and the nastiness that got sprayed on our house regularly, or the cracks that got in our plaster, besides all that, they raised the parking lot to where now the headlights go directly into our house. The fence that they promised us, the six foot fence, that didn't get built. And they even made a convenient little opening in the wall that they did build.
 that is so that the girls can run down the street and park at my lovely neighbors that live east of our block so that they can park there. Because I think that was their plan to begin with. And so, I feel like if they had been warned, hey, there's not enough parking in Wilson Park, we can't afford to have you guys come into our park,
 in our neighborhood and they still chose to allow that thing to be built and to have the parking be the way that it is, then the consequence shouldn't be for us to now provide parking for them because of the choice they made. So that's all. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hello, my name is Rolf Wilkin. I live at 318 West Isla Street.
 We're one block east of the current restricted parking. You know, I might not be popular here with my neighbors, but I think paid parking is the solution. But I do think it needs to be equitable, and I think it needs to be both sides of the street parking on the block of Isla that's only single-sided. And I know several members of the council are advocates of two-sided parking for traffic calming measures. So I'm not sure why we don't have parking on both sides all over the place in the park, including Wilson and on Maple, because certainly those streets could use some calming too. Thank you.
 And thanks to the Arkansas Democrat Gazette reporting, you know, they're building a third sorority house right there. So the university just bought that apartment complex that's immediately west of the Pi Phi house. So the situation is going to be dire pretty soon. So personally, I advocate paid parking. I think the sororities, by my calculations, will get 20 tags based on the square footage of their land. Kappa Delta will get 8 spaces and Pi Beta Phi will get 12 spaces for a total of 20.
 That block of Isla that's only one sided, that's 16 spaces approximately that we could add in parking. I think if we stick with the current plan, my block is still going to be overwhelmed by those 20 people continuously. So it seems like if we keep it fair and even, it would be good for the whole neighborhood. So thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Well, well, well. No.
 This is not sounding very good, okay? I am privileged, and I live in the 400 block of Isla Street, and I have residential parking, not entertainment district. We do not live in the entertainment district. We are a residential neighborhood, okay? We are swamped and totally surrounded by...
 the university and the sororities. Now I have nothing against them, I love the university, but tell me when they... Oh I'm sorry, fill his head, fill his head, okay. I'm sorry, but when permits were granted and they allowed the expansion of the sorority houses,
 it was not taken into consideration where these people were going to park. Well, if they don't have a car, that's fine and dandy, okay? But if you allow every single student to have a car, you must have a plan, and they are throwing us under the bus. They really are, and you are. I'm sorry to say, but Mr. Mayor and all my councilmen here,
 Do what is right for the citizens, the good citizens of Fayetteville. And I don't want to give up my residential parking. I want my neighbors to have that too. And I don't mind if we have parking on both sides of the street. That's fine. Maybe one side of the street could be paid parking. Okay? But we deserve to have residential parking. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address us? Okay.
 Hi, my name is Cindy Perrette. I'm at 320 Isla Street and some of the concerns to me and just reading through this analysis and hearing some of the comments it was mentioned earlier that
 And one of the comments says it is important to note that the parking utilization for the eight block neighborhood decreased over time as the school got year got underway. And I feel like and I know there was a comment that someone had, you know, people have been going through the neighborhood and it is tight, which I completely agree with. So I think that that when you saw that parking utilization decrease, I think that was for your benefit.
 Because I know at the first meeting and I heard rumors and I know that people have been all like, hey, they're going to be through the area, go park somewhere else. So it agreed, has tightened up again. So I would encourage that you take an announced and unscheduled tours. And some other questions and concerns that I have, and I hope my questions are appropriate. Okay.
 But when I'm reading about, I guess that would be the paid parking, which I am torn about. Because when I read this and then what I see is actually happening, I have a feeling all we're going to do is go back to status quo that you have to pay for. That's just what I see that would happen. I do, you know, reading that residents would be eligible to receive permits, allowing them to park on the street at any time. Visitors would be required to pay an hourly fee.
 So and then what concerns me where it says would recommend parking permits be issued based on the partial side in the neighborhood Okay, so that means the sororities are going to benefit and my question is do we consider the sororities residents?
 Because they I mean, I don't know and I'm saying that means they're gonna get all the parking permits so if they're gonna get a parking permits and It's also mentioned that there are certain places that are more desirable than others to park ie it's a 320 block of Isla that 300 block of Isla and going down from Isla to our vandiver from Isla to Louise on the corner on that 320 and
 That's where it's all going to be. So someone like me living there, great. I have a residential tag, but I'm going to have to park somewhere else because a sorority who's considered a resident is parking there. So that's just my concern. So it just seems to me that all it's going to do is just take us back to status quo that you have to pay for. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay.
 I'm Barry Vassar out of 463 West Isla. That's the 400 block. You know, there's a few things that have changed from meeting to meeting. One of them is declaring what this area is. I know originally...
 This was called the entertainment district from a few years back. One of the earlier meetings, maybe a month, six weeks ago, it was determined that maybe we shouldn't be calling it that anymore. It should be called the Wilson Park neighborhood parking situation. Now, I know we're not New York. Use words, don't use words, whatever you want to do, sway it whatever you want.
 But coming back to calling this entertainment district is, you know, after one of the earlier meetings is kind of, kind of a bogus thing. Some, something that kind of came up, I wish, I wish you could be here to thanks for all the wonderful things you've guys done for a community. But today's not that day. There's a belief by some of our neighbors and I, that council's pretty much made up your mind already. I mean, this is going to happen. Um,
 Decisions have already been made. You're going to turn existing downtown Dixon Street paid parking into a parking, into a walking park with a small amphitheater. I like the idea. It's a great gesture. Wait, where are you going to get the parking? You're going to turn our neighborhood into a parking lot. Oh, I get it. Yeah, that's right.
 Okay, so that's fine. So you have no regard for residents that have been there for, well, 30 plus years. I've only been there maybe 13. That's fine. You know, by pulling that into that area, there's already a lot of traffic through there. There's some garbage that gets dumped out, little paper here and there. Maybe a bottle throughout the night gets tossed out and we got to pick it up in the morning. That's acceptable. That's understandable.
 But when you start turning this into and I know where it's going, you know, this can be entertainment district So that means on weekends. We're gonna have individuals coming up through the evenings through the days maybe some public intoxication a little bit of noise and we're gonna lose our privacy in that neighborhood and
 I don't know if you guys value privacy. If you want people walking through your yard and maybe a chance of urinating on your rhododendrons, hey, that's fine, you know. But that's really, that is going to be a real concern. This little deal about, you know, sorority houses and the neighborhood parking, that's just...
 That's just part of it because I know what the end game is. You want to turn that over to the entertainment district. And I don't even think the sorority houses have seen that far into it. There's a lot more than that going on. You know, it's, um, about six weeks ago. Uh, I don't remember who it was, but somebody determined that, you know, by denying this area for entertainment district parking would be pulling the rug out from under some,
 some individuals on the arts and entertainments. And I'm thinking, well, that's all good and fine, but what about the people that have paid their dues there on that neighborhood? You don't consider that pulling the rugs out from under them to be able to enjoy parking in front of their house? How about something as simple as a common sense thing? Where's the plan for garbage and recycle? If all these spaces are packed,
 Are we going to designate a time, a day? Okay, now you're going to get a fine because you don't have that out of the street in time for us to use? You know, hey, this is kind of a mess. And to be honest with you, I'm a little bit upset that the council has not stood up to the university about expanding as far as they have. And it's only expanded up to this point so far. We're not even in the future.
 how far in the future is university planning and expanding? Well, it's going to go on forever. Just like the universe. Um, does the city have a plan for that? Or are you just going to keep on rolling over and giving up public parking and turning it all into a parking lot? That's, that's kind of about what it seems like is, you know, you're all perfectly happy turning the residential area into a parking lot. Thank you. No, no,
 Alright, we'd like to address this next. Hello, my name is Michelle Fife. I live at 420 Isla Street, and I'm on the corner of Wilson and Isla. And during Bikes and Blues, we found there was a person sleeping in our carport because they parked down the street but got lost because they were inebriated. And they had pulled all of our trash on them, our tarps, and were using them somehow to sleep.
 We've, um, every weekend I'm picking up bottles and, um, cans out of my yard, out of my shrubs, um, from what's happening, especially game day weekends, uh, in, uh,
 Because of that. And my concern is if we are going to do this pass system and we're going to give these sororities this large number of passes. I was in a sorority. I understand the sorority life. And these girls are not going to use those passes to visit that sorority house very often. They're going to use those passes as parking so they can walk to class and have a close spot and walk to class.
 walk to the University of Arkansas, and they're going to use those passes to go out on Dixon Street and not have to pay to park down there. That's what these passes are going to be used for except Monday nights.
 Because most of the time, the events are not at the sorority house or they're in the evenings and there's parking at the church across the street from them that is available then. But they're going to definitely do that. Because I can tell you I've seen it happen before we got to the hang tags. They were parking in front of our house every day to go to class. Yeah.
 We had our trash not picked up numerous times and our recycling not picked up numerous times Because they were blocking because we put it out and then they would park right in front of it and go to class so I
 I think that's kind of a dream to give, you know, for them to get 12 or 14 or however many passes to give to them. Who are they going to give them to? Their senior members? How are they going to divvy those out? Because you know it's not going to be a run in and get the pass and come out system. It's probably going to be a sticker or something. And so they're going to have that sticker and they're going to get to use it all year. So it's not just going to be for those moments when they're visiting the house. It will become extra parking for the University of Arkansas and it will become Dixon Street walk distance parking.
 So that is my biggest concern with that. And the fact that numerous, what if one of our neighbors who is in a wheelchair, what if something happens and they're in a wheelchair or they've broken their leg or something and they don't have a driveway? Are we going to have handicap spots?
 How are people who need a handicapped spot going to get that? Would that be installed? So those are other concerns that I have. Especially, there are some elderly neighbors who would struggle to walk up the hill if they were forced to park down in Wilson Park or...
 Because there's a lot of times those spots are not available anywhere. And so that would be my biggest concern is how are we taking care of people who have physical issues, who need to be parking closer to their homes. And I would really want to look at how those passes were given out and letting these girls really use them as free parking. They wouldn't have to buy a permit from the University of Arkansas and then they could just walk down to Dixon. Because I walk down there all the time.
 Why I moved here from Seattle, I chose to live in Wilson Park because I loved the feel of it. And I loved the vibe of being able to do that. But I pay taxes. These girls don't pay taxes. They might be current residents of Fayetteville, but they are not Fayetteville citizens. And we are. And so I'm asking you to please consider that. Thank you so much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hello. Thank you for your time. My name is Thomas DeBari. I live at 506 North Vandiver Avenue. My main concern, it's similar to that, but I have elderly in-laws that come to try to stay at my house and with not being able to provide them,
 accessible parking to my house that's close enough that they can walk I have a real issue often they take care of my kids who are five and seven years old and so it's it's that accessibility for them that is extremely important for that for my family my wife often is taking care of the kids has multiple bags of groceries it's that accessibility and that closeness to that by giving out the
 it too many sorority passes. We're literally in no different of a situation than we currently are in. You know, we talk about parking being close to people's homes. Parking should be at people's homes. You know, it doesn't need to be a block away. It doesn't need to be so far. I'd like to see something like that addressed where people can be within a block of their house, not three blocks away, because we understand that.
 with everybody that comes into an area, they're kind of getting to the closest point. We live right across the street from the sorority. Our van eventer has 90, it was high, it was in the 90s in terms of usage. Around the corner on Isla, also extremely high, you know?
 the way that it's planned out right now without limiting and shrinking that or really looking into like defining specific spots for homes in that area directly affected My issue will not be addressed. Okay. Thank you. Thank you Thank you, my name is Greg Toma I live at 414 West Iowa Street I
 I don't think I need to reiterate that we have a problem. I'd just like to volunteer to be part of the solution. What do we do going forward? Some good ideas have been raised, both from the council and the audience. I think it will require a lot of hard work and discussion so that we don't end up with a solution that has unintended consequences, many of which we've heard. So I'd just like to...
 be a part of whatever committee gets formed to discuss the solutions going forward. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. Sarah. Yes. Justin, could you clarify, I'm going to put you back on the mic there, could you clarify the question that was brought up by
 I think her name was Cindy Perrette. I'm not sure about the parcel size being in favor of the sororities and giving more permits to those people and how –
 would you clarify that please because that's something that's come up quite a few times after that sure so um in the shared district concept we looked at ways to determine how many permits get distributed to residents and try to devise a
 formula for doing that and thought that tying it to square footage parcel size might be a good way to look at that. So in the example that we have, and I would just reiterate that none of these things are in any way shape or form set in stone. They're just concepts to consider to explore this further. Said two permits for the first 10,000 square feet and then
 one permit for each additional 5,000 square feet thereafter. So the example we gave was 40,000 square foot parcel would be eligible for eight permits. Initial two for the first 10,000, and that leaves you 30,000 square feet remaining. One per 5,000 would be an additional six for a total of eight. So I mean those are just,
 The starting point for numbers to consider this sort of thing. You lost me there, honestly. So I heard 40,000 square feet would equal eight permits. Yes. Okay. I know you have all this committed to memory, and it is just a proposal. It's not anything like you said. Yeah, it's a proposal, and I would just add it's a proposal that we're really not asking you to actually consider taking action on. We're asking for...
 an idea and a direction to continue this further so that we can sit down with the residents and Really hash out the details of what this plan needs to look like with them kind of based on some broad framework Hopefully that you all might be willing to give us. Okay. Thank you very much I guess I have a question for Justin under the residents only with the sororities get any I
 Do they currently get any residential parking? They currently do not. They're not included in any boundary that is eligible for residential parking. Y'all don't do that again. So I'm for the shared parking. I think that is – you can sit down. Sorry. All right.
 I feel like we've got to do the shared parking. We've got to figure out a way to get the utilization rate down a little bit because right now it's free. And so if you add any cost, the only way it's going to go is it's down. So by doing the shared parking across there,
 we will get utilization down. So right now, if you can find parking within a block, if we add a cost to it for non-residents, that's only gonna get better.
 i'm concerned about taking away the parking in total uh i think a lot of people are kind of mad at us because we've let the sororities do stuff but we don't really have jurisdiction over what the state does and my concern is if we block off some of the parking they're using that they may use them in a domain to put in a giant parking lot and i don't want that around wilson park i would rather some system where where we share it i mean
 I mentioned this when we talked about Lafayette. If we do go to shared parking and the shorties are using it too much, I have no problem with upping the amount that it costs to park there. The idea is that you price it so that every block has a place to park.
 And if that doesn't happen, then you up the price until every block has a place to park. And I think we could do that with the shared parking. So I will only be able to vote for something that involves shared parking. I am well aware that we probably won't finish that tonight. No, we're not going to finish it.
 thank you thank you Mary I just wanted to take an opportunity to give my personal feedback staff on what I would be interested in seeing adjusted on that plan the the parcel size metric is an interesting way to start though I there aren't any empty parcels in that area that I know of but I don't know that an empty lot would need a parking spot so
 So I think it might be better to look at the size of the structure. If you had a small structure on a large lot, I would think they could provide their own off-street parking. So perhaps basing it on the size of the building that people are inhabiting would be a better measure of the number of parking spots they need. Generally, I like the formula structure. I think maybe the variables that go into it could be tweaked a little bit.
 Okay, Sarah. Thank you. Actually, I have a question for Garner. The ownership of the sorority houses, is that university property or is that private land? I believe it's private. Thank you. Well, in general, I support the shared residential parking plan. I feel very strongly that neighbors...
 that live in the district should be able to park there for free and that we leverage our cost structure to keep the parking levels um in you know the 70 to 80 percent range I do think that we should work with the neighbors to strategically locate uh ADA accessible parking
 maybe some loading zones as well I think that those are things that we can work out to make sure that we are taking care of the needs of residents but parking this is part of the public trust and I feel I would not want to limit it to residents only and I think that
 requiring visitors to absorb the cost of implementing this program I think is a wise use of public resources I would encourage us to treat the sorority houses differently in terms of how much space we're allocating for them I do think that they should have some parking spaces, but not a disproportionate amount So I'm encouraged to see what staff comes up with to help us mitigate the risk
 the amount of parking that they, parking resources that they consume. But I do think, I do feel strongly that free parking for residents and a cost structure that drives down the parking rate is the right way to go. Sonia. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I have a question for Justin. Yes.
 On the expanded, what we're talking about to expand to this area, with the residents
 their parking tag would allow them to park anywhere for free as long as they want, like overnight. Is that correct? Correct, at any time. And then the people who come there to park, they would have a limit for how long they could park, correct? I think that is a detail to be determined, yeah. What are the restrictions for the public access to the non-permit holders? Right.
 right so and then their visitors the visitor tags they can also give those out did those have a limit no they would be under the same regulations as the residential permit okay if we change the name um from away from entertainment district to another name basically we would have to come up with another ordinance with all of these requirements is that why we have this name i
 entertainment district or can you help us understand why the name change is not so easy or is it easy well the the only residential parking program we have is
 associated with the entertainment district. And so that one block of Isla, the entertainment district residential parking program, was just extended to that one block of Isla back in 2013 or whenever that was. So I think what we're talking about is a whole new parking district. So potentially we could rename it? Yes. We potentially could rename it. That's all I have. Thanks. Thank you. Okay. Mark. Okay.
 I just want to review a few things. Only if you live in this neighborhood do you know how intrusive the situation is. We did take a city council tour in which four of us showed up to, and if anyone went to that, you saw that every car almost along the street had a sorority sign.
 their sorority letters on the windshield of their car. And again, I don't blame the sorority girls. The problem is we had two event centers built in our neighborhood without conferring with the neighbors. These are not university properties.
 These are privately owned properties, and they did not disclose that they were entertainment centers. They kept using the fact that they were only adding, I don't know, 13 more beds or something like that. OK, someone mentioned that we should be sharing the neighborhood parking with the sororities. I think if that's the case, then the sorority should be sharing some of their parking with the neighbors. How about that? You see, it works both ways.
 And the sororities had every opportunity to handle this in advance. And they met with me also, and they were not open about how the expansion of the sorority house would work. It's not the people that live in these sorority houses. It's the people that come and visit. Visit? I don't know. But they come there by the hundreds. Yes.
 to events. Every Monday night is an event. Boy, you go down there on a Monday night and you're going to see some wacko parking. Saw it last night. It was just crazy town. So there must be something for residents apart from just handing some passes to the sorority. I think that there could be a
 parking resolution, but I think that we must look at the protection of the neighborhood as a family, single-family neighborhood primarily. There are wonderful apartments down by the park, there are some beautiful fourplexes and duplexes, but they're residential. They're not what I would say as a transient apartment situation, maybe there's a couple.
 It's not just Isla and Louise. It's also the streets that are going east and, I mean, north and south from Maple to Louise. So that's a two-block area. If you happen to live on Van Deventer, you'll never get a parking space to have access to your home because that is where the closest...
 of North South Street to these sorority event centers. It was also mentioned that we're getting ready to have another 300 person event center right across the street, across Wilson, from the Pi Phi House. So this is not a situation that's going to get any better, it's going to be compounded. And there is no street
 over on that block because Isla ends at Wilson to absorb anything into the neighborhood. There's just no North South Street, no East West Street, it's just Maple Street and Wilson. And if you look at the impact that that's going to have, it's going to be as large or more than the other two sororities. So we're having three event centers that can handle 300 to 500 individuals,
 And a lot of times they're in the same weekend. We've recently had Dad's Day weekend, and I saw a lot of happy dads and daughters. That is beautiful. That is what going to school can do. It's what an organization can do. But they also were parked all throughout the neighborhood.
 And it was haphazard and chaotic. There's not marked parking places except for one block, and that's where there is residential parking. I also want to go back to why is there residential parking on one block of Isla Street? The Sterling Frisco...
 apartments were being built, or had been built. It brought in, again, a very large number of persons living at the corner of Wilson and Maple. There also was a reconfiguration of the stoplights there. And so the traffic backs up at the stoplight at Wilson and Maple, because it's kind of weird, and then people cut down Isla to go to Vandivinter because they don't want to deal with the stoplight.
 Also, this is the only block that does have these large institutional housing units. And that was the arguments that were used on that one block, and that's how it was protected. You know, it was discussed a lot, but that was the reason it had...
 basically to do with the speeding and the traffic and the cut-through. And there is only parking on one side of that street now. There were two whenever I moved there 25 years ago or so. Again, due to the capacity that was needed to handle the cut-through traffic, then it went only to one side. Someone talked about raising the price of the parking to the point that these girls couldn't afford it, but maybe the residents could.
 That's ridiculous. If you go and look at the parking lots, and if you know these young ladies, they can afford a lot more parking than many of the neighbors on Olive Street could. So what's going to happen is it will price some of our elderly and some of our neighbors on fixed incomes that have been there for 50 years out of parking or the access to parking.
 Again, it's not state controlled property. These two properties happen to be owned by the house corporations of the Pi-Pis and the Kappa Deltas. Let's see what else I wanted to mention. I think that that pretty much handles a lot of it. I do think there has to be some discussion really how we handle it throughout the area. And I think it should be classified as the South Wilson Park parking district.
 I think that there is an opportunity for some shared parking because it's not just the entertainment district, but it's also the park. And Louise Street right now, I went down it before I came here because I live kind of over there.
 And it was lined all the way from Wilson to Van Deventer. Again, with cars, many of them had been there for days because they use it as car storage. If you live in a sorority and you want to store your car for a couple of weeks, go park it down by the park. That's what they do. And so what I saw all through there were out-of-state license plates and cars with...
 Greek letters on them signifying an affiliation with a Greek sorority. And again, I don't blame these girls. They didn't know there wasn't parking when they went through Rush. They probably heard about it, but this is another thing that you'll see if you're online and you go to blogs that talk about going through Rush. One of the blogs talks about, well, if you go to PyFy or KD, parking is not a problem because you can park in the neighborhood.
 So it's out there as a solution to anyone that wants to pledge in any one of these sororities. This is the kind of difficult situation that the neighbors are faced with. So, you know, I had offered an amendment to expand the residential parking all the way from Wilson to Park.
 on both on Isla and on Louise and with the streets going between Maple and Louise that are going north and south and that would have been three or four blocks and I think that that is a valid solution but we could also work with the neighbors to see if there is a shared parking solution but we cannot forget this is a neighborhood that was established
 Well, my house was built in the 30s, and it wasn't one of the first ones there. So it's been there a very long time. And in Fayetteville, I think that we do have the...
 responsibility to protect the heritage of neighborhoods. One of the things that makes Fayetteville so unique are the historic districts, such as the Wilson Park District. It is not protected by any historic commission activity, but it is certainly recognized as part of the heritage of Fayetteville, and I think that the neighbors live there because of that, and that we need to protect this because it is a destination.
 It is an identity that I think the neighbors deserve to have protected. So that's a lot of rambling, but at the same time I hope that I've hit some points that can help us really fairly and equitably protect the identity of the neighborhood, the heritage of the neighborhood, and also accommodate fair parking throughout the neighborhood.
 I see it as residential parking personally, but I think that anyone that lives there would be willing to look at a shared solution. Certainly not the shared solution that I read about. That was not feasible. I'm sorry, but it isn't. It doesn't protect the neighbors. And also, again, it was mentioned, there is no neighborhood anywhere around the university, I think,
 Council member Turk mentioned that she lives near the university, but it is not this unique situation with these large event centers that we have on Isla and that area. It's very unique. You cannot replicate this anywhere because there is no place in Fayetteville that is this situation. It's very unique, and we have to consider that. So as we move forward, there's some points for us to consider.
 There's some room for compromise, but I also think that the neighbors do have or should have the opportunity to have some type of protected residential parking as we move forward. Thanks. Okay. Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 A couple of suggestions for Justin. I think it would be really helpful if you actually surveyed to see the number of residents that did not have driveways, that actually had to park on the street. That would be helpful. The number of parking spots per street would also be helpful to fully understand this a little bit better. And then again, kind of as I mentioned before, consultation with the fire department.
 Even before you start any new analyses so that you could actually be sure that you could park on both sides of the street And that would not impede safety I Am extremely sympathetic to the neighbors as the one of the oldest neighborhoods in our city and
 The neighborhood did not change. It was built around and I would say encroached upon by these large sorority houses. So that neighborhood has not really changed. There hasn't been, there have not been, as some residents mentioned, there have not been an expansion of the houses, doubling, tripling, putting a big condo in there. The big condos and the big event centers have come from outside, not within the neighborhood.
 I actually am very much in favor of having residential only parking. And I don't believe that the sororities should be allowed to use any of the parking in that neighborhood. Because presumably when they built their new houses and built their new parking configurations, that was to accommodate...
 all the people that would be going there, all the sorority sisters that would be going there. There was not, maybe it was an assumption on their part, but from my point of view, there was not, there should not have been an expectation that they could spill over into neighborhoods. They should have been able to handle all the traffic in their own parking and not inconvenience the neighbors. Not make that neighborhood a place where you have to consider parking before you purchase.
 That is actually, that's a well-established neighborhood. And we're going to, it's just going to get worse. And so at some point, we have to say enough is enough. Now, maybe the neighbors would be willing to pay $10 or $20 to offset the cost of the city for their permit. Maybe they would be willing to do that. But I'm very much in favor of having it residential only. Okay.
 and really honoring these people, these long-term residents that have paid taxes, that have made Fayetteville such a great place to live that now everybody wants to live here. So these are the folks that have made this city a great city, and we need to ensure that we do not allow degradation of the quality of life, especially for ADA and other people that need a little bit more access. So...
 I would really like that considered a lot more seriously than it was in here I'd like that to be taken into consideration and not just moving on very quickly without a full analysis To the shared parking district. I think a lot more options and information need to be Looked at thank you Yes
 I am in favor of, you know, I'm going to side with the neighborhood on this one. And I think we need to actively do what we can to protect their parking and basically protect, in doing that, hopefully protect some of the integrity of that neighborhood. And, you know, some of the comments that have been made, one of the things I like the idea of is Sarah Marsh mentioned ADA parking. Maybe if we have...
 It can't necessarily be in front of one specific person's house, probably, but we can have some handicap parking in there, one or two, something like that, which would make it a lot nicer for some of the residents there.
 And I think that this also, this spills over so much into our park. And Mark Kenyon hit on this issue. We've talked a lot about this, that if you want to park near the park, you can leave your car there forever. That's the city park. That doesn't just belong to the residents in that area. That belongs to everybody in Fayetteville. And if you can't go to the park,
 And use your own city park that your tax dollars pay for we've got a real problem here I mean we've put money into Wilson Park into the lights around the tennis court and the bathroom and everything else though So we've invested in upgrades to the park But but our parking in the park may actually just be used for students a lot of times So I think we've got a lot of really good ideas. We need to hone them down some I feel like I
 we can come up with something that will protect that neighborhood. And I want to tell you, I was on planning commission when we saw the Pi Phi house come through. And I've slept since then, honestly. So that's been several years ago. But I do remember talking about the number of girls that were staying in the house. We didn't talk about...
 400 girls coming on weekends or their families and stuff like that. We talked about some about families, but we talked specifically about the number of people that were going to be living in that house. And I assumed that that was going to be the way that it was because...
 That's the way it was when I was in college. We didn't have as many people coming. I don't know how many girls we saw driving up to go to dinner just that one night that we were doing our tour. Dozens? Fifty or more? Then there was some special event at one of the houses. All the girls had on certain colored dresses. We could tell that they were all going to an event.
 This is not what we talked about at Planning Commission, as I remember it. So I think we've got some really good ideas to work with the neighborhood and try and protect their parking and the overall integrity of that neighborhood. Signage, I think, might help. I'd like to have signs. You know, I'd like to have this be a special area. And if we have signage there, it informs everybody, hey, you're coming into this neighborhood today.
 You may park here, but you may end up getting a ticket and you might get towed eventually. So I think we've got some good ideas, but we still have a ways to go before we have a resolution. Thank you. I agree. Mark. Someone mentioned that the university should be involved, and it hasn't been that many years ago that the SIGGAP fraternity wanted to build on the corner of Wilson and Maple.
 And the university didn't endorse that. The neighborhood worked very hard, and it never came to fruition because it wasn't university property. And at that time, of course, it's been several years, so the Board of Trustees is not the same as Board of Trustees. But at that time, the Board of Trustees of the University of Arkansas did guarantee to our neighborhood association that they would never move property.
 to the east of the railroad track except for the two, at that time there were two sororities, I guess, or a sorority and a fraternity. That was the only properties that they would endorse. So it's not that we haven't tried to work with the Board of Trustees. We have, and we've done it very successfully in the neighborhood. It's just that the Board of Trustees turns over like any board does, and now they're...
 Well, they've just agreed to build another large sorority east of the railroad track. So we tried. Someone mentioned that, and I think that it was, you know, something that we thought would hold at least for a while. But I think all of us know there's no such thing as perpetuity. So wanted to mention that. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. Okay.
 I had a quick question before I shared some of my thoughts. Did I understand the analysis correctly that the cost of the current program without any changes is $21,000 annually? Yes. Okay, thanks. That was my question. I have a few things to share but I guess I'll start with that. I mean I was frankly just stunned by that number.
 uh i mean i know that um it takes some hours to do enforcement um and there's a little bit of maintenance and costs but and i guess it all adds up but um you know there aren't that many houses on that block of isla what half dozen ish let's say there's 10.
 If there's 10, how many? Okay. Remember when I said yes? The $21,000 is for the entire entertainment district residential parking area, not for the stretch of Iowa. Just not. Okay, so then I have a follow-up. That explains why I was so surprised. Yeah, I can see why you would be. Sorry. That's the whole thing. Expanding it to the entire box,
 With the larger borders, there's another 15,000. Right. If we added roughly 164 more resident-only spaces. How many homes were in that boundary? Roughly 80, does that sound? Okay. Okay.
 So I might come back to that. You know, that seems to me even still like that's not an insignificant cost of a residential permit if we were to try to design a program where residential permits pay for the full costs and only residential permits. I think it's interesting, you know, that one way of looking at that is that those are, that's a decision we've made to subsidize the parking on that street.
 and it's a subsidy for the homes and properties that are there and the people who have lived there. And I voted for that in the past, and I think that's okay in some circumstances. But I'm more interested in seeing a program that can support itself, which is why I'm particularly interested in a hybrid program that's free for residents or very, very low cost for residents and paid for primarily through paid parking.
 I'm more optimistic than some of the people here that if we set a price where there is no price today for the public, that it will reduce parking impacts. But I want to be careful, even as I'm framing my thoughts, because all we're really empowered to talk about or even consider is relief.
 conversation that we've heard tonight, I think a lot of feelings, I'm feeling, it seems like a lot of people up here feeling, is wanting to provide some justice. And those are two different things. I don't know that we can really provide justice for what's already happened. We can't undo what the university has decided or the recent decisions, even if we feel real strongly that we ought to be able to. And I was shocked
 Again, something I hadn't realized that Council Member Scroggin suggested, which is that the University queues eminent domain to construct a parking lot. I just can't believe I didn't see that. That moves on the chessboard and I haven't seen it until Council Member Scroggin brought it up. I have the sense that a lot of people in the room haven't seen that that's a possibility
 if we're as aggressive as we have the legal authority to be. And I'm sitting here really worried about that possibility now that it's been voiced. We've seen that happen before. It happened on Cleveland Street on the north side of the campus where
 apartment house, a very affordable apartment community was bought under eminent domain and converted into a parking lot. It's happened and I can't see any reason why they wouldn't choose to do that again if it made sense for their bottom line. So I'm particularly worried about it and I think that makes me even more interested in some kind of hybrid or shared regime.
 In terms of the suggestions with respect to some of the numbers that have been put forward in the proposal as examples, I would, I guess, parallel or repeat what I think staff has really made a point to or has really tried to belabor, which is that they are examples.
 Wherever that setting gets dialed into for however many permits, a large parcel or a large sorority house should get, that should be super restrictive, make it super restrictive. If it should be what's suggested or higher, we can have that conversation. But I'm particularly interested in relief, in granting relief in a way that can still be given in a program that supports itself and that is sustainable.
 um so i guess that's where i or i come down generally the only other thing i wanted to make a mention of was the notion that um of how parking should be treated especially about one side of the street versus two sides of the street i remember back when we voted to institute the parking program for isla as it exists today making a comment that i really didn't want to see the street parking removed i thought it would lead to higher traffic speeds
 And I think that will be even more true if all four blocks were converted into a one-sided parking. It feels like a devil's bargain for someone, for a city to require a wide space for fire access and in the process enable much higher traffic speeds and the risks that go along with those.
 The rules that are in place that we've used in the past and that were brought up whenever we made that decision about ILA in 2013, I don't think we had a robust enough discussion about those because it wasn't pointed out, as Garner pointed out tonight, that those rules are intended for new development and they're written to maximize safety when there's only one ingress and egress to service an emergency. And that's not the case
 in most of historic Fayetteville where we have a pretty tight grid with multiple ways of getting to an emergency. In fact, I think we exceed the minimum standards of the fire codes in terms of number of ways to get to a fire by a factor of five or six in this neighborhood alone.
 So I do hope in that conversation we'll consider this a historic area. If it truly is unsafe with two-sided parking, I'm going to ask why we don't evacuate the street. I'm going to ask why we don't evacuate hotels when we have to close a lane of traffic for construction activity. There are plenty of examples where...
 where narrow streets are serviceable in emergencies that are exactly like this. And that, I think, is a great way to end for me, that there are situations that are similar to this. And I do believe that ILA is unique for all the reasons that are suggested, that have been suggested tonight.
 um to me that means it's it's unique enough to be first it's unique enough to take action now but it doesn't necessarily mean that it's unique enough that it's going to be the last time we do something similar to this and uh you know i i think that this is a good opportunity for us to grant some relief to the residents uh and at the same time learn about uh
 a program and how we might use it again and change it in specific ways to apply to different situations. So I'm eager for what staff comes up with and I hope that we can get the next round of results relatively quickly.
 Okay, so I take it we will hold this until at least November the 19th. That's what we'll have to table it, right? Well, Mr. Mayor, I say this is exactly the kind of complex ordinance that should go to ordinance review, where you have four council members, you have the public that can speak also. There's lots of different tints on this about which way to go.
 And it's really better to be done at least initially at the Ordinance Review Committee. And so I would suggest that you table it, but you also try to get it to the Ordinance Review. You probably need to table it for two meetings because, you know, we're putting the agenda together for the next meeting very quickly tomorrow. So that's a little bit early to get that. But I think it needs to go to Ordinance Review and really have it fleshed out there. There have been lots of good discussions here about it, but –
 the decision is going to be the city council's and you all are going to have to really hammer out what you want yes and i can i can see why the comments tonight we're not quite there yet so um so how much time do you need jester how much time mark this is something you're sponsoring how much time you want to take
 I'd rather handle it tonight, if you want to know my personal opinion, with an amendment. But I do understand the concern of getting a fair and equitable ordinance and one that is possibly a compromise to handle the situation. I'm going to be honest. If I look at the makeup of the Ordinance Review Committee,
 i don't know how sympathetic they're going to be with the situation and that concerns me okay and i that's personal but that's kind of what i think we've got to be sure that the neighbors are involved and that they have a voice and that it's a voice that is respected and a voice that comes from individuals that experience this in their daily life
 day in and day out for years and years to come and so i think that that's important and i'm sure they will attend the ordinance review committee and so i mean that is the proper way so i move that we send this to the ordinance review committee and pick this up at not the next meeting but the following meeting which would put it where i'm sorry what's two meetings
 early November the 5th I guess would be the one in one month all right I made that we table this until November 5th and in the meantime take it to ordinance review and also make sure that there's an opportunity I don't know if it
 neighborhood meeting or something there's there must be an opportunity where the neighborhood itself talks directly with the administration so that they are involved in the solution I will set up a meeting and I will personally make sure it gets done thank you prompts all right and also we also have a neighborhood interest form that we meet every month and you can come voice your concerns that the neighborhood interest form I'm
 I think I will be there this time. I can't always promise you that I will be at that. But if I'm not there, I will make sure that we have a public meeting set up where you can come and voice your concerns. Okay? All right. So right now we're on course for November the – help me out here – 5th. November the 5th, yeah, motion to table and also to be heard by the Orders Review Committee. And I'll have a public meeting done between now and then as well.
 and the neighborhood interest form will be also so i'll make sure you know when the neighborhood interest form is and we'll set up a public meeting okay uh mark you've made the motion i have made the motion you have second all right i would say if there's any final comments but i think we've heard most of you tonight um lisa would you please call the roll
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Okay, moving right along to new business. Thank you all. Thank you. An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a quote of $51,413.22 from Doggett Freightliner of Springdale for the repair of a 2018 Freightliner dump truck.
 Damaged in an accident on August the 12th, 2019 and to authorize payment for any necessary supplemental work identified during the repair kit. Whereas on August the 12th, 2019, Unit 785 of 2018 Freightliner Dump Truck...
 rear-ended a semi truck on Pump Station Road causing extensive damage to both vehicles, and whereas a unit is insured under the Arkansas Municipal League Vehicle Program, so the city will only be required to pay the $1,000 deductible, and whereas formal competitive bidding is not necessary for the repair of hidden or unknown dangers, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby determines that because of Arkansas code annotated 19-11 S20314EE repair of hidden or unknown damages repair of the 2018 Freightliner dump truck does not require formal competitive bidding and therefore waives competitive bidding and accepts a repair quote from Doggett Freightliner of Springdale in the amount of $51,413.22 and authorizes the payment of that amount.
 and further authorizes payment for any necessary supplemental work identified during the repair, plus applicable taxes, right? Correct.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Sarah Glenn. I'm the fleet operations superintendent. This was a very unfortunate accident. We had a loaded dump truck, unit 785. They collided with a parked semi that was around a blind corner and could not be seen. This was a very new dump truck.
 Thankfully, our driver was not as injured as you would have thought looking at this truck afterwards. However, our insurance will cover the cost of this repair minus our $1,000 deductible, but because the city will ultimately be writing a check for the $51,000 and change, we need to bring this to you to approve this. Okay. What questions do we have from council on this? Okay. Any public comment on this?
 Nobody interested in the dump truck. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Mark. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Okay. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Okay.
 In order to waive formal competitive bidding and accept a quote of $51,413.22 from Doggett Freightliner of Springdale for the repair of 2018 Freightliner dump truck damaged in an accident on August 12, 2019 to authorize payment for any necessary supplemental work identified during the repair. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes.
 Scrockin yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, and Ornish away form competitive bidding and accept a quote of fifty one thousand four hundred and thirteen dollars and twenty two cents from Doggett Freightliner of Springdale for the repair of a 2018 Freightliner dump truck Damaged in an accident on August the 12th 2019 and to authorize payment for any necessary supplemental work identified during the repair in the final comments from the council I
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number two, a resolution to grant the appeal of Council Member Kyle Smith and deny preliminary plat PPL 19-6719 for Crystal Springs Subdivision Phase 4. Kyle, I believe you have this. Thank you, Mayor. This is an appeal on behalf of the neighbors of
 Bird Haven and Gooseberry, and I'll say it's been an interesting way to get to know the neighbors. About 45 of them invited me out to the cul-de-sac of Woodlark to talk about this one over Labor Day.
 They convinced me that we've got an existing dangerous traffic situation that would be made worse and some new dangers within the neighborhood that might not currently exist. So much like when this came up in 2006, the neighbors asked for an opportunity to make their case here at the council, and that's why I'm bringing this forward. A little bit of...
 Do you want me to go ahead and talk about the details or? Whenever you're ready to do your presentation. Yeah, I've got kind of an overview. I hope it's a quick overview. It may be longer than I intended it for it to be, but just a little bit of history here is back in 2006, this similar but larger development was appealed.
 uh... when they were speaking for that by the way uh... and the appeals
 The development was ultimately approved, but with an extra condition of a bridge over Clapper Creek. In 2015, it came up again as a master street plan amendment to remove the bridge, and that was denied. And so here we are again with a smaller development that is asking to do this without the bridge, but they are offering a connection to Emil, which leads out to Dean Solomon. Okay.
 In our packet, there's a resolution to deny the development. That was prepared after my appeal letter, but it was never really my intention that we deny the proposal altogether. I think the 2006 model is more appropriate here. But I do think the Planning Commission made a mistake not to recognize the historic traffic situation here. Okay.
 and to impose some additional connectivity requirements like they did back in 2006. So they did not reach a unanimous decision at the Planning Commission. I think it's telling that the one Planning Commissioner that voted no on this was the one Planning Commissioner that drives this area on his daily commute. So last night, Theresa and I had our Ward 4 meeting, and we listened to the neighbors, with their help drafted a replacement resolution.
 with the understanding that the bridge is not the only way to remedy the traffic situation. So when I'm done here, I'll make a motion to substitute the resolution that you've got on your counter in front of you for the one that's in the packet. And like I said, I'll try not to go too long, but I know this is a fine line situation that requires evidence of the traffic and the dangerous traffic situation. So I wanna make sure you're familiar with the area before we make our decision.
 Real quickly, while you gaze upon the beautiful map there, I'm going to identify a couple of my biases on this. I mean, everybody knows how I feel about the sustainability of RSF4 zoning, especially within a half mile of the interstate corridor. This will not be about that. I recognize that RSF4 is the current legal state of the zoning here, and I think any
 Other development would face the exact same issues, and if it were more dense, it would face the same issues even more so. Additionally, I own property in this neighborhood. I'm not directly adjacent to the development. I did not get a notification letter, but under our new rules, I would. I'm that close. This is where I live, and I understand the neighbors' concerns very well when we –
 Talk here in a minute about left turns on the Mount Comfort during rush hour. That's my daily routine along with about 15,000 other people. Um,
 So I also wanted to identify how this project is maybe different from some others that we look at on a regular basis you'll see here that it is very much on the interior of a call it a super block from Mount Comfort to Salem Dean Solomon and all the way up to Really Howard nickel Road with very limited east-west connections across it It doesn't just
 have its own street frontage here that it can connect to, it must go through the existing stub outs as well as an offering to extend Emil there, or Emil.
 I think in that way it is most similar to Markham Hill in that that was back behind a neighborhood and had to connect to the ends of existing streets without multiple connections. In that one it was a rezoning with connectivity concerns and we were told expressly that we could handle traffic concerns later at development time or through the PZD part that we discussed.
 So if this experience demonstrates that we can't actually address safety concerns at development time, then I'm going to second guess the decision making on that. This one's also different because I don't think you're going to hear neighbors tonight asking for no development. They realize it's coming. I mean, we look at this map, it's open area. There's open area all around it or there's development all around this open area and we expect it's going to fill in.
 So mostly you'll hear about the traffic in the area. They do have other concerns about drainage and utility placement and tree canopy, but I think the residents that we spoke with last night understand that the way our code is written, traffic is the topic. The 2006 bridge commitment to the north would have granted access to Dean Solomon and Van Asch through existing neighborhood streets.
 Even if the bridge is too expensive today, I don't think that the connection to Emil is going to serve that same purpose. Our goals are still really the same. The Emil extension can only accomplish a bit of it.
 So what we're asking, what I'm asking us to add to the resolution at the end is just that they provide the east and west connectivity that a bridge would have given, whether it's a bridge or not. Somewhere north of Quail Drive there, two ways in and out. We don't want to keep the new neighbors away. We just want to make sure that they have a way to leave. So at our last meeting, I think Council Member Kenyon and I had an exchange about...
 Listening to neighbors versus listening to data. I think in this one you're going to see that the data and the neighbors agree. This is from the applicant's traffic study. There's a letter in your packet detailing how the conditions have changed in the last 13 years, and they have changed since the 2006 decision, but they've not changed for the safer. The concerns that established dangerous conditions back then just have bigger numbers and higher speeds now.
 There's another letter that we got last night affirming that their traffic study numbers are still valid, and I'm glad because I had already pulled all this together from their data to show the situation. If this were my math class, I'd ask you to look at these charts and see what you noticed and what you wondered about them, but we'll skip over that and I'll just tell you what we're looking at here. It's an area of the town that's pretty tame most of the time, except for when it's not, and when it's not, it's really, really bad because there's only one way to go.
 a little up close look at the woodlark and raven intersections here you can see what the predominant turning maneuver is it's a left turn across multiple lanes of traffic and when this is happening the traffic from the shiloh traffic light is backed up in that inside eastbound lane past both of these streets often down to salem and sometimes further than that
 So when you're making this left turn, you're not just doing a standard dangerous traffic maneuver. You're waiting for somebody else to yield their right-of-way so that you can turn into a gap, hoping that nobody races around on the right side trying to fill the gap from the other side. I do it daily, and I'm surprised that I haven't had an accident here. I have seen a few.
 And after development, I think is even more interesting because this is the numbers they predict for those maneuvers, it almost doubles. And that's with the addition of Emil. We still get that kind of predicted volume here. There's one more red flag. If you look at the circle intersection rating there, that's a right turn that receives an F rating. Right turns are the easiest thing you can do and we've got an F rated intersection for that in the PM hour.
 That kind of caught me off guard. I think the solution here has to be increasing our options. It may help that in one way, but we've got to look at the whole downstream network. The applicant's letter goes into great detail to express how that connection's gonna direct traffic to Dean Solomon.
 and around to the light at Shiloh and Mount Comfort. So I'm pretty sure everybody up here remembers the last conversation about Dean Solomon when we were talking about the golf course. I was out there at the time. That's to the north, to the south, they'd be directing that traffic back to the same intersection that I think the chief's data says is within one accident of being the most accidents along this corridor.
 And here we're predicting 89% capacity utilization of that intersection. Their predictions for that data is all based on a 2% background growth plus the additional traffic from this development.
 What that doesn't take into consideration is other developments that are already approved in the area on Moore Lane, south of Mount Comfort right there at Woodlark, and potential new commercial development on the corner right by this traffic light. And that 2% growth is an industry standard growth.
 But I'm going to credit Kathy Stocker here for being involved with this since 2006 and saving all of the traffic studies and compiling these numbers for me. Two percent growth does not fit with the history that this area is demonstrating. From 2006 to 2015, when we widened the road, we were getting five and a half percent annual growth increase in traffic, and here just from 2015 to 2019, the morning hours seeing
 ten, eleven, eleven and a half percent. I just, I worry that the numbers that we see there that already sound scary to me are way under representative of what we should expect.
 This is a credible engineering firm and these are industry standard practices, but it just doesn't fit the track record of this area. So with that, we'll make a motion to amend the resolution in the packet and replace it with the one that you have in front of you. Okay. Sarah? I'll second that motion. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 Any comments on that? Anything? All right. Lisa, would you please go on the roll? Warren? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Ms. Mayor, I would request that at least the applicable section, section one be read so everybody knows what you're talking about. Please, would you like me to read it? Should I read the whole thing or just section one? Section one. Section one. Okay.
 Section 1 says that it resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas
 We hereby grant the appeal of the approval of preliminary plat one nine six seven one nine for Crystal Springs phase four but approved modified preliminary plat with an additional condition of approval requiring the establishment of street access both east to Dean Solomon Road and west to Salem Road at some point north of Quail Drive whether by constructing a new street.
 New streets or connecting to existing streets prior to the construction of any house within the subdivision. Okay Yes mayor
 Andrew Garner, our planning director, carried this item through the Planning Commission, and he's prepared a presentation. So he's speaking both for staff and the Planning Commission in his presentation. Also tonight we have Mr. Brown here, the city engineer, for any traffic questions you might have of him. Hello.
 So Chris and Andrew are both here. And the applicant is here. Yep. Okay. Jesse Folser is speaking for the applicant. Okay. So we start with Andrew, correct? That's correct. Or you or somebody. Andrew, take it away.
 Thank you, Mayor and City Council. I won't go over a lot of the background that Mr. Smith covered, but just so the council can see, this was the plat that was approved by the Planning Commission in September. It's a typical single-family neighborhood, almost identical to what you would see adjacent to it to the south and in many of those surrounding areas.
 This is a slightly different map just showing how their street connections would work with the existing neighborhoods. As was discussed, the Bird Haven subdivision will now have another opportunity with this development because the Planning Commission required an extension, as Mr. Smith discussed here, of Emile Street. So this is about 1,100 linear feet of roadway that's required in order to have another outlet for the project.
 And again, the benefit of this would be to allow another option for these residents to come out, and if they want to get onto the interstate or turn left, they can come out here to this traffic signal.
 Obviously, this is an appeal of the Planning Commission's decision to approve the project from a couple of weeks ago. And the Fayetteville Unified Development Code does have criteria that have to be met in order to meet code requirements. There's also some grounds for denial of a preliminary plat. So I wanted to go over these with the council as well.
 The first item is a project could be denied if it does not follow the submittal procedures. This project went through all the process. It went through the procedures, notified the neighbors. A project could be denied on the second bullet here if it violates a city, state, or federal statute. Again, this project meets all city, state, and federal statutes. The Planning Commission looked at it, felt like it met all the codes. There was a variance that was approved for block length.
 because the street connection to the south, there could not be another block provided because there's already a neighborhood there.
 The next bullet is if a developer refuses to dedicate right-of-way or easements, the project can be denied. They're dedicating right-of-way and easements as shown on the plat, so that's not an option. The next bullet is a project can be denied if it would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition. And I'll go into that in a little more detail on the next slide where our code actually describes what is a dangerous traffic condition.
 And then the other two bullets here, a project can be denied if they do not provide water or sewer. They could also be denied if a developer refuses to comply with on or off-site street improvements. In this case, they're going to be building water and sewer lines throughout the project, so everybody will have water, sewer, street frontage.
 They have also agreed to comply with all the improvements that the Planning Commission and the staff are recommending on the project. In addition to the extension of Emile Drive, the Planning Commission is also requiring them to pay an assessment at the intersection of Woodlark and Mount Comfort in the future, which is off-site. That would go towards potentially putting in a traffic signal there and adding a turn lane.
 A little more detail, the council probably doesn't see this very often, so I did want to refresh your memories. I'll just read this slide to you. This is straight from the Unified Development Code. It says, for the purpose of this section, a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles is significant due to factors such as, but not limited to, high traffic volume, topography, or the nature of the traffic pattern.
 So in the definition there, it's really talking about, are you going to be causing accidents? Is there some dangerous situation here where cars are going to be crashing into each other, people could get hurt or killed? It's not talking about, are the streets congested? So there's quite a bit of difference there.
 And I did put together, these exhibits and these next couple of slides are from the Fayetteville Mobility Plan. These show the density of traffic collisions across the city. And just to take away from this, these numbers are four years old now, so these are not the updated numbers from the police department.
 The trends are the same, I think, where you can see most of the accident hotspots in Fayetteville are along the arterial corridors along 71B. Probably the worst place in Fayetteville is along Martin Luther King Boulevard and in downtown. Downtown has a very high density of accidents based on the areas. This area along Mount Comfort Road and this area has not been identified as a hotspot for traffic collisions.
 Again, the next slide here just shows pedestrian and bicycle accidents. And again, you'll see a couple of spots popping up here where there have been some serious injuries and some fatalities. We're not seeing any of those along this particular stretch of Mount Comfort during that time frame, which again, that is a couple years old.
 Again, in conclusion here, staff and the Planning Commission feel like the project meets all the codes that the city has for a subdivision. We actually feel like not only would this not create a dangerous traffic condition, it would actually start to mitigate the existing condition for some of the residents because it gives them another option to get out to the traffic signal if they did want to turn left. So with that, the staff and the Planning Commission recommend upholding their decision. Thank you. Okay.
 Chris, are you the next one up, or how is this going to roll here, Garth? Chris Brown is here to answer any questions Council may have about traffic conditions. He does not have a prepared presentation. He's here to answer questions. Okay. Do we have any questions for the city engineer? Maybe later. Does the applicant want to say something? Yes, sir. Thank you, Mayor. Councilors, if you would, Councilor Smith, could you please say a few words about the
 I see the language. I didn't quite follow what the recommendation was in the revised resolution. I haven't seen a copy of it. You want to see the resolution? Please. Okay. Thank you.
 It largely mirrors the 2006 requirement of the bridge just with acceptance of east and west connections that would happen south of Collider Creek because I understand the bridge has gotten a little more expensive than it used to be. So in lieu of building a bridge, we would need to build another street to the west? Yeah.
 To Salem? Across? Yeah. To secure the same east-west access that the bridge would provide through the existing streets to the north. Okay. I think I'm following that.
 I appreciate the opportunity to speak in front of the council this evening. The project obviously has a lot of history dating back 13 years to the original approval. And I did want to touch on that originally just for some background just to make sure that we're all clear on that original project. And again, it was an approved project. It had one point of connection outside of the existing subdivision and that was the bridge over Clapper Creek.
 Really the reason that that bridge over Clever Creek was proposed by the applicant on the front end of the project, that was not a condition of the city council. It was a recommendation by staff working with the applicant on the front end of the project is that they could not go west or east.
 The golf course at that point was an operating golf course, so there was no way to build a street to the east to relieve congestion outside of the Bird Haven subdivision. And to the west, the Kimbrough family has stated for 13 years that there's no way anyone's building a street across their property. So with the recommendation to require that, that would kill this project essentially. Okay.
 it was approved by the planning commission 72 at that point went forward on appeal to the city council was approved seven zero at that point and that was for 300 or 273 homes and that was with one connection north and that was their only option they felt that that was the only way to get that project approved and i think in the appeal to the city council they actually removed the connection to meadowlark and only retained the connection down to raymond lane during multiple meetings with the subdivision committee and the planning commission i think we've gone through
 Four and a half hours of comment and discussion on this project. And as Andrew mentioned, ultimately the city count or the planning commission did approve our project seven one. The only dissenting vote actually based on how I took his comments stated that the level of service F, which is a level of delay, was the reason he voted no rather than it being a dangerous traffic situation. What was unique in 2006 is the fact that the project was approved with one connection outside of the existing subdivision.
 It had 273 homes.
 And what you have to remember at the time, and I think if you look at the minutes from that approval from staff's staff report, is that one of the things that they were trying to reduce was traffic onto Mount Comfort because it's a two lane county road at the time. There had been no improvements to Mount Comfort Road in 2006. They were in the horizon. I think that project, that road was improved about 2010. But at this point, no real improvements have been made in this corridor of the city.
 And in fact, staff recommended that there was going to be a significant offsite improvement for 273 homes to build a $500,000 bridge at this point. And so even by their own admission, that was a significant improvement, a $500,000 improvement over 273 lots. Since that time, Mount Comfort has been improved to a four-lane roadway. I understand the congestion, induced congestion, I agree with you on that.
 It's still there, it's still a busy road. And that's something I think we all deal with in the a.m. peak hours. But in addition to Mount Comfort being fully improved with sidewalks and four lanes, Shiloh Drive has been reconfigured to have frontage to the installment of Mount Comfort. There's a new signal at Shiloh Drive in Mount Comfort. There's a new signal at Salem in Mount Comfort. There's a signal at Ruppel in Mount Comfort. And the realignment of Ruppel Road to remove that, I would call it, the road.
 squirrelly intersection has been has been Completed and there's bond money to crew to complete the extension of Rupert Road to the north to create another north-south connection in this Area of the city in addition to that We're of course proposing to build a connection to a meal drive to Dean Solomon that gets people An option to not turn left out of their development and go to a signalized Intersection or if they want to go north of then get they can go north up to 112 and again to point out the original project At 273 Lots. We're at 165 at this point. I
 The neighbors concerns were loud and clear in those three meetings. I think there was really three items I heard over and over and over again. One's congestion. Two, Councilman Smith's comments about our traffic study. There's a ton of congestion in this area. Honestly, no one wants us to connect to the subdivision. They've been sitting out there quietly in their subdivision. They don't want the connectivity that's required by code and required by planning commission and our approval.
 and they want the bridge over Clapper Creek because that was part of the original approval. They just feel like that needs to be carried through with. I've driven down Mount Comfort, I made it a point to drive down Mount Comfort this morning at about 7.38 and just as you've described, just as the neighbors described, traffic is backed up from the signal at Dean Solomon and it's backed up all the way to Salem, maybe even to Ruble Road. Primarily in the inside lane, everybody's waiting to get underneath the bridge to get on I-49.
 the fact is that's not unique to this area i come in on 45 and we're all sitting in traffic for 20 minutes trying to get through school drop off zones and get to crossover road highway 16 east huntsville road it's backed up joyce boulevard's backed up mlk and weddington they're all backed up it's because we're all trying to go to the same place at the same time
 And congestion isn't danger, it's simply annoyance. We're stuck there in traffic and we wish we could get there faster, but if we all want to go to the same places at the same time, that's what creates the congestion. Again, that's not a dangerous condition, it's simply an annoying condition.
 I stated that our connection to a mill drive was to get traffic out to a signalized intersection. City staff, as Andrew pointed out, has supported this project. City engineering has supported this project. A professional traffic engineering firm has studied this project. They provided a secondary letter stating that our connection to a mill drive is in fact a safer route for residents in Birdhaven and for our subdivision, and so it's an improvement in safety, and the Planning Commission voted in support of this project.
 duty to look at development, you know, week in, week out, and make recommendations based on staff comments and their evaluation of the project. And they felt that the additional connections for this project made it a safer project and began to repair the challenges in this area of not having connectivity. So as we build our subdivision and make that connection, as the golf course develops in the future and makes those connections, we begin to create the connectivity to distribute traffic better.
 A neighbor even mentioned that they have concerns with emergency vehicles being able to get to Bird Haven subdivision. If there was a big accident on Mount Comfort Road, they've got two ways in. And if there's a big accident out in front of the subdivision, how is somebody going to get in there? We're making a connection to a meal drive in Dean Solomon. It's providing another point of access should something like that occur. Again, we're improving the situation to the subdivision.
 I understand that the residents do not want us to connect or anyone to connect into their subdivision. That's been out there since the 1970s. They never had to have anybody come into the development. But the city ordinances require us to do so.
 We moved around our street locations and stub outs probably four different ways to appease staff and the Planning Commission to be able to get their support. And those included making a connection to Raven Lane, making a connection to Woodlark Lane, and even providing a stub out to Gooseberry Lane where there is no legal way to make that connection. The city would have to condemn the right of way to make that connection. But that was a demand on us to show that stub out there, and that's what we did.
 Those streets have been shown, that being Raven and Woodlark, to be connected. And if the council chooses to modify where we connect, as they did in 2006, we're fine with that. We're fine to adjust where we enter into the Bird Haven community. I'd hate to see, honestly, both of our street connections cut out because then they don't get the benefit of using a mill drive. And I think that's part of what we're talking about tonight. Thank you.
 In the Clyburn Creek Bridge, again, that was the only option that developer had in 2006. And we knew that was going to be one of the biggest challenges, though I'm not sure it is anymore, but we'll still talk about it. One of the biggest challenges coming to this project because of the conversations in 2006. So we worked with our city, with our engineers and the city engineers, and they came up with two options that city engineering felt were appropriate. Cost estimates are 2.2 to 3 million dollars. It's no longer 500,000 dollars.
 The $2.2 million bridge floods during high rain events. It just doesn't have quite the span. That's why it costs less money, and it requires Clabber Creek to be channelized with concrete for 900 feet, 450 feet, both sides of the bridge. Certainly, it's not a financial feasible option. It's not an environmentally responsible option. The Northwest Arkansas Land Trust has contacted us. They're working with the current owners of the golf course. Their goal is to acquire conservation easements to all the lands between...
 Salem and Dean Solomon where they already, or yes, in Dean Solomon where they already own property and would like to see that area conserved. They've noted that there are endangered species in Clever Creek and again, they want to preserve that area. So the Clever Creek is not something
 many groups want to see built, but it's also not one that is affordable. And you look at the developer, and I heard many comments during planning commission, well, you should do this and you should do that developer, you should go, you know, fix Dean Solomon and make all these improvements. But ultimately, there's a cap of what developers provide in ways of offsite improvements, street improvements, public benefit to offset the impacts of their development.
 and I presented this in past projects, typically it's in the hundreds of dollars. It's $500. A project that the city just approved about 2,500 feet from this project with 169 lots, connections into an existing subdivision, was just approved, no appeal. It went through with flying colors amazingly. Their cost was $840. They were not required to go and build the remainder of Ruppel Road, which is where they're connecting into.
 They're paying their proportionate share, 6%. I think the cost that staff is estimating is $142,000 for that improvement. The bridge would run $17,000 per lot at about $2.7 million. So we're not even in the same ballgame or conversation when you talk about bridge construction. But our street across the golf course is $250,000, plus we're paying money in for a traffic signal. We're already at...
 $1,500 for ours. We're at two times what was just approved and three times what I would consider normal. And we've set again a record for per unit improvements. The last one that was in the $1,400 range was for Lindsay apartment complex. It was approved 10 or 15 years ago. And they had 1,400 units. So it's a massive development and they had massive improvements. Again, we're down to 169 lots and we're already spending $1,500 per lot to make a connection that's desperately needed in this area.
 Again, overriding support from city staff, engineering staff, and the Planning Commission, including our traffic engineers.
 But to get to the point of the appeal, the appeal, I think, is about there's a dangerous traffic condition, which is a great buzzword to use. And I was disappointed when the slide came up. That came up at Subdivision Committee, and I went, oh, here goes the project. We're going to use this from every meeting here on out. We're going to hear about the dangerous traffic condition that our development is causing, but no other developments in the area have caused and therefore been approved. Amazingly, we didn't.
 Residents did not say there's a dangerous traffic condition out here that you need to solve, that you're increasing. Not at subdivision committee the first time, not at subdivision committee the second time, and only one gentleman at planning commission
 in our third hearing after four and a half hours of conversation, looked up at the screen and read it verbatim and said, well, I could see that with people walking in the street, but it's a bit subjective, one person. And now that's the form of this appeal is that there's somehow now a dangerous traffic condition that never came up one time.
 It's about congestion. It's about connections into the neighborhood that people do not want. And again, I understand that. I don't have a choice. By code, I have to make these connections unless the city council would like us to do something differently. But let's say that turning left out of the development is unique to this development, Bird Haven subdivision, that no one else has that condition. No one else has to deal with congestion in the city in a.m. peak hours. And let's say it is truly a dangerous traffic condition that we have not created because it exists, but that we are worsening.
 THE SOLUTION WOULD BE TO GIVE THE RESIDENTS AN ALTERNATIVE. WE'RE BUILDING THE ALTERNATIVE. WE'RE SOLVING THE PROBLEM THAT'S BEING LISTED IN THIS APPEAL LETTER. THE APPEAL LETTER STATES, VEHICLES EXITING BIRDHAVEN CURRENTLY WITH THE PREVAILING MORNING TRAFFIC PATTERNS ARE FORCED TO MAKE THE MOST DANGEROUS OF TURNING MANEUVERS. AN UNCONTROLLED LEFT TURN ACROSS MULTIPLE LANES OF TRAFFIC. THEY DON'T HAVE AN OPTION.
 we're literally building the solution to the problem that's being put into the appeal letter to deny the project. And requiring another connection across someone's private property to now double the requirements of our off-site improvements to make them $3,000 per lot, assuming I could ever convince the owner for another connection across his property when he has unknown development plans for his property,
 probably kills the project and it puts Bird Haven right back where they are today complaining about congestion and that they have no other alternative to get out of their subdivision. I don't think there's a dangerous traffic condition today any more so than any of our other neighborhoods where we all pull out onto arterial or minor arterial roads or collector roads and certainly our connection to a mill drive gives them the option they do not have. No one will have to take
 the most dangerous of turning maneuvers out of Bird Haven subdivision if they don't want to ever again when we make this connection. They can choose to but they never have to again and so I would ask the council to please don't overturn the Planning Commission's approval of our project the body that reviews development week in and week out and certainly don't put a condition that we cannot achieve. Certainly putting a $3,000 lot
 Assessment on to this project so we can have a second connection across the golf course It's not recommended by staff engineering traffic engineer at the Planning Commission But somehow makes this a safer condition. I'm not following that logic. I don't think it's appropriate I think it's well beyond the impacts of the development that we're providing again. Appreciate your support with our project. Thank you Do we have any questions for the applicant?
 Actually, I do. It looks like the only difference between what was approved by the Planning Commission and recommended by staff and what is being suggested here is that you would be required to build a road to Salem Road, an access to Salem Road. And did I hear you right that you don't own this property that connects to Salem Road or would you have to build a bridge? How would you do this? To build a road to the west would require...
 us getting right away from the Kimbrough family who have several homes built on this property who have stated meeting after meeting
 No one will ever build a road across our property. And you don't have condemnation rights, right? I do not have condemnation rights. So would your other option then be to have to build a bridge, be able to get above their property to get to Salem? We would have to cross the creek. I mean, if we can't go across the Kimbrough's property, then we're going to cross the bridge, going through Crabber Creek with a $2.5 million bridge. And that's your $3 million cost.
 If you want to not completely destroy a thousand foot section of Clever Creek, yes, 2.3 million to span that. Okay. All right. Well, we're on the amendment, right, to build the road to the west. And I've got to stay with that, right? Well, I know, but I mean I've got to get public comment on the amendment. Correct.
 I thought we had already adopted the previous resolution was not being intended. Okay. Okay. Yeah. Okay. All right. So we will take comments now. Does the council have any questions before I give public comments? All right.
 Here's the rules for everybody. Everybody gets one turn at the mic, and you have a five-minute duration. Unless the council by majority vote gives you more time or has questions for you, keep your comments directed to me. I don't want any outbursts, rude behavior. Don't engage a council member or anybody in the public. Stay on topic. I think we know what that is. Okay.
 So if you would give us your name and address and who would like to be first tonight. Mayor Jordan, City Council, my name is Kathleen Stalker. I live at 2848 West Quail Drive. I'm here on behalf of the Bird Haven residents. And first let me say we are not opposed to development, but we do want the best development for our area. We have concerns and questions that were not answered during this process, and we attended every meeting. Thank you.
 Regarding the traffic study, the traffic study submitted did not take into consideration newly approved development of sophomore lane and Mount Comfort directly south of Woodlark. There are three traffic studies to consider because there's historical data from 2006, 2015, and 2019.
 In the 2015 traffic study, this company, Peters and Associates, used a standard of 3% for projected background growth. In the 2019 study, they used 2%.
 In the 2015 study, they used data from the Arkansas Highway Department. They didn't include that in the 2019 study. I think it was important to know that the Arkansas Highway Department says that there's an increase of 25% from 2015 to 2018 on Mount Comfort Road.
 a 26% increase at Henbest and Mt. Comfort, and a 6.38% increase on Dean Solomon Road. This information should have been included in the study when the decisions were being made. Without this data, I believe this traffic study is invalid, and that should be a consideration for the Council. Traffic study, or traffic congestion. Traffic is currently congested on Mt. Comfort.
 If you look at research from the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, they show that rush hour, 5 p.m. to 8 p.m., in many urban centers was the most dangerous time of the day as motorists rushed home from work, pick up kids from school, and complete errands returning home. Drivers who become impatient may be more likely to drive aggressively and dangerously.
 This contributes to the danger that makes us a dangerous situation. And when they said that we didn't bring this up, we did. We tried to bring up that the traffic study was not correct, and our questions were not answered. Traffic is being tripled on Woodlark and Raven, which would create a dangerous traffic situation for our neighborhood. Those concerns were not addressed, and the Birdhaven residents were very frustrated.
 I want to talk a little bit about the Emil access. Much has been made about that access and that connection, but everyone is looking at that as a way out of our development. But I think you need to consider that we live by the interstate.
 And so when you live by the interstate, what happens? Traffic backs up. Traffic backs up on I-49 and then traffic moves over to Shiloh and Shiloh and the light. So when you look at a mill and once people find out there's a connection to a mill, what are they going to do? They're going to go through a mill through our neighborhood to cut across and avoid that light so they can get back onto Mount Comfort.
 This development with no connections to the north and no connections to the west, all that traffic is funneling to Mount Comfort. Nothing is going north. All those people are wanting to take their kids to school. Where are they going to go? They're going to go to Mount, through our neighborhood, to Mount Comfort, back around to Salem to take their kids to school, take them to the Gary Hampton Ballpark.
 And so I believe that we do have some dangerous situations. I think our intersections in that area are bogged down. They aren't safe. And I think the council needs to consider this and we hope that you will listen to the appeal and and put affect those conditions that Alderman Smith brought before you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Mr. Mayor, council members, my name is Burke Russell, and I live at 2395 Gooseberry. I'm an adjacent property owner, and I've written a couple of letters, spoken a couple of times. I agree with Kathy's sentiments, but I wanted to say I'm also an owner of a duplex on Jeremiah, which is a perpendicular cul-de-sac street to Emil, and there are 16 duplexes, which means there are 32 residents.
 The mailbox pod is on Immel opposite the Jeremiah-Immel intersection. And so the letter carrier parks their vehicle on Immel to fill the mailbox or mailboxes. And so the residents will come down and cross Immel to get to the mailboxes if they don't park their car on Immel. I'd like to make a request that the mailbox pod be moved immediately.
 prior to at some point, Emil's gonna go through, I realize that because you said nothing lasts in perpetuity, if the mailbox pod could be moved, say to the middle of Jeremiah or the end, the other end of Jeremiah so that the letter carrier's out of the major flow of traffic and so are the resident pedestrians. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 I'm Joseph Bradley. I live on 2373 North Woodlark Lane. Stormwater issues concern, comments about stormwater flooding at Raven and Woodlark cul-de-sac were disregarded as unimportant. Stormwater flooding of retention ponds off of Kinswick were not considered yet. Recently the city has reached out to its citizens about this very topic.
 what are we going to do about stormwater concerns about fixing that backlog of problems? Here we have the development going into place that will potentially add to the current problems of the stormwater flooding in this area. This was not properly addressed in the meeting we attended during commission. Landowner has not answered the question about regards. It's my...
 Construction of the traffic is being encouraged not to use woodlark and raven for this development. And we know this language was not prevented.
 will not prevent them from using our streets. Stronger language should be added to prevent this from happening and make sure that it's closed off during the construction so that they're not coming through and damaging the streets that we have because they're probably they're not designed for that heavy of traffic and we have concerns with the utilities being on the fronts of the yards.
 Do you remember the time when Farmington had the car hit the gas main that was next to the street, killing the driver and destroying the property? Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this tonight? Please. Good evening. Cliff Beecham, 2841 Meadowlark. I had a prepared statement, but Alderman Smith stole my thunder, which is bad.
 I really appreciate a meal being offered to us leading out to Dean Solomon, which is just as congested as the two-lane road, very narrow, that goes to a very dangerous intersection up to 112. I think I might rather take my chances on Mount Comfort. I think the most important thing to us when we talk about dangerous traffic conditions –
 is the fact that I believe the traffic study showed that Woodlark would be the most traveled exit, not a mill. And there's even at some point in the future, which is kind of concerning that it would be in the future, that a light, a traffic light would be proposed there. And if I'm not mistaken, the way we heard it at the Planning Commission,
 Since Mount Comfort cannot accommodate a turn lane, the bicycle lanes, which are wonderful down Mount Comfort, we see bicycles going all the time, would have to be eliminated, and the bikes would detour onto the sidewalks and then come back out. Is that correct? I may be wrong, but that's what we heard at the planning commission. So obviously, Woodlark is going to be the main...
 entrance and exit for this subdivision, which brings hundreds of cars through our quiet little neighborhood. And the danger is in the volume of cars that are not there now. And increasing the danger in pulling out and mount cover. And let's see, what else?
 Well, I guess that's all I've got to say. I still have time, but I'm not very good at this. I apologize. Thank you for considering us. Now I do want to say one more thing. I heard you all talking about Islas as a neighborhood and the concern you had for those residents. And I was heartened by that. The 2006 proposal.
 we all were okay with. A north exit out of our neighborhood and an east and west exit, that's wonderful. The little exit out at the meal, I'm not sure if it helps us that much. I would ask that you consider...
 Our small neighborhood quiet neighborhood with no sidewalks. We walk in the street. We walk our pets in the street They're going to be More and more cars coming through and I would ask that you consider Our little neighborhood and the concerns we have about increased traffic coming through our neighborhood. Thank you Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Council members I'll try to make this brief
 I know you're all, my name is Joyce Thompson. My husband and I live at 2398 Gooseberry Lane. I'm having just a little bit of trouble here. Pull that pipe just a little bit closer. Is that better? That's better. Okay. We live at 2398 Gooseberry Lane. Our property adjoins this proposed development on the south. And Gooseberry, of course, is one of those streets that has been pointed out. They are making a subdivision, I mean a stub out to hopefully, hopefully,
 to connect at some point but what i would like to say even though my deepest sympathies go to the people on woodlark and the other people in bird haven because of their lifestyle it's going to be disrupted so much with this additional traffic and i think the gentleman who just spoke is absolutely right the majority of the traffic out of that subdivision is going to come down woodlark
 Because if they go around Emil, if they're coming into town, if they're going to 49, they're still going to turn back south, come to the intersection of Mount Comfort, and help perpetuate that bottleneck. Also, I have lived on Gooseberry since 1972. It wasn't in the city when we moved out there. It wasn't in the city for quite some time. Mount Comfort was originally just a little country road.
 and it has been developed, if you want to use that term, as a little country road. There are houses all along the north side of Mount Comfort between Raven and past Gooseberry down to the, I think it's called Crofton Manor subdivision. Those people have no place to go except on Mount Comfort if they have to go to work, if they have to go to school, wherever they have to go. That's their only way out.
 The only way out for Gooseberry is to Mount Comfort Road. I believe the only way out for Crofton Manor Division is to Mount Comfort Road. There's this new subdivision on the south side of Mount Comfort that's going to, guess where it's going to go? Mount Comfort. We're not the only ones that are going to be affected by this traffic. And every car that comes down Mount Comfort just adds to our problem.
 I'm not opposed to the development per se, but if it was a good idea to have another exit to the north all these years ago, and I can't even remember all the times we've been to the council meetings about this same thing. They're building it in phases, but the overall plan was to pick up this whole big area and develop the whole thing. Just because this one isn't doing the whole thing right now doesn't mean there's not another plan in the future.
 for another piece of this development. Is it not going to be able to go north either? Where are they going to go? To Mount Comfort. And those of us who can't get out in the mornings, who can't get back in the afternoons, we're not asking you to fix the traffic problem, but we are asking you not to make it worse. And frankly, I think all our feeling is that the traffic problems that are created by this subdivision ought to be theirs to deal with, not ours.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address us on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Okay, Sloan. Yeah, I feel like there's definitely a traffic problem.
 on the west side of 49. We've got a room with a couple of realtors in it, and they can probably agree with you, agree that traffic problems on Mount Comfort, traffic problems on Weddington, traffic problems on MLK. The reason we have traffic problems out there is we have a mass of houses, and a lot of them are outside of the city where we have no jurisdiction.
 The traffic problem over here and those other streets are not going to get fixed until we get more jobs on the west side of 49th. That's the only way it's going to get fixed. People have the right to develop their land, put houses on it, but we have to figure out a way that we can get more white-collared jobs on the other side.
 This is a long-running conversation that we need to have, that we need to start fixing. I've talked to staff about it. How do we get jobs notes? How do we get transportation notes on the west side of 49? Hopefully, we can start tackling that problem. I don't think that problem is going to be solved or not solved based on this development.
 uh and i would rather have a development that's closer here uh than farther out in the county where we have to build more roads or wider roads out there i would love to fix the problem with the vote on this one i don't think that we should deny what the applicant's asking because we're not going to fix it with just this and that's an undue burden on the developer thank you
 Thank you. Um, you know, I agree with Sloan and the fact that, you know, this isn't a traffic problem. This is a transportation problem and it's a land use zoning problem. And when we have single use zoning where we separate the places where we live from the places where we work, we end up with traffic problems such as this. Um, I prefer to see this parcel not developed. Um, but I don't think that's a realistic option at this point. Um,
 In looking at what we can do that does not pose an undue burden on the applicant is, has there been an exploration of what it would cost to put sidewalks on Woodlark and Raven Lane so that we can at least get the pedestrians out of the street and into a safe space? And is that a condition that we could impose on the developer in lieu of these additional East-West connections, which don't seem very feasible? Sure.
 Well, the developers already agreed to build and is required to build the connection of Emil to the east. The whole issue is this new western requirement. I don't think that, I don't think it's probably close enough from a constitutional point of view to be able to require sidewalks built in another subdivision. He's going to have to build sidewalks in his own subdivision.
 But really, I think that's beyond...
 the rough proportionality and impact of his pedestrians to build them in other places. So I don't think we could make that as a condition to this preliminary plan. Okay, because with the connection on Immel, we're just dumping them out onto Dean Solomon, which is an unimproved road with its own mobility challenges. I was just thinking, can we provide a safe way for pedestrians to navigate the new...
 you know, what will become the primary entrances and exits to this neighborhood and connect them with, whether that's future transit locations on Mount Comfort Road, safe routes to school. Is there a lower cost connectivity solution alternative than these east-west routes that are proposed? Because I do agree that that is too big of a burden to put on this development, but I
 We do have a responsibility to public safety, and the fact that we're increasing the traffic volume on these neighborhood streets that don't have pedestrian facilities, it just seems like that's unsafe. And those are very good points. The question is who should pay for them. And my opinion is the city should pay for that. If we have an existing neighborhood that needs sidewalks,
 Then we have a sidewalk program that we look all over the city to place sidewalks where they're most needed. Mainly that's been around schools and other places like that, but we've also built them in neighborhoods. But that's really a burden that should be placed on all of our taxpayers and not just the developer who's happened to be developing north of them. Even though they're creating the additional traffic hazard.
 You know that's I guess that's debatable what's going to happen there on that. I don't know if we've had you know anything to indicate about traffic hazards to pedestrians any accidents that have occurred and
 There's also a question, we don't really know what's going to happen with the traffic, where it's going to go. Is it all going to go out to Emile? Is it not? Is it going to go down to one of these other roads like was spoken about, even though there are F roads when you're trying to get out and you have to cross multiple lanes of traffic? I know I wouldn't be going that way, but maybe other people would. But anyway, I think it's a little bit too far. If we feel like that's an important thing, the city council believes that the sidewalks are very important for this neighborhood, then they should...
 Speak up and we got two aldermen here from that ward that that certainly there there will be Questioned about where the sidewalk should go and if they believe that's where the sidewalk should go And the city has money that put they put in the sidewalks every year as you know, right? I also know that we have a 14-year waiting list on those sidewalks and a disproportionate need for them in words one and more to and
 So I'm just trying to think of, you know, is there an alternative to requiring an expensive bridge or east-west road service?
 connection that can help mitigate some of the safety concerns in the neighborhood and promote walkability because ultimately what we need are less vehicle miles traveled in this neighborhood That's how we reduce traffic is to get people out of your cars and get people walking riding bikes or taking the bus and providing safe and enticing alternative transportation networks is one solution that I
 I think that we need to be exploring more often. So thank you. I'm glad that council member Marsh brought up the sidewalks. The, I think the neighbors in this area would agree that right now they don't need sidewalks, but they will need sidewalks when there's a connection bringing additional traffic. So as far as sidewalks,
 the impetus for that for that sidewalk it is directly tied to this so i appreciate that observation and also this is without it this will be a sidewalk island they'll develop the neighborhood with sidewalks to code connect to woodlark and raven that don't have them we've got a weird half block of sidewalk on each block it nobody understands how that happened and then we'll connect out to dean solomon which has discontinuous sidewalks
 Both north and south from that point so While they may have sidewalks within the neighborhood they will have nowhere to go on them And you mentioned the rough proportionality and I've heard a lot about that on this What is the proportion that we aim for on that? I?
 It is, there's not an exact calculus on that. That's what the Supreme Court has said. But you look at the rough proportionality impact on a particular infrastructure need of the city. In this particular case, we're really talking about streets, transportation, and I can tell
 I have never seen a development of under 200 units be asked to spend $3 million to build a bridge. That is far beyond the rough proportionality that we could require constitutionally. It would be, in my opinion, unconstitutional for us to have that in there. And that's why I asked Jesse about whether he can go across that land so he doesn't have to build a bridge, which that would be best. That would be great.
 But it's not legal. He doesn't have a legal way to do it. We don't have a way to put in something that says you must do something you don't have the legal right to do. We can't put that in here. And so what you're really saying, by saying they must go to the east, you're saying they must build a bridge. And again, constitutionally, I don't think you can do that. I think it is beyond the rough proportionality of this or any subdivision that would be this small. And in fact, normally in building bridges, we take up,
 collections from developers years and years and work on it and put our own money with it and build a bridge because when you spend in three million dollars that is a giant impact and
 And I think as Jesse said, way more than any other per house thing that's been close to anything in Fayetteville. So I do think that we really can't require them to go over somebody else's land. Now if you want to bring in a condemnation petition so we would contend somebody's land so they can go across there, then that might be more feasible. But as it stands right now, they have no legal right to cross the land.
 And so their only option to comply with what you've written in your resolution is to build the bridge. And I think that is beyond the rough proportionality that we can require of them. Thank you for laying that out. The rough proportionality part has been elusive, I would say. A quick question for Andrew, I think. Mr. Fulcher, I may have a little bit for both of you here.
 You mentioned that Mr. Kimbrough has been unwilling to sell. The Kimbroughs have a conditional use permit for a new barn over there. Do you happen to remember the impetus for that? The impetus for the conditional use permit? Is that what you're asking?
 uh one of the one of the kimbros there's several different ones in that family that own property over there one of them is wanting to build a new barn behind his house and he he got a conditional use permit um i think the the impetus behind it um i'm not for sure but i believe it was he was wanting to sell that piece of land and so he was wanting to tear down that barn one of the barns and build another one thank you um and
 And did they own the section of a mill that they would be building the road on?
 ralph coleman does to my knowledge they do not own that okay thank you um and i guess one last thing while i've got the floor can we get some clarification on what the deal was with the the bike lanes and the turn lane at uh at wood lark there we've heard about that at two ward meetings and and we're confused that the development approved to the south may or may not line up with the traffic light that's planned yeah um
 Along Mount Comfort Road, we did discuss early on the desire for a turn lane at Woodlark to allow traffic to turn, get in that turn lane and safely turn in there. As we looked at it closer, there was not enough right of way really to do that without taking out the bike lanes, so it would have, in order to do that for this particular project, it would have involved taking out a short section of bike lanes and we would
 We felt like after looking at it closer, it would be better for an overall city project to potentially remove sections of the bike lane and do a separated path along Mount Comfort to make it safer. And so that's why the Planning Commission recommended the applicant pay the city an assessment, and we'll use that money towards an overall city project to improve those facilities in the future. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, could I ask Jesse, if you don't own that property for a mill, how are you planning on building a road on it? I believe I've provided a copy of our signed agreement with the property owner to staff. We have a signed agreement in place. Essentially we will pay for the land. It's about an acre of property. We will build a white vinyl fence on the north side of our road between the right-of-way and the remainder of the golf course, re-vegetate it back to existing condition and
 dedicated to the city that's what the agreement states so it's just contingent on your final approval and then you'll actually own it you'll buy the property at that point exactly okay thank you mayor so I think I have a question for Chris or Andrew I'm not sure regarding the future plan I heard you said something about adding a light
 um either there on woodlark because what I heard from the residents they said that woodlark was the going to be the big problem is there any chance or what what's the plan for woodlark or is there any well a couple things about woodlark one is the development of the south that's occurring is lining up and connecting a new street so we'll have a four-way intersection there
 The other thing, just from a signal spacing standpoint, that's almost exactly between Salem and Shiloh, so it's the perfect location. And it allows for,
 you know cars to stop and go and access for that but it also provides a pedestrian crossing location and so the people who are on the north side can get to the south side get get down towards the Hamstring Creek Trail down in that area and also people who are on the south side can go to the north side towards the school and the Clever Creek Trail so it provides a pedestrian crossing there as well.
 In relation to this project, what's the timeline? Would it be in time for that? I think it's something we need to evaluate and look at the traffic counts and when it's appropriate. We do have funding within the transportation bond program for additional signals throughout the city. That's one of the ones that's under consideration. Thank you.
 Okay, Sarah. Another question for Chris. You mentioned that the new signal at Woodlark would be for pedestrian crossing, and yet we have no sidewalks planned on Woodlark. Is that correct? On Woodlark, there are no existing sidewalks. I think your point is well taken, though. It's just one that a location we need to include in the mix and see where it falls in priority in relation to the rest of our sidewalk program.
 Okay, so we do intend to build sidewalks at Woodlark if we're going to put a signalized crossing that will accommodate pedestrians I think that makes sense. Yes. Thank you Any other questions yet
 Thank you, Mayor. Just a point of clarification. So when a dangerous traffic condition occurs, that includes bikers too, bicyclists, right? Or is that just only cars? I would assume pedestrians would also be included in that? The actual ordinance that I read to you talks about vehicle crashes, but I think if a vehicle crashes into a person, I think that council could certainly consider that as a dangerous situation.
 Okay, thank you. One other question. So we've been talking about this rough proportionality and how it appears to be excessive for 168 homes and $3 million. What about successive projects that are in the area? So we potentially come back here in five years, there's another 166 homes or 68 homes.
 Same proportionality issue, but we've increased the traffic substantially. Where is that line ever drawn? Do you have any precedent for that? Yes. When the city is interested in building a bridge, then we have sometimes, at least in the past, as long as we build a bridge fairly quickly –
 collected required donations, not donations, but required payments from developers in the rough proportionality of their use of the bridge. In other words, you look at the bridge can carry so many traffic cars, so many vehicles per year or something, and what would be the proportion that this particular development would contribute to the need for that bridge, for that bridge
 And so you have to look at the whole area, and of course there's a lot of neighborhoods there to the north that might use that bridge too to come down Woodlark and turn on Mount Comfort and avoid that dadgum Salem crossing.
 So, I think if you build a bridge, there'll be a lot more traffic coming into this neighborhood, and you'd have to consider all of that traffic, and then any new development would only pay their proportional share. And the problem is we can only hold that money for a period of time, and if we haven't built the project, we've got to give it back. And that's happened many times on, especially on bridges. Because bridges are so expensive, and it takes a long time to gather up the money, and, you
 If you don't gather it up in time, the city's not willing to put in enough to make it, build it, then we have to give all that money back, and we've done that a number of times. And I guess, I don't know why, I don't know if Andrew thought about trying to do something like that here, or is it just too much built up around it so their proportion would be too small?
 Yeah, Mr. Mayor, we did discuss the potential for requiring an assessment towards that bridge. However, as Mr. Williams indicated, that would have to be spent within five years, and the city has no plans on building the bridge within five years. And further, the amount of contribution would be so minuscule, it would hardly even make a dent in the multiple-million-dollar bridge. That was why we ended up not recommending it. Okay. Anything else? Okay.
 I have a couple of questions. Garner, does this meet all the requirements of the zoning? Yes, Mayor, it does. It is zoned RSF-4. They meet all the requirements of zoning. They meet the subdivision regulations with the one exception that Andrew mentioned, and that exception is impractical. There's no way you can cut through an existing block to that. I think that...
 uh variance that the planning commission granted was uh was absolutely necessary i'd also just point out that we now have 21st century standards in terms of connectivity and facilities for pedestrians and bicycles but this was built in the 70s so what you have in front of you is how much can you ask the present uh developer this subdivision
 make up for the lack of our present standards that existed in 1970 in terms of the sidewalks. I think what Fayetteville's been doing an excellent job is budgeting substantial money for sidewalks, for trails, for pedestrian crossings, and I see them all over the city.
 So, Fayetteville citizens are very cognizant of the fact that our present expectations exceed what we required in the 60s and 70s. But how much you can ask this developer to fill in that gap, I think, is what the city
 And you're saying that it meets the requirements under the present zone. In other words, it's already zoned. Yes. It's meeting the requirements of that zone. Yes, it does. In our subdivision regulations. Okay. And Chris, do you see that the traffic count is creating a hazard? I mean, have you looked at that end of it? I mean, the capacity and the amount of traffic that's being used.
 Yeah, I wouldn't say it's creating a hazard unless, you know, any time the more traffic you have, the more opportunity you have for cars to run into each other. But otherwise, it's not creating a hazard. I think some of the congestion that's occurring is kind of a system-wide issue in that traffic is diverting from MLK and from Weddington.
 up to the north to use the interchange because it's less congested than some of the other ones. And the other comment about that is we do have funding in the bond program for improvements at that interchange to help alleviate some of that congestion as well. And let's see. Chief Reynolds, did you look at the accidents? I know that you had some numbers. I've been a little busy the last day or two, so I haven't.
 Yeah, it's been a little busy with some motorcycles in town. So I apologize for not getting those numbers to you till this afternoon. But I did take a look at the accidents.
 Councilmember Turk asked me to look at those at the last agenda session. She asked me to look at 2014 year-to-date 2019 and when I took a look at those it showed that we had approximately 106 accidents in that area and we used the boundaries. We used a east boundary of Shiloh Drive, south boundary of Mount Comfort and a west boundary of Salem and then a north boundary of Highway 112.
 to kind of look at that specific area. I'll just highlight a couple of the specific areas that had the highest numbers of accidents. So the highest number was at Mount Comfort in Salem, which is 24, and then Mount Comfort in Shiloh, we had 23 accidents that occurred there.
 And then at West Mount Comfort and Woodlark Lane, we had eight. And at Highway 112, Councilmember Turk asked me to specifically look at 112 and also Dean Solomon Road, which we had seven. I took an opportunity while I was sitting out here to also look at Raven, Mount Comfort and Raven during that time. We had two accidents.
 And then just up and down Dean Solomon Road, we had nine accidents that occurred down through there. Just to kind of give you a snapshot of what we're looking at, so what the Fayetteville Police Department investigates is approximately 3,500 accidents per year. So from 2014 to present, the number is 17,572 collisions. So when you take that 106 collisions that occurred in the city,
 You're talking about six-tenths of the collisions that occur in the city of Fayetteville in that geographical area that we outlined. But I did also take the opportunity to look at the last 20 months. So I took a look, or 21 months, I took a look at 2018, the current year, 2019. And of those 106 accidents, 45 occurred during that time frame. So you're talking about 45% accidents.
 occurring in that 21 month period as opposed to the 48 month period prior to that. So I think what Chris said with the increase in congestion, we are seeing an increase of accidents that occurs in that particular area. So I'd be happy to answer any questions that you might have. Do you have any questions for the chief? I mean, we're working on some numbers. Yeah, Teresa. Okay.
 I just want to say thank you for pulling all those numbers together. I know you had a really busy weekend, so thank you for that. And, you know, I know I didn't request this last week, but when you were kind of going through the information, did you see any bike accidents or bike wrecks or pedestrians accidents in that area? I mean, especially since we're really trying to have more connectivity and encourage people to –
 actually walk and get on their bike and leave their car at home? You know, I apologize. I did not anticipate that question coming up with the bicycles and the pedestrian accidents. I can certainly look at that, but I know from experience we're not seeing a whole lot of pedestrian activity over in that area, and I'm not familiar with any type of serious accidents that we've had with bicycles and pedestrians. It's not conducive for walkability. Okay. Okay. Thank you.
 So I guess, back to you, Chris, the capacity for the roads, is this going to be an issue with capacity on the road? I know it's going to add more. I would assume it would add about 1,600 trips a day. Is that about right? Somewhere along in there.
 Right. I don't anticipate any capacity issues. I mean, there's obviously a large volume of traffic on Mount Comfort Road. Adding this additional trips will increase the traffic on Mount Comfort Road. But again, that back entrance to a meal helps spread the traffic around. And that's essentially our...
 our philosophy as as development occurs we want to create additional connections and additional options for people to go help spread the traffic around and and can help reduce congestion okay all right so kit if the thing is zoned correctly and they've met the requirements where
 Well, as I told the city council early on on this, actually, as Andrew also told you, the only thing you look at is does this create or compound a dangerous traffic situation leading to more dangerous, substantially more dangerous accidents, and it could involve bikes and stuff.
 So that's the only issue that you're looking at. Everything else, they fulfilled everything with no question. Okay. So that is the one issue. And that needs to be proven by facts and not just anecdotes and things like that. I mean, you need to look at the numbers and come up with the rationale why this is doing that. And, again, it's not congestion. It's danger. Okay. Okay.
 All right, so we have the appeal. Do we need a motion and a second to vote on the appeal, or are we just ready to go? Yeah, it would be to pass the amended resolution. The burden's always on the appellant, so they need five affirmative votes to pass the amended resolution. Okay. Is there any final comments or anything? There. Yeah, you know, I have a lot of concerns with the development, and I wish we had the capacity to...
 Really require some meaningful connectivity enhancements and especially pedestrian enhancements But I do not believe that this meets the burden The proof that we would need to honor the appeal. I wish I felt differently about that, but That's that's where it comes down but I do hope that we can overcome
 work together to get those sidewalks improved, to make sure that we have cycling facilities out there, to expand our transit service, and in the future that we're a lot more cautious about rezoning things to RSF4 on the edge of our city and that we need more mixed-use development that better accommodates inclusive mobility. Good. Tom? Yeah.
 As I tried to point out at the beginning, this is a little different from the others. It's in the middle. I think that anyone developing area that's surrounded by other green space should have an expectation that they're going to have to provide connectivity into it, and their options may be limited by the land that they chose.
 but I don't want to belabor this all night, so I will make the motion to approve my own resolution, and we can vote and move on. We have a second. Theresa? I'll second that motion. Okay. All right. Any other final comments from council on this? Okay. So vote yes would be for the repeat, correct? Yes, to approve the resolution, which would include requiring them to make a connection to the west was the primary difference.
 Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? No. Scroggins? No. Bunch? No. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Okay, so the resolution and the appeal failed, and the original decision by the Planning Commission has been affirmed.
 i also want to say before we move on too far i think we need to be making i agree with what councilman laurence also said i i we need to be looking at improvements to places that particular road i know we're we've made some improvements to mount comfort we also need to be looking at what's the other road that runs through there north and south chris dean solemn we need to be looking at improvements on dean solid we really really do
 I mean, I'm more than now, I've been coming off and on because I haven't seen the kind of development out there that I thought that would warrant that, but I'm beginning to see a lot of development beginning to occur in that area, and I think we need to be looking at making improvements to be solved, so we don't continue to have this sort of kind of conversations. So, thank you all. Let's move on to number three. Number 11. Number 11.
 We only have eight more. Hey, it's not even nine yet. Come on. There's some left. We're moving. Do you all want a break or do you want to continue on? Well, everybody's leaving. Where's everybody going? It's a big problem. It's a big problem. It's a big problem.
 We're wearing those real t-shirts. I think some of the black men are leaving now. What? Yeah. Well, I know there's a lot of them. Yeah, I think some of the black men are leaving right now. Okay. We'll leave that up to you all. Where is everybody going? Are we done? Alright, I'm going to continue on.
 All right. Okay. Number? Number? Okay. Okay. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. We're in order. All right. All right. We're in order. All right. All right. All right. All right.
 I hope we're going to be in order. All right, number three, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve cost share agreement with John M. Putnam for the installation of a sanitary sewer line along a portion of West Main Street with the amount not to exceed $15,544.50 to be paid by the city of Federal to approve project contingency in the amount of $1,555. Kitten.
 Whereas John M. Otten has requested that the city cost share or share in the cost of extending an eight-inch sewer line along a portion of West Main Street between South Sang Avenue and Cross Street, a distance of approximately 100 linear feet. And whereas constructing the sewer main will allow the development of the property located at 2014 West Main Street and will allow for any future developments in the immediate area,
 whereas section 51.112 of the fatal city code provides quote that the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size that is larger than required to serve the subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the water system now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a concierge agreement with John M. Otten for the installation of an 8-inch sanitary sewer line along a portion of West Main Street
 with the amount not to exceed fifteen thousand five hundred and forty four dollars and fifty cents to be paid by the city of fayetteville and further approves a project contingency in the amount of one thousand five hundred and fifty five dollars ten thank you mayor council as the ordinance states uh john otten has requested the city's share in the cost of extending this suramane along a portion of west main street between south sang avenue and cross street
 The construction of this sewer main will allow the development of the property located at 2014 West Main Street. It will also allow any future developments in the immediate area to obtain sewer service. Mr. Rotten did receive three bids for the proposed improvements, and the lowest bid was $26,589.
 dollars plus forty five hundred dollars of the engineering and surveying fees which brings a fifty percent cost here at fifteen thousand five hundred forty four dollars and fifty cents We presented this item to the water sewer and solid waste committee on August the 13th with a unanimous vote to forward it to this full council for consideration for approval Okay, any questions for Tim? Any public comment on this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Yes, I'd like to just make one comment. You know, it seems like at least every other meeting or maybe even close to every meeting we have one of these where we're doing something that seems pretty straightforward and having to go through this process of waiving formal competitive bidding because competitive bidding is the only way we have to consider this thing that is becoming so routine. I'd be pretty keen, I don't know about the rest of the council, but for myself I'd be pretty keen on seeing
 some kind of a systematized process for approval for these come forward so we didn't have to go through all this parliamentary theatrics every single time we're doing something that's that's so routine so I'm just putting that out there I make the motion that we do the second reading mark I will second that
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 an ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with john m otten for the installation of a sanitary sewer line along a portion of west main street with the amount not to exceed fifteen thousand five hundred and forty four dollars and fifty cents to be paid by the city of fayetteville to approve a project contingency in the amount of one thousand five hundred and fifty five dollars
 And in response to Councilmember Petty's suggestion, the City Council does have the power for contracts under $20,000, which this is at this point in time, to set the rules for that, including not having us to bring it forward as a bid waiver, instead just as a resolution, because you do need to approve all the contracts. But that could be done on consent. However, anything over $20,000, state law says...
 It must be, you must waive it by ordinance. So anything over $20,000, we can't change it. If you want me to draft something for the under 20, Matt, I will try to work on that. Yeah, let's discuss that over email. Great. Looks like you've been discussing over breakfast. I need a motion to second, go to third and final reading. Oh, I'm sorry, sir. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. All right.
 I will second that. The motion is seconded to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 We had six, so I'm reading it. In order to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with John M. Otten for the installation of a sanitary sewer line along a portion of West Main Street with the amount not to exceed $15,544.50 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville to approve a broad check contingency in the amount of $1,555. Okay, do we have any final comments on this? All righty then. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh yes Kenyon yes Petty yes Scroggins yes Bunch Turk yes Smith yes Gutierrez okay number four resolution to express the opposition of the federal city council to currently proposed Arkansas nutrient water quality trading regulation number 37. Grace I believe you have this. Yes thank you mayor
 Fayetteville is one of four cities that is a member of the Nantrag, which is the Northwest Arkansas Nutrient Trading Research and Advisory Group. And the city council approved amendments to the proposed regulations. Nantrag took those amendments and basically did not pass any of them.
 So as the present version right now does not require any in-stream monitoring, does not incorporate many of Beaver Water District's concerns, and Arkansas, the state of Arkansas has no numeric nutrient criteria. Currently, the state of Arkansas is not meeting the requirements of the nutrient levels at the Oklahoma state line.
 In my opinion, the present form of the regulation will just add to the problems, not be able to trace where these nutrients are coming from, and is not protective of water quality. So that is why this resolution is before you today. Okay. I would like to read just the operative section so you know exactly what you might be voting on here. Now, therefore, it be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby expresses its opposition to the version of Regulation 37 that Nantrag's other three members have approved and wish to present as its proposed regulation to ADEQ or the Arkansas Pollution Control and Ecology Commission. Section 2...
 that the city council the city of favor arcs hereby expresses its intention to impose significant portions of the proposed regulation 37 for nutrient trading before the arkansas department of environmental quality and arkansas pollution control and ecology commission and will work in conjunction with the beaver water district to support revisions of the regulation supported by the city of fayetteville and beaver water district okay
 Do we have any questions or comments? I'm going to take some public comment here. Matt, thank you. I have a similar question to the agenda session. I just wanted to clarify my understanding. Is it correct that if this is voted in, it's essentially a veto of the agreement that I think is on the table now? That's a great question. Thank you.
 I believe that they have to have a unanimous vote. So, yes, that would be at this point in time. That's how that would likely affect things. Great. Thank you. To me, that's actually really good news, and I was prepared to support this even if it was symbolic, but I'm very pleased to have that clarification. I was glad to hear that, too. I probably will say that there could be some
 other interpretations by the attorney representing Nantrag so there still might be some legal arguments about what we're doing but that's one reason I wanted to have it brought right to the City Council so it's crystal clear what your position is that was going to be our position for the region from now on what you all voted in here and that we stayed with that unfortunately we didn't get anything passed
 What public comment do we have on this? Hello, my name is George Hill. I'm a North Star-Ten-Sun native and now live in Fayetteville to attend the university. I'm studying engineering, and I found out about this resolution or about Nantrag through Omni Center for Peace, Justice, and Equality and attended the most recent meeting.
 where I was able to hear the Beaver Water District attorney and Ms. Turk provide a lot of information about why we need more strict regulations in this rule and how that will affect not only North Star, but the state of Arkansas and anywhere that our water runs off to. Seeing the way that this council works.
 WAS NOT ONLY UNWILLING TO HEAR THESE COMMENTS AND THIS ADVICE AND WERE UNWILLING TO CONSIDER THE AMENDMENTS PROPOSED BY THE CITY OF PHAEAVILLE, I SUPPORT YOU ALL IN OPPOSING THIS AND EVEN AS I REVIEW THE EPA LITERATURE, ALL THESE PROGRAMS ARE VERY NEW AND YOU AS LEGISLATORS HAVE THE RESPONSIBILITY TO AIR ON THE SIDE OF CAUTION TO PREVENT CORPORATIONS AND MUNICIPALITIES OR THOSE WITH INFLUENCE FROM TAKING ADVANTAGE OF OUR ENVIRONMENT AND OF ECONOMIC LOOPHOLES
 And so I hope that you all stand in opposition of rule 37 as it stands now and work to have a more comprehensive and more strict rule that will protect, that will protect not only future generations use of our natural resources, but prevent corporations and municipalities from taking advantage of that. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, council and mayor. I'm, uh, Chris Carroll, Christoffel. I live at 1510 East over press. I wanted, I spoke,
 Before you the last time this was before you and I commend your for your vote for the last time And I hope your vote is the same tonight I also went out to the Meetings of the the committee and I couldn't stay for them as long as they were going I have to commend council person Turk for doing that But it's a boomdog one. I'm glad you're not going to be a part of it. Thank you Thanks, who else would like to address this on this I?
 Okay, seeing none, I'll bring it back. Oh, someone else? Okay. My name is Taylor Bridges. I attended the past two Nantrag meetings, and I'm confident that I can speak for the people who joined me in attending these meetings and say that watching these meetings feels like you're watching democracy fail you in front of your eyes.
 Those with the power to vote on this issue sit around a table and ignore not only public concern and the concern of scientists, but even choose to ignore the concerns of the drinking water authorities, attorneys, and their suggested amendments. If we aren't listening to the scientists and those who oversee our clean drinking water, then who's being heard? It's obvious that the voices of industries are deafening those of the common good, and this is all too often the case, especially in Arkansas.
 I've read through the meeting history shared by the city attorney, and I commend Fayetteville for delaying and not approving Rule 37 as it stands now. I thank you all for doing that. I think Teresa Turk might be to thank for this, so thank you, Teresa, for your work on that.
 I think it's incredibly important that the text within a law or regulation be specific and lack ambiguity. And I fear ADEQ having such a strong power overseeing nutrient trading in the state of Arkansas without specific guidelines within its text to guide that power and for them to refer to.
 In the meetings I attended, there were multiple mentions of the lack of baseline measurements and nutrient criteria. And I propose that we take advantage of the intelligent young adults like those who sit behind me at our states' universities and develop such measurements and that the $35,000 that each city spent to pay an attorney could have been used or better allocated in this way to develop those measurements.
 And I ask you to please oppose rule 37 as it's currently written and thank you for doing so in the past. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? My name is Kim Razor. I'm a resident of Fayetteville. And I just would like to say just thank you.
 Please protect our water in every aspect, all of our rivers, and especially our drinking water. It's just so important, and I think that the whole state of Arkansas, we're so lucky with all our beautiful rivers. And I hope that each of you will always protect that for us. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Okay. Going to bring it back to the council. Thank you.
 All right, sure. Thank you. I would like to commend Councilmember Turk for her action on this and keeping us abreast of this. We have to protect our water. Water is life. And it is so much easier to prevent pollution than to clean up pollution, and a lot cheaper too. So this is not just in the best interest of our environment, but it's also in the best interest of our economy. So I will proudly vote in support of this resolution. Sonia.
 Yes, I would like to reiterate what Sarah has just said. I'm a co-member of the Water and Sewer Committee, and I've seen Council Member Turt absolutely, completely dedicate an enormous amount of time and energy to this incredibly important resolution. And so with that, I would like to make a motion to approve the resolution. Sarah? I'll second that. I'll second that. Motion in a second to pass the resolution.
 any other final comments all right thank you tricia very much for your work on this all right please would you please call the roll marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes yes yes smith yes yes
 All right, thank you. All number five, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 19-6792 for approximately 0.36 acres located at 3030 West Old Farmington Road from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Kits. Be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1.
 At the City Council, City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description of Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Section 2 of the City Council, City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Garner. Yes, Mayor. This request is at the intersection of One Mile Road and Old Farmington Road. It's at the base of Centennial Mountain. It's an interesting area. We've had a number of requests in this area lately. There are a variety of housing types on the ground already. There's a detached alley-loaded area.
 development immediately to the northeast. And there are some townhouses along old Farmington and there are traditional single family scattered zoning, single family homes.
 The surrounding zoning is RSF 8 with the exception of RA to the west. This is a planned zoning district that has the attached single family and triplexes. And it also has RSF 4 across Oak Farmington.
 The city plan recommends residential neighborhood area, infill, attainable housing are goals that are applicable to this area. As you can see, there are a wide variety of lot sizes and housing types. The applicant's letter asking for this rezoning and the RSF-18, the difference between RSF-18 and RSF-8, it is a farm-based district.
 But it allows the same uses, but it allows narrower lots. The RSF8 requires 50 foot wide lots and RSF18 allows it to go down to 30 feet. This house is almost complete and the applicant has indicated an interest in building two more of these small houses immediately to the east.
 With that, Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Davenport is here, the applicant, if you have questions for him. Yes, Mr. Davenport. Hi, I'm Tom Davenport. I own the land at 3030 West Old Farmington Road. Do you have any questions? Okay. I'm part of the speaker. Do we have any questions for the applicant? No.
 I think the only thing I'd like to say is I really, how many do you think that in an area, Garner, how many can you get in an area? Two more on his property. All right. Good. Be three in a row here. Good. All right. Sorry. What questions do we have from the council? What public comment do we have? I'll bring it back to the council. Tom. Yes.
 and we i move that we uh motion to suspend and rolls go to the next reading i'll second that have a motion second to go to the second break please would you please call the role marsh yes kenyon yes eddie yes scroggins yes lunch yes turk yes smith yes yes
 And ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 19-6792 for approximately 0.36 acres, located at 3030 West Old Farmington Road from RSF 8, residential single family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. So. And we would go to the third and final reading. Right. Second. Yep. Okay, thank you. I just got a little hit on myself, didn't I?
 We have a motion to show we can do a third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call her up? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 And your ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6792 for a property of .36 acres, located at 3030 West Old Farmington Road, from RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre, to RSF 18, residential single-family, 18 units per acre. Mr. Davenport, can I ask you a question? How big are your homes? Around 900 square feet, like five on the bottom and four on top.
 three bedroom two full baths Yeah, I just want to say that I'm really excited to see some smaller housing options especially in Ward one I've not received any negative comments from My constituents and I'm glad to see this type of development happening. Thank you. I
 I concur with what council member Marsh just said when I saw this I was pretty pleased I this is certainly a model of something that we need to promote as far as affordable housing in the city so thank you so much for being a leader in this arena thanks Anybody else? Alright, if there's not any final comments please call the roll.
 Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Okay. Number six. Ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6796 for approximately 0.17 acres located at 705 South Church Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General. Kip.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, and at the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and their legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from NC Neighborhood Conservation to DG Downtown General.
 Section 2 that the City Council city of Fayetteville are to hear by men's official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section 1 Yes mayor, this is also a one lot rezoning request. It's at 7th and Church This is the church across the street. There are some townhouses catacombs across the street and there are some single family houses surrounding the parcel and
 The existing zoning is downtown general north and west and neighborhood conservation south and east. It is in the Walker Park neighborhood planning area, which reports to preserve existing housing while encouraging infill with additional housing types and mixture of uses. And it is a proposed form-based zoning consistent with goal number three. At the agenda session, you asked to see the Walker Park plan.
 As you can see, it shows saving the existing house and building a new structure here. That's exactly what the applicant is proposing, except this structure is orientated a little differently. It's actually constructed under our new ADU ordinance, and the applicant wishes to subdivide so they possibly sell the building
 two residential units separately and that is the reason for the request because of the lot area requirements no addition issues have been identified to date and planning commission staff recommend approval i'd be happy to answer any questions i believe uh mr hill's here the applicant's representative zap would the applicant like yes how are you mr hill
 i'm mr hill's partner oh you're not mr hill i'm kevin neal yes i'm peak development have any questions okay well thank you that was easy thank you all right what public comment do we have on this and it's sitting down and bringing back to the council i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading
 I will second that. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Yes.
 In ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezone petition, RZN 19-6796 for approximately .17 acres, located at 705 South Church Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Downtown General. Sir. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sonia. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6796 for approximately .17 acres located at 705 South Church Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Downtown General. Any final comments from the council? That would be good.
 Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Kenyon?
 Yes. Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Thank you all very much. Number seven, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6800 for approximately 1.8 acres located at 316 South Block Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. Okay.
 be it ordained by the city council the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section one that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby changes his own classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from neighborhood conservation to residential single family 18 units per acre section two that the city council of the city of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Yeah, Mayor, this is one lot rezoning request at Block and 4th Street, surrounded by a variety of residential uses. The sharring zoning is neighborhood conservation and downtown general across the street. It is in the downtown master plan area, encourages more residential development, while preserving pockets of existing single family development. No issues were identified.
 Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Ludwick is here representing the applicant. Yeah. Do you have any questions for him? Do we have any questions for the applicant? I think we're good. Thank you. Okay. Is there any public comment on this? All right. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Please call the roll.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition RZN 19-6800 for approximately 0.18 acres located at 316 South Block Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to residential single family 18 units per acre.
 Sonia. But we can suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Sarah. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 19-6800 for approximately .18 acres located at 316 South Block Avenue from neighborhood conservation to residential single family, 18 units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number eight, in order to resolve that property, describe the zoning petition RZN 19-6802 for approximately 0.55 acres located southeast of 11th Street and Washington Avenue from NC Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. Ms.
 Mr. Mayor, I just need to state that I'm employed by the developer and I will be recusing myself from the vote. Okie dokie. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby change the zone classification of the property shown on the map to exhibit A and the legal description to exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban.
 section two that the city council the city of fable arcs are hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one yes mayor uh this uh parcel is located on 11th street 11th street as you know is an entrance to the willow band neighborhood that is under construction to the east it's also surrounded by a variety of housing types
 As you'll recall, you rezone a similar parcel immediately to the west on 11th Street earlier this year. So there's a variety of zoning districts, downtown general, RSF 18, and neighborhood conservation in this neighborhood.
 It is in the Walker Park neighborhood planning area, which encourages a variety of residential types, which this proposed district allows. No issues are identified at Planning Commission, and Planning Commission staff recommend approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions. I believe Mr. Niedermann is here, the applicant, if you have questions for him. Hey. Hi, Zane. Hey, how are you? Hi, thank you. Zare Niedermann.
 Um, this property at 11th Street, um, right next to the, uh, Willow Bend development. Um, we are looking to do a cottage court here with small cottages. Um, this is something that is possible as a, um, conditional use permit.
 However, we decided to go the route of rezoning for a couple reasons. One is that for cottagecore you have to have all of the designs in advance to present to the condition as a conditional use permit and we have a lot of that in front of us but it's not, there's a lot of process that has to happen which we aren't necessarily guaranteed.
 with a conditional use permit. Secondly, given the surrounding areas, we felt that an RAU was appropriate with the multifamily directly to the south, directly to the east, and the RAU to the west, and also another duplex to the west. In this lot, in addition, in order to build on this lot, we will need to install sewer
 and water infrastructure there so that's going to be an expensive property to build on so we need to have density there to to support that I move we suspend the roles and go to the second reading
 Second. I have a motion to second and go to second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Kenyon? Yes. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. In ordinance to rezone that property described in a rezoning petition, RZN 19-6802, for Broccoli 0.55 acres.
 Located southeast of 11th Street and Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to RIU Residential Intermediate Urban. I move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion to second, third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to rezone that property described in the Rezoning Petition RZN 19-6802 for approximately .55 acres located southeast of 11th Street and Washington Avenue from Neighborhood Conservation to Residential Intermediate Urban. Any final comments from the council on this? All right. Everybody good? I have a question. Oh, sorry. Go ahead.
 I'm going to support this because I think it works, but I do I had some caution I had to think about this because it seems like we're continuing to spot zone Throughout the south part of town and I'd rather see a comprehensive plan rather than these single zoning changes So that was my concern, but I do think that this is Appropriate the way that it's explained so I will support it but with caution anybody else
 Mr. Wichik, please call her up. Kenyon? Yes. Teddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number nine, a resolution to approve change order number two of the contract with Nelson-Baird-Wolfe LLC in the amount of $1,075,537 for phases three and four of the Coastal Large Corridor Project and approve budget adjustment.
 Mayor and Council, good evening. This resolution is for a change order, change order number two to our contract with Nelson Bergwaltz Landscape Architects to provide professional landscape architecture services for completion of phases three and four of the Fay Jones Woods streetscapes, Razorback Greenway design, and portions of the Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project.
 The Cultural Arts Corridor Bond has two primary scope areas. Scope Area A, which contains the Fay Jones Woods, the Razorback Regional Greenway work, streetscape improvements along West Avenue, Gregg Avenue, and other streets in the area, and then Scope Area B, which is the Civic Plaza at Dixon and West. We anticipate beginning construction on Scope Area A in the spring of 2020, and construction on Scope Area B, we envision starting construction in 2022.
 The design process for the project has been divided into four phases. Schematic design, which is phase one, has been completed for both scope areas. Phase two, the design development phase, has been is almost complete for scope area A. And then phase three includes the construction documents phase, which is preparing the actual construction plans that the contractor will use to build the project from.
 And then phase three also includes the bidding and negotiations phase, which is the final pricing phase in working with the contractor. And then phase four is the construction administration phase. This phase is providing on-site construction inspection, helping with answering questions, change orders, reviewing submittals throughout the construction process of the project. Thank you.
 The maximum not to exceed amount authorized for Phase 3, the construction documents and bidding phase, is $634,250. And the maximum not to exceed amount negotiated for Phase 4, the construction and administration phase, is $441,287. Partial funding for this work comes from the remainder of our Walton Family Foundation Design Excellence Grant program.
 The remainder of the funding will come from a combination of the Cultural Arts Corridor Bond, Transportation Bond, Trails Bond, and Water and Sewer Capital Improvement Funds. And with that, I'll be glad to answer any questions about this change order. What questions do we have for Peter on this one?
 Thank you. Peter, we began an email exchange earlier today, and I haven't had a chance to follow up about how the ethos of Fay Jones is going to be translated into the Fay Jones Woods. And can you elaborate on what process the designers are going to use to make that happen?
 Truly a Fay Jones experience as opposed to just in name only. Absolutely. Great question. Maybe if I could back up just the history behind the name, Fay Jones, um, the, the property was acquired by the city of Fayetteville and I believe it was either 2003 or 2004 from the Fay Jones trust. Um, my understanding is he purchased the property in the mid eighties with the intent of either constructing, uh, an office or a home or, uh, homework, uh,
 On the property, that never happened. Faye Jones passed away. The property was in his trust, and then the city acquired it. So the name has stuck since then. We've been working with the design team on various elements throughout the woods, including trail connections to the existing Razorback Greenway, improvements along the adjoining streets, Greg Avenue and West Avenue primarily, stream restoration of the Tanglewood Branch.
 As we move into the construction documents phase, I think then we'll begin to see some of the details emerge that could be very much representative of the ethos of Fay Jones. In fact, there was a design competition that the University of Arkansas's architecture department held in either January or February of this year, where we had several students come up with various designs and specific elements to the project. Several of them adopted themes that.
 very much hearken to the design ethos of Fay Jones and I think our design team has taken those detail or those designs and is using those as part of developing their more detailed designs and so I think as we move into construction documents phase you'll begin to see more of that I think where there are opportunities are in some of the bridges and structures that will be incorporated through the woods as we create some elevated portions
 to achieve some of the grade changes and achieve the elevated campy walk area. So we're certainly open to any input on that, and if you or any of the other council members are interested in participating in some more detailed discussions with the design team and helping to inform or critique those design elements, I think we would absolutely welcome that.
 Great. I did my internship at his office and I know that he was very particular about what he would put his name on. One of my jobs there was to take all of the work that he had done and create ink on mylar drawings of it to go in the university archives. I'm very familiar with his work.
 And I'm happy to work with the team on this project. However, I'm not getting paid architectural fees for this, but there are two fantastic architects in this town along this corridor that are
 worked with him for decades. And I would really like to see those architects tied in and they have a significant history of working on gardens, whether that's Garvin Woodland Gardens or other significant outdoor recreation cultural destinations. So I
 I guess I'm concerned that we're spending all of this money on out-of-town consultants that are not tapping into our local talent base who are experts in this field who worked with Faye Jones and really could lend a lot of artistic excellence to this project. And instead, we're tapping free student work. I think that we need to do a better job.
 engaging these professionals in the design of this project so that this isn't just Fay Jones Woods in name only, but that we're actually celebrating and embodying his design ethos.
 I just want to concur with the sentiment there. I've heard from lots of residents that have asked if this is going to look like Fay Jones' work and suggested that it should. I probably haven't carried that thought forward as thoroughly as I should have, but the sentiment is out there and I appreciate that articulation of it. Peter, can you just – you may have already –
 sort of covered this in laying up the process, but what are the opportunities the on ramps and off ramps from here forward to To review or tweak those designs if we decide that oh, that's not fate Jones enough sure so into the construction documents phase We'll have 50 90 and 100 percent plan review options and so I think particularly at that 50 percent review stage that
 will have a set of plans, I think, that lend themselves to providing that level of critique and input. And I think Council Member Marsh's suggestion of reaching out to some of our local architecture talent to see where their expertise can be tapped is absolutely a good one. Okay. Anything? Any other questions from the council? What public comment do we have on this? Okay. See, and then we'll bring it back to the council. Anything else?
 Matthew. I move to pass the resolution. Kyle. Second. Motion second to pass the resolution. What final comments do we have? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Number 10, an ordinance amendment.
 To amend chapter 166.08 street design and access management standards of the federal unified development code to discourage double fringed lots and encourage primary structures to be oriented toward higher functional classification streets. Be it ordained by the city council or the city of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals section 16608E2 and an act of replacement section 16608E2 as follows, quote, with the exception of corner lots, double street frontage lots are prohibited except where such lots front on access restricted roadways such as expressways. Alleys are not considered as frontage. Double frontage lots may be permitted by the Planning Commission
 for topographical problems, feasibility issues relating to the partial's dimensions, or other good cause which must be established and proven by the developer. The Planning Commission may impose additional landscape requirements along the back of such double frontage lots. Unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission, all primary structures shall be oriented toward the higher functional classification street."
 Yeah, well, thank you mayor This has come up a few times in the last couple of years as kind of the The the fence Canyon issue that we see Developed down some of our major Arterial streets, but also some of our much less major collective streets I want to I want to sort of reframe the issue just a little bit before we get into this because You know we can
 This is about taking care of our public spaces. Developers are usually very good at making the insides of their neighborhoods look nice because they have to sell those. But when you drive around town on the main roads, you can see a lot that aren't so nice on the outside. And I think that
 We have a responsibility to take care of the spaces in between neighborhoods as well. So while it's often been talked about as a Grand Canyon, I googled some pictures of Grand Canyon and realized, you know, that's really pretty. What we're really getting is something more like a dark alley effect. We've literally turned some of our...
 most occupied streets into a back alley where there are no eyes on the street. When we invest millions of dollars in taxpayer funds, building infrastructure, it really needs to generate something of value, whether that's economic value or just a welcome experience for people who experience it on a daily basis.
 You know, we design our streets to be physically walkable and rideable, but then we ignore a lot of the CPTED principles that we know actually make them safe and comfortable places to ride or walk. Our police department talks to neighbors about CPTED principles, that's Crime Prevention Through Environmental Design, a lot. They approach it from a building security standpoint, but I think a lot of that is relevant here too.
 We've got to start applying some of those principles to these public spaces because we can't design uncomfortable common areas and then expect individual property owners to fix the problem all on their own. When both sides of the street are lined in fences for 1,500, 2,500, a half mile, you know, Salem Road is the one I'm thinking about. There's just no eyes on the street, whether you're driving, cycling, walking. There's a lot of opportunity there to, you know,
 to not be found if something goes wrong for a while. This is not a privacy fence problem as it was in my head for a long time. The walls of privacy fences are really just a symptom of the problem. The reason we're saying privacy fences as we drive and walk stretches of these roads is because we're really turning, I mean we're just turning our back on these areas. So here's some of what I mean from around town about uncomfortable streets.
 This is 46th Street between Persimmon and Cross Keys neighborhoods, and it's about a quarter mile of what you see here. The street trees will be nice someday, but right now you're walking between one side of the fence is freshly stained and the other one is falling apart. Broyles, another block over is, well, another mega block over is starting to look the same way. This is...
 the cross street this is persimmon itself that's 46 in the middle there it's happened for a half mile here there's two intersections across that entire stretch and across the street you've got catherine's place and some large pretty nice homes that are looking across the street at fence and
 Here's Salem Road across from Holcomb Elementary. We've taken one of our civic spaces on one side of the street, Holcomb and the Gary Hampton Fields, and given them fences. Now, this one goes on for over a mile, alternating between fences on both sides, undeveloped land, fences on one side. The school and the park are the only sort of break in that.
 I expect the undeveloped land there will soon be fences. This is Ruppel Road at Tanyard is the cross street there. This one is sandwiched between Clabber Creek and Salem Village. Salem Village actually has an alley parallel to the street with a fence separating them. So there's even extra pavement there. They've taken an alley-loaded neighborhood and still managed to turn their back on a main street.
 And it's not just Ward 4, that's where the most recent development pattern has been, but this is Township. This goes on for a half mile, again with, I think, one intersection. The trees are more mature, it's a little shadier, but you're still, it's a long walk with nothing else to interact with.
 crossover road takes an already challenging walking situation and makes it worse there's really no undoing these bad situations we have around town because we're not going to cause redevelopment of these areas that's that's not
 the goal it's not feasible but what we can do is we can prevent creating more of these situations in future development especially in the rapidly developing areas around the ripple mount comfort crossover Huntsville Road even our smaller streets like Salem that I showed you and this is Dean Solomon that we talked about earlier
 There's actually not a fence here, but we've got the backs of duplexes. I guess there's a little bit of fence there that have just neglected a hedge rope. Believe it or not, there is a section of sidewalk on Dean Solomon buried in that hedge somewhere. And the Google Street views are a little out of date now. There's now a fence on the right side where you see that field. So...
 My proposed solution after working with some interested neighbors on this and kicking around a bunch of ideas We've got to looking at the code and realize there's The textual changes are really pretty simple Remove arterial streets from the list of acceptable situations for double front lots currently the exclusions are expressways and arterials This would require arterial streets to have a frontage and
 Or to have single fronted lots an alley behind it could certainly give you reloaded access though. I'm not sure that would be required Because that doesn't count as frontage And the Planning Commission is kit red still has options to allow for special cases and then the last addition is the building orientation and
 We want eyes on our main roads, so asking the primary structures to be oriented towards the higher functional street where more of the traffic is should engage those spaces better. And then here you've got just a few samples of places that are already doing it well. This development exists. This pattern works. These places – I'm sure there's folks in the room who can tell this better than I can, but as far as I can tell, a lot of these sell pretty well.
 That's all I have and unless there are questions. I would like to thank the ordinance review committee. This is a little bit beyond my technical expertise, but we had a hearty conversation there and I appreciate the feedback that we got there. And yeah, happy to take any questions over. Do you have any questions for Kyle? Okay. Garner, do you have anything? Our is late and I'll be very brief.
 There's a difference between this agenda item and the following one since this is really how we plant property. So it doesn't have the issues with non-conforming or changing development regulations in mid-course to the extent that the subsequent application does. It is a requirement that many communities have.
 discouraging double frontage lots and encouraging the structures to address the major streets. Okay. Any questions for the staff or the archive? All right. Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to microphone. You have five minutes. Unless by majority vote of this city council, they decide to give you more time or they have questions for you. Keep your comments to me. Don't engage anybody on city council or anybody in the public. Stay on topic. And I would like to...
 i'd like to hear your name and address where you live if you have a business here so or a resident so who would like to be first okay well i'll bring it back to the council then sure thank you um i'm glad to see us moving this forward uh we had a great discussion in ordinance review and i um if actually garner can you clarify the the process that this went through because i know that this has been talked about in several committee meetings
 Certainly, it was originated by Long Range Planning Committee. No, by... This one was not. This one was one that I brought forward. Council Member Smith originated this request. Okay. It's not a subject, though, that wasn't discussed extensively earlier, particularly with regard to the Rupert Road project
 corridor which is now emerging and a number of solutions were looked at by council one was prohibiting fences regulating fences That didn't quite make it So the the subject matters has been extensively Thank you
 YOU KNOW, WE MADE A MULTI-MILLION DOLLAR INVESTMENT IN RIPPLE ROAD AND I DID SO, I VOTED FOR THAT BECAUSE I WANTED TO SEE THAT BE SET A NEW STANDARD FOR DEVELOPMENT IN OUR CITY, PRIMARILY TRANSIT ORIENTED MEDIUM TO HIGH DENSITY MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT. AND UNFORTUNATELY THE DEVELOPMENT PATTERN WE'RE SEEING THERE HAS NOT PANNED OUT AND THE DENSITIES THAT WE'RE SEEING ARE NOT GOING TO SUPPORT THE LEVEL OF INFRASTRUCTURE INVESTMENT THAT WE'VE MADE THERE.
 But mostly I'm happy to see this because I want to live in a safe and healthy community, and I think that this supports this goal. When I look at our energy action plan under our transportation sector goals, we have a goal to reduce per capita vehicle miles traveled to 2010 levels by 2030 and to achieve a 25% bike walk transit mode share by 2030.
 When you look at the existing condition on Ruppel Road and in any condition where you see development turning its back to the street, that's not creating the safe, enticing street experience that we need to shift mode away from single occupancy vehicle miles traveled.
 When we look at building a healthy active transportation network, we have to think in terms of what is comfortable and inviting for all ages and all abilities. And if you wouldn't feel comfortable with your kindergartner walking to school on that street or your grandmother walking to the grocery store on that street, then we have failed as a community and we really need to do better. We need to create quality, safe environments, safe routes to schools.
 And what we're seeing, the existing development pattern is not creating that. And so that costs the city extra in police enforcement. It lowers property values. And the type of development, it's just not giving us a good return on our investment. So I'm really happy to see this go through, and I will be supporting it. Okay. Tracy. Thank you, Mayor. Carter, could you...
 give us a little bit more background like are there a lot of other cities that have similar measures that are proposed absolutely um like this is just very extremely common especially increasingly common the corridor effect of backing homes on arterial streets and then screening them with fences it does create
 a degree of privacy for the homes that are backing onto the street and it reduces the noise but many communities want to promote more of a people-oriented streetscape rather than a hard edge with with fences
 And have you seen from other cities' experiences, have you seen reduction in crime and all the connectivity, better interconnectivity, or is this just theory? Well, I don't know any objective information that would lead me to say that there's a cause and effect on...
 this particular provision, but the principles of SEPTED, which is eyes on the street, orienting buildings to have people occupying the buildings that look at the street is certainly valid. I have not seen any attempt at analyzing whether there was an impact with this particular issue. Okay, thank you. Okay. So, here we are.
 I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scrockin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes.
 An ordinance amend Chapter 16608, Street Designs and Access Management Standards of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code, to discourage double frontage lots and encourage primary structures to be oriented toward the higher functional classification streets. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Eddy? Yes. Scrockin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. And the ordinance amends Chapter 166.08, Street Design and Access Management Standards of the Fatal Unified Development Code to discourage double frontage lots and encourage primary structures to be oriented toward higher functional classification streets.
 I thought I'd call this way. Anything? All right. Please call the roll. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Eddy. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Burke. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Okay. Now number 11.
 in ordinance to end 172.11 driveway and parking standards before or less parking spaces and 166.08 street design and access management standards of the federal unified development code to reduce driveway widths in zoning districts requiring a built-in zone and to reduce driveway setbacks for single family homes in zoning districts requiring a built-to zone
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeals Section 172.11J and enacts a replacement Section 172.11J as follows. Subsection J, maximum driveway width. Subsection 1.
 driveway width shall be limited to lot width as measured at the master street plan right-of-way line 70 feet or more Rot maximum driveway width is 24 feet 50 feet to 69 feet The maximum driveway width is 20 feet and less than 50 feet. The maximum driveway width is 18 subsection 2 in all zoning districts that require a built to zone a
 An additional driveway width requirement shall apply as follows. Subsection A. The driveway width within the build 2 zone shall be a maximum of 20% of the lot widths. This applies the entire length of the driveway from where it intersects the Master Street plan right of way extending to the back of the build 2 zone. Subsection B. Exceptions.
 All lots shall be allowed at least a 10-foot wide driveway, and shared driveways shall be allowed to be up to 18 feet wide. Section 2, paved pedestrian pathways are allowed in the Build 2 zone as long as they do not provide additional area for vehicular storage or circulation.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-O'Rourke hereby repeals the last sentence of section 166 08 F1 and an actual replacement of the last sentence as follows quote Curb cuts shall be a minimum of five feet from the adjoining property line Unless shared or unless the property is developed as a single-family home in a zoning district That requires a build to zone.
 Section 3 that the City Council the city of fail arcs are hereby determines that this ordinance shall take effect Six months after passage and approval, okay You want me to take this one again? This I think we've all heard a lot about in the last couple of weeks. There's been a certain amount of confusion generated in the community over this one so I
 Without getting into a lot of that. I think I'd just like to invite Councilmember Sorry not Councilmember Commissioner Hoffman to walk us through the technical details So that as we go forward with this discussion we can make sure that we are all grounding our Discussion in the actual facts of the ordinance Thank You councilmember Smith let me get this up here Okay
 thank you mr mayor i don't think i had quite anticipated this but i feel like looking this way is slightly less intimidating probably than looking that way nonetheless it's my honor to be here with you and present a unanimous recommendation from the planning commission i want to start by talking about where this goes as as we heard in reading the ordinance this applies only in zoning districts that require a build to zone
 If you add all of those districts up, including mixed-use, multi-family, and single-family, all of those commercial designations, all that stuff, all of the zones that require a build-to zone, you get to about 14.8% of the city by acreage. But we know that this is mostly about single-family. We know that most of the comments and concerns that have come have been about new single-family neighborhoods.
 Fayetteville currently has nine primarily single-family zoning districts. This change would apply to two of them, those being RSF 18 and NC, which together make up about 2.8% of the city by acreage. Why this change? It says right there, City Plan 2030, our goal number three. We want to make traditional town form the standard.
 We cannot do that without form-based codes, and form-based codes are useless if they don't require traditional town form. Despite the fact that they were controversial in the beginning, the city has seen a lot of success with commercial and mixed-use and multifamily form-based districts. We would like to see that success extended to single-family neighborhoods. Thank you.
 Lastly, Fayetteville, and this comes from conversations that I've had with developers going back years, Fayetteville needs both conventional and form-based options to sustainably manage our growth. Unfortunately, what you're seeing here is what...
 a lack of options looks like in zoning districts. Both of these are wonderful neighborhoods. They have beautiful homes that people love to live in. However, both of these are primarily suburban environments with auto-oriented streetscapes. The fact that the neighborhood on the right was constructed in NC indicates the fact that NC is a form-based district in name only.
 It's essentially indistinguishable from RSF8 and how it's applied typically. What would change? Wider lots can have wider driveways, skinnier lots need skinnier driveways. It's a pretty simple concept. We would limit driveway width to a maximum of 20% of lot width.
 This would only apply between the building and the street, so only in front of the building. Once a driveway gets past the front of the building, it would revert to the existing code language on driveway widths, which allow obviously for two and three car garages, two car driveways, all the rest.
 10 foot driveways would always be allowed even on the skinniest lots. So we've seen a couple of requests for rezoning to RSF 18, which Garner I think allows 30 foot wide lots. Even on those 30 foot wide lots, we would allow the 10 foot driveways.
 The other thing that would change, and I think that not quite enough has been made of this, is that we would give more flexibility on where driveways can be placed. We think this is critical. It's a significant incentive to do things a little bit differently and actually implement this traditional town form stuff that we're looking for.
 I wanted to take a moment just to go through, I have four or five examples here of different developments that have been done in the recent past in town here. Most of these tend to be infill locations in some of our historic neighborhoods. Everything I'm about to show you would require, excuse me, would comply with the new provisions that we're recommending.
 So what you're seeing here, this is a relatively narrow lot. This is a pretty typical single family house, single story. It's probably a three-two. You can't see it, but there's a two-car garage around the side. That driveway that extends to that two-car garage is, I think, 10 or 11 feet wide. There's a very generous backyard back behind this garage.
 It checks all of the boxes that you would expect out of single family development in terms of family oriented, all the rest. But critically, this is traditional town form. This is what we're looking for.
 Here's another one. This actually would go way beyond even what we're asking for. I think this driveway is about eight foot wide. We're not recommending anywhere near that level of restriction. Obviously, this is a desirable home. There's several of these that have been built in the neighborhood where this is. And I don't think I've ever seen one for sale. They just don't go up for sale anymore.
 Here's probably a more typical condition that a lot of us are familiar with, both in the Wilson Park neighborhood and in the historic district. I think this one's actually on the north side of the historic district. This is typical of what you might expect in our RSF4 district, which combined with some of the other suburban zoning districts that would not change makes up about 61% of our city.
 But the point that I want to make here is that this, too, would be allowed under the changes. This is about an 80- or 90-foot-wide lot. It's got about a 16- or 17-foot-wide driveway. It's got a front-loaded two-car garage facing the street. It's pretty normal, but it's pretty nice. We really like it, and we think it should be allowed. Thank you.
 And lastly, on the west side of town, here's yet another example. You can see there's two driveways there. I think they're each about 10 foot wide. You could also construct this development as a shared driveway with an 18 foot wide driveway if you wanted. But you'll notice that both of these developments have nice backyards, two car garages, and a great relationship to the street.
 How could this take effect? The Planning Commission discussed this at length. We knew this was going to be really important to discuss. We have absolutely no interest in pulling the rug out from under anyone here. We recognize the fact that a lot of developers currently own property in areas that would be affected by these changes.
 these changes and so we elected to recommend a six-month delay that would allow time to either request rezonings or you know put in for building permits under the current set of rules i've heard other ideas proposed by garner that might go a little bit farther than that and i think that we recommend we we welcome those conversations you know the commission at every point that we discussed this expressed
 preference for flexibility so we we do think these changes are important but we don't again want to pull the rug out from anyone so with that I'm happy to take your questions Matt could you please go over again what the bill to zone is and how it affects a driveway if it goes to like if it goes
 Pass the bill to zone how wide the driveway could be how it starts out possibly smaller that sort of thing Certainly, Thank You councilmember bunch so the build to zone is a zone that begins at the edge of the city's right-of-way and
 and it extends 25 feet past that. Our form-based districts that require a build-to zone, you have to build the building somewhere usually within 10 to 25 feet of the right-of-way. What this change would do is we would say that within that specific zone and nowhere else on the property just within that specific zone,
 we would limit the width of the driveway to 20% of the lot width. So here on this development, you can see here, this house on the right has a 10-foot driveway that no matter what, no matter what the lot width would comply with this change. Once it gets past the front facade, you can see just back there in the back of the picture, it actually widens out a bit in order to provide access to a two-car garage.
 And that, again, would comply with the ordinance. Okay. Thank you. Mark. Matt, I was wondering. Sorry. I guess I'm wondering exactly why we have to have this. Is it aesthetics? I mean, what is the benefit of having this in place other than aesthetics? Yes.
 Yeah, it's an excellent question. You know, the city, there's no shortage of literature on the benefits of traditional town form. It's been in at least the last couple of comprehensive plans that we've looked at. It's in City Plan 2030. It's in the recommendations coming forward for City Plan 2040.
 You know, we really think that it's a critical part of providing a walkable environment. We didn't talk about it in this report, but on the last item we also talked about crime prevention through environmental design. That is an aspect here, getting eyes on the street, that we think is critical. So it's about walkability, it's about traditional town form, and it's about executing on a longstanding goal that we have had here at the city.
 So is this important in every area of town? I mean, are we doing away with the traditional suburb and going to this regardless of where it's located? Because I think there are still suburbs out there.
 You're absolutely right and again one of the things that we've found in all of our conversations with developers and just normal people is that there's a place for all different kinds of development in the city of Fayetteville. That's why we did not want this to apply to any of the conventional zoning districts. We think that those are working very well. We think that you know those should stay the same but we do think that.
 just like we've done with commercial development, there is a role for traditional town form to play even in single-family developments, and we think that the city should have the option to implement that on a limited basis in the areas that the city council deems appropriate to zone that way.
 Garner, do you have any, Sloan, you had a question. I'm sorry. Yeah, I believe we asked these questions at agenda, but I want to ask them again. This does not apply to RSF4, is that correct? That's correct. How much of Fayetteville is RSF4?
 I DON'T KNOW THE PERCENTAGE, BUT I WOULD SAY OVER HALF OF THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS ARE RFID. MR. MAYOR, I CAN ANSWER THAT QUESTION IF YOU'D LIKE ME.
 if you remove the two single family zoning designations that this does apply to the other, all the, the other seven single family zoning designations, which includes RSF four make up over 61% of the city. So that would not be affected by this. This is not applies to most of East Fayetteville. Yeah. So I'm going to try to do this off off the top of my head here. RA RSF 0.5 RSF one RSF two RSF four and,
 RSF 7 and RSF 8, I don't know if that's 7, but that would be none of those would be affected by this change. Almost all of East Fayetteville is owned RSF 4. Okay. Versus all of it. If somebody's already built a house, are we going to take away their garage? Absolutely not. Okay. I've got a map in front of me. Have we shown that to the people here? Mayor, I put that map together based on our GIS data.
 and color coded to the best classifications I could assess. And Garner may have a copy of this in email if you would like to show it to everybody in the room. That would, it's available, I think, if you've got it handy. I would like us to be able to see it. I think that people believe that this applies to a far larger area than it actually does.
 rather than wait until I find it. I will find it, but perhaps I could do a few brief remarks and make a few suggestions. And then I'm just seeing all these folks have been waiting so patiently, and I want to make sure we get to them.
 The chair of the Planning Commission mentioned that we do allow conventional development in Fayetteville. In fact, most of our residential areas are zoned conventionally. The mayor and the city attorney and I attended a meeting on September 23rd hosted by the Chamber of Commerce.
 Many points were made at that meeting. It was a well-attended meeting. I think some of the stronger points were that the participants felt that the market is broad and deep for conventional housing, frot-loaded housing with private backyards. And I think that the question about whether or not Fayetteville still allows those has already been answered.
 A second substantial question is whether, what this does to all the investment, and there are some large areas along Rupert Road or zoned neighborhood conservation that would be affected by this change. What does this U-turn do to all the investments that have made in purchase of land?
 planning, engineering, and substantial installation of public infrastructure to serve lots that are really structured to accommodate a front-loaded house. I think that's a huge issue.
 And I think the third issue that was discussed in that meeting was that they felt that the six-month grace period was inadequate. So I have two suggestions to put on the table for your consideration, and I'd be anxious to hear from the development community whether it works or not. One would be to perhaps extend that time up to a year.
 getting a rezoning application together and taking it through the process is not an easy job. The other one would be to exempt lots that have already received preliminary plat approval in the past five years. And the reason, and I'm not, I don't have any magic number there, but a reasonable number of years
 to not do a U-turn for the substantial investment in property that has been planted and where the infrastructure is being installed. I think both of those would lessen the burden for developers that have purchased land and sought to develop it according to the present rules.
 Mr. Mayor, can I ask Garner a question about, it's been talked about how prevalent RSF4 is, and that's correct, that's mostly built out around Fayetteville. So in development services, when you see single-family home developments, what primarily zones are they being built in now?
 It's either RSF4 or neighborhood conservation. And can you have a kind of a check one way or the other which one is getting more of the homes built into it? I think RSF4 is still the majority. You think there's still more there than the neighborhood conservation areas? There are a lot of homes being built along the Rupert Corridor that are zoned neighborhood conservation. Okay.
 Okay, I think I'm done for questions for now. I do want to say that we have been working on this for a while. We've had multiple public meetings. We're in no hurry. We can have more public meetings. I do not plan on having a vote tonight. I'm hoping to hear what the community has to say, and then we can make the changes we need in this. If somehow my fellow council members wanted to vote tonight, it would be a no.
 I really want to get this right. We really need to decide how we're going to develop Fayetteville in the future. The plans that worked in the 70s and 80s don't work now. We have to start making small changes as we run out of space. We can't just keep it.
 spreading out at the same density. An example of a city that's done that is L.A., and I don't think people want Fayetteville to become L.A. We kind of have to decide how we're going to develop this. But I want you all to know that I don't plan on voting for this tonight. I plan on having more meetings. I plan on hearing what you all have to say and making those tweaks to make sure that this works for as many people as possible. Council Member Scroggins did pull up the map a few minutes ago.
 you want to discuss. OK. So the green area in this is the exempt single family. The blue area is the non-residential, so commercial industrial. So the affected areas are in red. And then I didn't make this map. What's the yellow and purple?
 The yellow are the multifamily, which if single family were developed within that zone, it would be subject to this. And then the purples are the form-based mixed-use zones. Some of them have some fairly large residential neighborhoods and other mixes of uses, but single family development in those would be subject to this. Okay. Thank you. Don? Kyle?
 Besides planning to narrate the map which I think Sloan took care of for me I just wanted to agree that there was no plan to vote on this tonight in my book We had a great discussion about it at ordinance review. It's been the Planning Commission and
 Twice it's not received any public comment yet So we haven't we haven't had feedback that we could actually that we could take action on so I'm really looking forward to that tonight Finally getting this conversation started I'm kind of sorry that it
 Took us getting it to this level before we could get some feedback because I think we would have liked at ordinance review to have Been able to make necessary tweaks, but here we are the conversation started, and I'm sure it's going to be a energetic Yes, thank you mayor Well, I wanted to say With respect to the two suggestions from development services our development services director. I would vote to exempt the
 That's are already approved back to some date whatever you think is reasonable Also, I'd also vote to amend the six-month grace period to some other number To extend that so I'll go on record for that I'm also going to go on record as you know, I sponsored this I support it I'm gonna vote for it at the end and I'm willing to make some amendments along the way especially with the advent of these maps and I think the data is pretty conclusive that a lot of the I
 The characterizations of this ordinance have been simply wrong, and I hope that the facts will lead some people to reconsider some of the opinions that have been based on bad premises. That's it. Okay. Anybody else? Yep. Go ahead. I'm sorry. I watched my train of thought, and I got it back.
 I also wanted to thank the Planning Commission, all the members, for working hard on this. I've heard from some members of the community, and I've also heard from some of my colleagues up here, that a desire that there had been more robust or structured input at the Planning Commission level and not –
 and not having waited for that until ordinance review or the council, but I disagree with that. The planning commission to me is a technical body.
 by definition and intentionally so. It's our job to consider the political dimensions of policies that are proposed. And I think we do a pretty good job of that. And I think we do a pretty good job of being willing to hear people out and take time and listen to public comment and make amendments based on public comments. And I think that's our job.
 I really disagree with anyone who suggests the Planning Commission is supposed to be a political body first. I think it's supposed to be a technical body, and they put in as many hours or more than we do in our meetings because what they deal with is so technical and so down in the details. So I'm really appreciative that we get ordinances like this to consider from a body that's supposed to be technically oriented. Okay, Sarah.
 Thank you. You know, in looking at the map of where this will apply, a large chunk of it is in Ward 1, and I would hate to see Walker Park developed with an auto-centric mindset that exists under our current codes. I mean, I have over a decade of residential design experience. I manage the books for a development corporation. I think six months is plenty of time to lead in to this kind of change, and that...
 We need to act with urgency because the longer we wait the more non-conforming neighborhoods are going to arise and We have a responsibility to public safety and you know I think about the driveway widths and a lot of that is tied to curb cuts and you know having these large areas of our sidewalks that are affected by extra wide driveways and
 So I have concerns about waiting. I think it's absolutely feasible to do a six-month phase-in time, and I'm really supportive of this ordinance overall. Thank you. Okay. Sarah. Yes. I disagree with that six-month time period, and I don't think it's long enough. I think a developer starts out and, you know, they work on their development. They draw their plans. They do everything. It's expensive to do that.
 and they've already got them drawn out and ready to go, and six months is not long enough to do, to reapply and do a complete about-face with your development, and it's rather costly to do that. So I think a longer time period is prudent. I regret that this type of zoning was not really used in the way that we originally intended it.
 and we're at this point now. But I think that a longer time period would work perfectly. But I realize everybody's kind of slowing down. We're getting a little tired tonight, and I see all these people standing around here, and I'd love to start hearing from the public. If anybody has any problems with that, let me know. Well, as soon as I don't have anybody popping up on my screen, we're going to do just exactly that. Okay.
 Now we'll hear from the public. Everybody gets one, turn at the microphone. I'm sure you've heard this a few times tonight. You have a five minute duration and less by majority vote of the city council. Give you more time where they have questions to ask you. Comments be directed to me. Don't engage anyone on the city council or out in the pub or in the public.
 stay on topic. I think we pretty well know what that is. And give us your name and address. All right. Jesse. Thank you, Mayor, Council. Jesse Fulter, Raj Coleman. We've discussed plenty of items tonight. I'll get out of the way real quickly. I just wanted to clear up. There's been some emails between the City Clerk's Office, Councilman Smith, about meeting dates and those types of things. I just wanted to clarify why there hasn't been any feedback throughout some of these public hearings in the last couple of months.
 At least from our company. In fact, I didn't even know this was this ordinance was weaving its way Through the channels it wasn't until about August 13th Where I stumbled upon the July 22nd Planning Commission hearing where this was forwarded and it was only heard a Planning Commission one time You know supported on after discussion to the ordinance review committee when I saw that I reached out to the clerk's office and
 Go ahead Jesse, I'm sorry, we've got to get some time. Reach out to the city clerk's office and ask about the Orders Review Committee. We kind of got wrapped in an email chain about when that was. It wasn't said at that point, so when I reached back out it had already occurred and now it's at city council. And that's just kind of how it happened, that's why there's probably so many people here because really no one knew what was going on at this point and I know they're at public hearings,
 But, you know, not all of us are following every single agenda for Planning Commission. Prior to Planning Commission, it was at the long-range Planning Committee meetings. There's no posted agenda for that. And at Ordinance Review Committee, there's no posted agenda for that. So there was really one opportunity for everyone to catch on to this, and partly my fault for not catching on to that. I'm on the email list. It didn't register with me.
 But I just wanted the council to have the history as to why you haven't heard anything so far, and we do appreciate the feedback that you would be willing to look at some alternative implementation strategies on this.
 because the truth is several of us do have projects in place that are under development. Houses are being built. Financing's already in place for the next phase, and it is extremely difficult just to change that. And so we just want the opportunity to discuss what does six months look like, what does 12 months look like, how can we work together to hopefully come to a solution that works for everyone. We're not asking to drag this out forever, but really just an opportunity to have a meaningful conversation. That's it for me. Thank you.
 Thank you. All right, who else would like to address us? John? Good evening, Mr. Mayor and City Council. Citizen John Latour, good to see everyone again today. And I want to congratulate you on your motives to make our city look beautiful. And just remember though, earlier tonight we had a presentation of what were called quote ugly fences. Somebody built those fences and somebody owns those fences and they may not think they're
 So one man's or one woman's or one person's perception of beauty is not always what everybody else's perception of beauty is. We all have individual tastes, and that's what I'd like to appeal to you on this issue on. I realize that we're trying to make the city more beautiful, and I appreciate that, I really do, and I congratulate you. But some people might want a wider driveway than just 10 feet if they have a 50-foot lot.
 And we went to great extents tonight to explain that this new proposal only affects a very small portion of our city's acreage. Well, what makes the people that live in that small percentage less of a citizen than the people who live in those other areas that aren't impacted by this change? I would like to see equality in our city. And we all like equality, I think. And also, I like freedom, as you've heard from the...
 four years or so, I like people to be able to choose for themselves what they want in the way of construction and driveways. And I realize that might not coincide with what your ideas are, but please respect our citizens' right to decide for themselves. Thank you. Thank you, John. Who else would like to address us?
 Good evening, Council. Mayor, my name is Aaron Wirth. Tonight I'm going to represent the North of Arkansas Home Builders Association. You get that there? Aaron Wirth, North of Arkansas Home Builders Association. And I'm going to try to address a whole bunch of things in a hurry, and you're absolutely right, we can't address all this in five minutes at 11 o'clock. And the Home Builders Association...
 We're a united association committed to providing quality homes and neighborhoods in north Arkansas. And that includes Fayetteville, Arkansas. We do that through education of our members, our future members, students, our customers. We do it through showcase events. We do it through working with our local cities, state and national. That's what we're here to do tonight, is talk to the city of Fayetteville. And we want to make sure that our membership is heard and you understand where we're coming from.
 I don't want to be very clear. We oppose this. Okay, but I want to also be clear. We're not doing it just to be argumentative. Okay? My personal history, and if I get time, I'll talk about that. But again, I'm talking on behalf of my members.
 We have a good history with the City of Fayetteville and we want to keep it that way. Mr. Mayor, 2011, I sat down, frustrated as an individual home builder, sat down in one of my garages in my house and said, you know what, I've about had it. I'm leaving. I can't take this. I couldn't pull permits. I've been here for, at that point, six years and I couldn't get a permit pulled. And it was terribly frustrating. I reached out to the Home Builders Association. They reached out to you, Mr. Mayor.
 We sat down on July 7th, 2011. We talked about a lot of things. We disagreed on a lot of things, but we agreed on a lot of things. We worked through them, and I'm proud of that. And since then, we have met...
 sometimes monthly, sometimes quarterly, sometimes every six months. But we do try to get together at least once a month, and I appreciate that. We've taken that up with Garner Stoll. We have a developer home builders meeting. Garner, I don't think you know what to make with us when we first walked in, and there was ten of us there. And we're passionate about what we do. We're good at what we do. We provide an important service to the citizens of Fayetteville and Arkansas and around.
 Again, I can't do all this in two minutes, but here's what I want you to hear We have a good relationship with the city. We want to keep it, but we got to have this dialogue I don't want to dress what Jesse said we did have one of our meetings on June 11th this year. Here's the agenda. We had 11 items all kinds of different things. It brought to our attention driveway wits. We discussed it We expressed our concern in the meeting and
 Again, we had 11 different items that we were working on and we our understanding was and I understand now This is a misunderstanding our understanding was that this was limited more to downtown and historical districts Okay, I realize now that that's not the case and when we realized that about 30 days ago We went into motion to communicate and so we could discuss with with you guys What our membership? What our membership is seeing and wants
 So, in the next minute and 52, I'm going to tell you what our members are thinking, and I hope we have plenty of dialogue after this to discuss it, because it's very important to us. And again, did I mention we're passionate about it? This is how we make our livelihood. We care about our customers. We care about our members. And we do care about the city we work in. And we love, we really do. We enjoy Fayetteville. Okay, as a developer, I can tell you this. Six months is not enough time for the investment that's been put into this.
 Development doesn't go fast anywhere and it certainly doesn't go fast in the city of Fayetteville. I'm not complaining about that It's just a fact six months is not enough You can choose to do work in Fayetteville. I'm speaking to my member as a member, but I am a developer as well You can choose to do work in Fayetteville, but once you choose to do work in Fayetteville and you buy land It is a long process years and We
 We value, the membership values what the city wants to see. We try to get that, we really do. I know at times it doesn't seem like it, but we do. And I can show examples of what we've done exactly, what the city has wanted.
 Rezoning, we put up there about rezoning options. Let me tell you, rezoning is a very tricky thing. It's very hard to do and there's a lot of subjective, it's very subjective in nature and we, rezoning is a four letter word in development. I know it's needed at times, we've all done it, but until you've got that zoning in your hand, you don't know what you can do. And then once you have that zoning, you should be able to know what you can do from that point on. And that's one of the biggest concerns we have is that we thought we could do a certain thing that we cannot do now as developers.
 13 seconds left. Well, the builders, they got to have something they can build that the public will buy. My fellow members are going to have to take it from here. Thank you. You have selected addresses. Thank you, Mr. Mayor and City Council. I appreciate you giving us the opportunity to be heard. I'm Don McNaughton, 3689 West Bowling Green, president-elect of the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors and executive broker at McNaughton Real Estate.
 I got my real estate license when I was 16 years old. I actually got a plaque from the mayor for doing so when I was still in high school. I'm a lifelong resident of Fayetteville, graduated from Fayetteville High. I run a company with my mom. It's been 27 years. She's done it for 43 years. And I share that with you to say we don't represent any one builder or one developer. I'm not a builder and I'm not a developer. And I have no intention of being one ever.
 It's true. What I do and my entire team does is we help home buyers on a daily basis. We help home buyers and sellers and tenants and that is my team's 100% focus. And we will sell all types of property. The single car driveway, the back load, the rear load, all those are out there. They're available today. I can tell you that it's not always the most desirable property.
 We literally can drive through neighborhoods with clients in the car, and they say, oh my God, why would anybody want a shared driveway for a quarter of a million dollars? They want a backyard. They literally want the image that you guys have put up there that say, this isn't exactly what we had the idea, but they want a two-car driveway and a two-car garage. Actually, they prefer a three-car garage because they do have bicycles for the trail. They do have lawnmowers, but they want a three-car garage, and they want a backyard they can play with their kids.
 I understand a lot of people don't like the type of homes that some of the builders have built. To be honest, since I've been in Fayetteville my whole life, there's hundreds if not thousands of homes that are built that I don't exactly like. But that is not my right to choose what people purchase. We as realtors stand against any attack on private property rights. We believe that builders should be able to build the type of product that they want and that homebuyers should get to purchase the type of product they want.
 And I get people are upset that the rich builders have built tons and tons of homes and make tons of money off that. The truth is they're building a product that people want. And I got a lot of notes. I won't make it in two minutes either. I can say this six months is not enough. The neighborhoods you're talking about that are undesirable because we don't like them. We pre-sell those a year in advance. We have that many buyers wanting those homes.
 If one is for sale right now by any of those builders that has them, I want to know. I got buyers I can call right now this second that will take it. So it is not a bad product. It is not an unsafe product. This absolutely will directly affect the value of homes in the neighborhood. Those images of homes up there, one of the first ones, it was kind of cute. I looked that up in MLS while I was here. We have access to do that. It was a $425,000 home.
 The last photo that was there about this already exists in Fayetteville, that is absolutely true. That is out at Weddington. That neighborhood was built in the 90s. It was in direct competition with front load, two-car garage homes, and they did alleyways in the back. I remember because I sold those homes too. That neighborhood did not take off.
 It tanked. They had to change halfway through that subdivision to a completely different style of home. And even today, the values of that neighborhood do not hold as the other neighborhood did that was front load garages. Now, that's not me. I'm just telling you that's just the facts. And I apologize for not knowing that this was coming before the city council earlier also. I think I've heard some talk about focus groups.
 You should reach out to us as the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors and have us share with you what our buyers are actually wanting. We do know. My team alone sells over 200 homes a year. I know there's a lot of realtors on this council and other places that say they have buyers for homes. They do. But I... Time. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I don't want no outbursts here, folks. We're going to stay orderly. You can say what you need to say, but I don't want to have that. I don't allow that. All right. Good evening. My name is Carson Shaddy, and my wife, Sarah Shaddy, is sitting right behind me. We're both 25, and I've lived in Fayetteville for 15 years. We're in the process of building our first home with Riverwood, and I've already put money down to reserve a lot.
 and should be it should be done this time next year my wife my wife works in bentonville and i work in fayetteville so we both own our own cars if this bill passes one of us will have to park outside in the streets and spend 20 minutes every morning warming or cooling down our cars adding more emissions into the air daily sarah and i love fable and plan on living here the rest of our lives this could change if our backyard excuse me was taken up by a garage or a concrete
 We do not want our future children or our pets spending all their time in the front yard close to the flow of the neighborhood traffic. That is not a safe environment because cars will be parked along the streets, inhibiting the sight of drivers. If this bill passes, it would definitely deter us from building our first home in Fayetteville. And I'm sure that other first-time home builders share the same stance as we do. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to speak for council? Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Eileen Gilbert, and I'm a homeowner. Would you pull your mic down? There we go. Thank you. I'm a homeowner in Swanbrook. I built my home there because I thought it was one of the prettiest subdivisions I've ever seen. I watched it before there was even roads there and thought, this is where I want to live. I got so many options. I got to build a home of my dreams with tree-lined streets, ponds, and a lot of trees.
 beautiful homes with two and sometimes three car garages. I need a two-car garage. I have stuff. Most people do. I've got a car side, I can put my car there. The other side, I can put shelves and I can get to those things that I need to get to without trying to climb up into a loft, which I don't need to do, or rent some kind of a building someplace else, which then I have to go to.
 or put an outbuilding outside which looks yucky. I also need that two-car garage because I have family that come to visit me. I can clean out that little area over on the other side, and I can get two cars in there. And then there's room for another car in my driveway. Without somebody putting their car up onto the curb, being half on the street and half in the yard, or half on the driveway and half in the yard.
 That's a beautiful subdivision, and I built because I thought it would consistently be beautiful. Bringing something like that into that subdivision will change the layout, and it's really unfair to all the people who have dreamed and planned and built, just like this young couple that we're talking. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. Who else would like to address us?
 My name is Marvin Bruceveen. I currently live at 2638 North Miranda. My daughter is a pharmacist for Walmart and my son-in-law works for the VA. Recently we moved back over to Arkansas and we elected to find a spot where both of us could build a house next to each other. We've got two wonderful grandkids. Love them to death. We found the perfect spot in Stonebrook. Picked out a lot to pay for them.
 We're already a year and a half behind when we were looking at. Then we find out the lots that we indicated we wanted have come off the board. So we'd like to go to another spot right now, which is not our ideal spot. But that's what our options are at this point. If you look at a one-car garage, one small 10-foot driveway, that's not what we're looking for. I don't think anybody behind is looking for that. I came from Tulsa. Trust me, one-car garages don't work.
 McNaughton said the same thing. Drive-behinds, you're taking out a big chunk of somebody's backyard that really wants that backyard for their children. They don't sell. They didn't sell in Tulsa when I was selling real estate over there. I don't know what they do over here, but that's not what we're looking for. Our goal is to be able to live next to our grandchildren, which is now out the border because they are living in three or four blocks down the road, which makes my wife very unhappy, by the way, so it makes my life hell. Overall, I think that the plans are good.
 but you need more time. I don't really agree that 12 months is right, but if we're going to look for a number, 12 months is as good as any. What these gentlemen, what these builders, what those homeowners go through to select a lot, build a lot, find the property to build these houses, takes a lot of time and effort. Buyers don't have all the time in the world. I'm 62 years old. I don't want a two-story house. I don't want stairs. That's my choice. I want a two-car garage because my wife works, I work. I just feel that
 so telling us what or dictating to us as buyers what we're being steered to is wrong the one position i will take with one of the counselors that mentioned something earlier was making the roads prettier okay some of the houses are being built on ruble road are going to a steel fence you know what that looks great
 I would have went back, my original lot was facing that direction. So I would have accepted it quite easily because it is beautiful. And I like watching people drive by. I like people walking. I don't mind yelling, hey, how you doing? But that's just me. But I asked the council and the mayor, Mr. Mayor, to take us into consideration that what we're looking for here is what we want. Fayetteville is a beautiful town.
 Trust me, I could have built in Bentonville, Roger, but we elected Fayetteville. We elected that section of town, and we expect to be there for the rest of our lives. Again, I want to thank you for your time, Mr. Mayor, and to the council for listening to us tonight. Who's ever after me, good luck. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hi, I'm Kelly Franks with Priority Bank, and I have three homes here in Fayetteville. I've been in Fayetteville for 15 years.
 And one of the reasons I moved to Fayetteville and moved to Arkansas was because the green grass, the trees, the urban areas in California are not that fun. There isn't room for your kids to play. This seemed like a free, open area. And that's what drew me here. And since I do financing for first-time homebuyers, people moving here that are retired...
 People that want to, like Don said, that want to have kayaks in their garage. You can't do it. It was brought up about autos. Well, most people that live in Fayetteville are at least two car families minimum, and they have to earn a living to pay for that house. So that means one of them is driving to Bentonville, one of them may be driving to Fort Smith. You can't bicycle to Fort Smith. You can't bicycle to Bentonville.
 that's what you can do on the weekends but to earn a paycheck and pay for your mortgage which is what i do um i i understand they need these things and the kids need a backyard they want to have a barbecue they don't want to look at their driveway or i don't know enough about it but i know an alley sends shivers up my spine i mean i came from an area where they have alleys
 I don't think anybody wants their daughter unloading groceries in the dark where there's an alley. When you are in the front of a house and you see a road and you can see the cars coming and going, you know who's on your road. So you have a level of comfort there. If they're behind you and you're in an alley, you don't know what's back there. And they have an advantage if they're unsavory characters. So...
 An alley for a small driveway I think would not make me feel safer for most of the people that I know. And one of the reasons Fayetteville is rated so highly is because of all the things we just mentioned. The freedom, the grass, the barbecues, the Razorbacks. I mean all those things is what brought people here.
 Now we want to restrict them and say, no, you live in Oakland. Well, Los Angeles is 3 million, 4 million people. We don't have that kind of people. We don't have that many people. So just from my first-time homebuyers or people that are scaling down, that are retiring, they still have stuff, and they need garages. And I don't want to share a driveway with anybody. I don't think anybody else does either.
 So I still have two minutes left, but I think it's a terrible idea just because it takes away the homebuyer's rights. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Good evening, everyone. My name is Larry Kelly. I'm a real estate agent, a realtor. I've got a lot of my colleagues here, and I work with a lot of builders and developers. I've been in the business 35 years, licensed in four states, have a lot of experience.
 Several things that were said this evening make a lot of sense. And I think that whether we're talking about Fayetteville, Bentonville, Rogers, or Pea Ridge, Northwest Arkansas has a unique opportunity. We've got tons of growth going on. And it is time for some different ideas. I think those are good. I think there's room for diversified concepts of all kinds in lots of different areas.
 But I think where city council sometimes, quorum court sometimes, fail to address those things is by getting a larger consensus. I know elected leaders are there to make those decisions. I've served some of those roles myself in leadership. But I think if you draw in, and I think the point that was made earlier is
 We have a Northwest Arkansas Home Builders Association. I think it'd be wise to get input, not wait for them to find you, but to reach out to them. The same with the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors. We're the largest board of realtors in the state of Arkansas, and we have a lot of information. I think that'd be really helpful when we're trying to come up with some of these new concepts and new ideas. Get consumer feedback. Get builder feedback. Get developer feedback.
 I'm not saying that you have to do it all one way. I kind of like some of these ideas, but I think that when you don't bring in the folks that are being affected by this, when you don't get that input, then you're going to, we'll be up here every time you come up with an idea that we disagree with. And I don't think that's a very productive way to approach it.
 So one of the things I'd like to offer and suggest, as a realtor organization, we're part of the National Association of Realtors. The National Association of Realtors has something called the Smart Growth Initiative. They look throughout the country about other areas that are growing. You know what? Northwest Arkansas is going great guns, but we're not the only place that is or has. And so there's a ton of information there.
 And it's free, folks. It's free to you as a city council. It's free to municipalities and to different areas. And we would like to offer our help in going forward with these ideas. These are some great ideas. They come from all over the country. They've been tried. They can give you input on pros and cons and maybe some areas to adjust and tweak.
 You know, not to only address this issue, but let's talk about everything in Northwest Oregon. Let's talk about development. Let's talk about different ideas and different concepts. We can be a participant in that so that we're just not up here saying we're a guinnet. I always hate that when I have a great idea and somebody just goes, well, I'm a guinnet. We don't want to be that part. We don't want to play that part. But I think it would be wise to take a step back and get some input from these
 from the stakeholders, the builders, the developers, and the realtors in order to tweak this to make it a better concept. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Joe Ruddle with Generations Bank. I'd like to address it on the bank side. We've got a lot of developers, builders that have come
 come in, invested money in buying land, setting it up for development. The time it takes to get there, they've already spent interest expense to get there. If this is enacted and it goes through and they have to go back through rezoning for six months or have to go back through and move everything around, that increased the cost of each lot, which increased the cost of each home to each person that's buying that.
 The point is to build the home and put someone in it, not to have it sit there as a vacant home because no one can afford it.
 I sort of look at the way this is changing in the middle of what the developer has looked for and what has maybe been approved as a situation of a bank. If we go in and we commit a loan on the front end at 5% and then someone shows up to close and we're giving them 6%,
 That's an illegal transaction for us. The government says that is. Why are we looking to change the game on them at this time? That's my comment. Thank you. Kyle, I believe you had a question. Actually, sir, I have a question for you. Development never stops. There's always somebody in some phase that's
 So I have a hard time seeing where there would ever be a time where you could say, okay, now you can make a change without impacting somebody. Do you have any suggestions for how to fix the folks who are in? Well, the developers that already own the land and that are in the process have already been through the approval process, the design process. Don't change that on them.
 If it has to be going forward, if that's what the choice is, then that would be the recommendation is new things that can be discussed. But it's things that are already in the works. They should not be changed. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. I guess I'm the big bad bear, the one that needs to be stoned tonight, because most of the pictures over the last six months... Introduce yourself. I'm Mark Marquis, 4669 Clear Creek, Fayetteville. But I had a great write-up to go over with y'all, and I thought it really doesn't matter what I think. What matters is really who we are and where we're at in Fayetteville.
 I looked around this group and I recognized two people that have been here as long or longer than me, either on the Planning Commission, the Mayor, City Attorneys. We've been building in Fayetteville since 1989. That's a long time and over 30 years now. Fayetteville's our home. You know, we're pretty passionate about what we do here. It may not fit everybody's thought of what the best looking house is,
 But we've got a challenge, and one of the greatest challenges we've got is to build workforce housing in northwest Arkansas. I can build homes all day long with railroad garages, alleys, or 20-foot-back setback garages. They cost more money. We were looking at things and studies last year, and in Fayetteville-Springdale MSA,
 For every $1,000 we go up in price, we lose 300 potential candidates that could afford that home. So if you take a garage and move it back 20 feet, and you add this concrete and this extra aesthetic view that you're looking for, you're gonna increase that price a good $3,000 or $5,000. But let's take $3,000. $3,000 doesn't seem like a lot on a house.
 but you just affected 1,000 people in Fayetteville and Springdale that now may not be able to buy that home in workforce housing. We've got bankers here that will back up these figures. You know, we've been here a long time. Are our houses obsolete? No. Are there different looks out there today? Yes. But I think the testament of any time is,
 is to look back and see one of the people that we sold to 30 years ago bringing their grandchildren in to buy a home from us because they believe in what we're doing in Fayetteville, Arkansas. We do provide a product for our workforce. We have built a lot of homes in Fayetteville, Arkansas. We're going to build, we build for the masses.
 We don't build one or two. We build for the masses, and that's our workforce housing in Fayetteville, Arkansas. If we thought they wanted one-car garages, we would build them. If we thought they wanted rear load garages, we will build them. We have done all of that. We started our first subdivision, Fiesta Park, in 1989. 768 square feet, some with no garages, some with one-car garages, some with two-car garages.
 We found over all our time in Fayetteville, Arkansas, that our customers want two-car garages. They don't want a two-car garage that has a one-car driveway going back to the rear load that's going to disrupt them so somebody's got to pull out.
 They don't want a one-car garage where if they have friends over, somebody can't park there. We just spent an hour and a half at 530 tonight speaking on driveways and roads that people can't park on by the sorority houses. That's essentially what we would be doing to many of these homeowners if we had this design, and that's all we had here. Now Fayetteville's very diverse.
 We've got small houses being built today. We've got homes with rear load garages being built today. Aaron Worth's subdivision is a wonderful subdivision right across the street from us called Brooklyn's, but it's more expensive. We sell more homes because we're building a different product than Aaron is at a different price point. Everybody would love to have one of Aaron's homes, just like everybody would love to have a house that looks like it's in Seascape.
 but most people can't. We're trying to build the best house we can for the price that our customer wants. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? I'm Mary Bassett. I represent my company, which is Bassett Mix & Associates. We're a real estate firm, and I've lived in Fayetteville since 1954. I've been a real estate broker for 34 years. I want to say that
 I love Fayetteville. I've been here longer than most of the people in the audience, as well as I know some of you have lived in Fayetteville all of your lives too. There's not a better place to live. I've traveled a lot. There's not a better place to live than Northwest Arkansas. I just want to start by saying that owning a home is still referred to as the American dream.
 And I think we need to keep that in mind in any new ordinances that we do pass as a body. Chase just did a survey of, I don't know how many people they surveyed, but 75% of all the people said that owning a home is the American dream and is definitely an integral part of raising a family.
 Most people owning a home, it represents stability, independence, and freedom. Home ownership leads to improving the surrounding areas of individual homes. Housing industry is closely tied to our economy. I think that's a very important factor for us to think about. When home sales go up, so do jobs. Together, these complement forces create a more stable local, state, and national economy.
 This is why many economic analysis wait until the housing numbers are released before they announce their forecasts. Community benefits from real estate ownership by taxes, real estate taxes paid by the property owner. The funds are used for integral parts and infrastructure in our community, which includes road repair, construction of schools, library operations, police and fire protection,
 parks and greenways, government social services, and other enriching infrastructure projects. This impact goes beyond the financial aspect. There are intangible benefits from homeownership, which involve charity organizations, activities, and special events.
 Homeownership also gets our general public involved in politics of the community, attending city council meetings, which we are tonight, volunteering for groups and organizations, neighborhood watches, school boards. In addition to keeping properties looking nice, the homeownership does that, your homeownership. I just want to say that in my 34 years of being a realtor myself,
 an owner of a company. I have never had one buyer ask for a one-car garage, not one. So my point tonight to you is please don't limit homeownership to a one-car garage. I believe the statistics that were said earlier were 40, this will affect 40 percent
 of the Fayetteville market. 40% is, I think you said 61%, it won't affect, but there's still 40% that it will, unless I misunderstood that on the zoning of RS4. So please don't let 40%, if that's a true number, be without their say-so and what they wanna live in and where they wanna live.
 Please let the Board of Realtors be involved in some decisions with you. I've served on the Board of Realtors as president. I've served six years on the Real Estate Commission. Governor Huckabee appointed me to. Also served 12 years on the Judicial Commission for the state of Arkansas. So please take all of this into consideration and all the people behind me that want to say something. We appreciate your time. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you.
 Good evening, Mr. Mayor, City Council. My name is Mitch Weigel. I'm with Downtown Properties in Fayetteville. And while I'm a member of the Board of Directors for the Realtors Association, I also happen to represent one of the very small percentage of people with an NC zone property that is on the east side of town. Our client, in this process of coming forward with this development, worked for years with staff.
 to adopt form-based zoning as presented by the city council when we talked to staff about what would be appropriate for our property we said we looked at that we looked at nsg we rezoned the section nsg then we looked at adding rooftops the rsf4 was something that the city council and planning commission both seem to agree there's a little too much of that we'd like a little more density
 So we rezoned part of our property to NC based upon current guidelines to provide some more rooftops that will support the businesses that will go in the NSG property. Now, after years of work, somebody wants to move the goalpost. We understand that maybe the NC had unintended consequences, that it's not what you wanted it to look like.
 And we could accept that going forward at some point in the future, it would be helpful to adopt the changes brought forth tonight. However, moving that with people who are already in process, who've already spent time, money, and considerable effort to bring forward a product that they thought they were working for and together in conjunction with the city is a little disingenuous. The idea that we could retool that within six months is,
 Isn't accurate. It's taken almost five months of just development planning to draw plans Which we haven't even gotten a chance to bring forth to the to the Planning Commission Or the development services for review it takes months on a project that time It'd be one thing if we were talking about a small corner lot a half an acre something like that But we're talking about multiple acres. That's a significant investment in time and money for both my client and
 who could lose if this gets passed because the developer may pull. Retooling is not really an option because it doesn't fit with even other zoning ordinances, zoning types. RSF 8 has its own set of unique challenges. And as you know, coming back here for rezoning is not necessarily guaranteed. So we think that moving the goalposts on something that are already in the works is...
 unfair to people who've already spent considerable time and effort trying to work with the city to develop a product that we think that the buyers want. And we would ask that going forward, some consideration might be, or at least an alternative would be, to maybe grandfather in existing projects or projects at a certain point, and then adopt your changes going forward. That way nobody's financially penalized. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Mr. Mayor, members of council, I'm Steve Clark. I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville. The Chamber is here tonight to express its interest in this issue because we believe it affects workforce. Among those 2030 plan's goals, one of them is to make certain that we create opportunities for attainable housing. So traditional housing, but attainable housing.
 We did some research and some review of just kind of what's been going on in our community. The mayor has heard me say many, many times over the years, this is no longer a sleepy little university town. In 1970 we had 30,000 people. Now we have 87,000 people. So we've grown a thousand people a year for every year since 1970.
 If you look at our community, you see that the average age is about 27.1. If you look at the households, they have an average of 2.6 people. If you look at the median income, it's about $41,000. If you look at the mean household income, it's about $67,000. If you look at the number of not owner-occupied...
 buildings or owner-occupied units, I should say. There's a whole lot of them. We had 15,000 students in 70. We had 27,000 students in 2019. And a lot of those non-owner-occupied units are for students. For Fayetteville to grow, we believe, and have said to you many times, it's about talent and it's about sense of place.
 And talent is attractive to our community because of the beauty of the place itself and the diversity of our community and the fact that we're interested in what your skills are and what your passions are and what you'll commit to and not really anything else in your life. It's very important, though, when you start thinking about reaching that goal of...
 not only a traditional town, but one that gives an achievable opportunity for housing, is that you also realize that this town is made up of average age of 27.1, and there's 2.6 people in the household, and you learn that most people drive about 20 minutes one way to work, and you learn what their median income is and their mean household income is, what they can afford on owner-occupied houses, or those houses that are selling.
 That's what they can afford. Now, they will all oftentimes, not all, but many will trade up to a bigger house or a more expensive house. They also find that in some instances they'll build their own house. But one of the things that we preach when we try to recruit people, and I tried to recruit a person today, I said you can afford to live here, and you can own a home, and you can be a part of our community. And so for us, this is a workforce concern.
 And as we looked at it and had some conversations, and as the mayor and everyone came over for a visit and a conversation, we do think making a change in six months is way too fast. Not that change is bad, but change in a real hurried thing without a lot of discussion is dangerous, we think, and particularly as it applies to workforces.
 Well, we think in 36 months, what we're thinking. You know, many think that's way too long, but in the process as we watch people go through it, who are individuals as well as developers, that process is almost always in that six to nine month range, and sometimes longer, depending on the nature of the homes. And the other thing we'd point out to you is
 There are some benefits to being a boomer. One of them is you've just seen a lot, alright, because you've been around. I was a graduate student here in the early 70s in a neighborhood that I think of as a traditional neighborhood now as Rolling Hills. And it was brand new then. And the houses in Rolling Hills looked like some of those that were pictured on the screen in the 70s.
 Two car garages, wide driveways, not many trees, because the neighborhood had not had a chance to develop and to mature. It doesn't look like that to most people today who drive around Rolling Hills. They go, wow, this is a great traditional neighborhood. I really think that what we look at in some of these examples are the starkness of just beginning.
 and that's a part of the change. The mayor and I had a discussion yesterday about trees and canopy coverage. We talked about what was happening on college. Initially, those trees were small, and now they're much larger. We really think that we should have more time to address this issue going forward. Thank you, Steve. That was good. All right. Does anyone else need to address this tonight?
 i can assure you we'll be back in a couple of weeks or whenever they decide to come back but who else would like to address us tonight okay i'm bringing back to the council so what do y'all want to do uh i just want to start by saying uh thanks to everybody that came out uh this was a long meeting i've only had one planning commission meeting that went longer than this um luckily i think we're gonna actually get out of here today uh so that's good um
 i i didn't know if we were a couple hours ago um i think i've only seen one metric uh from uh the people today uh hopefully we get more metrics of what wants to be changed other than just a definite no um i'm ready to to make a motion uh before we leave to increase the time for the sunset period
 It seems like that was the only thing that we got that was a definite here's a number that we can change. So I hope we can make that today. I also wanna ask staff, because I think there's some confusion about when this would lock in. So I'm under the impression if this is platted, even if it takes you two years to build the house, you would still fall under the old rules. Is that correct?
 That's not my understanding. No, that's not our understanding. I think the driveway widths would be applied in a single-family structure at the billing permit. And billing permits have not been – unless billing permits have been issued, they would not be grandfathered. I would like to make a motion, and I'll let the other council members speak first, that it's –
 When it's platted that if we've gone through the process you've platted it that it's not going to change in some amount of time after that because I It's it's hard to build especially if you're a smaller builder I think there's a lot of Realtors in here who know that if they need a small plumbing thing fixed it takes
 Months sometimes to get plumbers it takes you know you may be back a long time So I want to work on that number hopefully tonight, and we can get that at least that done So thank you Okay Sloan Sorry about that Are you you saying you just want to?
 vote on the issue of the timeframe tonight or yes we have no I have no intentions of voting on the whole thing tonight but that was the one metric I got from several people and I think would like to speak
 okay I think I'm not really comfortable voting on anything tonight we've had a lot of discussion and we've gotten from from two different people we've gotten comments just in particular about the time frame that
 I've heard so much tonight I'm I can't really remember I think I think we had one comment that said we needed at least a year and another comment that said we needed at least 36 months now there's a big discrepancy between six months a year and 36 months there's
 we've got to work something out on that, I think. And I'm not going to vote for six months at all. That's not going to work. So I think we've got to get together and possibly work out some of these details. But I think we need to do it
 I don't want to delay this forever because that leaves people in limbo that are working on projects and they may not be to the plat stage yet, but they've worked a lot and they're maybe just about to go to preliminary plat and I don't want to pull the, we've used the phrase pull the rug out from under anyone. I don't want to do that to anybody. So I think we've got to put our heads together.
 and come up with a better solution here. I don't want to drag this out forever, though, because I feel like we can work something out that we put in some good time constraints there that work with people and their projects that they have ongoing. So that's just where I'm at. I'm not going to vote on any time frame tonight. Thank you. Okay. Any other comments from the council? No.
 mayor i'd like to second what she said there we have potential issues uh financial legal issues about a regulatory takings if we don't do this properly this came from the planning commission not through staff so we did what the orders from you committee said we redrafted their ordinance the way it said however i need to look very carefully at the
 assuming it's going to be enacted when the safest time to make it where it would be effective, where we will not be doing a regulatory taking, interfering with somebody's investment-backed realistic expectations, because we don't want to go down that road. And I know that
 There are, at least what I've heard, is that many or some of the builders have people that have put money down. They're probably a year, year and a half away from even building it. But I think that we need to be very careful how we word any kind of delay and try to make sure that whatever we do is going to not violate our constitutional duties. Okay. Theresa. Thank you, Mayor.
 Think we need to really think this out more thoroughly. We have heard from several speakers tonight that this was about the first in
 time they'd heard about this significant change. And so I think we really need to sit down and go through this in much more detail, make sure we're on the same page. I would actually, this is not my area of expertise, but I certainly would ask that a group get together and try and hammer out some compromises or at least better understand each other.
 Because this is a complicated issue. There's a lot of steps in this a lot of Financing a lot of planning and we certainly don't want to I'm gonna use that term again pull the rug under out under out under anybody so Yeah, it's been a long night. So I do think we I'm not prepared to vote on anything tonight at all I want to study this a little bit more and I'd like to see a
 Some more collaboration. I think we can this community is good about working things out. And so let's let's try and do that Thank you. Okay more well, I've got to say I was surprised by this and I get emails and I try to follow and keep up everything until it actually came to the Planning Commission and I saw it on the agenda. I didn't have a clue and
 So if you all were in the dark, I'm kind of on the inside and I was in the dark. So I understand your frustration. Another thing is there's so much misinformation out there, it's evident that people were not involved that should have been involved from the beginning. Because if you involve people from the beginning that have a direct connection,
 understanding of how this was going to impact them, how it's going to impact the consumers of their product, how it's going to affect the financial end of the deal, having been a mortgage broker for many years in the past. There is always a financial end to this, and
 All of us know just to get someone approved, sometimes they have to come back again and again just with little things. And sometimes it is a matter of $1,000 or $2,000. I wouldn't say sometimes. I would say often. And so I understand the impact of this whenever you're adding that to especially an entry-level home that's an affordable home for a young professional or a young family member.
 That does make a difference. And I also think that there is a... If this is aesthetics, again, we heard earlier tonight from John Latour that...
 it's all in the eyes of the beholder, right? And if you don't like the way something looks and you're not going to buy it, well that's your opinion. But on the other hand, if it's affordable and it meets your needs and you find it attractive, then you're going to have more of the opportunity to buy it. But it's all in the eyes of the beholder. So I can't really understand the urgency of this. I don't like to push design standards that are going to somehow impact a creative opportunity
 I know in my own neighborhood there was a big brouhaha over a building of a home that was a modern home with a contemporary design, and I live in a historic district. But you know what? It added interest to our neighborhood that made this specific area of our neighborhood more appealing and a destination for people to come in and look. And that's because they had the freedom to design it that people,
 they might not have had, especially in this when I'm thinking about it. So there's so much more that we've got to look at as we go along. And I certainly hope that we include the builders and the realtors and the bankers and the consumers that are directly impacted by this. And I do not think that that happened so far. Otherwise there wouldn't be so much misinformation out there. And I,
 I'm not in any hurry to get this done. I want to do it right. I want it to be fair. I want to be sure that the consumer is not adversely impacted, that the builder is not adversely impacted, the architect that's designing the building
 the project is not adversely impacted. Everyone should have the freedom to do what they need to do to get the property moved, to get the people in their home, and to make sure that it is economically feasible, and that's the bottom line for me. So I think this has to basically go from the beginning again, and we can talk about it so that there's better understanding across everyone that has an impact on this type of project.
 what seemingly is a minor change in code, but obviously from the reaction of those that are directly involved, it's much more than what it appears to be on the surface. So I'm not ready to move along and I hope that we have a lot of opportunity for a lot of input from a lot of people who know a lot more about this than I do. So there you go.
 I'm gonna disagree that we're somehow too far along in the process and that this needs to start over we're essentially at the beginning of the public process in this This one had extra stages at the beginning. Perhaps we could have engaged people even more in those extra stages, but any any council member proposed measure would normally start here on a first reading and
 So I want to recognize the process that we have multiple readings and an amendment process so that we can have that conversation here in this setting, out in the open and public, and I think that's what we're here doing. As far as amendments, this needs some. It does. The implementation, we've talked about a couple of different options here, and
 I'm not even ready to vote on changing that yet because like Councilmember Bunch said, I think that the right way to change the implementation even needs more thought than we can do tonight. I'm not going to make any hard and fast promises here, but I can say that sitting here now, I'm disinclined to vote for any extension of a time period.
 because I think one speaker referred to unintended consequences of our zoning, but really what we've got is a zone with unfulfilled promises, and it's one of the ones that's being developed most rapidly in the way that does not fit its intention.
 So the longer we wait to make a change just based on time, the more development starts in the pipeline and gets further down the road of producing what was not intended for the zone that it's in.
 What I would hope that we can look at is identifying a point in the process that we can say, okay, if you are to this point, then continue as planned. I agree. I don't know where that point is, and that's why I would like to wait two weeks and have a –
 some ideas on where the right part of the pipeline might be to cut it off instead of a date because I know not everybody flows through the pipeline at the same pace. So any date, any time range we pick is probably too fast for some and too slow for others. I think maybe a process point is the sweet spot on how to choose who this applies to and who it doesn't.
 I hope that we will continue the conversation in two weeks on a second reading, and then two weeks after that on a third reading. And if we need more time after that, we can table. But I don't think that this is so far gone by some stretch of the imagination that it needs to go in the bend and start over.
 Thank you. I am in agreement with Councilmember Smith on the fact that we don't need to start over on this. I've heard a lot of disparaging of shared drives. And, you know, we have a lot of great examples of shared drives in very expensive homes in our historic district. I grew up in one that last I noticed appraised at half a million dollars and we had a shared drive with our neighbor. And that was great because we became friends and had a great relationship with our neighbor. Shared drives build community.
 And if we are looking, if we're really focused on affordability, why are we building two-car garages when you can have a carport or on-street parking? And for people of my generation, that's pretty normal. I moved here from a very urban area, and I had no desire for a garage anymore.
 And demographics are changing. And I think it's important that we look ahead at what millennials are interested in. And we're interested in walkable communities. And I would encourage us to move forward with as much, you know, allowing for as much diligence as we can. But I don't want South College Avenue to develop like South Curtis Avenue.
 And that's a neighborhood that is at risk. And there is a definite, I would encourage you to go out and walk South Washington versus South Curtis and see the difference in those development types and the difference in the community, the community cohesiveness versus a neighborhood that's crime ridden. So.
 Be open to new forms of development. Pay attention to millennials because they're the residents of our future, and they have very different ideas about what is necessary and desirable and affordable to meet their needs. Okay. So I guess we'll leave it right here for two weeks. So I'll let the sponsors work on whatever they need to work on. Okay.
 Okay. What announcements do we have? None. None? Okay. All right. Anything else? All right. Thank you all very much. We're adjourned.