I'd like to call to order the city council meeting for October the 4th, 2022. Chair, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Yes. Here. Third. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Harvey. Here. Jones. Jones.
 Here. Kenyon. Here. Whitaker. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. OK, the first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Tonight we'll talk a little bit about the financial statements for the month of August. So we have four more months to go. There are some of the bigger months as we move forward. But as of August, we're doing very well. Total revenue is up roughly 11%, roughly $4 million of the general fund.
 over the budget. Sales tax up roughly 12%, franchise fees are holding pretty good, up 9%. Building permits up 26% as of August. Beverage taxes, beverage licenses are up. Total service fees, which includes things like parks, recreational programs, etc. is up.
 Fees and fines for the courts are down a little bit yet, as are interest rates at this point in time. That'll pick up a little bit as interest rates are starting to move up and we're getting in different investment instruments. However, it was a very good month for the general fund, and we're up 11% over budget compared to what was estimated. So the general fund is looking pretty solid at this point in time. Street fund. Street fund is up 16%.
 Gasoline sales are up. The half percent sales tax on sales tax, that's up also. So that's driving the street fund up pretty good. Now, that's going to be inflationary driven, so I'm kind of monitoring very close to what
 I project is happening next year because I don't know if that's going to continue in the future, but it's very solid right now. So again, that's up 16 percent of the budget at this point in time, which we're very happy with. Parking fund is coming back. Again, remember, we're looking at prior years. We're looking at what revenue was last year. The estimates for this year were based on that. And last year's performance, we're up actually 19 percent to what I had anticipated at this point in time.
 Remember, we're in the process of replacement of many of the meters and some capital expenditures on the parking fund, but that's all going to pay for us going forward. So that's pretty solid at this point in time as the customers that frequent the...
 the parking district and excuse me, the entertainment district and the downtown business centers are doing very well and starting to come back. We're looking at that through August. Remember HMR taxes, HMR taxes are pretty solid. They're up.
 17% over last year, actually 15% compared to budget. So they're pretty solid. And we look at the HMR taxes because they support our parks programs and the capital program relating to the parks. And remember, those got hit.
 during a COVID time period and we sustained some losses back then. On that recycling and trash collection is actually up 2% almost all year. It's been down to projections, but it's starting to inch up for better or worse. There's I guess more trash collections, but that's up and the fund is solid at this point in time. Water and sewer.
 Billings are basically up about 8%. Usage is up.
 between six and eight percent for for sewer and water those are the buildings that are up at this point in time, so that's increased and Total revenue for the entire fund is up roughly six percent at this point in time for water and sewer So that's pretty stable and that has been increased most of the year usage has increased most of the year and
 The airport fuel sales are up actually 58% over the budget. Remember, I anticipated the budget based on last year. And even though that was increased, it's doing much better this year. Now those are fuel sales.
 That's up, that's generating additional revenue for us that we need out there at the airport as we've got some capital expenditures to look at, et cetera, going forward. So all in all, it once again was a positive month for us. Continue to go, we got four months left in the year. I believe the revenue projections that I have basically made, talked about with you and the general fund going forward to next year, look pretty achievable at this point in time, and I'll be happy to answer any questions.
 What questions do we have for Paul on the finance report? I have a real quick question here. Paul, what did you say the HMR tax was up? The HMR tax was up, I thought I said 15% of the budget, but let me double check that please. Up 15% of the budget, that's 17% compared to last year.
 Okay, thank you. So that's pretty solid. Restaurants are coming back. We're starting to see restaurants and hotel usage coming back. This is through the month of August. So I anticipate that's gonna continue for the next couple of months. Okay, thank you very much. And that was one of our main drivers, one of our main increased drivers in sales tax through all that. Okay, do we have any other questions? Okay. All right, the next order of business is the consent agenda.
 You probably have time to go to a restaurant before I get these read. Number one, approval of the September 6, 2022 City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve an agreement with Food Recycling Solutions, LLC, for the hauling of organic compostables and recyclable material in the city of FedEx.
 Number three, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Hawkins Ware Engineers Incorporated in the amount of not to exceed $32,240 for construction management services related to recycling and trash facility improvements. Number four.
 a resolution to authorize the purchase of a caterpillar generator from j.a riggs tractor company dba riggs power systems in the amount of 74 265 plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source wealth cooperative purchasing contract for use south mountain pump station 5.
 A resolution authorized the purchase of a Caterpillar generator from J.A. Riggs Tractor Company DBA Riggs Power Systems in the amount of $55,990, plus any applicable tax and freight charges pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract for use at the Gully Road water pump station. Number six, a resolution to approve...
 the Fifth Amendment to the water tower attachment communication site agreement with Altel Corporation, DBA, Verizon Wireless to allow Verizon to replace this cellular communications equipment on the older of the two Gully Road elevated water storage tanks. Number seven.
 resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with Kraft and Tull and Associates Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01 selection number 12 in the amount not to exceed $146,780
 for design services associated with the lake federal ball field renovation project to approve a project contingency in the amount of 7 340 and to approve a budget adjustment this is a 2019 park improvement bond project number eight a resolution to approve a budget just recognizing interest
 generated from the sales and use tax capital improvement and refunding bond series 219. Number nine, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $800,000 for the purchased water account due to increased water usage. Number 10, a resolution to approve a 30-year ground lease agreement with
 right seat LLC for the airport property located north of the Drakefield Terminal Building at 4200 South School Avenue for the construction of an 80 by 70 hanger and an option to extend the ground lease for an additional 10 years. Number 11, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $579,000 for the
 purchase of additional loads of jet fuel and AV gas due to increasing fuel sales and rising fuel costs. Number 12, a resolution to approve the purchase of a Bobcat E42 compact excavator with attachments and trailer from WT Equipment of Springdale in the amount of $101,205
 plus any applicable sales taxes and freight charges pursuant to a source wealth cooperative purchasing contract and to approve a budget adjustment number 13 a resolution to award bid number 22-43 and to authorize contract with legacy construction management incorporated in the amount of 279 684.69
 for improvements to the recycling and trash collections transfer station floor and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $50,000. Number 14, a resolution to express the willingness of the city of Federal to apply for and utilize carbon reduction program federal aid funds in the amount of up to $500,000 for street lighting improvement projects.
 Number 15, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize a railroad crossing upgrade cost and maintenance agreement with the Arkansas and Missouri Railroad in the amount of $839,774.60 for modifications required for the Razorback Road and 15th
 Street intersection project to approve a project contingency in the amount of $80,000 and to approve a budget adjustment this is 2019 Street improvement bond project number 16 a resolution to approve a joint funding agreement with the US Geological Survey for stream gauge operation and maintenance and water quality sampling and monitoring and
 at various locations in the city of federal in 2022 with the amount to be paid by the city not to exceed sixty one thousand five hundred and eighty two dollars number seventeen a resolution to approve a professional engineering services agreement with ocean incorporated pursuant to rfq 22-01 in the amount of eighty nine thousand nine hundred dollars to provide an assessment of lands
 with high ecological value and to develop an ecosystem services plan and to approve project intensity of eight thousand nine hundred ninety dollars
 Number 18, a resolution to authorize an application for an 80-20 matching grant in the amount of 312,000 for railroad crossing improvements through the Railroad Crossing Elimination Program. I will entertain a motion except the consent agenda's read. So moved. Second. All right, Carrie, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Jones yes Yes, yes Okay, thank you all under unfinished business number one resolution For the raising removal of the dilapidated and unsafe structure on property owned by Leroy H. Schoffenberg located at 2860 East
 Wyman Road in the city of Arkansas and to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $17,800 bill Thank You mayor City Council Billy Bryant senior code compliance officer Just a quick update on 815 22 Maya Sharpen Berg was issued a demolition permit by the city of Fayetteville and
 Some of the demo work is complete, but most of the structure still stands. I took progress photos of the property this morning to give a full update. Here's the aerial photo. So the photos, I did them, this photo is from a year ago. So this is what it looked like a year ago, and this is for this morning. Not much has changed. That's from a year ago, and the next photo is from this morning.
 That is another one from last presentation, or yeah, last year. And here's this morning. And I believe the next three are from this morning as well. Actually, that's from a year ago. Excuse me. That's from this morning. That is from a year ago. Okay.
 and if you'll notice in this one so the back portion of the house it looks like it was an addition at some point that part is down so if you'll go to the next photo you'll get a better shot of that whole part has been taken down i would like to note there is no dumpster on site just yet but there is some progress being made that's from that's a year ago versus today another one from a year ago
 And how it is this morning, that's 1 of the secondary structures that's from a year ago. It remains unchanged and that's another 1 from this morning. But that is the update on the property, including photos. That you are requested. Is there any questions.
 We might want to ask the property owner if they have some comments to make to the council. Would the council want to ask questions first or hear from the property owner and ask questions to the property owner and the stacker? Hear from the property owner. Okay. Yes, the property owner likes to speak before the council. 10 minutes. Good evening, everyone. Let me see. I'm going to go ahead and get started.
 Since our last meeting, I have made significant progress on the property. I filled two 20-foot dumpsters with trash and debris and have begun dismantling what I can. It has been difficult to coordinate with my father to sell the vehicles and valuables on the property so that we can afford some of the heavy equipment required to completely demolish all three structures. I have, however, set up a GoFundMe that has helped pay for necessary expenses like tools
 safety equipment and those two dumpsters. I had not been inside in many years and was pretty astonished at what I saw of the conditions of the house. Still in the past two months, I have completely cleaned out the house and have successfully collapsed the back portion as you all saw. I have done that with only the most basic tools at my disposal and if we cannot afford the heavy equipment necessary, I will do the same to the rest of the house.
 and those two other structures. I have worked extremely hard to get the property to this point. I have put in countless hours of difficult work, though it has not been easy, it has been cathartic. I hope that my hard work shows that I am absolutely fully committed and determined to completing this. I know there were concerns about my safety at the last meeting. I am happy to report that the worst injuries I have sustained have been a fire ant bite and some very sore muscles.
 I am going to ask the council for 120 more days to complete demolition and total cleanup of all three structures on the property. I realize four months sounds like a long time. However, the holiday season is here, and I have obligations to my two-year-old daughter and my own family. She is my priority, and at the end of it all, I do need to keep making memories with her. Also, the winter is approaching, and I am unsure of how Fayetteville's unpredictable weather will cooperate with me.
 My father is also returning at the end of December, and that will greatly help move things along, including selling the valuables so that we can afford the heavy equipment.
 I believe 120 days will be enough time to safely demolish all three structures, the house and the two garages, so I'm not haphazardly rushing and putting my safety in jeopardy. My estimated timeline is 60 days for the rest of the house, 30 days for the other two structures, and another 30 days to complete cleanup. Thank you. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the property owner or staff?
 Have you reached out to Habitat for Humanity? I mean, I know that they need materials. So some of those boards that are now piled up may be of interest. Right. So I know that some of it looks like it's salvageable. And some of the boards near the two garages are. I have a friend who manages the Restore in Fayetteville. And I'm going to get in contact with her. But a lot of it is...
 pretty rotted. Okay, thank you. Any other questions from the council for the staff of the property owner? Okay, we'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom?
 Dena Owens. Dena Owens. Okay, go ahead. Hello, thank you so much for allowing me to speak. Maya is a very good friend of mine. I'm very aware of her very stubborn and determined spirit. So and I personally, I live in Ward 2, I did submit letters to my council people in regards to this issue.
 I do know that when she was made aware of her situation with her father, she immediately set in motion to remedy this problem. And she has made steady progress and has provided lots of updates on social media, has been getting donations and interest from the public in order to get this done. She has done the bulk of the work
 on her own in 100 degree weather, and that has not stopped her. She is continuing on unheeded. And she wants to keep this land for her family. Her father's owned it for many years, and she does want to clear it so that they can put a safe dwelling on it for him to live out the rest of his days and for them to have in perpetuity.
 I believe the resolution should be voted down. I don't think that we need to spend money on this. She will get it done. And we don't need to spend money on it. I think that it's going to take a while, but she'll do it. And we're doing everything we can to help her find solutions to doing this pretty much with her bare hands. And since she has expressed publicly that she can't,
 I mean, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, I can
 And I think she has shown a good faith effort to not only complete this project, but show that she will in the future ensure that it is taken care of properly. And I think that she's just wonderful and you guys should give her what she wants. Thank you so much. Okay. Who else do we have? No one else, Mayor. Who would like to address us on this issue and topic in the council chamber?
 One I'll bring it back to the council. So what conversation or I mean, I'm terrified of what will happen if that falls while she's under it But that seems to be as far as I can tell a risk that she's taking so my first question would be to kid I
 What legalities are we taking on if we let her continue to basically demolish this by hand or with sledgehammers and not the heavy machinery that probably is required with the permit? I don't think really there's a lot of liability possibilities for the city. You're simply allowing the owner to demolish their property.
 We hope they will do it carefully and not negligently, but even if they do make a mistake, it's really their mistake and not the city's. I don't think that we really have a lot of potential liability for that. I've seen this in the past. There was even one property owner that took his building down one brick at a time. It took a while, but he eventually got it all done. And in the past, the city council has been very generous giving an owner the right to try to demolish the property rather than to pay.
 have us do it and then have to pay that back on a lien. So, but it's up to you all whether you want to give her four months, that would be February, but that's up to the city council to decide what you want to do. All right. As long as the city isn't taking on extra liability, I'm fine. She continues to do this. I don't want to tell people what they can do with their property, especially when they're trying to make it better.
 I think when the applicant first came up she probably didn't know that she was going to do basically an estate sale. I thought this was a demo. I've seen families take years to sell all the assets. It's a long process so to have to do that while also trying to demo I understand that that takes a while and I hope we can give her the extra time.
 Well, I would agree to giving her the extra time as well. I mean, I haven't been through what she's been through, but you know, you've heard me talk about my parents and trying to get them out of the house that they were in for over 50 years and it's not easy. So, I know there's a lot of challenges there. So, I'm willing to give her the extra time.
 It's not done exactly what we thought she was going to do, but she's still making an effort, a strong effort there. I would agree that the effort is absolutely there. I think that she's going for a Daughter of the Year Award, to be honest with you. I just want to make that one point of clarification in that
 If she was to say, you know what, I'm tired of this. Yes, city bring the structures down and a lien were to be placed. That lien doesn't get collected until such time as the property is naturally sold by the owners. It's not collected immediately. It's not collected until that point in time. Is that an accurate statement on my part, Mr. Attorney? Okay.
 Yeah, I think you're correct. It's not a lien that we generally go out and try to enforce immediately. We have collected those liens in the past because they do affect the title of the property. And if they try to sell it, and I would think even if they wanted to take a big loan out on it, that might also be something else that would kick in our right to collect the lien. Okay.
 So, I just wanted to make sure that you're aware of that. So, I think we're very appreciative of your effort. About the lien. Let a council member ask you. I'd like to call her back up, please. Go ahead. Yeah. So, we don't want the lien on the property because to afford a house on the property, we're planning to get a loan against the property. And the cost of the lien would affect the loan.
 anybody else you have something else mark okay yes teresa thank you mayor um i i commend you for making such good progress um and i'd like to give you a lot of extra time to be able to do that but i'd also like to make sure that you're making progress so i'm just wondering if in maybe like 60 days we could maybe have an update and ensure that things are coming along and you continue to do um
 outstanding work. Okay. Do we need to move to table until February? Well, probably table for 120 days. Is that what we're asking? She asked for 120 days. I move we table it for 120 days. Second. Okay. I have a motion to second the table for 120 days. Any final comments from council? And there's no issue with tabling through December to the new year?
 Or is that only when we table indefinitely that it rolls off? If you table it for 120 days, I think that you still are able to take it off the table prior to that time if something major happens. You know, she would have to get notice again if you were going to do that. So any time you would do that, you wouldn't want to take any action on that meeting. It would have to be the next meeting after that so that she would have plenty of notice.
 but i don't think your hands are forever tied if you table it for 120 days i think there can be a motion removed from the table before that time it just means it will automatically come off the table in 120 days okay thank you anything else from the council could we also make sure that we have maybe a staff update after 60 days can that be part of our tabling we can do that thank you don't let me forget okay we'll see if they take this time
 Alright, if there's no other comments or questions care, would you please call the roll? Scroggins yes Yes, turd. Yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones. Yes, and yes We do care. Yes, and for clarification that will be the first meeting in February the first City Council meeting in February Okay
 let's go to number two an ordinance to approve vacation 22-0 1 8th property located at west spigo street and south razorback road ward 1 to vacate a portion of street right away this was left on the first reading i would entertain a motion to go to the second read second so moved okay we have a motion to second to go to the second reading
 Everybody please call them up. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. And in order to approve the AC 22-18 for property located at West Lago Street and South Razorback Road in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of the street right of way. Okay. Jonathan? Thank you, Mayor.
 Allow me to pull up my presentation. And as a bit of a reminder, this was tabled at the applicant's request at the previous meeting. I did not make a full presentation because of that. So I'll go into that now and of course offer myself for any questions afterwards.
 The property in question is in South Fayetteville, located within Ward 1. It's just northwest of where Razorback Road and Sligo Street intersect, and includes specifically a piece of undeveloped public right-of-way that you see outlined here in black. That was originally dedicated in the 1920s as a part of the Meadowvale subdivision.
 That subdivision does not look in any form like it may have turned into back then, as you can tell, given RDoT's division of those properties with Razorback Road in the intervening years, which has had some impact on the connectivity of the overall area. This is not the first time this right-of-way has been looked at or this property in general.
 Vacation was requested of the Planning Commission in January of 2019. At that time, staff, planning staff had concerns about the loss of connectivity that that would pose and we were not recommending in favor of it. The Planning Commission shared those concerns and tabled the item indefinitely at the applicant's request. In the intervening time, the property has changed hands and what was previously that plotted subdivision I showed you has had the lots all combined and do a single lot under single ownership.
 So many of the opportunities staff felt that were previously available to develop it in a lot and block pattern were greatly diminished.
 Accordingly, staff does not feel it has as much of a role to play in preserving the public interest as it may have before if those lots were individually owned and represent an opportunity for individual development. Similarly, there's always been a question of the connectivity value that this property or this right-of-way represents. While it does connect to Sligo to the south, which is a developed public street, to the north it runs into privately developed land, which as you can see here,
 It's also encroached upon or characterized by the floodplain associated with the Town Branch Creek. So even if the street was built, there's little opportunity for it to connect to a wider street grid except for back towards Razorback perhaps. Going to the west towards 18th Street would put it directly in the floodway and into that faint green you see there which is the public park land.
 Otherwise, staff has not heard any public comment on the item. When this did go to the Planning Commission, staff did recommend in favor of it, given the changing circumstances with the property ownership and property combination. The Planning Commission felt differently. They did have concerns that.
 If this ride over here were to be vacated, it might result in an internally focused development pattern, basically a site plan that wasn't oriented towards the street in a pedestrian oriented fashion that the city has expressed a desire to see.
 They also felt that there was also the potential for connectivity despite what staff found when they reviewed the request and made reference to the Fayette Junction plan specifically. You can find this piece of property towards the center northern portion of it, specifically that right-of-way holds this location here with the Fayette Junction plan vision connection running east towards Razorback and west towards 18th Street as a part of that.
 As a result, sorry, the Planning Commission ultimately did not favor it, although they did forward it to the City Council. It was with a recommendation unanimously in denial of the proposal. With that, I'm happy to take any questions the Council has, and I believe Adam Ostweiler is available as the applicant for the item, Mayor. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? You have 10 minutes. Thank you.
 Good afternoon, council members. My name is Adam Osweiler. I'm with McClellan Engineers. On behalf of the applicant themselves, Rodney Baker with the Mabelville Development is also here to speak on behalf of the project. I'm as part of, as the property owner, both on the west side and the east side of this right away. Thank you, Jonathan. Everything that he's said to this point is exactly what we've been doing and working diligently with staff and Jonathan to
 get to this point in our project. What we've been trying to do is that now that the information and the combination of all the lots on both the east and west sides, that right-of-way, that access that was there originally,
 is not needed for both of those properties anymore. Before there needed to be public access to all those lots on both sides. Those have been combined now so that, and both are owned on the west and east side by the same property owner. So by removing this, it would allow them to do what they intend to do with the development, which is a little bit, there was a little bit of misunderstanding possibly that the project that we are trying to look at down the road is more of an externally focused,
 single structure multifamily dwelling. It would be developed and designed with the intent of trying to enhance the neighborhood and try to make it a little bit more externally focused, not internally focused as was previously discussed. We've also spoken with the property owner to the north, Chris Looney, about what he thinks about the right-of-way access if he even needs it. He says that as far as
 Utility, public infrastructure, public access, everything that he would do if and when that was ever developed would be on Razorback Road. The site plan that we have conceptually come up with for this project has the structure facing Razorback Road. Access would be on Sligo. So there would be no additional curb cuts or anything like that along Razorback Road.
 The intent of that project would be to, given the zoning that is in place currently, is to not go for any kind of conditional use. It would be within the zoning parameters of that project. And so I'll let the floor go to Rodney. And so he can kind of give a little history of the property and their organization. So thank you.
 Good evening and thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. I was at the Planning Commission meeting and we did not speak to explain the project. We knew we had the staff recommendation and thought that was probably sufficient. Realized too late that we missed an opportunity to maybe address some assumptions that were made and the assumption being that this was going to be some kind of multifamily housing project apartments.
 was I believe what was stated that night. And that is not our intention. Our intention here is to donate this property to the Alpha Gamma Rho Alumni Association for use in building a new fraternity house. The 40 members of Meadowvale are all alumni. They formed the LLC in order to raise money. We started this unfortunately about the time COVID started, so it became a little bit of a chore.
 But we have secured the donations and bought the property. It's all paid for. And we're looking to build a single building, outward facing, not inward facing, something that we think would benefit the community and the aesthetics of the community. We have a long history on the university campus. We've been here for 90 years. We are a social professional fraternity with emphasis in agriculture.
 And some of you remember the house I know from up on North Razorback Road across the north end zone. The house was built in 65 and became a disrepair and was removed. We want to replace that. We want to provide a home for the young men in agriculture coming up here like many of us had a home when we were here. Again, we've had a long history. We're social professional for agriculture.
 on the property there's about two acres more or less all together we want to it's our plan that once we sign a house to landscape it and use natural materials as much as we can for the visual and and noise reduction and things that nature we have a very prominent member in this community of nursery business that is offered to design and and help us acquire the right plants and so forth for that of course we have boys that are used to using
 and taking care of plants, so that's a good thing. But that is our purpose, is to provide a home for this fraternity. And we want to be part of the community. I spent much of the 70s up here and we were part of the community then. And I think no particular troubles that I'm aware of that we call it at that time. I have talked to some of the members, or excuse me, some of the neighbors
 In fact, I called James Harp, Tuffy, to see if he could come with me. He came to the Planning Commission, but he couldn't be here tonight. He was away from home somewhere. But he told me it was okay to relay that he has talked to the neighbors around there. He's not aware of anybody that's against it. I know the lady next to him had planned to be with us had she not had an allergy attack during that time of the Planning Commission meeting.
 So we have developed a relationship with several of those people that border us on the, which would be the west side. And I think the ones conversations I've had, they're excited about having a development there and have the property cleaned up and looking good and being used. That's our purpose. That's what I wanted to do, clarify the use here so there wouldn't be a misconception. If there's a question, I'll be glad to try to answer it.
 Well, I think the question that I would have I wanted to be sure that you'd contacted those neighbors because we lived in that Together about 40 plus years. Yes, sir. So and I can't say that we have talked to every individual that we've talked to most of them and Tuffy I know and has talked to Probably to every one of them what he told me. All right. I Just want to be sure yes, sir. I
 All right, and Chris looney is with us. I think on camera on virtual. He is a property owner to the north You know he'd be glad to Make comment on on his feelings about the vacation. Thank you All right, what questions we have from council with the staff or developers Okay Okay, let's take some public comment everybody gets one term speak. I
 We have you have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmen. Stay on topic. Just give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Chris Looney. Okay, go ahead. I'm Chris Looney. I'm the chair of the board.
 Yes, my name is Chris Looney and I wanted to address the council on this vacation. I am the property owner to the north of this right-of-way. I am part of this group as well and I wanted to just address a few things. I am fully in support, as Adam mentioned, of this right-of-way vacation. I don't need it or want it, that access to the back yard.
 in the south of my property, but I have an issue that if this wasn't approved and this group wasn't moved forward, that potentially another developer might come in and build really high density buildings according to the zoning and that it could cause flood issues as someone else mentioned there on Town Branch Creek.
 I also wanted to address that this right of way has kind of incurred some unwanted guests to properties to the east and west and my property to the north. We've had trash and littering and squatting, and we've tried to clean up the property to the best of our abilities, and we want to keep it that way. And I feel that if this was vacated, that that would help that tremendously.
 And also, I just wanted to reiterate that my design plans with McClellan Engineers to build personal residence, according to the zoning, it wouldn't benefit from any access to this right-of-way. And honestly, I was planning on putting up a fence to it, so I don't plan on trying to add the expenses of building what would be a city street. So I'm here to answer any questions, too. I just wanted to let you know that.
 me being the property owner to the north that i'm also in favor of this thank you who else no one else on zoom mayor okay anybody in the uh chamber would like to address this on this topic okay i'm going to bring it back to the council a discussion with the council like to have our
 what action would the council well if you look at this specific property and where it's located we can't specifically look at a project on the property because we're looking at zoning but still due to the location of this property there would always be the potential for something multi rooms to be there an apartment or some multi-family and if you look around it and where it's located
 It could be ideal for a group housing use, fraternity or whatever, because it is somewhat separated, but yet it's still on the main drag of the university. The property on both sides are owned by the same person, so I think that that gives some credence to the way that we could depend on the use of the property
 without it being a burden between a relationship between two neighbors. So I'm just thinking out loud. So that's what I'm thinking right now and it seems like in this specific location it might, I think that, well, I think that it should be approved as it was originally requested. At this point, if there is a, I have the right to change my mind if I hear a salient point.
 Who else? I have a question for Jonathan. Just so my iPad keeps going off here. So the planning staff recommended approval of this and on the planning commission, how many people voted against it?
 It was unanimously forwarded recommending denial by the commission. Okay, so they didn't, but staff was in favor of approval. That's correct. The one concern I would have that is I think very valid is that if you've got a group of investors, you know, at some, and they're raising money to build a fraternity and they're hoping to get the money to fund the fraternity.
 But at some point in time, if they don't get the money to build the fraternity, they will probably want to recoup their investment. And that could mean selling the property or building, you know, allowing someone to build something that is not what we're talking about today. But, you know, I do think with staff's recommendation that this is probably the best route to go to support staff and
 override the Planning Commission honestly but if it gets down to the point where we are not going to support this if you feel like you're not going to support this I would like for us to work out something with these people so that they're not
 just hung out to dry, that we can, you know, table it or do something like that. So to kind of give them, if they do need to come back and, you know, figure something out. Sarah, I know you're in real estate and you might have an insight better than I, but it seems to me, in order to recoup the investment that's already there, and to sell the property with the vacation, it seems to me like it would be a more
 valuable lot because of the continuity of the two lots side by side that would take on and as a loaning officer like I used to be it certainly would get more equity to the project in the long run if it if the vacation was not I mean if it was granted because it's in the center of the two properties so you would get a loan easier so that would also be my take on it as well yes
 So we're talking about a vacation, not a rezone. So it's kind of weird to say that we would or wouldn't want to have this vacation so that we can deny something that's allowed in the zoning. That's kind of awkward.
 I'm going to go with the staff on this. I think we should allow the vacation. If there's an argument about the need of access later, I would be hesitant to remove that vacation but to not remove this vacation so that some landowner can't do what's allowed basically by right on their property. I have some issues with so hopefully we allow this vacation.
 Sonia, you have a council member. I haven't heard, I haven't heard any, anybody, no one has reached out to me to say they don't support it. I've received one email of support. And so I did, I was able to speak to the applicant on the phone call and I got a very similar, you know, information and more detail. So I want to commend their group for raising the money to make a home for the students.
 and to work out the issues that were that had come up before so they've they've done their due diligence so I think it's an excellent location there's gonna be good best routes there to get the students to the class and so I would support it as as it's so far as the staff has supported as well so are you
 Yes, Mayor Jordan. I had a conversation with the applicant and I echo what Sonja said.
 I'm in full support. When I spoke to the applicant, they provided great detail, and I do appreciate their efforts. I do appreciate their commitment to follow up and do what they needed to do. So I fully support this.
 Okay. I have a comment. So Jonathan, you know we rarely go against the Planning Commission, especially when it's unanimous. So maybe could you give us maybe a little bit more information about, I mean this seems so different than what we're kind of feeling here around the Council and what the applicant has presented to us and from what the Planning Commission's decision was.
 I think there are a few considerations that the council may have at this point that the Planning Commission did not. First of all, I don't believe that, to the applicant's point, all the information regarding the proposed development was a part of this. I think, however, to Council Member Scroggins' point, this is a question about whether this vacation, this right-of-way has public value. And I think that's ultimately the conversation, regardless of what the applicant says.
 I think that's important to bear in mind. This was, I think, definitely one that both staff and the commission struggled with. It's been a dead-end right-of-way that's been a dead-end undeveloped right-of-way for almost a century. It is something that is worth scrutinizing. I don't think that might give you more peace of mind about whether you go along with the Planning Commission or not, except to say that it's definitely something that's not taken lightly by staff or the Planning Commission at all.
 I don't have much more to add though, and that doesn't really offer you much. I apologize. Thank you. That's fine. Yeah. If I may, yeah. In watching the Planning Commission, they were genuinely, from my perspective, concerned that someone would come along and either do...
 apartment buildings facing one another or cluster houses facing one another and it would be an enclave versus having a frontage to the street and so they viewed giving up the street as encouraging a self-contained enclosed kind of a one more cul-de-sac to nowhere and that was their primary concern. I think then for us that means the concern is
 will a single housing structure, a fraternity house, be constructed there. And I think in light of a single structure, the city, speaking as the city, has no interest in a one block long street that we then have to pay to pave and maintain and continue if all sides of that development are owned by the same entity. And so in talking with
 staff, some planning commissioners, and our public works director, it's actually us taking on a liability instead of an asset to have a one block street built that we then are obligated to maintain. And that there's very little interest in doing that because there's very little value we gain when a single structure is going to be built as opposed to multiple inward facing structures.
 Would normally God love the Planning Commission I would normally be hesitant to deviate from them But in this instance, I do feel like there's additional Supplemental information that we have the benefit of that. They did not have the benefit of so I think it's perfectly natural and logical That they came to their conclusion and I commend them for their
 their foresight and wanting to ensure that our connectedness as a community is enhanced. But rarely do I say I differ with them and I'm perfectly comfortable with this particular vacation. And that almost surprises me, but the additional information was quite comforting.
 Anybody else? I have a question for Jonathan just to kind of help me with the time frame here. I know this land has been purchased and kind of accumulated and brought together over the course of time, but when were the properties rezoned? Let me just one moment to get those dates for you.
 The area west of the right away I can say with certainty has been zoned multifamily for some years. Possibly since the beginning of zoning in Fayetteville. Previously it was known as R2 or R3 for the multifamily zoning districts. The portion that is CS, however, was rezoned in April of last year. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Which is east of the right away being proposed to be vacated. Okay.
 anything else i have a i wanted to ask teresa a question teresa would it be helpful possibly for the applicant to describe why they feel that planning commission made their decision because i did have a conversation with them about that
 Do you want to ask them? Because there were some things that did change, as Mike pointed out. Or do you feel? I feel fine. I had a similar conversation with the applicant. It's kind of shocking, though, that it was unanimous. It was unanimous, yeah. At the Planning Commission. I agree. Okay. Thank you for that suggestion. With that, I would like to move that we forward this. What do I want to say? I'm a little tired. I had a first-year birthday party for my baby today.
 first a second reading that's what I'm trying to say second thank you yes yes Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 22-018 for property located at West Sligo Street and South Ridgeback Road in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of a street right-of-way. Okay. Any final comments from council already? Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Scroggins yes, and yes, her yes, Ertzberg yes, Arby yes, Jones Yes, and yes, we'd occur. Yes Thank you all let's move on number three a resolution to approve a professional architectural services agreement with Miller Bosco slack architects PA DBA Mb L planning pursuant to RFQ 21 day 0 9 and
 any amount of $212,257 for the development of pre-approved building design program to approve a project contingency in the amount of $10,613 to approve a budget adjustment. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to take advantage of the opportunity of having a second public hearing to touch on elements of the pre-approved building program that I did not highlight during the last City Council meeting. At that meeting, I focused on the pre-approved building program itself, since that is the title of what we're discussing, and I think it shortchanges other elements of what's being proposed with this.
 I think an important piece to discuss is also, or to recognize is that about a third of the budget really is dedicated to public engagement.
 In addition to meetings with committees, meetings with committees and focus groups that includes one-on-one interviews, it includes webinars, a public exhibit to work with the community on the program. There's also a proposal to include an ordinance audit as a part of this and a corresponding list of possible legislative actions to address issues of housing affordability in Fayetteville.
 There's also an intent to include, not an intent, there's a requirement in the contract to include internal meetings with staff as a part of this to identify how this program will be effectively implemented. Outside of those matters, there's also big pieces that include a market study and a housing affordability analysis, which some people would call a gap analysis, reviewing what our housing stock looks like versus what it needs to be in light of what our city's incomes are.
 Regarding the request for additional consideration of the consultant's work, I dug back into that in a little bit more depth from what I went through during the selection committee process. I specifically had an opportunity to speak with Claremore Oklahoma where the consultant has done recent work.
 uh their their proposal there was not identical to what they're proposing here so i think i alluded to that previously that pre-built building design programs seem to be an apple to oranges comparison from community to community in claremore it was a part of a a larger development code
 But NBL participated in workshops and engagement as a part of that. And since then, the pre-approved building program has been created and it's been online for less than a year when I spoke to their planning director.
 Within that time, they have three units that are under construction, 18 more that are beginning. And that's, for comparison's sake, if you're not familiar with Claremore, it's about a fifth the size of Fayetteville. So they've been very happy with it from beginning to end, whether it was working with the consultants or how the program has panned out to date.
 A little bit closer to home, members of the consultant team have worked on the Briartown Cottages project. If any of you are familiar with the Bentonville and Bella Vista Community Development Corporation, they provide housing in the Bentonville and Bella Vista areas, but also as a part of that,
 worked with the Walton Family Foundation and the CDC itself and a member of the consultant's team to see a pilot program of four small units built on their property and those have successfully been built and are in use by the CDC.
 And more recently, I think it was in the news just yesterday, I think at least one council member and the mayor were there yesterday. The consultant team worked on the Cobblestone Farms property, which is an affordable housing development out on Weddington that just broke ground. I do think it was yesterday. Yeah, if I'm not mistaken. It's intended to house about 100 families. And this consultant played a very critical role in both the planning and building design process of that.
 So combined, staff definitely feels reaffirmed in that the breadth of the app consultant's experience is adequate to the task and what we'd like to see developed with this program. And in closing, I did take the opportunity to revisit pre-approved building programs that we've seen nationwide.
 And it really did just reconfirm what I have, what I described a few moments ago. They are so different from each other, it's very difficult to make a comparison, whether it's in cost or an application or an implementation.
 Some of them are more expensive, some of them are cheaper. That can be a reflection of local building codes, development ordinances, the amount of public engagement. Fayetteville, we definitely prioritize public engagement as a part of it. So that was highlighted as a piece of ours where some cities didn't have any public engagement. They would just go out to design professionals and solicit designs that would be made available. And again, it was,
 really remarkable how different these programs have been. So it's difficult to say whether it's a success of one, whether with this consultant or on the West Coast, East Coast or regionally can guarantee success elsewhere. So with that, I am available for questions and I am also available are a pair of members from the consultant team at the council has questions that I'm unable to help with, but they're available as needed, thank you.
 okay what questions do we have for staff on this one nothing okay okay let's take some public comment then um everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do you have on zoom susan
 Now, when it has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. Is there anyone that would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. Hi, Mayor. I have some comments. Sure. You know, this is a lot of money. $212,000 is quite a bit of money, and I...
 I went online and I found many housing designs that were available, lots of varieties, lots of different types. They were anywhere from $1,300 to $2,200 with different kinds of outputs. You could get a CAD drawing. You could get all different kinds of output drawings. And
 We have a lot of building that's going on right now. There's also been a lot of studies that have been done in our area about the lack of affordable housing. So I don't really see the benefit of having another study done because there's been very many recent studies for Fayetteville and for the area. So I'm not gonna support this because I think it, frankly, I think it's a waste of our money
 I two hundred and twelve thousand dollars can be spent on a whole slew of other other things that are really important to our city infrastructure water quality nonprofits All kinds of different things and I just feel that this is a real giveaway And and it's really not necessary. So thank you. Okay. Thank you and
 What are the comments we have to council? So I mean absolutely you can go buy plans on the internet. That doesn't mean that the plans that we're purchasing are contextual to the area.
 Sometimes you're gonna even have to go and pay extra to get somebody to make sure that it works with permitting and code. So I think just dividing the number of plans that we might get out of this, taking the 200,000 and dividing that is not really the best way to go about viewing the value of this.
 By doing the studies and asking neighborhoods what they feel like and what they would be okay with in that area, I think is more important than the actual plans themselves. It's hard to get neighborhoods to say yes to development. And some of them, some of the reasons are they're worried about what it's going to look like. There are no design standards.
 So by being able to tell developers, hey, we've already done these studies, this is what the neighbors got together and said that they would be okay with, it's easier to get to yes in a neighborhood for development if they know what it's going to look like, they know how it's going to work.
 We can spend $200,000 studying just how a pipe is going to go in on a single street. So $200,000, I think it's pretty small in that aspect of what we can get. So I like the plan. I think it's important outside of just the plans that we'll get.
 there's value there and hopefully neighborhoods can see what's going to go into them because people do have concerns that, hey, that house may look...
 like some of these modern cubes. I mean, they look like some of them are asymmetrical Rubik's cubes, and then I think they're just like turn them and then turn them and turn them, and that's what they produce. But if you can do something contextual and show people, I think we'll get more of the housing people need, and it's a little bit better than just the plans that you can get on the Internet. So I'll be supporting this. Okay.
 I have a question if you, oh sorry Mark, I see that you've got your mic on there. Go ahead. Okay, so Jonathan kind of tell, kind of remind us how this would work if we do agree to this and I'm just a citizen and I have a piece of land and I want to build something on it. What if we get to that point where we have the plans, what would I be doing as a citizen? How would this work for me?
 And your talk for clarification, Council Member Bunch, you mean after the project is executed and the plans are available? Is that right? Yes, that's what I meant. Sorry about that. I wasn't very clear on that. I think that speaks to Council Member Scroggins' point. A piece of the plan or a piece of the project is that these would be pre-approved building designs. They're vetted through our building safety department. They're vetted through the fire marshal, and they're vetted in terms of the construction
 development pattern in parts of the city so that a specific building is anticipated to fit on a specific lot or a general lot size that you can find there with the notion that it could be approved in seven days or less is the target goal, which these days, I think I alluded to this at the last meeting,
 When an individual property owner comes in, it can be very difficult for them and one of these projects to pursue them without a design professional involved. And we've seen several of those go on for several months while they're attempting to carry a loan and receive their building permits. So if I were to go get something like Theresa said, get a plan off the internet, which I
 Google plans on the internet all the time just for the fun of it to look around at stuff but but let's say I come in I'm the just the average person and I come in with the plan off the internet you mentioned all these things that are already there that are already built into if once these plans if we accept this what these plans will end up being uh you know and Sloan uh
 You mentioned that you might still have to go through with an engineer or an architect or anyone to help you make that plan off the internet fit the site that you have and fit the neighborhood and that sort of thing. So it's not just a slam dunk that you get the plan off the internet.
 I think, you know, this is something we've talked about over the course of several years. I think we actually talked about this a little bit when I was on planning commission, and that was 10 or 12 years ago, you know, when we first mentioned it. So I don't feel like it's a waste of money. I think it's kind of letting community have a participation in what goes in their community because we all were, I think most of us were here when we had this...
 Is it Parksdale, the subdivision, the older subdivision where small, you know, fairly modest homes and someone came in and built like this three-story red toothpick that stuck up out of the ground and it was really, they, you know, it was really an ugly design for that neighborhood. So I think this is something that could work very well for our community.
 you know if we prove it so that's just my take on it Sarah it's interesting you mentioned that because we actually did have a packet with suggested plans do you remember I don't remember who gave that to us and it I think it was also in conjunction with development of partners for better housing houses there too at one point but anyway I I think this I
 is an opportunity certainly for a quicker turnaround so you can get your house done and time is money. So that's money. You're going to save money on the interaction with the city because a lot of it will already be done in the plans that they select. But there's still the opportunity to make the plan unique enough and designed that it would be your home.
 I mean the basics are there but there's not a design standard on the color or the siding or something like that right? You still get to do that like you want.
 Yes, as the program is proposed, it's going to be four to six building designs of which there may be up to two dozen different iterations of those designs. That's what my understanding was. Initially I thought we were going to have little pink houses with ticky tacky ticky tacky just all in a row. You know that song? And I thought it's all going to be the same.
 It's going to be on the map, whatever. I like that song a lot. But with the options that I see that will be available, you'll go in, you'll go to planning, and it's not that much different than if you go into a subdivision where they have several different choices of designs and you get to choose, except there's going to be a lot more opportunity with this the way I understand it.
 If you can build a house and save some money, say you already have your lot, and you can get in there quicker, then I think that that is, we keep talking about affordable housing. I think that this is one way to offer some savings and some opportunity for an individual that wants to get in a home and they just need a little bit
 less cost associated with the building of the home on the property so I think this is a good idea I've I've initially didn't like it because like I said I thought oh man but I like it the way that we've talked about it recently and so I think it's worth the money at this point and no one's tighter than I am oh maybe you are
 I don't know me, but I do I like I think that it's worth the investment I want to respond to a few of the my colleagues comments First of all, there's nothing that would prevent the matchstick houses that we were talking about in Parksdale at all This is just providing an option It's so there's nothing that prohibits that this is just another choice if it's passed that some folks can some of our citizens can make and
 I still believe that this is a waste of money. Maybe five or six years ago or ten years ago when this was originally discussed, it was a valid option. It was a valid need. But I do not see that today. I also want to comment that we rarely follow some of these big designs that we've had in the past. The South Fayetteville charrette that was done yesterday.
 Wow, have we not deviated from that substantially? So this idea of public engagement and planning and that the planning commission and the city council will actually abide by those plans, I think has not been true in recent past. And the wide variety of plans that are actually online, really actually you could easily tailor to fit in a neighborhood.
 And again, we're not putting ordinances in here. This is all options. So again, $212,000 I think could be better spent in other areas. So thank you. We may just have a disagreement on this tonight. I have a question. Jonathan, on the Parkdale subdivision, that area, didn't we put some restrictions on that?
 That's correct. It was, so I'm digging through my memory to recall exactly. I believe the entire subdivision was zoned RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre. So, I had fairly high entitlements. And generally, the neighborhood is a mixture of smaller modest 800, I think, thousand square foot homes with some attached residential in the southwest corner and along 15th Street.
 To answer your question more directly, as a part of the rezoning, there was also a development overlay that was applied to it that had limitations on building height and also had requirements on how building faces would relate to the street because there was some concern going from conventionally setback homes to build homes that maybe required an ability zone near the street. As a part of that ordinance was the overlay that was adopted, yes.
 I remember we had a pretty good discussion about that. Yes, we did. And one of our former council members that's not here anymore was really dead set against it. Yep, sure was. But I felt like in that instance we kind of listened to the neighborhood and we said, look, you know, we don't want to, you know, we want you to be able to have something a little more, even though it is zoned this one thing.
 everything in here is much smaller and we kind of listened to them and figured out something that would maybe be a little bit more agreeable to them. So I can tell you about those meetings. I was there with you. I will tell you this the the neighborhood got pretty hot because there was a big red structure that you would pull up to a stop sign and there it was and then there was you know a couple of them built like you know two of them and
 like two of them put together and the neighborhood said enough. So we, I took the staff down there and we started meeting with folks and they said where they live in the center they wanted it a certain height. Then the further you got out the taller they could have them. And so we worked out a really good solution but that wasn't done
 like last Tuesday, I mean it was done, took a while to do and they got buy-in and we talked about drainage issues. I mean those of you that were there remember that. And so we worked out a real good solution but I remember that one very well. That's also close to where... There was a mention of the Fayette Junction and the Walker Park planning. That's exactly right. Those were charrettes that were very well attended. Very well attended.
 I think it did set a foundation for at least unifying a way to get where you're going.
 It does disappoint me because I was so involved in it that we make some major changes, but the environment in Fayetteville has changed also since that. That was about 10 years ago, I think. It might have been, but what I saw after that was there was interest in an area where I
 interest in an area with a vision that had not been there before, especially Fayette Junction, which was ignored and looked at as an industrial wasteland. So Karen that did those, those meetings were incredible. And I've been to a lot of charrettes in the city to do things, but...
 They did set a vision to move forward in an area, especially Fayette Junction, that was considered kind of a wasteland. So we got that taken care of and now we can move forward with where we are today. And it does, yeah, it's hard if you see, you work hard on a plan, there it is, and it's not going exactly as visualized at that point of time 10 years ago.
 My comments would be, thank you Mr. Mayor, my comments would be first I would agree Mark is as tight as anyone I've ever been around so I should start with that. The second is I feel like the angst that I hear from people regarding infill development really has to do with design not so much with density even though you would think it was the exact opposite and so I think that
 an opportunity for the community to engage and further describe in the two portions of town where these plans will be eligible as a worthwhile exercise.
 The cost was a big gulp for me, Teresa. So I agree with you that I had concerns. And so I do, though, think that the money for the community outreach, the community meetings is, in fact, in my way of thinking, very valuable. And then I'm left with the expense of about, I think, $68,000 for the actual plans themselves. And I had a lot of questions of staff, and they were very, very helpful to me and very patient. For me,
 having pre-approved plans has an unadvertised cost savings to us and that is the offset of staff having to check any iteration of those plans coming forward that would get used over the three year window. And I think that there's the potential for that to more than offset the cost of those plans. So for me,
 having supervised plan checkers and building inspectors that that is an actual savings that benefits the entire community let alone freeing up staff to be able to crank out work building departments are assembly lines they unlock the doors and patrons come in to transact business and I think anything that we can do to help our
 with the workload that those staff are experiencing is a worthwhile experiment for me. And so I'm very willing to support this for those reasons. And it is a grand experiment. We'll find out at the end of three years, but I view it as a relatively low risk experiment. Mayor, did we take public input, correct? Okay, we took public input? Yes. Okay, yeah, I just wanted to double check.
 I think everyone that is in support has really voiced why I'm also in support of it, but I think really just want to highlight the main piece is the public input piece, and
 I think we really need the public input to get the buy-in for this infill because as we as we see the infill our number one which I noticed we've got some information up here on our TVs
 to help dispel any issues or concerns I think that there will be an incentive for developers to potentially work from the from the book and then that helps the neighbors be less distressed so I think that's a really important public input piece and also because as we go with time as we hear time is passing I
 Things change, design changes, everything's changing. So we really need an opportunity to revisit those neighborhoods that had those charrettes 10 years ago or whatever it was, because it's been a while.
 The other piece that's really important as far as the public input goes, I don't know how much emphasis we had then that we do today, I'm happy to say, on an inclusivity portion. So I would like to see the group, which I did get a phone call and I haven't returned it yet, but questions making sure we have an inclusive experience in the public input.
 And then in terms of design, which is kind of the second piece that's less important, but it's as a designer, when you have kind of these modular building blocks and you think about how they work all together, there's something very powerful about how that looks from your pattern book to be able to plug in and play. So I hope that with the designers, they can think not only is the individual home appropriate for Fayetteville, but is.
 Is the group of homes appropriate for Fayetteville and how the pattern develops? So it's the quilt, right? So we're thinking about how design is coming together in a modular space. And so that is very incredibly valuable in the design experience and what we're paying the designers to think about because that is not an easy thing. It's not an easy task.
 So, appropriateness to Fayetteville, listening to individuals in Fayetteville, and how they appropriately come together is a very big task, Teresa. I want to tell you. So, I hope that you can reconsider. But either way, I would definitely be supporting this. And I think it's a very valuable tool, especially for the time saving, of course, of the staff of the city and the taxpayers. Okay.
 That's all I have. Jonathan, do we have any like benchmark metric that we could use to determine whether or not this program was a success say like two to three years from now? Any specific number of residents who use the plans or do we have that set up yet?
 and then maybe more aimed at residents specifically being able to use it. It may be that they are more attached to residential, that the people who have been doing development in these parts of cities would be more inclined to use it, maybe somewhere in between. I think as a part of that, we need to evaluate and make sure that we're able to use it in the best possible way. And then I think that's the last question. I think that's the last question. I think that's the last question. I think that's the last question. I think that's the last question.
 evaluate what exactly your point, what the benchmark of success is. I think it's difficult to, and perhaps naive for me to suggest that whether housing prices come down as indication of this plan. I think all of you on council recognize that this is just a piece of the puzzle. Housing is a enormous conversation. Now that's why no city has figured it out. That's why there's a lot of different targeted ways. You've got the cobblestone farms property that's working with low-income housing tax credits.
 Programs like this that are potentially taking a little bite out of design costs the city's cost share program for utilities in certain parts of the city So I that is certainly part of the process because we want to be able to report a positive outcome to this After three years if there is some value to this we want to be able to come back to you and advocate why? The program should be extended so I appreciate that question. It's definitely at the forefront of our minds Thank you
 move we approve the resolution second well most second to approve the resolution we don't need to worry about any comments I think everybody's pretty well unless you would like to care which please call the roll Scroggins yes yes no Hertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes
 Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes. Okay. Alright, number four. An ordinance to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-20.
 037 located southeast of West 18th Street and West Custer Lane in Ward 1 for approximately 3.10 acres from RMF 24, residential multifamily, 24 units per acre to C1, neighborhood commercial to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 This was left on the first reading. I would entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Care which please call the roll. Scroggins. Yes. Harvey. Yes. I'm sorry, excuse me. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes.
 And the ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-37, located southeast of West 18th Street and West Custer Lane in Ward 1, for approximately 3.1 acres from RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, and C1 neighborhood commercial to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay. Jonathan. Okay.
 Mayor, I have no new information or updates on this item. I have not received any public comment, but Brian Teague is present as the applicant for the item tonight. If the council has questions for me or the applicant, thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? Yes.
 Thank you, Mayor, City Council. I'm Brian Teague representing the property owner. I don't really have any new information. We do feel like this is a down zone. We're willing to trade away the commercial use, the multifamily use,
 and do away with the five-story allowance to trade for RIU, which has some more flexible lot standards that will help us to deal better with tree preservation, stream side preservation. Be happy to answer any questions. Thank you. I've got one or so. Ron, how are you going to put a, you're gonna have to build a road.
 to get into your property. You've got that all squared away, right? A road or a driveway. Okay, yes, I stand corrected. Jonathan, have you seen where the road would be?
 Now at this point, development plans have not been submitted. I think when you asked me this question the other day, I shared that on a previous proposal, I had visited the property and actually taken a tape to that distance between the overhead power line and the north property line. I went back and did it on aerial, not in person again, and it was about 40 feet, which is more than adequate for even a fire department maximum width of 26. Okay, that's what my next question was. Okay, wanted to be sure of that.
 All right. Do we have any questions from the council? Well, I might have a couple later on. Maybe a statement. Any other questions? All right. Well, let's take some questions.
 Public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five minute duration Don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmember stay on topic Please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak First and those present will speak after that who do we have on zoom? No one has their hand raised mayor. All right. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to addresses on this topic? Cameroon back to the council
 This is an ordinance. What discussion would the council like to have or what action would the council like to take? Yes. Hi, Mayor. I have a question and kind of a comment.
 You know, we took that tour, it was pretty brushy out there, but there's definitely that stream running right down the middle of the property. And I was hoping that we could get maybe a little bit more definition about where the streamside ordinance would, you know, we talked about this a little bit. So I was just hoping visually we would have a little better diagram on there. And I don't see...
 any updates. Maybe that's not possible because of the way the width or the requirement is calculated for the stream side ordinance. Apologize if I missed your request for that, Council Member Turkey. Let me see if there's at least a visual I can share in the meeting itself, if nothing else, allow me a moment here. Okay, that would be helpful. And maybe I wasn't very clear. You were clear.
 The reason why I'm concerned about this is I think it will constrain the development quite a bit and then what the requirement will be to build a large sort of structure bridge. I think we talked about a large culvert.
 So, it would be helpful to know a few more details about that. Oh, thank you. I see you have it up. Sure. And I can speak to what you're looking at in case it just looks like a bunch of nebulous blobs there. What you see on your screen is an approximation of the streamside protection zone standards as they relate to our topographic maps that the city holds.
 The purple area, I believe, is what is called the fillable area, where the stream fills when it's running in its typical extent. The light blue area is the waterside zone. That's that first 25 feet that's immediately adjacent to the stream itself that has the highest level of protections in the streamside protection zone. Beyond that, and I suppose that's red, is the management zone.
 which has somewhat more generous allowances, but this still doesn't allow things like houses or structures generally to be placed there. Where our estimates on this map get less certain is the area of green you see. And I think I touched on that last meeting, but it is a very odd concept if you've not actually stood in a stream and seen someone take a tech measure out.
 Once you get beyond, get to the top of a streams bank, if there are slopes of 15% or greater,
 the zones expand another 20 feet. So instead of two 25 foot zones totaling a 50 foot width of protected area, it extends to 70 feet. And based on our topographic maps, that is the green areas that you're seeing on the outskirts of the red there. Those are estimated areas of where that may be, again based on our existing topographic information which
 a detailed civil drawing or an ALTA survey would certainly be more accurate or more current anyways. As it relates to crossing that, I believe, I hate to keep punting to him, but I believe Chris Brown is on, if you don't mind speaking to that Mr. Brown.
 Generally, when it comes to crossing stream sign zones or the protected areas, the baseline expectation is that any sort of crossing spans the width of the protection of the stream side protection area
 If there's no feasible alternative, if that's not practicable, that's when you are allowed, so it's possible to explore other allowances, which I think you alluded to, Council Member Turk, about having culverts, typically open bottom culverts to try and preserve the creek's bed. Mr. Brown, did I get that correct, or would you please expand on that?
 Yes, that's correct. I guess the other thing about the design storm or, you know, questions about how large the covert would be, that would be
 have to be designed for a driveway that is a 10-year storm that we look at. But in a development situation, typical requirements for, say, a 10-year storm like that, then we also require the developer to look at what a 100-year storm looks like.
 what would it what it would look like. It may overtop the structure, but could it do that in a manner that wouldn't cause erosion or other drainage issues? So you designed for the 10 year, but then you also have to see what the 100 year storm would look like as well.
 So just to follow up on that, thank you both for that information. So with your map right here, your drawing, if the applicant were to build something, it looks like the only buildable area is kind of in the southeast corner, and they would have to span the green area, the red, the blue, the purple, all the way the entire length of that, taking into account the 10-year storm event. Is that correct?
 Well, I would say that the design of the culvert, we would normally want to see them stay out of the stream itself and span the stream. So the purple area crossings like that are allowed to grade or have structures in those streamside zones.
 It really becomes the first question, like Jonathan said, is the no feasible alternative. So basically, if the only way to access this property is to cross the stream, then there's no alternative other than to build the crossing. So we have several techniques, and we've done different things over the years of,
 Placing structures across the stream and again, spanning it is the first option, but there are some other solutions that allow if there is water flow in there, allow water to be maintained through a culvert by placing the culvert bottom below grade. So you have water in there also allows water.
 any kind of habitat to continue through there. So just things like that. Again, it's case specific and part of the design process. Thank you so much.
 And Mayor, if I may add to that, please. Yes. And just to, I guess, clarify or apologize for my use of the term structures, I use it as a planner, meaning typically buildings, residences, commercial businesses. I didn't mean to be disingenuous saying that structures wouldn't be allowed in there. As you noticed, Mr. Brown talked about structures for the crossings. I wanted to make sure that you understand the distinction before that, which I think you all clearly do, but also understand where I was coming from.
 Okay, what other questions or comments? I have a question for Jonathan. So in this piece of property, it's so mostly stream. What would be an appropriate zoning for this? I mean, if we could just think about that. Because to me, I look at this and I see a giant...
 flooding issue like what we have with West End and we had to buy that property so I mean is this something that if we just looked at it because it has mostly stream I mean is RIU I don't know is a residential type of zoning really appropriate here is that something you just decide
 based on if you had to just look at it from a base level and not what it was already zoned? Could you, I don't know, maybe that's asking too much, maybe we can't discuss that, I don't know. I think it is a very broad question, but I think it's a very good question. I think there are a few factors at play.
 With this property or any property in its condition, it has very high entitlements today, which is certainly a part of the planner's consideration. It can be developed multifamily or commercial development. Similarly, planning staff looked at it as what would be a viable zoning district under which it could be developed in a flexible and sensitive way. And in planning staff's estimation, the RAU zoning district, which
 which allows smaller building footprints or requires only allows smaller building footprints may permit a more sensitive way of developing the site I think that was the crux of where staff came from as choosing RIU as a alternative to the existing zoning districts yes that's that's really helpful that helps me kind of wrap my head around around that thank you okay what else
 This is on the second reading. This is an ordinance. So what do y'all want to do? I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Well, I don't know if I'm ready for that. Okay. That's fine too. I think I, there's, I guess I'm looking at the future land use map right now and we look at the area north of, or east of that. That's the meadows. So there's going to be a lot of easy development up there down to the creek.
 I'll go forward. I see what I was looking for. Second. I want you to feel comfortable. Well, it took me a minute to find the map, but now that I'm looking at the map, I feel more comfortable. Okay. Second. All right.
 Well, are you comfortable? We're about to vote on that. And I'm never comfortable. Anyway. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-37, located southeast of West 18th Street and West Custer Lane in Ward 1, approximately 3.1 acres from RMF 24, residential multifamily 24 units per acre, and C1, neighborhood commercial, to RIU, residential intermediate urban.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? I'm going to vote for this, but I'm voting for it because I think it's slightly better. I would still rather not have anything here, but that's not on the docket, so that's why I'm voting.
 I'm going to support this and here's why. I did walk that piece of area over in the southeast corner. It appeared higher. I'm also concerned about flooding, but that piece did seem to be a higher elevation. I hope we can get topo maps on any of these kind of, you know,
 challenging areas as part of our packet or initial packet that would be very helpful to me and but I am all I remain concerned about some of the sensitive areas that are going to have to be spanned with that Creek but I am going to go ahead and support it because the entitlements right now are very high anybody else mark okay well I'll throw in my two cents I I
 I prefer the R.I.U. to the intermediate, I mean, residential intermediate urban to an R24. I mean, I mean, they can it's a build by right right now and it can be five story apartment buildings right behind those houses. And I think the I like to use words scalable. Well, the other ones will fit. They'll be bigger and kind of squattier looking, but I think it will be more.
 I think it will be better for the area than a five-story apartment complex. That's just my two cents worth and I would have, I support this rezoning too. So I just thought well I can have this or I can have that but they have you know right now what they already have is just not very compatible with that little neighborhood. I don't think. Well, okay.
 i guess we're all done with the comments care would you please call the roll scroggins yes lunch yes turd yes erksberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes leader yes well and deandre i'm sorry that i haven't been including you in in these conversations you anytime you need to ask a question or make a statement just kindly
 Step in and do it because I should have been asking you if you've heard anything or how you feel about this Because y'all do represent that Ward. So I apologize for that Thank You mayor Jordan and I haven't heard anything. Okay. All right. Let's go to new business. Yeah Let's go to new business a resolution to repeal resolution 89-22
 and to authorize the reduction of the election of the standard allowance of $10 million in revenue losses due to the public health emergency created by the COVID-19 pandemic from the previously awarded American Rescue Plan Act funds to the calculated loss of $6,914,393. Mark.
 Well, I think that when I looked at this, I know in our community that we had organizations that a dollar is worth a lot to them because they're smaller and they were pushed to the brink of dissolution because of the pandemic. This would include food pantries, especially, and organizations that are looking for sustainable food opportunities.
 and other organizations that depended on income that simply was not there, but they still provided services. We had a large number of applicants that asked for a great deal of money. We could take $10 million and put it in the general fund, and that's part of the deal. Or we can look at specific line item things.
 Paul would be better to explain this to me, but the line item information would be about $6.9 million that we would show if we did that, leaving $3 million that could go back into the community. Now I understand the argument, if it goes into the general fund everyone is getting a piece of the pie.
 But what I see is there are people out there, and I can give specific organizations, but I think we can do that later. All of us know an organization, a food pantry, a sustainable organization that was looking for sustainable food options that have not paid their executive directors for three, two or three years. But yet they're still in operation. They have not been able to...
 supply the services that they could before the pandemic. So I think that's a direct indication that the pandemic did impact them severely. So looking at this, I felt like that the city, yes, the city could use it and the general fund and everyone could get a piece of the pie. But is it
 also valuable that there's an organization out there that can get a little bit of this money and they will survive and they can start paying their staff again. Because the staff won't stay if they're not paid. They're cause motivated, but you can't pay your lot bill with just cause motivation. So that was the reason I brought this back and that's how I look at it. Okay, Paul do you want to address any of that?
 Yes, I'll make a couple of comments and kind of clarify if I can. When we brought this forward, we asked for a ten million dollar reimbursement. At that point in time, federal regulations where we had a one-time decision, we brought it for in April and the council approved us applying for a ten million dollar reimbursement to the city for losses.
 We did a calculation, the calculation was 6.9, but we were allowed to claim up to $10 million. And we in fact sustained at least 6.9. That was just in a one-year period comparing 2020 to 2019. So we incurred other losses probably, but at that point in time that was our calculation.
 We came forward and as Mark said, what we recommended was we do a reimbursement and the administration suggested that we look at some infrastructure projects that we might not be able to do.
 Through the use of that money one of them we talked about Was a project for Walker Park and Walker Park submitted something Under the ARPA funds. However, we thought that was kind of questionable if we transfer that and do that under city under the city program for
 for reimbursement, we don't have to have the metrics involved, show and demonstrate that that was related directly to the coronavirus, but we could do that project. And remember, that's in the park system, and parks did sustain losses. The other one, of course, we talked about was transferring in and transferring some money to infrastructure for water and sewer, and that was because...
 The cost of water and sewer capital programs and water and sewer does in fact impact all the citizens of Fayetteville. Especially it impacts the lower income and fixed income citizens of Fayetteville more than others. So that's generally what our recommendation was. I do want to make a couple of comments. The one thing we did, we talked about the last time we discussed this, doing reimbursements
 for those nonprofits that demonstrated losses for the period. And we in fact talked about bringing that forward. We're working on that right now. That was $641,000. So the ones that demonstrated specific losses, we've talked about taking care of them and intend to bring that forward as we all talked about at our last meeting.
 We talked about a couple other ones to bring forward directly help citizens voucher program for child care Childcare expansion of support through the head start at education facility. We're all working on those Those are about two million dollars, which would still leave Roughly three point four million dollars to consider these other projects that were in fact Submitted I do want to make it clear that the
 The non-profits had two options. They could submit if they sustained losses and request reimbursement for those losses. And that we talked about doing and that we intend to do. The other ones were programs
 that they said were intended to help the people affected, the citizens affected by COVID. Those should have to review on their own merits. They have to pass, they have to have sub-grantee agreement. And like I said, that was for the council to decide the merits of that. So that's why we proposed what we did. It's certainly the city's option, which way they want to go, but I hope
 I hope I expressed what the administration's position and why we did it that way. And I'll be happy to answer any specific questions if you have any. Any questions for Paul, Mark? Paul, that's what I know and I'm glad that you explained it because I certainly couldn't have. But again, from my point of view and talking directly with a lot of organizations, first of all,
 they did not feel like that they got enough information to understand the two programs second of all they thought that they could apply for
 both programs, but they can't, right? No, we had some that applied for both. Okay, well there was a lot of misunderstanding about that, from what I can tell. We did take a lot of telephone calls, I will say that much. And also the federal regulations changed during the discussion of these funds, so that was very confusing, and I think that that's why we didn't get maybe exactly
 relevant information sometimes because they were using federal guidelines that were out of date, or there was a misunderstanding where they, you know, these are not professional federal government contract individuals. They're small organizations that this was a new program for them that they had to learn. And they, from what I can tell, they really did not get, from their point of view,
 the information they needed to have a better application. So this would give an organization maybe the possibility to recoup some of that that they didn't have originally. I don't know, we'll have to talk about how to do that. Yeah, we did. All I will say, Mark, we reached out to them as much as possible to try to work through them and did an explanation at that point in time. There's also nothing saying that if we look at this and,
 Decide we want to do something now we and we don't I
 fully have everything we can go out and ask for more submissions or look at other things the other thing that i did want to point out was certainly the council if they don't see something in there a particular program that they're interested in they can suggest something and we could go out and look at a at an rfp or rfq uh to meet a specific need so with that i think that's uh but all i have to say and i'll take any questions if anybody else has any
 Okay, well, does the council have, well, I guess you don't have any questions. All right, well, let's go out and take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom?
 No one's hand is raised, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address us on this topic in the chamber? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. I have some comments. No, this is a resolution.
 If you all recall, I had a lot of reluctance to approving the $10 million way back in April because I really felt like the nonprofits needed more support. And the original intent of the ARPA funds was to help recoup losses for...
 Now, I know we haven't gotten to that topic. We haven't approved that yet. Hopefully it'll be on the council's agenda in the next couple of weeks or so. But I go back to that. I think we need to have more room, more funding to support our nonprofits and our community. I do think they've had quite a bit of loss. I think this whole process has been very confusing. I know that staff has tried to...
 simplify it and make it straightforward, but this is, you know, working with the federal government can always be very difficult. And so I'm actually going to support the reduction to the $6.9 million so that we have some additional ability to fund some of these nonprofits that have suffered losses that are key components for our community. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan and City Council, I've had the very similar conversations with many nonprofits. And as you all know, as Council Member Turk expressed, I had some concerns right from the very start. When we think about this, I can't help but think about this.
 social equity when it comes to ARPA funding. And of course, that means that all community members can participate, prosper, and reach their full potential. And I think that these nonprofits have done that, and they are committed to doing that. And so, with that being said, I really appreciate Councilmember Kenyon, his comments, and his
 resolution and Councilmember Tark, I echo those sentiments and I'm in full support of this.
 yes I have also heard some a little bit confusion in terms of the application process and so I think it would be interesting to to reconsider the amount and potentially as a second second step potentially reconsider
 kind of looking at those applications. One of the biggest things that I've learned in the process is that that beneficiary bucket really, my understanding, and Paul please correct me if I'm wrong,
 it's very document based showing your losses and so it seems like a very straightforward thing you either show can show the losses and prove that it's proven or not and so that seems like a very straightforward application and I think I think that would be really awesome and for me I wasn't really sure that people could apply for both it was probably clear on there but
 For me, I wasn't sure about that. But it could give us an opportunity to really help those organizations that were affected by the pandemic. And as much as I would like a smooth road in Walker Park...
 I think we need to really put this COVID funding to the COVID application. And that's very important to me because this is ARPA funding. So feel free to correct me if I'm wrong on the beneficiary poll. Oh, there's no correction. You're correct. The easiest way in a way to benefit a nonprofit is they demonstrate a loss. They document that loss. We look at it. It's easy. We document it. We've got all the information we need and we reimburse them for that loss. Okay.
 We did that for individuals. We suggested, and Steven, you correct me if I'm wrong, we suggested that some organizations submit that and chose not to. There was never a restriction on not being able to vote.
 Remember the difference one when we talk about a beneficiary as reimbursing year for direct provable losses And we're coming forward with 600 will come forward with up to six hundred seventy thousand dollars worth of those To the City Council for approval once we get all the documentation in place but there was nothing saying they could and we in fact did have some that applied for both and
 The other application as a subrecipient is performing something going forward. Okay, those are the ones that we all looked at, which is the large amounts. So that's what we tried to do, and we worked hard. We certainly understand some of it's confusing. It's confusing for all of us. But you were absolutely correct in how you explained that and identified it.
 Yes, thank you. And I want to thank the committee again, you and Steve, and everyone has been incredibly helpful because I've called your desk many times as well, asking many questions on behalf of the nonprofit. So by no means do I want to demean any effort and energy because we're all learning together. So thank you so much for getting us to this point.
 Paul do we know what specific projects we're giving up if we reduce the standard allowance? Or if we don't take the standard allowance?
 I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Holly, my hearing isn't quite as good so I'm going to come a little closer. Do we know what specific programs we would not be able to do if we didn't take the standard allowance? Yeah, we had some of them that we looked at that you did not recommend. Excuse me, I should talk in the microphone. See, I said I couldn't hear you, now nobody can hear me.
 We looked at the ones we didn't recommend we think are kind of questionable. So as we rank them, that's how we rank them. Some of them we rank that we did not think would be eligible.
 We need to take them up if they come forward on a one-to-one basis because we have to have a sub grantee or sub recipient agreement with each and every one of them so we can take that up as if the council wishes to bring some of those Forward that we haven't recommended or we're not bringing forward. Does that answer your question? Well, I was more meaning like the city projects that we were talking about Using this money for what would we be specifically giving up if we didn't take the 10 million?
 If we did take the 10 million, what would we be giving up? Like what projects would we not be able to do?
 Oh, if, okay, if we go back to 6.9, well, the projects that we talked about that would be up for city consideration, we were recommending that we look at Wauke Park, and we were also recommending that we looked at water and sewer projects. We've got a number of them that were indicated. One was very large. One was a $4 million one to help prevent leaks going forward.
 Now if we we're going to have to do that sooner or later the question is does the money come from the ratepayer? Which is going to impact like in my opinion the fixed income and socio-economic lower people on the socio-economic scale more
 than other people, and those would end up having to primarily come out of rates for the rate payer. So that was two of the reasons that we suggested that. We'll look at that even with the six million, we will look at that. So we'll just have to say that three million dollars we will not be able to do on one of those projects, water and sewer or Walker Park, we would have to cut back on.
 Thank you. Paul, I have a question. And this may have already been addressed previously, but I'm just wanting to be certain. With the nonprofits, I remember the conversation about hiring a grants administrator, and I'm wanting to know.
 Did these nonprofits receive any type of workshop on how to fill out the grant application? Because I'm noticing that many of the nonprofits that I've spoken to, they, even prior to COVID, they were at a disadvantage. And so one of the advantages of course is
 has been, from my understanding is, and many of my peers said it tonight, understanding a lot of the jargon, a lot of the language. And I know that you received a lot of phone calls, but I'm just curious to know, was there any effort to create or develop some type of workshop, making sure that they understand exactly what this process looks like?
 Steven would you care to address that because that was really your department and can you can you talk about exactly how we communicated with the nonprofits? Yeah no problem. So we developed a application guide to actually explain each and every question on the application. We listed phone numbers of all representatives that anyone could call if they had questions on how to fill out specific questions.
 And we took calls and emails. That's pretty much what we did.
 Okay, so there was no workshop as it relates to, I guess, workshop or even community input meeting as it relates to the funding. I do, and correct me, but I do know that when Yolanda's department, when they do grant funding, and I could be wrong, but I'm thinking that they do some type of workshop. And so I was just curious about this process.
 pretty much my understanding is that workshop is to discuss deadlines and specific filing options as far as the arpa phones are concerned uh i think you know we all kind of had a chance to review that application and we really took strides to make that as simple as possible and we really didn't have too many questions from folks on how to answer specific items that were in that application
 And the questions that we did have, we actually addressed. We posted revised copies of the application form. Okay. I do appreciate your being deliberate. Some of the nonprofits that I've heard from, they are St. James Baptist Church, from what I understand, they have the largest food pantry in the community, in the region. And since COVID, I mean, that number has probably tripled.
 And so I was really concerned about, not necessarily concerned, but I had some questions concerning those types of nonprofits, nonprofits who are really, really making an impact as it relates to the provided food. I mean, food is something that we, I mean, that is something that we all know that we have to have. And so a lot of those nonprofits are feeling as if that...
 their presence is not as important as others. And I do recognize the process and totally respect the process. And I appreciate your work as it relates to establishing and developing the process. But I too, I can't help but say that I think
 that we have such a great need that this proposal, and again, thank you, Council Member Kenyon, we have an opportunity to really make this more equitable and impact those nonprofits who are on the front line. May I ask Stephen to clarify one question? There was a window in which the revenue loss had to be documented. What were those dates?
 If we're talking about the revenue loss, that was March 3rd of 2021 to March 3rd of 2022. Thank you. So it's possible that some of the nonprofits did not maintain documentation during that period of time in order to justify an application. I'm just speculating, but I think because of the window in which the applications had to have demonstrated the loss, that might be part of the issue. Councilmember Jones, I'm not sure.
 i think councilman that wasn't the issue with saint james i know that was it but uh that's neither here or there and i don't mean to put them on the spot but i do know how important their work is in the community
 Over 5,000 is the Central Christ State Platinum. And that's what we're improving. Just for your information, DeAndre, one of the lists that we went over last time, the St. James Missionary Baptist Church did, in fact, file for a revenue lawsuit we intend to bring forward.
 So we did take that into consideration. They submitted two documents, two, one for a subgrantee and one for, I believe it was $150,000. We're waiting on the documentation for that, but we fully intend to reimburse them for that loss.
 Remember that these applications were filed in April. We've been working back and forth with these, with the non-for-profit since then. But St. James Church, we have, in fact, are working on documenting their losses because we recognize that they do an outstanding job in the community for food services to the needy. Well, thank you so much. I appreciate that. And I know they appreciate that even more. Thank you.
 I think I heard something that was, maybe I just want to confirm that I heard it. So for the beneficiary program, the losses that are okay to be reimbursed for these particular funds only go back to 2021 or 2021?
 Well, the period that we looked at was up until 20 to 2021, was it not? Correct me if I'm wrong. 2020-22? 2021 to 2022. Now, as we move through the process, if we see subgrantees that we don't,
 you know some of the programs we don't feel to fund we can always look back and allow you know look at another run of the non-for-profits who do sustain losses and look at them again for any remaining funding on that so so we could do we could do something like that um i was just kind of i'm trying to stop period yeah i'm kind of still trying to understand it's a balance of um what what the
 guidelines allowed and what we posted as far as, so essentially we posted what the earliest losses needed to be demonstrated. And that was our first period. The earliest, right. Correct.
 And then that was that was capped I believe by us. I think we kept it at 900,000 is that does that no that's that's what we appropriated. We didn't cap it. Okay, we appropriated $900,000 we were discussing an access that we need it. We'll come back with an appropriation What we'll do is we'll come back with one lump That's what we talked about for all of these sustained losses after we get all the documentation for those losses and we'll bring that back ask the council to approve it and
 If it's over $900,000, we will. It doesn't appear to be at this point in time. So that's kind of where we are at this point in time. Remember we have up to 2024 to commit funds, okay? And we have up to 2026 to pay them. But the most straightforward and way to make sure that we're really helping enough for profits that need is when they demonstrate a particular loss.
 So, that's something we need to think of as where we're doing this. Some of these are saying, perspective, we'd like to do this. We can withhold some of this and say, we'll run another period and you demonstrate what the loss for that period is and look at that. Yes. Thank you for bearing with me as I still wrap my head around it. But it is becoming more clear in general. I don't know for anybody else, but it is becoming more clear.
 i i don't know i'll just let other people i'm ready to move to approve the resolution but i see microphones um hi paul i just have a really quick question so um that may uh march of 2021 to march of 2022 your period that you needed to demonstrate loss were those set by the federal government and
 Okay. So why us? We did it when we established the program, talked about applying for the program. So theoretically, we could expand those dates? Okay. You could have another round of it. Okay. Are there any limitations on the dates by the federal government? I assume it's after the pandemic started, but I'm just wondering if there are any date limitations set by the feds. Well, the limitation is that...
 We have to 2024 to commit the funds. Now we have till 2026 to pay them off. Okay. So that's kind of where we are. Thank you for clarifying that. I appreciate it. Sure.
 I think we're discussing, you know, kind of different buckets and stuff. I hope whatever we do tonight doesn't delay some of the decisions or things that we've looked at before. I'm really concerned that we're going to come up with new metrics and those organizations that we kind of said we're probably going to give you money.
 have to go through a whole nother cycle. So I'm really hoping that we get the cycles done that are already kind of along the way and then look at maybe another cycle. Some of the conversation today is kind of concerning that that may happen. So I'm hoping that we don't head in that direction. Yeah, I understand that right now, but I think right now, so we're all clear, we're looking at what was demonstrated for those losses for that period of time.
 council wishes later we can look at having it for another period so anything else you know I I am really loathe to reduce the funding that we might have to spend on water and sewer projects and stuff like that but but I'm also
 It's kind of like, well, if we can help some of these nonprofits, I would be in favor of doing that. But the fact of the matter is that some of these nonprofits are not going to get funding. No matter what we do, no matter how we massage this, they're just not going to get the funding that they've asked for.
 And, you know, we've got to have our parameters and we've got to kind of try to stick to them as much as possible. And it is a lot for us to process. And I know it's been a big burden on staff, especially, and I want to applaud you for the way you've explained everything just over and over and over again. Because that's what I need anyway. I need that.
 I hate to, I know water and sewer projects are going to help all the citizens and especially in places where we have a lot of leaks and stuff like that which are going to be probably our older portions of town and maybe some less affluent areas. But if we can help nonprofits, I kind of can't quite make up my mind on that. But it's still a fact that some people are not going to get the funding no matter what we do.
 Anyway, thank you. Absolutely correct. We had $21 million worth of requests. And again, I know I keep reiterating, we had $671,000 worth of requests for actual losses. And those,
 We've actually as council approved those 670 approved that coming forward we do have already so finally approved the distribution I don't think prove it coming forward. That's correct. Look me in the eye and tell me let's rethink those those are approved Let's stick with those approved. We have This is my perspective City Considered originally 88 million dollars worth of infrastructure improvements. We learned of a sewer
 pipe failure that'll be two and a half to four and a half million. So we have 92 million dollars in infrastructure potential asks
 Having said that, city staff whittled that down to 20 million, then 15 million, and they really only brought forward the the seven and a half million, the water and the park project. So if we were to give up the 3.1 million, we literally would give up the parks project. We could still keep the water sewer pipe repair, which I think is highly significant to the community.
 So first off, I want to give kudos to the city staff that took $92 million and whittled it down to say, let's consider only 9% of that money for city infrastructure projects. So kudos to staff on that. I actually am the one that made the motion to take the $10 million.
 And I have no misgivings with us revising that at all. It's all money that's going to do good in the community. And I'm not going to be long-winded. It's just are we helping Camp A or are we helping Camp B? So there's really no harm. We're giving up infrastructure money in the short run for the park
 I do believe that I can easily say that food insecurity would be number one on my list. If we were to look then at people that could document loss from a staff perspective, that will be easier and less painful to review and approve than ongoing programs forward. So I would even be comfortable if we said people were confused or people didn't realize they could submit for both and
 and did not apply for loss, I would be perfectly comfortable if we reopened it up for those who had already submitted an application of any type, period. I don't think we open it up carte blanche to additional organizations.
 But I would be comfortable if we told people, look, if you didn't submit for loss, it's easier on staff. It's easier to document. It's easier for us to cut a check, pay it out. You provided proof once, it's easier to audit. We're less likely to get in trouble with the federal government. I would even be open for that type of reopening of an application process, but not the flood gates part of the process. So I think there's wisdom on all of you.
 I again made the original motion. I'm perfectly comfortable with us changing that. I have no heartburn. I think this would still all be money for good. And you've got to love Fayetteville and what an opportunity that we have. So kudos to everybody. But for Pete's sake, let's take one bite of the apple tonight and get this done tonight. Have we had a motion already? No, I'm waiting on one. I move that we...
 Could I ask Paul one question before you all vote on this? Paul, you're the expert here on the federal funds and stuff. Let's assume that city council passes this and removes about $3 million out of the $10 million election vote.
 And yet we can't find enough applicants that meet the federal requirements. So we can't give them the $3 million. Can the city council then amend this again so that we will then put back higher amount in the automatic election so that we're not endangering losing this money by making this move tonight? Okay. Okay.
 The federal government just keeps changing the rules, Ken. That's the problem with this. I don't know how to answer that. I don't know if they will or not. I believe that we do have the right to make a calculation at some other point in time. Paul, we're having trouble here. I'm sorry. I believe we have the right to make a calculation. But what we would do is, like I said, we have to 2024 to commit the funds.
 If we're looking at it and we're clear and we want to spend it on water and sewer, that's part of the authorized, that's part of the authorized
 thing in the legislation allows you to sell it on so what what i would say we would do is further look at that point in time at funding water sewer projects if there's anything remaining okay so okay so no we won't lose it so we will not lose that money we can the city council can come back and change this come back but they may be restricted on what we spend it may have to be in water sewer water quality so that's that would be the situation
 Okay, well I just want to make sure we weren't gonna lose this three million dollars somewhere not gonna lose the money No, we're not gonna lose money. Yeah, we we got plenty of water and sewer projects to fund it with That are requiring funding to Well, we do have a motion in a second. Is there we don't I'm sorry Yeah, you did I thought you did oh The second I got I moved that we I
 repeal reduction of election standard allowance second all right any final comments okay careful he's called row Scroggins yes yes yes Hertzberg no RV yes Jones yes Canyon yes we did Kurt yes okay thank you all
 Let's go on to number two. Oh, yes. An ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability of the federal city code and 151.01 definitions and 163.18 short-term rentals of the unified development code to remove the conditional use permit requirement tied to short-term rentals and to repeal the sunset provision. Kit.
 Whereas since ordinance number 6427 was adopted on April 20th of 2021 and as of September 14th of 2022, Development Services has issued 326 business licenses for type 2 short-term rentals. And whereas there is currently a city-wide cap of 875 business licenses for type 2 short-term rentals,
 And whereas the authority granted to the Department of Development Services Department by Chapter 118, Business Registry and Licenses of the Fayetteville City Code, it's sufficient to regulate type two short term rentals. And whereas Ordinance 6427 provided for an automatic repeal of the city's short term rental regulations on December 20th of 2022, which would make continued operation of the short term rentals in the city of Fayetteville illegal after that date.
 And whereas staff and the Planning Commission recommend removal of the conditional use permit requirement for Type 2 short-term rental business licenses and removal of the sunset provision. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hear by repeal subsection E of Section 11801, applicability of the Fayetteville City Code,
 and an action new subsection 11801e as shown on exhibit a attached here too section two that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby amend section 151-01 definitions by repealing the last sentence of the definition of short-term rental type two section three that the city council of the city of fable arcs are hereby repeal section 16318 short-term rentals of the unified development code in its entirety
 Section 4, that the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby enact Section 16426, Short-Term Rentals, into the Unified Development Code, as shown in Exhibit B, attached here to and made a part hereof. And Section 5, the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby amend Ordinance 6427 by repealing Section 2, the Sunset Clause.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. I'll be leading off the presentation this evening before handing it off to Ms. Bostic who will be covering the data side of things. I do have ten minutes. I understand, Mayor. Thank you. Jumping right in, I did want to offer a little bit of background for those who may not recall or those in the public who do not understand necessarily how the ordinance came to be. I think it justifies a little bit of background.
 The conversations began almost a decade ago when there began being a prevalence of short-term rentals in Fayetteville. Around that time there began being questions on how to enforce them. Being a college town, we did have a propensity to see short-term rentals used for large events with large gatherings that proved a nuisance to some neighbors, but at the time we lacked any sort of enforcement mechanism given the the temporary state of those affairs. Accordingly,
 After several years of this, in July of 2019, the City Council recognized this issue, along with concerns about the condition of the properties and ensuring that the people staying there are safe while in their short-term rental, and also the potential losses in tax revenue. A resolution was adopted directing staff to begin investigating what a short-term rental ordinance would look like.
 About two years later, not quite two years, Ordinance 6427 was adopted. That established exactly those ordinances that really bridges a lot of discussion that the council, the planning commission and staff had. But the ordinances that were ultimately adopted included a permitting element to it, licensing, taxation, zoning aspect to it, life safety standards.
 And last but not least, there was a sunset incorporated into the ordinance as well as grace period where short-term rentals that were currently operating could be licensed without a planning commission review. Moving more recently to late 2021, a few amendments were passed to the ordinance, including two extensions to the grace period, which was originally approved as six months, then it's extended to nine and then onto 12 when it became evident that several operators needed additional time to come into the fold, if you will.
 Additionally, a few other items were included in those amendments. One was to expand the allowance for short-term rentals to some non-residential zoning districts where there were accessory residential uses that needed to be accounted for.
 Also included was an exemption for multifamily buildings that were owned as horizontal property regimes or condominium associations. Under the ordinance as adopted, there was not an option for those people to get around the density cap that had been applied to multifamily buildings where council staff and the planning commission had concerns about the loss of affordable multifamily housing.
 Moving into the middle of this year, the grace period expired. The Planning Commission began reviewing conditional use permits. Ms. Bostic will get more into the details of that. Which brings us to last month, which in advance of the sunset that was adopted with the ordinance, the Planning Commission began deliberating the short-term rental regulation at the instigation of staff and forwarded the recommendations that are before you tonight.
 As for that sunset provision, this is just a reminder why this is being discussed. If we don't, the ordinance in whole will effectively sunset. It will be repealed unless some manner of action is taken by the city council by December 10th is the repeal date for that.
 And just to refresh you on a few definitions of what a short-term rental means in Fayetteville, a short-term rental is any dwelling unit that is utilized or rented for 30 days or less. And within that we have two different types of short-term rentals. Type one are those predominantly occupied by the resident and that's determined by being occupied by the resident at least nine months out of the year.
 and it's also established by a homestead credit issued by the Washington County assessor. The second is a type two short-term rental, which is primarily used as a rental. It doesn't have a permanent resident necessarily, and these are the ones that are capped by several standards within the city, and they're also subject to a conditional use permit from the Planning Commission and an associated public hearing. And with that, I'd love to hand it off to Ms. Bostic. Thank you.
 Thank you Mr. Kurth, good evening Mayor and Council. So on page 2 of the staff memo you'll see some numbers about short-term rentals and where we were at the time of the staff report. These are numbers that do change every business day as we issue business licenses, receive applications for business license, conditional use permit. So I wanted to give you all numbers as of this morning and let you all know where we are. It is important to note that the 2020 US Census
 population estimates were released, kind of some of the more specific detailed pieces this year. I know it was the 2020 census, but we're still getting data. They finally released our total housing unit estimate and that is currently 43,795 housing units. And so that's the number that we base our citywide density cap on. So that number is currently 875 type two short-term rentals.
 that would not be in one of the zoning districts that allow hotel or motel use by right. So even though we have 323 current type 2 short-terminal business licenses issued or active is another way to think of it, only 276 of those apply to the citywide cap and that's about .6 of our housing units so we're a little over a quarter of the way to our cap. Next slide, please.
 And so the ownership has been a question that's come up a lot. There have been some assumptions that maybe a lot of people own a lot of different short-term rentals. What our records show is that there are about 211 ownership entities that only own one short-term rental. And of the remaining 37 entities, they own roughly 35% of that total of the Type 2 STRs.
 21 of those only have two type 2 short-term rentals, so we don't in our records reflect owners with just dozens of properties. The most that I've seen as of this morning was one person owned seven short-term rentals and that seemed to be the most that's reflected.
 We have some data that was requested and this is really important I think for the council's consideration and it ties into what the Planning Commission ultimately made a recommendation on in their second memo to the council. So for business licenses,
 We have very few relatively in the zoning districts where hotel motel use is allowed by right. You see MSC there, Main Street Center, was certainly the most at 49. Main Street Center is a zoning district that does include a lot of single family residential, but also some multifamily. And then when you get to the zoning districts that have short term rentals, the type twos that apply to the density cap,
 You see a lot of short-term rentals occur in single-family neighborhoods. I say that because you see the highest count in the RSF4. You also see a lot in NC neighborhood conservation. I will say that the 67 Type 2 short-term rentals in the RMF24, a lot of those are single-family properties. Okay.
 not a multi-family like you might expect from the zoning. And then as we get to the conditional use permits and the zoning district that those are in, you see a similar kind of spread, fewer zoning districts overall with the conditional use permit request, but only five of those overall out of the 62 that have been submitted are in a zoning district that allows hotel or motel use by right. So it's mostly applying to the cap.
 I would like to quickly go over the changes that have been proposed. The changes are really looking at two aspects. One is our business regulations and that's in Title 11, which is Chapter 118, business license regulations. The proposal would remove the conditional use requirement and delete some language about the 12-month start-up period since that no longer applies and then there's some kind
 cleanup that would go along with that. And then also there's a proposed change to our unified development code which Mr. Williams read a lot of the specifics of that but it would essentially move short-term rentals from use conditions or conditional use requirements to development and zoning standards if those were to be not requiring the conditional use permit anymore. Also removing that 12-month startup and some tax cleanup. And so what we have heard
 oh thank you sir can we hear it was 808 she has two more minutes okay i'm sorry yeah
 I'll make the most of it. So I think what we're all very interested in tonight is what has the public been saying? What have the comments been from our community? And so parking by far has been the most frequent comment in the Planning Commission's meeting and public comments received by staff. And that's concerns about the parking impacts of guests to short-term rentals, that they would bring a lot of vehicles with them that would then provide some difficulties for the
 long-term neighbors, long-term property residents. Safety is also probably the second concern that's expressed. And then from there, it's kind of, you know, the numbers are probably about even on trash, too many STRs within a neighborhood,
 We've also heard concerns about how many residents are in rental properties. That's been expressed. Property vacancy, increasing housing cost, and that this is like allowing hotels and neighborhoods are key concerns that we wanted to highlight for you all since that's what we've heard in the planning commission meetings in particular.
 So, although staff in the planning commission are making a recommendation on this that's specific to removing the conditional use permit requirement, the planning commission did provide a follow-up memo to the council in which they recommended that the council as they review this and visit that sunset clause, that you'll also, they recommend consider adding notification requirements. Thank you, sir.
 Can we allow her to just wrap it up, just finish? Okay. One minute, two minutes, two minutes more? Okay. Okay.
 Thank you, Councilmember Bunch. And so what the Planning Commission recommended is that the council consider adding a notification for the Type 2 short-term rental business license. There's a precedent for that with sidewalk cafes. And then they also recommended that the council consider whether short-term rentals should be permitted in every zoning district or maybe they should be excluded from some zoning districts
 whether there should be limits on the total number of occupants, not just by the bedroom as it is right now, and then also whether there should be a density cap established on a geographic basis rather than a citywide basis. I know you all have heard comments from the public on this item for the council, but we really didn't have public comment when it was going to the Planning Commission. So happy to answer questions. That's both myself and Mr. Kurth if we can.
 And we expect that more information would be needed from staff at future meetings. We're very happy to support a leaving on first reading, if you will, to provide that additional information if requested. What questions did we have before? There's one more around here. John, any questions? Yes. How many conditional use permits have we revoked? Zero to this point. That's problematic.
 I believe that allowing people to do stuff should be easy come, kind of easy go, because people are going to fight it tooth and nail if they know once they start, and even if they're a problem, we're not going to stop them. I have videos of helicopters flying in and out of SROs, I mean short-term rentals.
 That's problematic that there are people literally flying helicopters into rentals. I have emails from people where the owners of short-term rentals are harassing the neighbors when the neighbors complain. I don't know how I feel about actually removing the conditional use permit.
 neighborhoods have to have the ability and we have to start removing some of the bad actors. And I think we have a lot of extra regulations that
 that are unneeded because we're just not removing it from the people that are acting bad. And that may be a totally different conversation from the one today, but I couldn't imagine living next to some of the bad actors which are a small number, but the fact that we removed zero is concerning to me.
 Thank you. I'd like to follow up on that comment. I completely agree with you Sloan. I think it maybe is another conversation on a different day, but we were also having situations where we have
 short-term rentals that are not licensed and that's continuing to go on and how we deal with that so we don't really Have any provisions in our code right now Except sending it to the prosecuting attorney and that's probably not necessarily a good option. So These are other things we need to straighten up. We need to fix
 I'm definitely interested in the three recommendations that you had at the last slide, especially by geography, cap on geography. I'm seeing a lot coming online in Walker Park area. So that's interesting and definitely want to give you, allow you enough time and keep it on this reading. It sounds like we really need to kind of look at it a little bit further and longer and not rush. So yeah.
 Could we, a couple of comments. I really love the way you actually partitioned it by different zoning types. That's really, really helpful. And the numbers, that was great. Thank you for doing that. I'm wondering to follow up on your comment, Sonia, is spatially, could you kind of,
 be able to give us an area where they're like, you know, I don't know, like University Heights, how many short-term rentals are in that area. And, of course, we're assuming that they're all registered and have a permit. But that would allow us to really think about density caps in certain parts of the city. And maybe it doesn't just have to be a neighborhood. Maybe it's, I don't know, whatever makes the most sense geographically. Maybe by ward?
 But that may be too rough. Too rough. Yeah, but I'm sure there's a happy medium somewhere in there. Wouldn't it be we should have the data that we could just impose it on a map so we can look at the map and see the red dots where whatever? I think they are red dots quite literally. That's what I thought. Yeah, so that's.
 There are two different pieces. There's the conditional use permit and then there's the business license. Both could be plotted on a map. So is the council interested in both of those aspects or just one in particular? Because you'll certainly see a lot more of the business licenses populated on a map. And if I may add to that, Mayor, that map does exist. It's publicly facing among our GIS maps. I can show you how to navigate to that really briefly if it helps inform future conversations.
 If you are on the city's homepage, go to GIS maps. If you can see my cursor here, and as you look through the maps, there's one called the Development Services Dashboard with a cute little seagull or something there. There.
 And what it defaults to are the total businesses. So this is business licenses, period, all of them. So there's a lot of red where you'd expect to see a downtown and then transportation quarters. From there and the type of license where you see my cursor now, you can select specific ones.
 including type ones, type twos, so you can overlay those. You can zoom in to use example Councilmember Turk offered. Generally the University Heights area, you can see where licensed short-term rentals are, which to the point that has come up a couple of times, this does not include those that are out of compliance or operating out of compliance, but that map does exist and I hope that can hopefully inform the conversation.
 Thank you. That is great. I'm always surfing around on the GIS map, but I missed that. So thank you, Jonathan. So we can hold it here. We need public comment. Are you ready for public comment? Okay. Yeah.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? I have Marcy Benham. Okay, go ahead.
 Hi, my name is Marcy Benham and I live at 203 North Oklahoma Way. I'm in a unique position in that I am a licensed short-term rental owner in South Fayetteville, but I live on Mount Sequoia and the house next door to me is now short-term rental. So I am concerned about this change in the...
 in the ordinance because I really feel strongly that the conditional use permit is a necessary part of being a good neighbor with a short-term rental. Um, it allows the neighbors to be notified that this is happening in, you know, in their area and it gives them the chance to have their day in court, basically to express their concerns about the possibilities of what might happen with a short-term rental in their area. Um,
 And if there's no conditional use process for zoning infringements, I don't understand why we have zoning at all. I mean, somebody has to protect the zoning that's already in place by the city. And that I would think that the conditional use permits are a real integral part of that.
 I'm glad to hear some of the concerns expressed here by the council members, because I too am concerned about who's enforcing the short-term rental ordinances that the city has in place. And I think that it's really important that in order for...
 short-term rentals to be continued to be accepted by the community that we need to have a good balance between protecting residential homeowners and The piece of their neighborhoods and allowing people to do what they want with their own property
 So I think that conditional use permits help with that. And I just really would like to see more enforcement or information about enforcement and how people know where to go if they have a bad short-term rental experience in their neighborhood. So that's it. Thank you for considering this. Okay. Who else? No one else on Zoom, Mayor. Okay. Who would like to address this in the chamber on this topic?
 Sure, I mean just everybody first come first serve can think. Mr. Mayor, Council members of the council, my name is Robin Devine. I live at 1000 West Boone Street, South Fayetteville. That's in Parksdale addition. As a resident of the neighborhood conservation area in Parksdale addition, I request that you vote against a type two rental for neighborhood conservation.
 In 2018 we worked 11 months and 2 weeks to change the zoning from RMF 24 to neighborhood conservation. I believe the rezone was recorded as being an historic shift towards preserving the integrity of the neighborhood. We hope to preserve this integrity with homeowners and long-term rentals. And short-term, just as a note, the short-term residency, what are we talking about?
 Short-term rentals was not even an issue addressed at that time period in 2018. Also, the increase of short-term rentals have the inherent potential to break down the fabric of a neighborhood by the continued transientness of renters not invested in the community. Also, the increased presence of short-term rentals
 essentially decreases the number of affordable single housing available to the city that the city has been struggling for years to address in Fayetteville as Fayetteville continues to grow. The impact of short-term rentals in neighborhoods, it brings her destabilization. There's a safety concern because we don't know who the neighbors are. We don't know when they're coming, when they're going, who's a potential perp.
 Excuse me for saying that, but that's who so there's empty houses They can be vandalized because there's nobody in the houses for maybe weeks at a time or at least part of every week there's It increases house affordability and it decreases that will actually it increases house affordability Because it reduces the number of houses for sale for single-family residents I think that I would like to see my brains don't working great today. Y'all um um
 I would like to see a vote against the short-term rentals in neighborhood conversations and single-family resident neighborhoods, even though I was a little bit shocked to see how many short-term rentals are in the neighborhood conservation and the single-family residents. That was news to my eyes right there. That's what I've got to say. I hope you'd vote to preserve our neighborhoods as we've worked so hard to build them as they are. Thank you. Who else?
 good evening mr mayor and council members my name is ruth van antwerp and i bought a property in a neighborhood conservation district at 969 west boone street when when the neighborhood worked so hard four years ago to become a neighborhood conservation district short-term rentals were not permitted
 And also it's single family cap of three unrelated persons in a dwelling there, in a home there. And so it's the short-term rentals are not compatible or at least the one that advised us that this whole thing is on the table, which is just a coincidence.
 is not compatible because it's a three bedroom house so by short term rental standards eight people could come and stay there for a short term. We wouldn't even know about this but a COP conditional use permit note went up at $16.16 price. So about a week ago we came to the planning commission to get more information
 So I'm thinking it's just an accident that we are even here to advocate for our neighborhood. And what about all the people in single-family residential that don't know, they don't know this is on the table? And other neighborhood conservation districts, because ours is quite small and it already has one short-term rental. So we're already at 2% in our tiny neighborhood conservation.
 So it's just an accident that we even know about this. So I think the public has not been informed because this is a big impact. Short-term rentals undermine neighborhood integrity. They make home ownership more unaffordable with all the other factors to middle-income people.
 Our neighborhood is a traditionally low-income neighborhood since it's in a flood zone. Small houses, which we love and want to conserve.
 Next door to 1616, it's a brand new house in the last year. 1620, people from out of state bought it and moved here to Fayetteville. They paid what we would consider a high price to live in our historically low income neighborhood. And the fact of being in a neighborhood conservation district was very appealing to these buyers.
 In fact, they met some residents before buying. They saw how we walk around, we say hi. Even though I still haven't built my house there, I'm there a lot. Actually, I had the home demolished a year ago, June. And then I'm working on designing a house to build there. So these new residents are living there. I think if you vote yes tonight,
 This CUP at 1616 Price will not even get a hearing. And it's so incompatible. It's on Price which runs right into Great House Park and the parking lot there.
 Lots of people walking, walking dogs, biking. There's no sidewalk. There's only a sidewalk with the new homes. There's no sidewalk. Traffic is going to be a problem there. Eight people unrelated is not in our zoning district. So if you vote yes tonight, this these people won't even get a hearing to voice their concerns.
 So yeah, the traffic is a safety problem. I think the best thing for the city council to do is to put a moratorium on type 2 short-term rentals in neighborhood conservation districts and RSF.
 residential single family. I think the public doesn't know about this. If they knew about it, you would have many more people speaking here. Thank you. Well, it's probably unlikely that the council is going to vote on this tonight. I mean, I was hearing some of the conversation before you all. Well, then we'll be at the COP hearing next Monday. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor and members of the council, my name is Laura Brewer. I live at 1634 South Price in the Parksdale Edition neighborhood. I live in the area that is zoned neighborhood conservation. When we were advocating for this back in 2018, I said to the city council then that the neighborhoods are the lifeblood of the city.
 A neighborhood is that community which is within the larger community. So before any decision is made that will alter the fabric of that community, I actually want to tell you a little bit about
 Our neighborhood. The first thing we all did when we got there was we cleaned it up. We cleaned up those ditches and we cleaned up the creeks. We got rid of truck tires and car tires and bicycle tires and porch furniture.
 Big screen TV. We even removed a two cabinet filing cabinet. We removed more glass bottles and plastic that you can even imagine. But that's the first thing we did. Then we went and applied for a grant with the Beaver Watershed Alliance.
 And they gave us that grant. Daniel came multiple times to discuss with us where we could plant and what we should plant in our area. If you come into our area, you'll find out that our fire hydrants are looking very spunky. And that's because one of our neighbors went to the city and got the blue and white paint that was needed and painted all of our fire hydrants.
 We had another neighbor who contacted Google to try and get the large trucks that cut through our neighborhood going to Levi's Storage to go down Brooks and turn on...
 pedigree rather than doing Duncan Walker price boom and Sturman. This is what we do in our neighborhood. We lack sidewalks in our neighborhood and we have walkers and runners and dogs and children. We have all sorts that are heading toward the town branch path or great house park.
 We've spoken to Christine at Parks and Rec on how we can keep our neighborhood clean and how we can keep the park clean. We've talked with Heather Elsey, who is involved in y'all's plan or the pilot plan of Pick Me Up, because we live in an area where there are a lot of encampments, and we are very supportive of all of that.
 We have a couple of vacant lots in our neighborhood, and a young couple ventured in one day to look at one of those lots to think about buying it and build a house. Well, she met, well, I should say they met about five, six, maybe seven of us at that time, and we talked about the neighborhood. They came back three days later and said they bought the lot and they're building. I'll stop there.
 But what I want you to let, what I want you to know is that we live in the neighborhood that we live in. We are that community within the community. The fabric of our neighborhood is single family homes. And I urge you to reconsider anything with the type two short term rentals. Urge you to not vote for that at all. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi everyone, my name is Logan Humphrey and I am a local vacation rental property manager. I own the company Coho B&B Properties. We started the company in 2018 and started off with one property here in Fayetteville. Since then we have grown to over 40 properties in Fayetteville that we manage. These are all other people's properties, they're not my properties, just the one.
 All of these properties are owned by individual homeowners. I think the maximum amount of properties that one individual manages is two within our portfolio. So most of these homeowners are vacation rental homeowners and they are coming into town to visit their kids, go to football games, enjoy the tourist activity that Fayetteville is well known for.
 We have 40 to 50 properties in Fayetteville, like I mentioned earlier. I think we've had 50 that have successfully been through the licensing procedure. You know, of course, some properties sell. They become long-term rentals. So we're down to about 40 right now. I want to look at some data real quick. So there's a popular website called AirDNA. And I don't know if you're all aware of this website. Please check it out.
 AirDNA is a public website that you can subscribe to. I think you can subscribe to the town of, I don't own any stock in this website, by the way, but you can subscribe to the town of Fayetteville. I think it's $40 per month. On the site, it scrapes data from Airbnb and VRBO. According to AirDNA, and I actually looked at this while I was sitting over there a few minutes ago, there are 696 active properties listed in Fayetteville on Airbnb and VRBO.
 It does account for double listings and discrepancies and makes its best assessment. But according to the data that we looked at, only 326 properties are licensed. There's many reasons why this could be the case. Some of them may be not able to obtain a license, but I think that the majority of them just are not aware.
 For almost all the properties that we've had licensed, like I said earlier, 50 of them, 48 of them were through the grandfathering period. There's one member of our staff. She's very gracious. She's worked with the city and homeowners to get all the properties licensed. This is her job. Two of them have went through the conditional use permitting process, and they applied to get their license at the beginning of the procedure. Okay.
 Knowing that there's over 370 units that are in the conditional use processing system, potentially, you know, some of those are type one short-term rentals that I mentioned earlier. One of the main concerns, and I was the only one who spoke up in the 2019 first consideration about this, was clogging up the system. Staff had mentioned this multiple times. You know, we had come up here, multiple members talked about this clogging up the conditional use permitting process.
 I think that that's one of the major concerns that's not being mentioned right now. This is being brought to the table because of, you know, looking at the data here, zero properties have not been issued a business license through the conditional use permitting process. There's a concern that there's a rubber stamping that's involved, to use some words of a former staff member that I was discussing this with.
 So if we look at some of the data that's mentioned in here, it talks about there being two violation notices that have been sent out, I think, and Jonathan can maybe clarify, since the beginning of the licensing procedure. Five complaints have been issued that are valid complaints.
 With this being the case, it seems like there's not really much of a problem. There's a lot of potential problems that are being mentioned, but not a lot of formal complaints that are valid. A lot of the issues are being addressed through other ordinances, you know, parking, trash, for instance. So I think what we should really do here is we should really look at the data. If there's only two violation notices that have went out, zero properties that have been
 from their conditional use permit, then I think we should just fall back and remove this and allow that 2% density cap, which I've always been in favor of. And I think every property owner in Fayetteville would be in favor of as well, because it puts a hard cap, 98% of available housing is able to be used for long-term rentals or for permanent residency.
 The 2% cap also puts and allows a lot of restrictions on any possibility on there being an over influence of vacation rentals in the market. Since I started looking at the data, it's consistently fluctuated between 600 and 700 properties in Fayetteville over the past four years. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I will bring it back to the council. I assume you all want to, I mean, what conversation would you all like to have when I was hearing that you all wanted to hold it for a couple of weeks or...
 Yes. Yes, we want to hold it. Oh, okay. Thank you. Everyone's shaking their head yes. Yeah. I think we should hold it, but I would really like, you know, we've talked about this a little bit, Jonathan, but in the next couple of weeks, if we could track down where there are all these unlicensed, you know, or get some kind of insight, if the, if AirDNA is actually accurate, can we spot check and see how many unlicensed AirBnBs there are because
 If we're at 696 and 875 is the total, then we're at 80% capacity of our 2% cap. And I think that would be an important thing for us to understand more fully about what's going on within the STR ecosystem in our city. Absolutely. I think that's something we've had concerns about. And if I can take a leap to a different related conversation is there's been some concern expressed by staff and the commission in talking about this issue.
 whether the conditional use permit process represents an obstacle to people wanting to comply. If it makes them nervous, a typical layperson may be intimidated by public hearing. Not that it's necessarily justification to eliminate the conditional use permit process, but is there an alternative to that that would improve compliance? So that is a very good point. And on that note,
 If any of the council members have specific things that they would like staff to look at or speak to you at the next meeting, we would appreciate some greater direction than may typically be offered, especially given that sunset timeline. We want to do what we can for you all to make sure that you have the information you need, whether it's recommendations or data. So please either use this time now or reach out in the intervening days. And then we'll check in, of course, at agenda session what else we can do. Thank you.
 Yes. Does air D&D air is DNA on D&D. Does that cost money?
 It does. It was interesting that Mr. Humphries referenced that when one of the very first steps in this process was that a University of Arkansas class soliciting projects asked Fayetteville, what's something you all are dealing with that's a challenge? And five years ago, Short-Term Rentals was at the top of our list. And one of the things they did was subscribe to AirDNA. And interestingly, there was a comparable number. It was in the 600s when they made their presentation to us.
 And so it's been a nagging thought in the back of our minds what's out there. So to answer your question, yes, I think Mr. Humphrey's referenced the $40 amount or something like that, but I've not investigated that. Okay. I mean, if that's...
 That's something that we definitely should look at so we can have a pretty good idea on the numbers. I think the glut that we're having right now of handling all the conditional use permits is because, well, we've got to handle them now. So I'm a little worried that we're going to make a permanent solution to a temporary problem by removing the conditional use permits.
 I'm sure a lot of them, none of the neighbors come and that should be pretty quick. But I think it's important that that we keep the conditional use permit aspect of it. And then we got to figure out who's all doing it. And then we've got to figure out a way.
 to keep the few bad actors. And I'm frustrated with the institutions that say, well, we don't need any regulations because there's already stuff there. Well, if
 If there was, we would be removing them, the other methods, but we haven't. So that argument that we need no regulations doesn't hold because the other things that they keep mentioning aren't doing it. And I don't know if that's something that we need to write a resolution or ordinance to direct in the other aspects.
 But we've got neighborhoods that are having issues and not with all of them. And I would say not with most of them, but some of them. And so gotta be able to remove some of these. And the argument about them removing housing stock is true. The individual mentioned the fact that his 10 short-term rentals when they became not short-term rentals became places people lived long-term.
 So we know that those remove places for people to stay. And there's whole cities that have basically been evacuated by the people that live there because they find it better financially to rent out their place and move somewhere else. And that is a concern as prices keep rising here. Thank you. Okay, anything else?
 Yeah, I think there's probably a lot more. Well, I mean, I'm just... We'll probably talk about this three times even. So the things, Jonathan, that I would hope that we would be able to discuss in the future would be the actual definition of what the sunset clause encompasses. In other words, if the sunset goes away...
 Does the legal right to have a short-term rental go away or no? The rules go away and it's just free market and there's no regulation of short-term rentals. So clarification on that. I think discussion on whether the threshold is 2% or 1%
 Once you exceed the 1%, there is no going back. That's viewed as a taking away of someone who's got a right. So I would be interested in a conversation about the cap being 1% rather than 2%. Regarding parking, I think in neighborhoods where a permit is required, I think there should be discussion about whether or not a short-term rental should have parking permits or not.
 I think the notification process, if we're going to have a discussion about whether to continue or not continue the CUP process, having examples to show the community on what the notification process and signage would look like would behoove us.
 We probably need to have a discussion about the horizontal townhome condominium scenario where they own the dirt underneath them being exempted versus vertical condos
 And that ties into the whole notion of is there going to be some reasonable discussion about a standard, how many per neighborhood, per block, per street? Do we want to have any regulation on limiting the distance these should be apart from one another? And I think maybe the, I guess the, I don't know that we can ban them. I mean, we've got...
 constitutional law that says people have the right to pursue happiness and if someone owns two homes and wants to rent one, I don't know that there's any legal grounds for being able to do that. So I think what we're attempting to do is to be rational, reasonable people creating rational, reasonable requirements that say be a good neighbor. But there's the perception that we may not have a sufficient penalty
 for people who are not a good neighbor. I look at someone who has a professional management company taking
 the business much more seriously, that there's a single entity to call if trash isn't collected. There's a single entity to call if someone has a problem versus an absentee owner that lives in Montana fly fishing and yet owns a property in Fayetteville. So I think the final thing that I would mention is the whole ownership idea of do you need to be a Fayetteville resident? Do you need to be an Arkansas resident?
 I said it was the last thing and it's not. Obviously, the final thing for me then is ensuring the collection of hospitality taxes from these entities that operate this way would be also at the top of my list. That's kind of all that I can come up with, guys. I don't want to come next time we meet and say, oh gee, I wish I had mentioned something. So that's everything I can think of. Hey, Jonathan, just for fun, are you able to share with us the university study?
 I'll see if I can find that and then send it out to you all And maybe make it available through the clerk's office if the public at large is interested. It's been some time I don't know if we actually got a copy of it or not or if it was a Kind of a capstone project at the end of a semester, but that's a good question. I'll see if we can find it. Thank you With the
 the people that came to speak today which I appreciate you guys coming out if we could find out a little bit more about what is from other cities whenever they're restricted by zoning kind of what what are some historical things that you we've see with zoning restriction zoning restriction by zoning
 and how many zones do they seems like it's working because based on our data it looks like uh we got those numbers right in the packet the ones that we saw from Britain
 I don't believe those are in the packet, they are in the presentation though. Similar to whether the university presentation is helpful, we can make sure this presentation made tonight is available as well because I know we moved at a rather healthy clip. I'm trying to remember from Britton's presentation the top two or three that were there so maybe looking at what if we did do that restriction by zoning with those top
 just to add on to what Sonja said if we're looking at that I would also like to see a little bit more information on maybe a density cap for zoning um I don't know exactly how that would look but I'm just curious if we might be able to look at um maybe like Mike said a one percent cap for the more traditional neighborhood conservation or the more residential areas if you could please clarify on that one councilman Hertzberg would
 I mean, I think we could say yes, theoretically apply a 1% cap, but when you say what does that look like, you mean how many units would that result in or...
 i'm not sure if if i understand what i think holly's intending to say is that if you took uh and like rsf4 and could you put a density cap on that could you say well you know we're only gonna we're gonna limit that to a hundred strs or you could do it by maybe area how much rsf4 area is there you know there could be a couple of different ways to do a a
 theoretical density cap. Does that kind of make sense? Yes, I think that helps us, definitely helps me understand how there are a few different ways it could be sliced as perhaps I was describing it. Yes, short answer. I think I'm following this. Bostic, does that resonate with you? Perfect. Thank you for clarifying, Teresa. Anything else? You know, I think I will add one more, Jonathan, and that is if someone's doing cluster housing
 specifically have smaller homes for affordability we should be pulling those out of the housing stock since they are most likely the most likely to be affordable and so there's at least have some discussion about if there is in fact some valuation below which we don't want to have participate in this program because they are potentially purchasable live-in homes
 And again, I'm not saying, you know, that this is even a good idea, just to be able to even have some discussion about that. I think that would be worthy. Anything else? I'm good, thank you. Do what? I'm good, thank you. All right. All right. Well, I have been requested to have a break, so we'll leave this where it is, and we'll take this back up again in two weeks. I don't know about you all, but I'm going to take a look.
 Okay, let's go ahead and get started. Let's go ahead and get started. Okay. I have number three. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-0.
 2-1 for property located at 927 East Rockwood Trail in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of a utility easement kit.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454 104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes and whereas the City Council has determined That the following scribe portion of the utility easement is not required for corporate purposes now therefore it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 and
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates a portion of the utility easement described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. Section 2, a copy of this ordinance, newly certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo, shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3, this vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1,
 Any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. And number two, new utility easements shall be dedicated as requested by SWEPCO as follows, 15 feet along the north property line, 15 feet along the south property line, and 10 feet along the east property line, although I think we have some information that Jonathan can share with you about changing condition number two.
 that is correct if you'd like me to begin i had or have a presentation that i'd prepared and lead up this meeting but i received some new information about five o'clock so i'll stop about halfway through the presentation and you'll see why very quickly so apologize for the change of pace on that
 This particular piece of property is in east central Fayetteville or so. It's a little ways up the slope of Rockwood Trail in its intersection with Mission Boulevard. The property is currently developed with a single-family home and is encumbered by utility easement along its east property line in the amount of 25 feet, which is mirrored.
 on the property to the east for another 25 feet. It was formerly right-of-way that when it was abandoned was converted into utility easement. So you can see it here in survey form where the
 Easement being proposed to be vacated includes 20 feet of the existing utility easement and a proposal to retain the remaining five. You can see here in yellow as an existing remaining utility easement to mirror the building setbacks on the property, which is the five foot side setback of the RSF4 zoning district.
 That's where that presentation ends. As staff had proposed and as you see in your packet, there were a few conditions of approval that we recommended with this request. That included the typical boilerplate recommendation that damage or relocation of existing facilities be at the applicant's expense.
 When revisiting the request with the applicant today, it became apparent that SWEPCO's consent and what they wanted in turn for vacant easement did not align with what the applicant intended for the property. They had the opportunity today to work with SWEPCO and have submitted a revised consent document from SWEPCO acknowledging that they are amenable to reducing the amount of money
 the amount of easement that Swepco wants on that property line from 10 feet, which is what your report reads to five feet, which is what the applicant's request letter proposes. Additionally, it removes Swepco's request for some easements along the North and South property lines. So with that in mind, and as Mr. Williams alluded to earlier,
 If the council is amenable, that would require an amendment to effectively strike condition two of the vacation to eliminate the requirement for, or excuse me, modify condition number two to strike the requirement for the utilities, new utilities along the north and south property line and retaining five feet of the easement on the east property line instead of 10.
 With that, so condition number two will read a five foot general utility easement shall be retained along the east side of the property. That's as shown in the image that you see here and as the applicant had requested.
 And with that, I'm happy to take questions. I apologize for bringing an 11th hour change to the request. And Mr. Will Kellstrom is here as the applicant. Would you read that again, Kit? Okay. It's very short. We need an amendment to change Section 2 to read, I mean Condition 2 to read a five-foot general utility easement.
 shall be retained along the east side of the property. So a five-foot general utility along the east side of the property. On the east side of the property, that's right. So we need a motion to amend the ordinance. I move to amend the ordinance. Second. As Kit read. Five-foot general utilities east side. Everybody got it? You got it. All right. Did we get a second on that? Yes. Okay. All right.
 any discussion on it all right care would you please call the row scroggin yes bunch yes yes hertzberg yes arby yes jones yes indian yes fletaker yes okay jonathan
 I don't have anything additional to add, Mayor. Again, I'm happy to answer any questions. I realize that's a late change, and I'm happy to clarify anything if something was left uncertain. And again, additionally, Mr. Will Kallstrom is here as the applicant for the item in case you have questions for him. Okay, would you like to speak for the council? Okay.
 Good evening, Council. My name is Will Kellstrom here on behalf of the applicant. So with respect to the 11th hour amendment and the interest of time, I will spare you all the fantastic tale of me chasing down Swepco employees and hurricanes in Florida. But nonetheless, I did get them to amend that consent to basically mirror our original proposal.
 My client is adding on to his home and if you saw from the depiction of that lot earlier, it's a pretty skinny lot and actually tapers down to the south.
 So much of the south side of the lot is pretty unusable for building from the topography and just from how skinny it is. And then you can see the red portion of that drawing, that easement takes up a real good chunk of it. So we just want to expand the house a little bit.
 There's 25 feet on the other side of the property line and there's actually a sewer line already located eight feet off of the property line. So with our five feet and the 25 feet on the other side, that leaves 30 feet and there's already a line there or there's already a sewer line right in the middle there. So I think there's ample room for utilities in the future, but that's all I've got. So if you guys have any questions, I'm happy to answer them. Okay. Is there any questions from the council for the applicant or the staff?
 Okay, let's see if there's any public comment out there. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? No one on Zoom has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay, does anyone in the chamber wish to address us on this topic?
 okay i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council move just suspend rules and go to second reading second have a motion second to go to the second reading carriage please call the road scroggins yes punch yes turd yes earthspark yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes yes okay
 And the ordinance approved VAC 22-21 for property located at 927 East Rockwood Trail in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of utility easement. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Starr? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Starr?
 Jones yes Kenyon yes yes and Norris approved the AC 22-21 for property located at 927 East Rockwood trail in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of a utility easement any final comments from the council please call the roll
 Scroggins yes, but yes, sir. Yes, Ertzberg. Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones Yes, and yes, we do. Yes. Okay. Thank you all number four an ordinance to approve vacation 22-0 to Oh property located at 1070 North Marinoni Drive in Ward Ford to vacate a portion of a utility easement and
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds for portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes, now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 That the City Council or the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo. Section 2. A copy of this ordinance to be certified by the City Clerk, along with a map attached as Exhibit A to the Planning Department's Memo, shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. And Section 3. This vacation approval is subject to the following conditions. Number 1.
 Any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant developer's expense. Number two, this vacation shall have no effect on or vacate any easement containing existing Cox plant in the area. Section three, a 25-foot utility easement along the property's Futral Drive frontage shall be dedicated as requested by SWPCO
 number four a 20-foot utility easement along the properties West Weddington Drive frontage shall be dedicated as requested by SWEPCO and Lightning Sykes twice in a row we've got some changes to the conditions
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Williams. That is correct. This one, I will run through the full presentation, however, as I was a little bit more aware that this was approaching. This particular piece of property is in west central Fayetteville, just southeast of the Interstate 49 and Weddington interchange. It encompasses many, quite a bit of acreage south of the Cross Church and southeast of the Fitness One campus.
 The specific piece of property being considered tonight is an approximately 1.4 acre utility easement that bisects the property from Futual to the West to the subdivision Lancelot Avenue to the Northeast. In survey form, you can see the wider breadth of the property more clearly here with the utility easement shown in red.
 To date, we've received all the appropriate consent documents from the franchise utilities and are recommending approval. As Mr. Williams alluded to, in doing our due diligence with the applicant earlier this week, it became apparent that SWEPCO had perhaps preemptively requested some easements that would normally be associated with development further down the road, and in working with them, the applicant was able to get SWEPCO similar to the last item to revise their consent
 such that they are not requesting any easement dedication as a consent for this easement vacation. So what that looks like for amendment purposes is striking conditions number three and four of the ordinance as it was previously written. And I think Mr. Williams sent out a memo yesterday or the day before advising that this was forthcoming in providing the alternative language
 That said, with removal of conditions three and four, staff does recommend approval. All the utilities have consented to the request, and the remaining two conditions would remain, which includes, again, the standard damage relocation of any existing facilities that's at the developer property owner's expense, and the more specific condition that the Cox facility on the property remain untouched.
 with that I'm happy to take any questions and I think if counsel is amenable it's appropriate to begin by amending the ordinance as the applicant has proposed you want to strike three and four as a man I'm if we start thinking for and you know mayor if just from a grammatical point of view I'd rather have number two read Cox facility rather than Cox plant I'm not sure where
 where plant came from I know what they're talking about but that would be part of the amendment let's change the word plant into facility so we'll change the word what do you want to change it to kids facility yes yeah change plant to facility and then remove three and four I moved to amend condition two and strike condition three and four second yes second sorry okay care please call
 Scroggins yes no I will no I was wondering if they want I didn't ask him they wanted to discuss the amendment that's my Scroggins yes yes Kirk yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes yes okay John
 With that, Mayor, again, I'm happy to make myself available for questions. Apologies to have two otherwise simple ones be complicated for you all. And I have Connor Threat here, I believe, as the applicant for representative for the applicant. Yes, we do have the Huggies Court Board of Councils.
 Good evening, Council. Connor Therete on behalf of the applicant. Not much to add on this one other than as these get split off, we didn't want to make this utility easily drag on and have each parcel have to come back to the council and do this individually. So it was the simplest way to just get this done on the front end before any lot splits happen. And I'm here to answer any questions you all have. Thanks. All right. Do we have any questions from the council for the applicant or the staff? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have five minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any councilmen stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that who do you have on soon susan no one on zoom has raised their handmaid okay do we have one anyone in the chamber that wishes to speak on this topic
 okay i'll bring it back to the council what's the wishes the council move suspend rules and go to second reading second you have a motion second to go to the second reading care would you please call the road scroggin yes bunch yes yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes yes yes
 And Norris approved AC 22-20 for property located at 1070 North Maranoni Drive in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of the utility. Move to suspend the rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Care, would you please call the roll? Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whittaker. Yes. Yes.
 And norness will approve the AC 22-20 for property located at 1070 North Mariloni Drive in Ward 4 to vacate a portion of a utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Care which please call the roll. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turd. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, thank you all. Let's go to number five. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in the zoning petition RZN 22-041, located at 1453 South Route Lane in Ward 1, for approximately 2.50 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to RSF 1 Residential Single Family 1 Unit Prairie. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RSF1, Residential Single Family, one unit per acre. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Mr. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property takes us to Southwest Fayetteville.
 there we go in ward one uh as it's difficult to tell from the aerial image it's fairly disconnected from any public streets if it helps to orient you it's about 1 000 feet south of the new emergency services facility that's located on shiloh just south of mlk a little bit more broadly it's about 500 feet east of finger park which extends north from farmers to the north of there
 It's currently developed with one single family home, which you can see the rooftop of on the eastern portion of the property. And it's accessed by Route Lane, which is a private drive running up to the site. The request before the council tonight is to rezone it from RA, and as the applicant proposed it, to RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre.
 When considering the request from a land use standpoint, staff was somewhat conflicted on this. As you can see in the zoning map here, there are large swaths of residential single-family four-units breaker zoned land to the east, west, and south. However, this is fairly incongruous with how the area is developed or perhaps more accurately undeveloped.
 It is fully within the Hilltop Hillside Overlay District. It's almost entirely within Canopy. And ultimately staff found that on the balance of those considerations, the existing land use versus the potential land use, it's not a compatible request to resume it to RSF4. Similarly from a long range planning standpoint.
 We don't feel that the request to resign to RSF4 aligns with the future land use map for this area, which calls it out as a natural area. Our comprehensive plan envisions those as being either areas left undeveloped entirely or developed at a very low intensity and density.
 While RSF4 certainly is a low density zoning district, it does tend to be a fairly land-hungry one when it comes to development. And so we don't feel that it is responsive to our city planning goals of avoiding sprawl and observing sensitive areas like this. Thank you.
 From another issue standpoint, staff does have concerns about simply how the property is situated. It doesn't have direct frontage on a street. It doesn't have direct access to water or sewer. The nearest sewer is about 1,000 feet to the northeast. Water is about 750 feet to the northeast along Shiloh. It's a lot of water.
 We also, at the same time, feel that if it were to be rezoned, there are other metrics that may or standards that may protect it from inappropriate development. Because it doesn't have access to a street, any development on the property would be subject to a Board of Adjustment variance, which typically as a standard has
 a demonstration of hardship before a variance can be granted. And a hardship doesn't necessarily mean being able to maximize what you can develop with a property, but it generally means to allow the minimum amount of development that that property is entitled to under zoning. Lastly, as far as tree canopy goes, it's a wash for lack of a better word. Both the existing zoning district and RSF4 both require 25% canopy standard.
 Moving on to the recommendation, staff does not recommend in favor of the applicant's original request of RSF-4. As you may have noticed, Mr. Williams read the ordinance. What's before the council tonight is RSF-1.
 When the Planning Commission heard the request, they had similar concerns to staff. And in discussing the proposal with the applicant, there was indication that their interest was to just subdivide the property at least once. It was identified that RSF-1 represented a viable alternative that would minimize or allow a minimum amount of impact on the property and perhaps be more appropriate for its sensitive nature.
 Accordingly, the request was amended to RSF1 and forwarded to City Council. That was done unanimously by the Planning Commission. And to date, we've received no public comment on the item. I'm happy to take questions. And Justin Holt is the applicant for the item. Mayor, I'm not certain if he's present, though. Is the applicant online or what? Yes, sir, he is. Justin Holt. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Yes. Thank you.
 I want to thank you for your time and consideration. As was noted, this was on the agenda at the last meeting as RSF4. And I had, that was my mistake, but I requested at the time that it be reconsidered as RSF1. So, some of this is probably going to sound familiar. But I mentioned at that meeting that there,
 Previously was another house on this property just to the west of where the current house is situated. That area is graded. There is no tree cover. It's unforested. There's direct access to it from the existing private road. So I don't...
 I'm hoping there's no concerns there. I thought at the time, actually, I was mistaken. At the last meeting, I thought it had been approved, so I was kind of confused to see it appear again on the agenda tonight. So if there's any questions I can answer, I will do so. But I'll just sit and listen for the time being. Thank you. Okay. Does the council have any questions for the applicant or staff?
 Sonia, did you have anybody? No, I didn't. I haven't heard from anybody. Okay. DeAndre, what about you? No, I have not. Okay. All right. Do we have any questions from the council? Okay. Let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration.
 don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present the chamber will speak after that who do you have on zoom susan no one mayor okay uh who would like to address us that is in the chamber on this topic okay i'll bring it back to the council i'll discuss from the council like what's the wishes the council
 nobody got nothing to say or what we're going to do here well i think someone wants to suspend the rules and go to the second reading second all right we have the motion to second to go to the second reading care which please call the row scroggin yes fudge yes turk yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones yes canyon yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezoning petition RZN 22-41, located at 1453 South Route Lane in Ward 1 for approximately 2.5 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to our RSF 1 residential single family, one unit per acre. I guess my comment is that I feel like this is a reasonable zoning region, so that's my only comment.
 I will suspend the rolls and go to the third reading. Second. We have a motion. Second goes to the third and final reading. Sorry, Karen. Yes, please call the roll. Now I'm asleep. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Yes.
 In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-41, located at 1453 South Route Lane in Ward 1, for approximately two and a half acres from RA Residential Agriculture to RSF1 Residential Single Family, one unit per acre. Do we have any final comments from the council? Okay. Carol, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turr? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number six, an ordinance rezoning that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-042 located at the southwest corner of North Gregg Avenue and North Futrell Drive in Ward 2 for approximately 4.05 acres from
 C3 Central Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classifications properly shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from C3 Thoroughfare Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 Section 2. That the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas are hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This property is in north central Fayetteville, located within Ward 2. It is perhaps characterized as more or less being tucked into the corner between the North Fulbright Expressway, the railroad line to the east, beyond which is Gregg.
 It's west of the main Washington Regional Campus, maybe most familiar to the council recently for the railroad agreements that have been worked out in this area. This is the southern of those two agreements, which would make this property developable.
 It is an undeveloped site, and although it looks like the property is pretty covered entirely by canopy if you go back in aerial imagery to 2000, except for basically the black outline of the property where there's a fence row, it was kept clear up until that time.
 The request before council is to rezone it from its current C3 zoning district to UT Urban Thoroughfare. The main reason for this is as the overall property to the south and southwest develops, their desire is to have a consistent zoning district so it does not have to deal with potentially conflicting zoning standards from property to property.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible with both infrastructure and the potential development that can occur on the property to the south, which is, again, urban thoroughfare with direct access to Gregg Avenue, water, sewer, and the wider region's transportation network on the interstate.
 We feel this is a very appropriate place. Additionally, the C3 zoning district also has very high entitlements as well. If anything, the addition of the UT zoning district and its injection of lower intensity residential uses, single family homes, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes, allows for potentially lower intensity development on the property. So it may be considered a down zoning if you're wanting to characterize it in such a way.
 From a long-range planning standpoint, staff finds the request to be very consistent. Future land use map calls us out as an urban center area. On our future land use map, that is the highest designation in terms of density and intensity. It's exactly where we envisioned having our urban thoroughfare district applied. And in that sense, we find it appropriate.
 While the infill rating may not reflect that, I think that's more an indication of the wider area to the south and west not yet being developed, not seeing the amenities that you may expect as this part of Fayetteville begins to develop.
 Beyond this, in terms of other issues, staff has not identified any. There was one letter received prior to the Planning Commission in support of the request. Similar to the last item, the canopy requirement remains the same whether the property is developed under C3 or UT. It's both 15%.
 With those findings, staff is recommending in favor of the request. The Planning Commission felt similarly and boarded the City Council by unanimous vote. With that, I'm of course available for questions and I believe Tim Herndon is here as the applicant for the item either in person or online. Tim Herndon, I'd like to speak for the Council. Thank you, Councilpersons. I appreciate the opportunity. I don't have any comments and I'm glad to answer questions if you have them.
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff? Jonathan, can you give us like a bigger aerial view of that? Certainly, allow me one moment please. Council member Bunche, are you looking for an aerial image or zoning map? We'll start with aerial and go from there. I kind of like to visualize everything a little bit like, you know, bigger view and then
 can point in a little bit, yeah. So what you see in the turquoise triangle is the property in question, indicating the Washington Regional Main Campus to the east here. I think some may be familiar, this is the Black Walnut Grove that's on the Drake Farms property, which you can see running diagonal here, and of course the Fulbright I-49 interchange. Thank you. Certainly. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating in the Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and then those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, do you have anybody on Zoom? No, sir. No, you don't. Do we have anybody that would like to address us on this topic in the chamber?
 No? All right, then I shall bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council tonight? I move we suspend the rules and go to the next reading, second reading. Whatever that might be. Second. Second. Second reading. Can we please call the roll?
 Scroggin yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 22-42, located at the southwest corner of North Gregg Avenue and North Futrell Drive in Ward 2, for approximately 4 acres from C3 Central Commercial to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 or will we suspend the rules and go to the third final reading second we have a motion to second go to the third and final reading care would you please call the road scroggin yes bunch yes third yes herdsburg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes yes
 and ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 22-42 located at the southwest corner of north greg avenue and north futral drive in ward 2 for approximately four acres from c3 central commercial to ut urban thoroughfare okay any final comments from the council care which police call the road scroggins yes yes yes earthsburg yes rv yes jones
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Okay. I hope you enjoyed our meeting. It was terrific. Real fruit. Yes. Thank you, Greg. Come back and see us again. Thank you, Greg.
 Number seven, an ordinance resolved on the property described in zoning petition RZN 22-034 located at 113 East Davidson Street in Ward 2 for approximately 0.14 acres from RSF 4, residential single family, four units per acre to NSL Neighborhood Services Limited, KIPP.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zoning classification of the properties shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4, residential single-family, four units per acre, to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. And Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Jonathan. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. This property is located in central Fayetteville in Ward 2. It's about three lots east of College Avenue, south side of Davidson Street, just southeast of the Starlight Stadium. The property is developed with a, for all appearances, a commercial building fronting Davidson Street with a smaller residential building on the rear of the property to the south end of it.
 The request is to rezone the property from RSF4, residential single-family four units breaker, to NSL, neighborhood services limited.
 Staff finds the request to be compatible with surrounding land uses. From all indications, the property has been used non-residentially for at least two decades, and that's based on our business license records where we've had consistent renewals or business licenses for that long. And it's my understanding that it's an attorney's office, which is a pretty fair indication of what the Neighborhood Services Limited Zoning District allows on the non-residential side of the property.
 of activities. Similarly, under neighborhood services limited, residential uses are allowed as well on a smaller scale. It can develop with single two, three, and four family dwellings. It may be difficult to add more residential uses on the property, but staff would find it compatible anyways. This is very much a transitional location from College Avenue into the Washington Willow neighborhood.
 Looking at it through the lens of our long-range plans, staff found it to be a very consistent request. The property has a fairly high infill rating, access to all the typical infrastructure you'd expect to find in central Fayetteville, in addition to transit, close proximity to Washington Elementary and Wilson Park on the other side of College Avenue.
 That said, it is worth noting that we have received some public comment. I did share that with the council at agenda session. To date, that remains the only piece we've received. It came from an adjoining business owner who had concerns that rezoning this property may result in changes that would be disruptive to, I believe it's a particular therapy service that they offer to their clients.
 Otherwise, the biggest significant change outside of the land use entitlements is the canopy requirement would decline from 25 to 20% going from RSF4 to Neighborhood Services Limited.
 With those findings in mind, staff does recommend in favor of the request. The Planning Commission agreed with staff's findings, finding that the request would align the historic use of the property with a zoning designation that accommodates it moving into the future and afforded to the City Council unanimously. I'm available for any questions the Council has and I believe Navid Sammavanti is the applicant for the item. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor and the council members. I have no comment. If you have any questions for me, I'd be happy to ask them, answer them. Okay. Do we have any questions for the applicant or staff? Have you all heard any comments? No, sir. Okay. All right. Well, then let's take some public comment right now, or maybe a whole batch of it. Let's see. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? Nobody. Well, there you have it. Okay, now we know. All right, so what discussion would the council like to have? Will we suspend the roll to go to the second reading? Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Carol, would you please call the roll? Second.
 I think we skipped. Scroggin? Yes. No. Bunch? Yes. Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes.
 In order to rezone that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 22-34, located at 113 East Davidson Street in Ward 2 for approximately a seventh of an acre, from RSF 4 residential single family four units per acre to NSL, Neighborhood Services Limited. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Okay. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Jones yes, yes We'd occur yes in order to rezone that property described and reason only petition RZN 22-34 located at 113 East Davidson Street in Ward 2 for approximately seventh of an acre from RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NSL neighborhood services limited and
 What final comments do we have from the council? I was just you don't have anything mark. I saw your little light on. Sorry Yes, I did because I said we may have a whole batch of of the room we asked online But I don't think we asked of the room. Oh, okay. I thought I did but anyway Is there anybody would like to speak on this topic? And now there you have it
 okay did we vote okay care which please call the role scroggin yes punch yes kirk yes earthspark yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes whittaker yes
 Okay, number eight, an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition RZN 22-040 located at 2255 East Hunts Road in Ward 1 for approximately 1.16 acres from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family 4 units per acre to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Okay.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA Residential Agricultural and RSF4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to NSG Neighborhood Services General.
 And Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Oxhara hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. The property being considered is in southeast Fayetteville, located within Ward 1. It's about halfway between Happy Hollow Road to the west and crossover to the east or Highway 265, if you prefer. It's on the south side of the street, just east of the coffee shop, the Hip Cafe, if you're familiar with its location at the corner of Jerry Avenue and Huntsville Road.
 The property is currently developed with a single family home. That's the structure closest to Huntsville Road with a pair of accessory structures behind it. And that's all located on the portion of the property that's zoned RSF4, residential single family, four units per acre. With the balance of the property about the southern half or so, which you can see is somewhat cleared in this picture, remaining zoned RA, residential agricultural.
 The request from the applicant tonight is to rezone the full extent of the property from its split zoning of RSF4 and RA to NSL, Neighborhood Services General. The applicant has expressed the desire to potentially use or add a non-residential component to the property in addition to keeping some degree of residential use on site.
 When reviewing the request, planning staff first began with the question of land use compatibility. They felt like this was an appropriate location to rezone the property to Neighborhood Services General. Huntsville Road in this area is a mix of residential and non-residential uses. There's currently a mix of churches, offices between Happy Hollow and this property before transitioning to more intense use.
 commercial land uses just south of the intersection of 265 and Huntsville Road.
 Looking at it in a long-range plan angle, staff felt similarly that this request was consistent with City Plan 2040 and its goal of introducing the potential for mixed-use development. This would allow potential incremental increase in the possibility for mixed-use development closer towards the center of Fayetteville.
 Its infill rating of 5-6 suggests that anything beyond the Neighborhood Services General zoning district may not be appropriate, however. And I think that's the genesis of the request in this direction that planning staff offered the applicant. As far as other issues go, staff did not identify any. It is a change in canopy requirement though from 25 to 20% going from RSF4 to NSG.
 With those findings in mind, staff is recommending in favor of the request. To date we've not received any public comment. The applicant can speak to it more but when in speaking with them last week they did share that they had reached out to their neighbors which may be why that is.
 The Planning Commission also supported the request and forwarded it to City Council with a vote of 7-0. There was fairly limited discussion as a part of their hearing. I'm happy to take any questions. And John Broomfield, I believe, is here as the applicant on line for the item. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the Council? Yes, Mr. Broomfield is on.
 Hello, Council. Thank you for hearing my request tonight. I would just like to say that I spoke to a handful of the neighboring property owners, and they all told me that they wouldn't have any issue with this request. Otherwise, I don't have any other comments, and I'll be here to answer any questions that you have. Thank you. What questions does the Council have for the applicant or staff? Nothing. Okay. Okay.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic? Okay. All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Thank you.
 movie suspended rolls go to the second reading second Hey, we have a motion to say can go to the second read here. Would you please call the roll Scroggins? Yes, thanks Yes, sir. Yes Hertzberg. Yes Harvey yes Jones
 Yes. Canyon? Yes. We do, Kurt. Yes. In order to rezone that property as described in the Rezoning Petition RZN 22-40, located at 2255 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1, for approximately 1.16 acres from RA, Residential Agriculture, on RSF 4, residential single family, 4 units per acre, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 thank you mr burfield for reaching out to your neighbors i'm going to suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading second have a motion second to go to the third and final reading care would you please call the row scroggin yes yes turd yes herzberg yes harvey yes jones
 yes Kenyon yes we did here yes and nor is the reason that property described in rezoning petition RZ n 22-40 located at 2255 East Huntsville Road in Ward 1 for approximately 1.16 acres from our a residential agricultural and RSF for residential single-family four units per acre to NSG neighborhood services general you thought promise from the council
 Okay, Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Wiedeker? Yes. Okay, let's move along to number nine. An Ordinance to Resume that Property and Scribe and Resume Petition, RZN 22-043, located at 560 West Van Asch Drive.
 and Ward 2 for approximately 13.56 acres from R.A. Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Kip. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from R.A. Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 And section two, that the city council, the city of Fayetteville arcs are hereby amends official zoning map of the city of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in section one. Okay. Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Let me just a moment. Here we are. This property is located in North Fayetteville. It is in ward two at the northwest corner of Van Ash and Gregg. It's separated from Gregg by the railroad right of way that runs along the eastern boundary line of the property.
 It's currently developed with a concrete plant, which represents the majority of the property. That's a relatively level but generally impervious site as far as whether it's had gravel or concrete laid down on it. There's also a recycling facility in the building that you can see fronting Gregg Avenue.
 As was discussed at the agenda session, there is a protected stream that bisects the property from southwest to northeast, but I'll go into that here in a little bit.
 The other item worth noting on the property is it does have a little bit of an interesting jurisdictional history. This property was de-annexed from Johnson in 2010 and annexed into Fayetteville at that same time. And that's where its RA, Residential Agricultural Zoning District, comes from, as that is the default zoning that properties are given once annexed into Fayetteville.
 With that in mind, the request that the applicant submitted originally for this property was to rezone it to I-2 heavy industrial.
 The planning staff did not feel that this was a compatible request with the potential future land uses in this area. If you look to the east, south, and west of the property, they're all zoned for non-residential or residential uses, and staff has concern that some of the more intrusive and potentially noxious uses allowed in the IT zoning district would be incompatible.
 That said, it is with an acknowledgement that the property has been used as a concrete plant for well over two decades. Our records indicate that the mid-'90s is when the concrete plant began operating there.
 As far as our long-range plans go, staff did find the request to I-1 heavy industrial to be inconsistent. This is an area of Fayetteville that we anticipate having a wide mixture of uses but not industrial ones. It's intended to have commercial and residential uses that can be complementary to each other, hopefully developed in a mixed use pattern where they can be integrated between each other.
 That said, again, one of the big findings or questions that staff had was what weight to give the existing land use versus the potential zoning entitlements of the ITU zoning district. It was certainly a concern that staff had and ultimately found that the inconsistency with our long-range plans and the potential incompatibility with future land uses overweighed bringing the non-conformance into conformance.
 Other items include that the canopy requirement from RA to I-2 or the zoning district that you'll notice this was amended to would take it to 15%.
 And again, I alluded to an on-site protected stream when I began the presentation. Council Member Turk had requested an exhibit to show more clearly where that is. This is a snip from that. Fortunately, you benefit from the earlier request tonight, so this doesn't look too foreign to you. The purple you see snaking through the property is the general route of the stream itself, with the light blue beyond that being the waterside zone of our streamside protection standards, and the red beyond that being the...
 the management zone and then any green beyond that area is estimated to have sufficient slope as to dictate heightened or widened streamside protection standards.
 All that said, staff, and perhaps unsurprisingly given my comments, staff did recommend a denial of the applicant's original request to I-2 heavy industrial. The applicant was responsive to this and amended their request to UT Urban Thoroughfare, a zoning district that allows a mixture of uses from single family homes up to multifamily and a wide panoply of non-residential uses that complement those residential uses.
 The Planning Commission felt that this was an appropriate amendment, accepted it, and forwarded the request to City Council unanimously by a vote of 7-0. Similar to staff's conversation, there was some deliberation on wanting the nonconformance to have the reasonable ability to remain as long as it's appropriate. But for longer-term purposes, there was an interest in seeing this area not developed industrially. And again, it seemed as though the applicant understood that in amending their request.
 And so far today, we've not received any public comment on the item. I'm happy to take questions. And I believe Robert Rhodes is here in person as the applicant or the applicant's representative. Okay. With that, I'd like to speak before the council.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. My name is Robert Rhodes. I'm with the law firm of Hall Estill. And to add to Mr. Curtis' recitation of the facts, I would tell you that the reason we asked for the industrial zoning request was because we have a tenant that is wanting to do the recycling in that portion that Jonathan pointed out earlier.
 We've had recycling in there ever since it was annexed originally into Fayetteville, back when the mayor and I were both on city council, we annexed that.
 I'm not sure why we have that. Just as a side note, why we have a default for RA when something is obviously industrial, but we do. Maybe that's something we could change going down the road. I know my client asked me that question and I said, man, I don't have an answer.
 You know, when we came into the city, everything would be the same. And that, you know, if I'm doing an industrial function, it would be zoned that. Didn't have an answer for him. Nonetheless, to move forward with where we are today.
 We wanted to do the industrial because the recycling company that had been there left and moved their business to Rogers. We got a new tenant in there that was going to do the same exact recycling. As a matter of fact, the manager of the old company is the owner of this new company. Unfortunately, six months had lapsed.
 and therefore the business license had lapsed. And so the city told us, rightfully so, that you have to ask for a rezoning. And so the rezoning we wanted would allow recycling by right. And that was why we originally asked for that. Well, reading the room, we then quickly changed and said, okay, we'll do the UT. And here we are. So what I would ask of y'all
 in light of the fact that there's been no public comment, in light of the fact that this business has been here for 20 plus years, I would ask you all to suspend the rules and allow this tenant who has been kind of strapped for cash to hopefully get
 down the road a little bit quicker. And if you could pass this tonight, number one, I want you to support it, even if it takes three readings and three meetings. I hope you support it. But if you can, I would ask you to do it tonight. And that will allow me to then quickly file for a CUP and again get this tenant where he can start, um, um, start his business because he can't do it until the CUP's passed.
 Obviously when the CUP is requested, that will not be for the entire area. It will be for just the recycling portion of this property. Again, the concrete plant is there by a grandfathering right. With that, I'll quit talking and take any questions that you might have or I'll sit down and shut up, whatever you want.
 It's been a long night, I know. I believe that was when we were trying to get the annexation from Johnson.
 That is true. He was actually the mayor at that time, not on the council. I'm sorry, Mayor. I kind of disloated it for you though, the first time. Actually, Robert, you just explained to the city council why we bring stuff in as RA. Because sometimes when we have annexed, like we did in this particular case, we have something that probably long term we really don't want to stay there as it is.
 and that gives the city council the opportunity now you get to continue your business as a non-conforming use as long as you don't have a six-month break you got a six-month break
 then those were out those were out of the windows if we didn't bring it in as ra and if we brought it in as you were doing it and then the city would have very little power to ever uh have something else there and this is a very important corner the mayor was very insistent that we would have this corner of van ash and greg and even though you can continue operating there and i understand why toon likes to be there with the railroad and everything it makes a lot of sense
 but eventually that might be too valuable of land when it can be developed commercially, and so that's why we wanted it to be developed
 within our jurisdiction, Fayetteville's jurisdiction, not Johnson's, and also why we always bring in land as RA. So if there is some sort of use on that land, we don't stop it, but it gives us an opportunity in the future to look at rezoning it and
 When that use goes away, and that gives the city council the right then to look at what should be there, as opposed to just leaving it like we found it. So that's why we always have it zoned RA. Thank you, Kip. Any questions? Again, now you're a little bit closer. If you pass that UT, you'll be a little bit closer to where you want to go, Mayor. Any questions for me? Okay.
 I got a question for Jonathan. So if we go the UT, the recycling part will still have to come back for a condition-reduced permit. Is that correct? To the Planning Commission, that's correct. Okay. And the industrial, they wouldn't?
 the industrial as it is today there are provisions in our ordinance that it can continue as is i think mr williams referenced unless it ceases operations for more than six months there are allowances for non-conforming uses to change to comparable non-conforming uses with planning commission consideration but the use cannot be expanded from what it is today okay and i guess i i too they would be allowed
 I write, yes. Okay. Well, I don't want to I too, but I just wanted to clarify what we're voting on. So I think UT makes sense there. Any other questions? No? All right. Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. Those present in the chamber speak after that.
 Who do we have on Zoom, Susan? Nobody, Mayor. Okay. Is there anybody in the chamber that would like to address us on this topic? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. What's the council members from the ward? Have you heard anything? Not a thing. Not a thing. Not a thing. I'm familiar with the cement plant. It seems to me like it's been there forever. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. A long time.
 i maybe suspend the rules and go to the second read the second all right care which please call the rock scroggin yes bench yes her yes herzberg yes barbie yes jones
 Yes. Canyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 22-43, located at 560 West Van Ness Drive in Ward 2 for approximately 13 12 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Carriage, please call the roll.
 Scroggin? Yes. Funch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erdsberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe the rezoning petition RZN 22-43 located at 560 West Van Ness Drive in Ward 2 for approximately 13.5 acres from RA Residential Agricultural to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Any final comments from the council?
 Nope. Okay. Kara, would you please call her up? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Let's go on to number 10. Thank you.
 ordinance to approve vacation 22-010 for property located at 2015 South Vale Avenue in Ward 1. Vacate a portion of an alley right away. Kip.
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined the following described portion of an alley right-of-way is not required for transportation purposes. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council to the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby vacates the portion of an alley right of way as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. In Section 2, that a copy of this ordinance to be certified by the City Clerk along with a map attached to Exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the Office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk
 And Section 3, that this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any relocation of or damage to existing utilities or existing facilities shall be at the owner-developer's expense. Jonathan. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us back to South Fayetteville. We're in Ward 1, one lot northeast of the intersection of Razorback and Cato Springs. The Council may recall this property as one that was zoned from CS to NSG, back to CS recently. It was also similarly considered a little bit further back for a request to vacate all the right-of-ways that bisect the property, which you can see here in yellow.
 There was an extension of Hendon Street, which would run from Razorback to Vail, and also a 10-foot alley that extended north from that.
 That request did not receive favorable consideration, and so the applicant moved forward with development plans without vacating Hendon and has actually incorporated building that street into their development proposal. But given the alley is a dead end alley that does not connect to the properties to the north, which that right-of-way was vacated some time ago, they've come back requesting that this one piece of right-of-way totaling 0.03 acres be vacated.
 When considering this request, similar to the earlier right-of-way vacation, there's always a question of future connectivity and the public interest. Staff feels that this alley or the potential for there to be an alley here no longer serves a public interest. Again, that right-of-way to the north to which it formerly connected was vacated in 2005. So this represents a dead-end piece of alley, which does not pose an opportunity necessarily, certainly not for development of this property.
 Additionally, there was some question at the Planning Commission about being able to gain the adjacent property owner's consent, which is required anytime right away is vacated. All property owners that can use it must consent to it. However, the applicant was able to garner that between the Planning Commission and City Council. So, we do have those consent papers on hand. Additionally, we have the typical utility consent documents as well, and they are not posed any opposition to the request.
 So staff is recommending in favor of the proposal. The Planning Commission felt similarly with no comment and forwarded the request by a vote of 7-0 to the City Council. Will Kellstrom is here as the applicant for this item and I'm available for questions. Thank you. Will the applicant like to speak for the Council?
 all right will kelstrom here on behalf of the applicant uh i think jonathan did a great job of explaining this so in the interest of time i'm going to spare you all a speech and hope you like it as much as my last vacation thank you okay what questions do we have for the applicant or staff from the city council okay well let's take some public comment
 everybody has one turn to speak you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on top please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those president chamber will speak after that susan who do you have on zoom nobody mayor okay is there anybody in the chamber that would like to address on this topic yeah well i've narrowed it down to what you're all here for um
 So what's the wishes of the council? I would move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whittaker? Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 22-10 for property located at 2015 South Vale Avenue in Ward 1 to vacate a portion of an alley right away. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll.
 scroggin yes bunch yes kirk yes herdsburg yes harvey yes jones yes kenyon yes yes and norris approved vac 22-10 for property located at 2015 southdale avenue and ward 1 to vacate a portion of an alley right-of-way any final comments from the council here which please
 Scroggins yes bench yes sir yes Ertzberg yes RV yes Jones yes Kenyon yes yes okay number 11 resolution to grant the appeal of council members Sarah Bunch Teresa Turt Sloan-Scroggins to deny conditional use permit CUP
 2022-039 for a cluster housing development for property located at 2992 North Oak Paley Drive in Ward 3 and to deny a variance to 164.22D of the Unified Development Code to exceed the maximum number of dwelling units permitted. I guess we will start with
 With you, Jonathan. Certainly, I'm happy to take it. I have a presentation prepared. All right. This property is located in northeast Fayetteville. It's in Ward 3. It's basically one lot removed from the intersection of Oak Bailey, which is just to the west of the property, and Old Wire Road to the south. It is currently zoned RSF4, Residential Single Family Four Units Breaker, and includes about 2.67 acres of land.
 This lot was planted in 2020 as part of the Park Commons subdivision. This constitutes lot eight of that subdivision, which at this point is developed just with a pair of accessory structures with those who attended the tour probably saw them, and canopies scattered around the perimeter of the property and some closer to the middle of it as well.
 The request before the council is to appeal a conditional use permit granted by the city or by the planning commission for a cluster housing development on lot eight of Park Commons. As proposed, it includes 19 units that would have access to the property from Oak Bailey Drive, although the lot itself would have frontage for zoning purposes on the old wire road, which you can see on the lower right hand corner of the picture.
 Per the cluster housing ordinance, there are requirements for having shared open spaces. The applicant proposes to meet that, as you can see, towards the middle of the drawing and that island which all the units would be facing.
 And with concern for parking allowances or adequate parking provision, the applicant has chosen to choose the greater of the two parking requirements of a cluster housing development and provide spaces by the bedroom rather than just two spaces per unit.
 The proposal as submitted is to utilize the existing detention pond, again, which you can see in the lower right-hand corner of the picture with, I guess, more of a turquoise color. When it comes through for detailed development review at that time, the pond will be evaluated for capacity, although it was certainly overbuilt for the houses that have been built along Old Wire and Oak Bailey to date.
 When it comes to the home designs, cluster houses are required, they have a high standard for variability or variety in their design. These are some examples of what are proposed with the request. Generally they're three bedroom, two bath houses around 1500 to 1800 square feet, although I'm sure the applicant can give more specific details as it's needed.
 When it comes to the appeal itself, the City Council is sitting as the Planning Commission. There are a few prominent findings that the Planning Commission makes when they consider conditional use permits, the most prominent of which is a question of land use compatibility. Does the proposal, is it compatible with the surrounding land uses?
 Additionally, with conditional use permits, there are often use-specific standards that are evaluated by staff. Depending on the type of proposal, sometimes we get very high-level details at a conditional use permit, such as with a cell tower.
 When it comes to large developments like what's before the council tonight, they tend to be much more conceptual in nature and staff evaluates what they have in front of them. It also acknowledges that some of the details would need to be considered with what would come through as a large-scale development or a site improvement plan.
 Other considerations include traffic safety, which is something Council sees on almost every item they see, and that carries through with the Planning Commission as well. Additionally, there are some heightened standards that the Planning Commission can apply to projects like heightened parking, more stringent trash and recycling requirements, screening requirements. Okay.
 And with that in mind, the city council tonight has the opportunity to confirm, amend, or deny the request. What that looks like for you is approving the appeal would effectively deny the request. Denying the appeal would effectively confirm the request. And, of course, there's shades of green between if the council chose to approve the request with some manner of amendment. Thank you.
 When it comes to the request itself, or the appeal itself, there were several items that were listed as grounds for it. And of course, I'll let the council or others speak in more detail to those, but I'll try to hit them on a very high level.
 One of the first items was a charge that a variance requested did not have an appropriate basis. That variance in particular is the request for 19 units and a cluster housing development. Ordinance only allows 12 per cluster housing development. The applicant's rationale for that is that they could, with the two...
 points on the property when where it touches old wide road with street frontage and where it accesses oak bailey with its driveway Could theoretically split this project into Two cluster housing developments not require a variance, but there's concern that that may compromise the design and the open space design specifically of the project if they were to do that And that their rationale is that it makes for a better overall project and design To allow the units to be developed as a whole rather than two separate pieces
 When it comes to frontage, there was some assertion that the property does not have adequate frontage and thereby doesn't meet zoning code. It's a misconception that a property's frontage for zoning code purposes has to be its access point. It's very common in the city for properties to have alternative access points that aren't on their property. Whether it's a tandem lot that has an access easement, whether it's an apartment complex that accesses through another piece of property, or whether you're in an older part of town
 property is accessed by alley right away as opposed to a public street. So staff has found that there is adequate frontage and the lot eight does meet the zoning standards and that is how it was able to be platted as a part of the park common subdivision. Another concern was that there would be no internal sidewalks with the proposal. At this point at a conceptual level, I don't believe that that's been evaluated for certain if there is going to be sidewalk or not. I think the applicant may be able to touch on that greater than staff would be.
 When it comes to compatibility, again, one of the larger considerations that the Planning Commission has, staff ultimately did find that this was a compatible request. It's single-family homes near single-family homes. I understand that the neighbor who takes exception to this approval has concerns about the size of the homes in particular and that they may not reflect what is being requested.
 proposed with this project. Generally the size of the homes in the area is larger than the 15 to I believe 1,800 square foot units being proposed on this project. So there was some concern about that and I think with the implication being negative effects on property values.
 When it comes to use specific details, I think the neighbor also took exception to not having a full development proposal to consider as a part of this. Again with conditional use permits, often projects are still at a conceptual level and don't have full detail with the expectation that when you submit for development review that's provided at that time. And the question at the conditional use permit point is, is this a compatible request?
 So with all that in mind, and as a quick summary for those who were not able to attend the tour or who were able but did not get their questions answered, again, there was a question of access that we spoke about. There is an access easement that was plotted with the Park Commons subdivision to serve lot 8. So that is legally assured. It's not something that's in the air.
 Another question was simply the number of units allowed by ordinance. I did want to make sure I hit on that a moment ago, but 12 is the by-right allowance for units and 19 is the exception that the applicant has asked for.
 Now there's a question about soils on the property, whether there was some concern about their appropriateness for development. I think one of the foresters fielded that on my behalf and said that there weren't any issues. I was able to verify today that there are not hydric soils on this property, which are usually one of the more concerning indicators of inappropriate land to be developed upon. And then lastly, there was a request for an exhibit or demonstration of what the topography looks like on the property.
 For those who are not able to visit, as you enter the property on Oak Bailey, it steadily slopes eastward towards the eastern boundary of the property. What that looks like in slope percentage terms is about an 8% slope if you take the entire length of the property as you cross it.
 But it is notable that there are portions of the property that do have greater slope, particularly as you get to the southern portion that leads to the backyards of the other homes developed with the Park Commons subdivision and towards the detention pond itself, which is the main driver of why the detention pond was located where it is.
 With all that in mind, staff, when reviewing all those items, they did feel that this was a compatible request and did recommend in favor of the proposal at the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission did discuss it at length, including the potential benefits of having two cluster developments versus one and how that factored into their support of a variance approval and ultimately felt that there wasn't a measurable improvement in splitting them off simply to meet ordinance requirements.
 and they approved the conditional use permit by vote of six to one. The dissenting vote, and some who also supported it, did have questions about the appropriateness of this location as an infill spot. It was a point of discussion, but it ultimately served to be the driver in only one dissenting vote overall. As you would expect with an appeal, there was some public comment. Jonathan, I think your time is up.
 is that right susan i'd like to give jonathan some more time 30 seconds excellent thank you i just need about 30 seconds i was going to characterize some of the public comment i think you're familiar with it if you read the appeal i think that is a fair synopsis of what staff heard in the lead up to the planning commission and at the planning commission itself there is quite a bit of concern about compatibility uh and traffic in particular
 but I do believe the appellant has written a very thorough letter and if you had a chance to read that, probably does it more service than I possibly could. And with that, I'm happy to take questions. There are several members of the applicant team here.
 including Brian Teagan I believe Mike Parker and Jeff Martin I'm not sure which of them may be interested in speaking for it but they do understand that there's a 10-minute limit there's 10-minute limit so just keep that in mind but the applicant like speak for with council yes mayor Thank You City Council mayor I do have a presentation some slides that I would like to speak to if that is okay well you have 10 minutes
 I apologize, Mayor. I had it pulled up at the beginning of all my presentations. If you can give me 30 seconds, I'll get it pulled up again. I'll go ahead and get started. I'm Brian Teague with Community by Design. I'm representing the property owner and the developers. The appeal letter highlighted, I think,
 three different general items. It called into question the compatibility of our proposal. It called into question the variance that Jonathan just spoke to. It called into question a number of different development related items. We do have a large-scale development application that we're currently navigating the process on right now.
 I will do my best to answer those questions that the appeal letter raised, but I did want to give you just a little bit of previous context on this property. The slide that you see
 shows the property in 2018. There were five buildings on the property. There were one single family home and four larger outbuildings. Also there was a larger than usual driveway. Jonathan, if you could flip the slide. Do you think I can take your...
 This is this is in Jonathan mentioned the Park Commons subdivision that went through the process in 2019 20 and 21 and lot 8 which is the subject parcel is was an out parcel in in that subdivision with that subdivision there were a number of different water lines sewer lines there was a detention pond a
 constructed in the southwest corner of the property, which the subject property drains to. It was designed to accommodate development on the subject property at a rate of eight houses per acre. But all that to say that this property has seen a significant amount of development before today. Flip the slide, Jonathan.
 This is the concept plan or master development plan that the Planning Commission approved with the conditional use permit. Jonathan kind of already gave you the rundown at 19 homes, kind of average 1,650 square feet, three bedrooms, two baths. The parking, most of the parking is at the rear of the homes. The homes all have a front porch. They have a...
 a private courtyard or patio space. I think the primary design feature though is the central green space that we created that all of these houses orient around. And that's by design via the cluster development ordinance. Slide, Jonathan.
 Just a sampling of some of the homes. This is our prow house. It's Ozark vernacular typology. All of these houses are brick. The next slide shows the floor plan. It's two bed up, Jack and Jill bathroom, master bed and bathroom down. The next slide shows our bent house. You see the large front porch.
 The floor plan on the next slide, same thing, two bedrooms up, Jack and Jill bathroom, master bath down, master bed down. The kitchen or living area is kind of oriented towards the private courtyard space just to encourage that interaction and hopefully that courtyard will function as an outdoor room. If you'll notice on the back wing of that floor plan,
 We could, if we wanted to, in that same footprint, we could add a fourth bedroom and another bathroom and it would increase the size of those homes up to 2,000 square feet.
 In the appeal letter, it mentioned that the average size of the homes in the neighborhood was 2,000 square feet, three bedrooms, two baths. There are, I should mention, more than just single-family homes in the neighborhood. There is a number, there's some duplexes, there's threeplexes, there's fourplexes in the neighborhood.
 If we were to make the houses larger though, it would make them more expensive. We think we have a sweet spot at $1650. There's a high demand for those homes right now.
 But all that to say, I mean, our single family homes are compatible with the predominantly single family home neighborhood. Next slide, Jonathan.
 I just got, like I said, we're working through the large scale development process. We're getting more detail every day. I just got these renderings this morning just to try to give you a visual of the scale of the space that we're creating, the scale of the homes. And I'll use this as an opportunity to mention
 I think it would be, you know, two months ago, a month ago, we didn't have this information. I think it would be good for the neighbors to see this. If the council was comfortable doing so.
 We could table this item to sometime in November, November 15th. That would give us a month to meet with the neighbors and try to get them more comfortable with our proposal. Now that we have some materials, I think that you could help, would really help them to visualize these spaces. Next slide, Jonathan.
 With this, you can just envision, I think, the scale of the space, the scale of the homes. Next slide is just an image of our central green space. Next slide is
 These are one and a half story homes. They are 1,650 square feet. They're modest homes, but we plan for them to be very sharp homes that are gonna be an improvement to the neighborhood. Next slide, Jonathan. At the tour, there were a lot of questions about tree preservation on the property.
 we intend to meet the requirements of the
 of the tree preservation ordinance. This is the landscape plan slash tree preservation plan. We, in our central green space, we have a significant maple tree that we're proposing to preserve, a large cedar tree in that space. On the north property line, there are two large maple trees, there's a significant oak tree.
 There's more tree preservation on the east property line and then there's a significant couple of oak trees in the southwest corner that we're proposing to preserve. Next slide, Jonathan. So this slide shows in regards to the variance that came into question.
 This slide shows a proposal if we had to, we could do this as two cluster developments. Essentially, you see the street frontage on Old Wire and potentially an east cluster development with eight homes and then on Oak Bailey, there is street frontage for potentially a west cluster development with 11 homes. Next slide, Jonathan.
 I will not go into this in detail unless the council requests it. Time. Okay. I have some other information that I would really like to present if the council would give me the time. I would like to go ahead. How much longer do you think you would need, Brian? Give me four minutes. Can you do it in two? I will try. Okay.
 So basically this this falling short of the council, you know, denying the planning commission approval. The appeal letter gave a list of conditions which were mostly development related items that we should have no problem meeting those conditions. I won't go through them in detail unless somebody requests it.
 The next few slides talk about we have projections for a million people moving to Fayetteville by 2050. Our population is going to double. Next slide. It's 140,000 houses projected. If those develop at four units per acre, that's 52 square miles of land. Next slide, Jonathan.
 Let's skip that one and let's go on and skip that one and go to the next one. And I would recommend that you, that the City Council take a look at this document from the EPA that talks about protecting water resources with higher density development. And essentially went in
 and analyzed one house per acre if you develop one house per acre for an 8 houses per acre in the findings are that 8 houses per age per acre are much better it's much better for for for water resources for water quality simply because you're you're more compact with that development you're preserving much more land when you consider
 we have a million people coming in 2050 i mean that that will play play a big role um i had some had some other items next slide that i wanted to talk a little bit about the sustainable place then diagram i talked about environmental sustainability i think there are also economic considerations developing at two or two to three units per acre um is the value that that creates
 Will that pay for the maintenance of the infrastructure in 20, 30, 40 years? And I think there are a lot of studies out there that says that it won't. Seven units per acre creates two to three times the value to pay for the infrastructure. Social sustainability, I won't talk about that one. Time. Okay, thank you. Okay, now let the council members then.
 brought to the appeal speak. Sloan, you want to go first? Yeah, I can go ahead and go first. I had...
 A resident around the neighborhood asked that I appeal this. I think it's important that we give it a second look. I'm glad we did a tour. We looked at what's going on there. I'll save my comments for the actual development a little bit later.
 Yes, Mr. Mayor, I had a citizen also approach me about appealing this and I was asked to consider some of the things that are listed in here and we talked about them and I felt like it had merit to listen to the citizens and entertain their appeal.
 But again, I haven't made my mind up yet. I want to hear what everybody has to say and I've been out and looked at the side and everything. But I think it does have merit to appeal. Thank you. Okay. Tracy. In general, I always like to be able to give folks the opportunity to appeal. So I was approached. We had a tour. I thought it was very interesting and this merited our consideration. Okay.
 All right. All right. Is there any questions from the council members to the applicant or the staff before I get into public comment? Anything, Mark? Okay. All right. Now we'll take public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members.
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? I have Allison McCamer or McCamer or Machamer. Okay, go ahead. Yes, this is Allison Machamer. I'm at 2980 North Oak Bailey Drive. I live at the house immediately adjacent to the access road on North Oak Bailey. Okay.
 with my family, and I'd like to share our family's concerns about the development that's gonna be coming immediately behind us and next door to us. We've been aware since we purchased this property in 2020 that there was gonna be development back there, right? We walked the property with Mr. Parker. We looked at the plat maps. Obviously the houses that are now on old wire weren't there either, and they've been built and they're beautiful homes,
 So, what we expected back there were eight or nine single-family homes. Our biggest concern, honestly, is the sheer density of what's being proposed back there. It's being proposed to be built in a large private circle driveway with on-street parking without, you know, covered parking for the homes, without significant...
 I'm still not seeing it on the diagram. I would like to hear more from the developers about the plans for that. The concern for that being, you know, these are going to be single-family homes based on the proposal. How are the kids going to get out of Vonda Oak Bailey to get on the bus to go to school, right? How is that going to be handled safely? What we talked about at the planning commission meeting was that the street is going to be shared with pedestrians. And so, I think that's a big concern.
 It's going to be shared with on-street parking. It's going to be shared with delivery vehicles. It's going to be shared with emergency vehicles. You know, it's going to be two-way traffic on that street. You know, it's concerning from a safety perspective.
 And everything that I'm hearing about, you know, this being a dense and walkable community, it's not walkable if it's not planned to have sidewalks. And let's be honest, our services and our grocery stores are over a mile away. We don't have a bus route that's over a mile away up on Joyce. So this is not a walkable, safe situation. That's not a good setup for a Gloucester housing unit.
 So, you know, those are the primary concerns and putting an additional 57 cars back there with the traffic. You know, Old Wire is already a mess, a rush hour. We just had another accident there at Old Wire in Oak Bailey on September 15th. I watched it while my son was getting on the bus. So you know, it's definitely concerning. Thank you. Okay. Who else do you have, Susan? Dana Hyatt. Okay, go ahead.
 Thank you very much. Dana Hyatt, 2972 North Oak, Bailey Drive, living right next door to Allison, who just spoke. And I purchased this home when it was under construction last June and closed in January. I'm an Arkansas native, but moved back to this opposite corner of the state in March.
 and appreciate everything about being back here, and particularly the views in this neighborhood. Allison mentioned that they were aware and had lots of information when they bought their home two years ago from the same contractor of the potential development. Regretfully, I had none. And so it was only after I moved in that I became aware of
 What I saw, I see now is the access next to their home. Not only now do I understand that that's intended to be basically a road right next door to both of our homes.
 And so my primary concern really speaks to the congestion and the traffic that she spoke to, the increased traffic not only on Oak Bailey, which is already busy. I work from home and sit in my office and watch the bus stop daily.
 and watch the children navigate the cross streets already. And so I do think about everything that she just mentioned about additional traffic and children and numbers of various vehicles going by and around. Again, the density of the area. I lived in a similar sort of town home community, a gated community in Dallas.
 but I'm not seeing, as she was mentioning, either the sidewalk and the kind of situation that really made it a separate area
 kind of entity acceptable for numbers of multi-type residents. So between the tree loss, the traffic, the density, and what appears to those of us as homeowners as a lack of compatibility, I think yes, physically they present very well in terms of street appeal from the drawings that we see.
 You know, they're not the homes that I think we've invested in terms of, I don't know how to describe it, I guess perhaps just, you know, the larger homes. So there, because I don't think I have anything you need to bring and you've already heard or that other neighbors may bring, I just wanted a chance to voice that concern. And I thank you. Thank you.
 who else do you have no one else on zoom mayor okay who would like to address us in the chamber come on thank you mr mayor and council members right thanks for the hint right it's thanks for the opportunity of speaking to you this late at night and i want to applaud all of you all for your stamina
 I'm Dr. Mary Beth Sayre. I live at 2983 North Old Wire Road. My property is immediately adjacent to the property we're talking about and
 i want to explain to you that i and my neighbors are very concerned about the request for an increase in density it's currently zoned for 10 houses they were requesting 19. this is doubling the density all of the surrounding neighborhoods have
 the density of four units per acre, this would double that. Doubling the density means that we're going to have double the traffic problems, double the safety problems, and
 Particularly, we are concerned about water runoff. That's assuming that at some point in the future, we have some rain and maybe even some storms. We certainly had them last fall and winter. And this property that we're talking about is the high ground. So all of us that surround this property have had runoff problems from that property
 when it has just trees and no other houses on it.
 And these are all the houses on Old Wire, Oak Bailey, Warwick, and that little circle of houses off of Warwick, and I can't remember the name of the circle, but all of the properties surrounding this will have increased runoff problems. And if we double the density, there will be double the problems of runoff and possibly sewer.
 Developers have said that this will fit into the neighborhood. Well, it doesn't fit into the neighborhood. The houses are smaller and have no yards. And that means there's a lot more pavement, which is going to increase the runoff problem.
 They are saving some trees. One of the things that we would like to ask for is a shielding barrier of trees around the entire perimeter of the property. And even though there were new slides tonight, they did not show that shielding perimeter of trees around the entire property.
 I would also mention that there is discussion about frontage on O'Hare Road. All of the frontage for this property on O'Hare Road is already used by the Retainment Basin for water.
 that is used by the Park Commons houses and as you heard, it is going to be used by this development, whether it be 10 houses or 19. And so there is no access
 for vehicles from old wire road onto this property at all. There might be access for a sidewalk to get down to old wire road, but there is no sidewalk there now other than in front of the houses
 that have just been built at Park Commons. So we would urge that one of the requirements be that there be a sidewalk from Oak Bailey to Crossover so that the people who will buy in this development as well as the existing neighbors would have a way to walk to the trail
 currently if you start at the oak bailey entrance to this property you have to walk a court down oak bailey down warwick and it's half more than half a mile to access the trail and
 And of course, after you've walked on the trail, you're coming back uphill more than half a mile, whereas if there were a sidewalk from Oak Bailey and there's sidewalk already in front of our houses and going all the way to Crossover, that would improve things. Time, time. Okay. So we urge you to deny the variance. Who else would like to address this?
 Hi, I'm Sherry Carden. I live at 2913 North Old Wire Road. I've lived there for 46 years. My property is adjacent to the property you're talking about. And two of my biggest concerns
 because we've already had problems, is the runoff, the water runoff, as well as the sewer pressure. It would come downhill into my yard. When I look out my kitchen window, I am eye level with where the sewer is flowing.
 and where the water comes down. And, you know, I can't even begin to imagine what 19 more houses up there would do. I mean, I can't believe it. So that is two of my biggest concerns. The other concern is that Oak Bailey Lane is just a little tiny...
 to, you know, it's a little street. That's all it is. How you're going to get 19 houses and all the people in it and get them out onto old wire, whether they're going, you know, east or west, it doesn't matter. I don't know how they're going to do it.
 I couldn't get out of my driveway to go pick my son up tonight. And it took 15 minutes just for me to turn right and go west out of my driveway because of the traffic. You're talking about from crossover all the way to Azalea. It was solid, bumper to bumper traffic.
 How are we going to, what are we going to do about Oak Bailey? Where are they going to go? I mean, it just doesn't make any sense to me. I'm definitely against it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Hey, good evening. My name is Max Parker. I'm at 1680 East Shadow Ridge, Mount Sequoia. I'm one of the developers.
 I'm very proud of this subdivision concept and excited about working with the city to meet all your regulations. This group of folks that have come together to put this project together are all very experienced. And our intent is to build a high quality product that's affordable and something that the city's proud of and that we're proud of.
 I've been in Fayetteville since the early 60s and not interested in building something that I can't drive by and feel really good about. People have talked about the house sizes, the drainage. The house sizes are, you know, we're trying to make it affordable. If we build mega mansions in there, it's not going to work. If you build, I'm on Mount Sequoia, it was built in the 60s, so the lots are big, the houses are big.
 It was probably great in the 60s to do that when the house probably sold for $12,000. I don't know, but it's hard to do that now. So we're really working hard to come up with good quality, affordable. I think it's interesting on the board, I appreciate your guiding values. It starts with appropriate infill and a traditional town form, opportunities for attainable housing, I feel like we're checking the boxes on a lot of those.
 At least that's my interpretation of where it wanted to go. I remember it was probably 1999 or 2000 the city brought in, I think it was called Village Concepts or something like that. And I came up and bought the three DVD set so I could learn more about it. You know, I've always been interested in that kind of concept and that's what we're trying to do here.
 Charleston place is another subdivision that I really like that and in my mind that's similar What we're going for if you if you were looking for something to visualize I appreciate all the neighbors concerns and it's On line everybody to have an opportunity to say what they feel like could be better What their concerns are so that we have the opportunity to address those with the city. It'll take a
 It takes all of us to put it together and to make it work. And I know that you'll be looking to build quality project and so are we. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 All right. Hello, everybody. Thank you for staying late and hearing us out here tonight. My name is Erica Matthews. I live with my husband at 3053 North Quainton Court. So we're kind of in the little loop, the little cul-de-sac that's impacted by this development. We're back right up to this thing and we're on the slope.
 So first I kind of wanted to discuss a little bit about the presentation that was given to us tonight that discussed sort of the, for the good of the environment, right? Is it good to do the cluster housing because Fayetteville is going to continue to grow and as such the cluster housing has got to be a good thing because we've got more homes for more people in a more dense area so we can conserve land and conserve water.
 But the issue with that, at least in my view, is that these, as you saw in the picture, these units are mostly concrete. It's mostly patio, it's mostly streetage. And as a result, this flooding that myself and my neighbors are already experiencing to the nth degree, flooding, by the way, which, you know, eviscerates ecosystems down the way and does not help at all with regard to maintaining the water quality of the city,
 That's going to make that worse. And the retention pond, I haven't seen anything that suggests they're building another retention pond, so they're relying on the current one, as far as I can understand. It's already not doing its job. The flooding in the spring and fall is horrendous, as I'm sure many of us in this room have experienced.
 So I see the sort of, you know, this is, this cluster housing is good for the environment. I don't see that as wholly true. I have an issue with that. Last time we were here, a solution was given for semipermeable concrete. And I took some time and looked into that. Some of you are familiar.
 Semi-permeable concrete has been disastrous in the areas that it has been used. It does not actually allow the water to dissipate down very much, even if it's gravel. So semi-permeable concrete is kind of a good idea with a flawed execution. But I don't see a way to implement the patios and the streetage in a way that is going to not
 drastically increase the flooding for all of us adjacent and down slope from where this development would be. I think that if the density was lower, we could maintain some of this vegetative space that's already there as yards for individuals moving in, and that's going to be a lot less harmful down the way. Because I understand that we can't not develop this area. Many of us who moved in went in with the understanding that this was going to be eventually developed.
 but not into 19 units, each with their own patio and each with their own parking space. I just don't see that as very feasible.
 And you guys saw for yourself in the picture that was given to us, there is a lot of concrete, even in the renderings, which is a great concern of great concern to me. I was very pleased to see the tree preservation. I think that was good. I hope that if the development moves forward that that continues. I like a lot that the developers are hearing us out on some of the things, but there's other bits that I feel have not been adequately addressed at this point. And I want to be heard in my concerns on that as the rest of my neighbors do.
 Another thing is I agree with my neighbors in that a vegetative shield or planting trees along the periphery would be extremely helpful for everybody. One because it gives the neighbors, those of us who are backed right up against this development, so much needed privacy from the construction that's going to go on eventually however many homes end up being there. But in addition, the vegetation that would be planted would help reduce the flooding.
 As we were here last week, there was no condition to keep or implement, to keep the vegetation that's already there or implement vegetative screening, even though the Planning Council was given the opportunity to implement that, it was not implemented and that was greatly concerning to me because that was a perfect opportunity to say yes, we can move forward, but with the stipulation that put in some trees.
 It's of additional concern to me as someone who is concerned about the flooding and the maintenance of the vegetation, the beauty of Fayetteville being such a green space that when these saplings tend to be put in by the forestry regulations, so to speak, they tend to not be maintained. It isn't the responsibility of the developer to actually maintain those trees. So eventually most of them shrivel and die and they don't end up doing anybody any good.
 So, to kind of wrap things up here, as a side note, I greatly understand the need for affordable housing, but at least last time we were here, my understanding was that these homes were going to be $350,000, which doesn't, I'm a PhD student at the university, that doesn't scream affordable to me.
 So to me the solution seems very simple. I think that the density needs to be lowered for the sake of the flooding and for the sake of the integrity of the neighborhood and for the sake of sort of those of us who just live nearby for safety reasons with the road and stuff like that. And I think sidewalks need to be added as well as a commitment to vegetative screening and perhaps an additional retention pond to reduce the flooding. So thank you very much for hearing me out. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Whitney Carden. I live at 2441 North Hampton Court. I also spent a significant amount of my time over at 2913 North Old Wire Road, which is where I grew up. It's where my parents currently live. Like I said, I spend most of my time over there. I'm 43 years old. I was raised on that property next door and played on the property in question growing
 As Fayetteville grew, I watched houses being built, neighborhoods being built, and I learned to know that my neighbors are important and that you hope you get nice ones. So most of my neighbors showed up at the planning meeting to vote against this. None showed up for it. So that should tell you a lot. My neighbors showed up again here tonight, waited for hours to speak.
 about their neighborhood and their property and their homes that they look out at every day. They don't want 19 houses on two acres. They've made that pretty clear and I'm sure they're going to continue to. A lot of that green area that you saw on the drawing, that's on our property on the right side of the drawing.
 a lot of that green trees you saw that's that's on our property that's not actually on the property in question just to clarify if you're looking at the drawing itself also as somebody mentioned before there is no access to old wire on this property i think that creating tension in a neighborhood before people even get to move in is a bad way to create community
 It's clear that the neighbors don't really want this particular thing right now. They've all made it clear that they knew that there was a development going in. I like Mike, know him pretty well. I like the people involved. I like the attempt. But the neighbors have made it pretty clear what they want.
 or don't want also rolling hills is planned to go up and over that hill and dead end pretty much right in front of this property so if you're talking about traffic issues water issues runoff parking you guys you got several things to do also if this were approved i want you to think about how you would feel if i came back in a year from now and asked for 35 houses to be built on our property
 Is that a good use of the area? Is that what you want to see here in Fayetteville? And they might give that some consideration as well. Because once you set the standard for this, it's going to continue throughout all of Fayetteville. I don't feel like it fits the surrounding use. Like we mentioned, we'd be more amenable to something less dense. So, that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. Who else?
 My name is Luke Brown. I live with my wife at 3053 North Quainton Court, that little cul-de-sac she mentioned. We're right backed up to the development in question.
 I just wanted to quote City Planning Committee member Jim Garlok. Mr. Garlok said, cluster housing, also I should say, I did adjust this a little bit for time's sake. Cluster housing was developed for places where we want density. We don't need density in a single family residential neighborhood. That is not near a tier center.
 There's no public transit near this. More impervious services will create more stormwater issues. The city itself has had to pay for some of those damages. I don't think he was talking about specifically on this property.
 Also, when we talk about adding housing, this could easily be turned into short-term rentals. It was also said that additional variances will be needed. I think that meant on top of the original permit. To me, that is just another way of saying that it doesn't fit on the land and it doesn't fit in the area. Again, that was City Planning Committee member Jim Garlock. Thank you.
 And I just want to state that I agree completely with everything everyone has said. I think all of us as neighbors really are just not looking forward to seeing this clash in our neighborhood. And that's what it feels like with the level of density added. Yeah. Thank you all for your time. Thank you.
 Hello, everybody. Thank you for staying so late. My name is Mike Parker. My address is 4457 Pesofino Lane, Northeast Fayetteville, 72703. Appreciate all the opinions. I know they vary quite a lot. I bought this property over five years ago. Before I bought it, I did my due diligence, came and talked to Fayetteville Planning. I'm going to talk to them about
 They said this kind of an infill project is exactly what the city is wanting. We need housing, great area. We've got ordinances, which of course we will meet. So we started this five years ago, or I did. I was actually going to build 400, 500, 600 square foot homes, tiny homes here.
 There's some talk about being concerned about 1,650 square foot. This was already almost to the end of being approved and it was discovered that a 2020 plan had a road going through the middle of it. So we just tabled that. That was the rolling hills to crossover that never happened and got wiped off. So I just developed the perimeter in lots.
 $550,000 in infrastructure alone for water quality for that $260,000 detention pond, a $60,000 contact water filter on the corner of Old Wyrant and Oak Valley. And it was designed for this large of a project plus those homes.
 Bluen Associates was the engineer. We've got like an 80 page study that the city required me to build it a certain way. All kinds of drainage inside the detention pond. I couldn't believe it, taking photos of it. But anyway, we did what was required. So now that we've done the perimeter, ran the sewer into the property, put a nice privacy fence up around part of it.
 The cost for the infrastructure is just too great to do what I was going to do. And I can't take another three years going through the planning process. So I've sold it to two quality partners to help me get this through. They come up with a more quality plan. I own multiple properties adjoining this myself. Two of our family members want to buy homes in this nice development.
 um one of the adjoining neighbors that one of the homes that we developed that i developed a lot on is the one that appealed this to you folks to do something very similar to what they bought ironically this week uh another gentleman that bought the corner lot of oak bailey and old wire they're moving here from washington dc he called me and said i i got notice of this and saw this
 beautiful plan of what y'all are going to do. Would you sell my lot and let me buy one of these homes? So one neighbor thinks it's terrible. One thinks it's great. Everybody's entitled their opinion and everybody's, you know, that's what makes it all go around. But this is going to be nice guys. I mean, it's going to be beautiful. I would like to retain ownership in part of this myself, and it's going to help my, in my opinion, it's going to help my property values for the homes and land I have adjoining
 And that's what I try to do on every development I've ever been involved with. I think y'all probably know of some of the developments I've done and Jeff Martin and Max. So anyway, not trying to do something bad. This is something that's gonna be great. I'm gonna be really proud to drive through this 10 years from now and say, hey, we're a part of it. So...
 I don't want to take any more time. Max noticed some of the values. I mean, that just speaks exactly. Discourage suburban brawl, appropriate infill revitalization, create opportunities for attainable housing. Man, we've got such a housing shortage. We need it terribly. So anyway, I won't take any more time. Thank you all. Thank you.
 My name is Wynn Johnson. I live at 2965 North Old Wire. I do want to start out by saying just so no one's opinion is skewed, the lot that was just mentioned is not backing up this property at all. This is the one property, if you pull up the map, that is not touching this individual that we're talking about. So I had my house flooded. I bought it around October 15th of last year in December. I had a flood so bad that I had to move it.
 What's the very top him all the way down ahead to stall for restraints and had all new sod the detention pond at the very end of old wire.
 I know it costs a lot of money. We've heard that multiple times, but it doesn't work just for the seven houses that it's supposed to work for. Now we're getting flooding coming from the property that's in, but we're talking about right now and coming from down old wire. So I just don't know. I know I don't want to waste my else's time, but you're also talking about affordable housing. You know, if you look at the seven homes that is surrounding the average price is 196 a square foot. So even if you put,
 1650 was that 325,000 hours home with no group if you look at the map also none of my garage is none of that covered parking there's a single house in a mile radius that does not have that and it sits on four acres on the trail so it's not comparable to the entire neighborhood at all there's no parking inside and it's not affordable it's 325 plus bottom line so thank you for your time appreciate it thank you
 Who else would like to address this? Hi, my name is Casey Wood. I live at 2979 North Wildwire Road. I'm a neighbor of Wynn's as well. And I would just like to say, I'm gonna cover a couple of different things. One of my big issues with this is specifically the density. What I feel like doesn't make this compatible with our neighborhood is the sheer number of houses that they're wanting to put in here.
 I've grown up in East Fayetteville. I've lived there basically my entire life. And one of the great things about this area is the size of the yards, the park, being able to play outside with your kids, your dog, whoever. And I feel like these houses just really aren't meeting kind of the goals of like giving people green space of their own. And like one of the things that I felt like really
 causes concern for me is what if we end up in another pandemic and these poor people are stuck in these tiny little houses with no green space and all they have is a courtyard. I know that I lived in an apartment during the pandemic and it was really challenging because there was nowhere to go. You were just trapped in your house. And it would have been so nice to have a patio and a yard and like some area to get out and around. Yeah.
 So that's definitely a concern of mine. My other concern is that we are talking about affordable housing and our median income is $47,000 a year. And we're saying that this size home is going to provide affordable housing for people at what, $325,000, $350,000? I'm not really sure what the number is. It's bounced up and down.
 But that's not attainable for someone who makes $47,000 a year. I used to make $48,000 a year as a single mom, and I wouldn't have been approved for a mortgage anywhere near that. So it just...
 I feel like it is dishonest to say that this type of development is going to provide anything that is affordable or attainable to the citizens of Fayetteville. And I think that what it's really going to do is provide opportunity for more of those short-term rentals, Airbnbs, and then other long-term rentals where we're not getting people into the city of Fayetteville to live here permanently, to be members of our community.
 We're providing opportunities for people to get their second homes.
 or to buy investment properties, or for the developers to keep part of these to use as investment properties. And that's not what I would like to see for East Fayetteville. I want this to be a community where my daughter grows up, we know our neighbors, everyone is around, and there's space for us to play and grow and hang out. And I just feel like we're limiting it so much by putting cluster housing developments in already well-established neighborhoods with big yards,
 and good green space and all of those types of things. One of the developers said that, you know, we shouldn't expect what was available in the sixties as housing. And I think that that's wrong. I think that in the year 2022, we should expect better, not worse. We should expect the same size houses
 and have them be affordable for people, not a smaller size house with less yard, no garage. Like that is insane to me that we are even thinking about things like that. That it is okay that we could have gotten better in 1960 than we can get in 2022. And I understand that the population is growing, but I would just really like to see that we provide our citizens with a quality of life
 that meets what we all want, not necessarily what they can afford, right? The other thing that I wanted to address outside of those things was my concern, as many of my neighbors have discussed with the runoff. Our house specifically is along that same row with when he's had to put in several French drains. We also had to put in one to alleviate flooding all in our front yard and side yard.
 um and you know that's all at the expense of the homeowner so what happens if this neighborhood starts to have flooding as well they don't are they going to fix it how does that work i just feel like we're creating additional problems with flooding when we already have them um and the other thing that i will say on all of this is i just
 think that when we talk about compatibility, we really need to look at the intent of the neighborhood and like what are we trying to get by providing the additional housing. And I think that the way that it is now is, you know, creating a community. Well, there's already an existing community here. Why can't we make it match? And that's what I have to say. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Hi, my name is Nick Werner. I also live at 2979 North Old Wire Road. And I'll try not to beleaguer some of the points that our neighbors have brought up already because you've heard from most of them here tonight. I do want to point out that the letter that we wrote and submitted, you have several signatures on. I think at the time we submitted it, it was around 26th.
 If you all would be open to it, I have an amended signature page that has 40 of us total on it. It has the added benefit of pointing out that we're not opposed to development entirely. We're just opposed to the density and want some of our concerns addressed. So this first page of it also contains some of the conditions we'd be willing to entertain to mitigate those concerns. Do you mind if I pass them out?
 I wanted to address some of the things we heard about the letter, and I appreciate Jonathan's summary of it. I think he did it pretty good justice.
 One of the points he hit on, though, was that frontage isn't necessarily equivalent to or synonymous with the point of access to the property. And I think that's a fair call out. Something to know about this property, though, is that their only point of frontage is off of Old Wire. And we've mentioned the detention pond there before. Their other point of access actually isn't a part of the property that's proposed for this development at all. And we may be able to provide an easement access or access easement option.
 But I think if we're going to do a conditional use property,
 And the underlying owners of both parcels are together. We should protect that neighborhood's access by combining those lots. There's no reason to have them separate and leave the owner of the lot providing frontage onto Oak Bailey able to sell it and cut off access to this property that has 70 foot of frontage onto Oak Bailey right now. So there's not really space for a house without another conditional use permit for significant variances while there continues to be a road there to provide access.
 And the other thing is, while frontage may not be synonymous with your main point of access, to say that they have two points of frontage or two points of access is a bit of a misnomer because the intended purpose of frontage is to provide, and I quote, safe and convenient access for servicing fire protection and required off-street parking. And I haven't seen a ton of detention ponds in my time, but I have seen exactly zero with a road built through them or a bridge over them.
 And I don't think we're going to do a bridge here off Old Wire Road. And so when you split up that property and say that we have two points of frontage, you would have to use one point of frontage for both of those properties to be built as conditional use cluster home developments in both. And another part of our development code explicitly forbids that. You can't use the same frontage for two developments. So I think when you take that into account, getting back to the point of the variance, there's not a real basis for...
 for this variance. There's not an undue hardship. Their hardship, if you want to call it that, was essentially that it'd be more convenient to process this as one. But considering they can't split it up into two at all because of the way their frontage works and the access to the property would work, there's not really a convenience grounds for the variance at all.
 Beyond all that, I want to take the last minute and 45 seconds to hit on the compatibility. One of the things we've heard a lot is that these properties are compatible, and I think we're considering the underlying zoning. We're looking at it as RSF4, single family is single family. It's compatible.
 But something to note is when you look at this property and you start whittling it down, you take out that open green space, you take out the unusable strip at the back and that detention pond, you're left with about 1.86 acres and that works out on 19 properties to approximately 0.098 acres per lot. And that includes the amount of space we have to take to build roads and sidewalks and easements and whatever other required space may be there.
 The average for the neighborhood surrounding, and this is about a mile and a half out, 660-odd properties, the average is a 2,000 square foot home on a 0.3 acre lot. And for the 14 immediately adjacent houses, that's 16 total lots, the average is 2,200 square feet, a 0.24 acre lot, and a 4-3 layout.
 And then beyond that, their layouts that they've proposed in their letter, they said it was going to be a three-bedroom, two-and-a-half bath property for these 19 homes. But 10 of the 19 they've proposed in their lot drawings that they made themselves, provided they haven't been amended, I didn't get to compare what they were showing.
 I think there's some inconsistency with that underlying plan. And for those reasons, I think we should be able to deny the conditional use permit entirely. But as we said, we're not opposed to development on the property. We're not naive enough to think that it's going to stay a nice treed and well landscaped area. And so I think we should be able to deny the conditional use permit entirely. But as we've said, we're not opposed to development on the property.
 We're just asking that we don't have that much density. So if we can't deny it outright time. Thank you Yes, like two dresses Good evening Jeff Martin 242 North solitude Bend I'm one of the developer partners and builder I've had the privilege of
 to be one of your custom home builders for 27 years here in the City of Fayetteville. And as far as this project goes, I've got to commend you guys, the planning, commissioners, staff,
 past planning commissioners for the vision to create these opportunities for more affordable housing in Fayetteville. I mean, that's why this cluster housing ordinance was designed, as consistent with future land planning and housing. Being a custom home builder, volume home building is not really what I do.
 But what I do do is I understand well-built homes put together in community and that's consistent with this ordinance. So I know there's a lot of questions with neighbors and that's a sharpening session as far as developers are concerned.
 we get to hear our community and then we have a process with Jonathan and the city engineers to go through and address all these items, whether it's drainage, sidewalks, accessibility. So I think we're all on the same page there and that's the beautiful thing about our whole process.
 that we do at the end of the day put together product that Fayetteville is proud of and we can transfer cost savings in the dirt, the land development, in through the vertical house, the new community, the new home that is developed. Let me just speak real quick to the
 The reason why we ended up splitting this was really through conversation with staff. I mean, at the end of the day, we do have these access points. We can split that. That's been done before.
 And it's not necessarily to accomplish a more dense project. It's really to, in this particular case, it's to transfer more savings to the home buyer because it will cost more to split it up.
 And again, at the end of the day, I hope you can hear our heart on this. We're not trying to come in and put density into the middle of Fayetteville, into a community that has been established there for a long time. We're just trying to bring forth value for our new Fayetteville residents. And affordability is relative to what we're dealing with in our economy.
 I mean, I wish we could build houses that were $200,000 that had great quality. We just unfortunately can't do that now. And this location is great as you all well know. I mean, the accessibility there, I mean, traffic wise, we can get out west, east, south. I mean, there is growth within the inner rings of Fayetteville. I mean, we've got to work through that.
 So anyways, I know it's late. I'm not gonna keep on going on here. You guys are all very intelligent. You understand what's going on in our city. Just want you to know we are here to go through the process, take in the comment and work through our large scale development so that it is a really nice quaint housing community within the more mature community around it. Thank you for your time.
 Thank you. Okay, who else would like to address this? Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council here? Well, I like the original suggestion to table this. I don't know how long we want to do that for, but I would like the opportunity for the developers to work with the neighbors to see if we can work out some of these concerns. What do you all think?
 I'm fine with that. I think that's fine. I hope to point out a couple things that I hope they look at before we actually do that. But yes, I'm good with that. Yeah, I'm fine with that too. I mean, I don't, you know, I do want to, you know, Jonathan, what is this? Okay, so what is this zone right now? RSF4. RSF4, okay.
 I do, are we going to just table, do we want to table it because we're all tired tonight. I don't want to make a decision. I have a suggestion. I'd like to table it also because we're super tired, but can we put this on the first item of old business so that these lovely people don't have to stay here until almost 1130?
 I think it pretty much is. I just want to clarify. I think it is. Now, I will say, Mr. Teague, I think, asked for the 15th of November, maybe. Now, we need to make some decision on this before the end of the year. Is that correct? Is that right?
 or we or do we run out of uh from a planning project standpoint as long as the project is live there's no issues i think to mr williams point about a previous item as long as something is table date specific it stays live for council purposes as well was my understanding it's not just if it's tabled indefinitely and the year rolls over and maybe that something goes dormant
 You want to choose an actual date because if you table it indefinitely, then it would fall off December 31st. I think they asked for November 15th. I think that's what he asked for. Mayor? Mayor?
 I'd like to ask the representative whoever kind of organized this packet. I know I've been speaking to several people. If they're okay with this tabling or do they want us to just go ahead and do it? Because it seemed pretty passionate and very clear about what they want. So could I have Mr. Werner come back who brought us and talk about what maybe they don't want it to be tabled.
 Well, I mean, I always... Well, it's kind of up to you. I mean, it's up to us. I mean, I kind of always feel like...
 mean we yeah I would fall in line with whatever yeah I mean I can't some members it's emotionally I think I think if someone asked for you know I mean I'm willing to try and work you know get something worked out here I'd like to hear from mr. Warner yeah I just kind of curious about the table a few minutes
 I appreciate the opportunity to address tabling this. And I think I understand the idea of tabling it because it's late at night and we want to make sure we can give this due consideration. I think from that standpoint, tabling it until the next council meeting would make a lot
 I don't think tabling it with the idea that the developers will suddenly reach out to the neighbors and begin working with us on this development and plans that would make sense and we'd all agree on is a good idea. This property was bought in April. The plans were submitted to the planning department here in the city in July. It went to planning commission in August, where we all expressed our opposition. The appeal letter was submitted the very beginning of September. It's October 4th today.
 at no point have we heard from the developers and if what mr parker shared that has been in the works for over five years is true none of our neighbors have heard about it in the last five years either that i'm aware of at least no one said that to me in the 40 or so of them i've talked to so i think tabling it so we can consider it at the next meeting while we're not all really tired makes a lot of sense tabling it so that the developers can now begin working with us doesn't make near as much sense
 Mr. Werner, I have another thing. We got a lot of information about flooding. Do you think anyone has any video or photos of this flooding? I can certainly dig through some of my old pictures to see if I have them because I've shared them with friends from my property. And I can get those to you in an email in the next day or two. Okay, well at some point that would be nice if you could get us. I'll get that sent out to everyone.
 What do you all want to do? I move that we table this. I think until the next city council meeting would be fine. Well, I don't know that they can. It doesn't sound like there's going to be any. I don't know. I just don't know that two weeks. Well, we heard from the neighborhood. What does the developer think? Well, that's what I was trying to ask. Can we bring the developer up? Okay. Okay.
 As I was saying earlier, we have a lot more materials now or further down the road. We've got a lot more details. I think that that we could present to people so they could better visualize what it is that we are proposing. That's why I was suggesting having the
 meeting with the neighbors to show them those materials to take just have a conversation with them. I don't think we can make that happen by the next meeting. If we were going to do that, I mean we need the month of October. We really need to table it to November 15th to make that happen properly.
 Okay, I would I made a motion but no one seconded it right I didn't hear that Well, I will it to the next meeting. No, I think that we should go to the 15th It's going to take a while to get that get any Communication Established I do believe good communication. So I my motion is the 15. I would second that okay Okay
 Alright, we have a motion and a second to table this to the 15th of November. Any more conversation? Sure. Why shouldn't I comment? It's only 1132. So let's be clear. Someone owns property and they have the right to develop that. And everyone has said they have the right. No one has said how many units.
 or dwelling units that they think is appropriate for that site. They've simply said 19 works for us, and we have the right, if we divide the property in half, to achieve 19 per code with no variance being necessary. I still think it's a conditional use to do that, though, right? So they don't have an absolute right to do that. They still have to get a conditional use. So the conditional use is what's being appealed tonight.
 Both that and the variance. So they could eliminate a variance. They would need a new conditional use permit. Help me out, Jonathan. I think it would be an amendment to the existing one. Okay. So if you live in a surrounding neighborhood, you need to be thinking about some number between 12 and 19 that works. Otherwise, what you're going to be left with is city staff
 making a stormwater determination that says X amount of land is going to be necessary for detention or other structures. The amount of water that currently runs off of this site and threatens people's homes is the amount of water
 that is allowed to continue to run off of this site and threaten homes. So any development does not have to solve the existing stormwater issues. So even though Councilman Kenyon has said if you have flooding or photos, realize that that is also documentation of a condition that can be maintained.
 The next development does not have to solve the pre-existing condition. They cannot exacerbate it. I think that is the grounds for us to encourage there to be dialogue and conversation, not just the number of units, but some plan for alleviating the angst that people have over stormwater. That's the most threatening issue that I think that we face.
 So I just commend everyone for hanging in there, coming out tonight. You have a front row to democracy. This is just how pretty it is every other week when we gather. So whether you're speaking in favor of or against, God bless you for coming out. And to all of you fine people for being up here as well, too. Thank you. Okay. So do we have a motion and a second? Okay.
 Okay, we got a motion and a second for November the 15th. Is there any other? Yes. I want to say something. I want to also ask a real quick question here. I don't want to tie this up any longer. But well, I want to thank Mike for bringing up that that point. I don't care if it's three or 40. It's are we flooding houses?
 And so I think that's the conversation we need to have, we all need to have about how we prevent that. The fact that we're putting French trains in buildings that are less than a year, two years old is problematic. And hopefully we can get some,
 plan, codified something that's a berm and maybe some vegetation to deal with that. Because like I said, whether they built seven or they built way more than that, if there's not a plan, the flooding is going to continue. So that's, I think, the important thing to me is a plan to hopefully prevent future flooding and then maybe alleviate some that they're currently having now.
 I'm okay with 19, I know the neighborhood isn't, but the important thing is whether it's 11 or 19 or more or less, how do we get those to stop flooding and not have future issues? I have a question for Jonathan.
 over there because he's been far too quiet and he's probably you know just want to check with you he's ready to go I know but anyway I want to ask you so a lot was brought up about sidewalks and there's no sidewalks on the drawing that we were given is that a
 Is that the definitive drawing of this project or is it a conceptual drawing or what is the deal with the sidewalks? The watercolor drawing you saw was the conceptual site plan submitted with the conditional use permit. The cluster housing development ordinance requires internal pedestrian circulation that also ties back to any public adjacent.
 Excuse me, circulation or sidewalk. So it is a development requirement that sidewalks be provided or pedestrian access be provided in some way, shape or form.
 So as of today, we're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that. We're still working on that.
 the conditional use permit, that variance has not been requested. So the variance to not allow sidewalks has not been requested or the variance? The only variance that was formally requested and approved by the Planning Commission to date is to allow 19 units where 12 are allowed. But that would require them to have sidewalks internally and leading out onto some sort of... Correct. Okay. Okay. Just wanted to make sure about that.
 I have one last comment because it's getting really late. I agree with what Sloan said, we've got to look at the water issues. But I also think we need to examine our code because if we're allowing houses, new houses to be built that are flooding immediately,
 code is not strict enough we need to really modify that so I really think we knew you know and it's just gonna get worse so we really need to have that addressed so thank you oh you're gonna have to get to work on that before the 15th yeah a lot to do I'm sure yeah okay
 We have a motion and a second on the floor, correct? All right. Now, does anybody else have any more comments before we vote? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Erksberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Jones. Kenyon? Yes. Biedeker? Yes. Yes.
 Well, okay, well that concludes our business. Is there any announcements? Only that we have our final bulky waste pickup, cleanup, whatever. It's at St. James, Ward 2, this Saturday. All details on website. Mayor, I actually have one piece of good news. You remember Prairie Street Lives, conditional use that was appealed here, and...
 modified and then approved and then we got sued. Well, the person that sued us has now moved to dismiss his case. So your final decision will be upheld. All right. Great. All right. We're adjourned.