Let me call the order the City Council maybe in November the 1st 2022 Kerowitz, please call the roll turn here Hertzberg here Harvey Jones Here Indian here. We'd occur here Scroggins present bench mayor Jordan here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening. The first order of business we have tonight is the monthly financial report by Paul Becker. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. This report will be on the receipts for September. Now, sales tax receipts actually occurred in August, but this is a report on September. So this is the end of the third quarter so far for 2022. I'll spend a little more time than normal on sales tax since I wasn't at the agenda session to apprise you of sales tax at that point in time. However, sales tax were very strong.
 We're up 16% compared to last year for the city penny, up 17.6% for the county's share of taxes that came as turned back to the city. All in all, we're up over 16% for the period.
 That puts us up at this point of time compared to last year, about 13.5% for sales tax up through the end of the third quarter. So sales tax has been very strong this year and seems to be continuing.
 That's sales tax when we compare with the surrounding areas. Rogers was up 10%, Bentonville up 4%, Springdale was up 25% for that period. So it was a good period for sales tax in the month of August. Now, as we analyze the specifics of sales tax, what was really strong was accommodation and food services.
 That was up 17% in total, especially hotel and hotel accommodations. They were up 30% for the period. So this is really being driven by not only dining and hotel, but also on all of our venues for restaurants and full service menus in the city.
 Now switch over and we'll start talking about overall revenues for the period. The total revenue for the general fund is up about 11% so far this year compared to budget. Sales taxes we talked about already. Franchise fees are up almost 9%. Building permits up over 30%, almost a third of an increase for building permits.
 Alcohol and beverage tax also is up strong. Charges for services, a lot of that's useful. Parks, things of that nature, that was up over 10%. Court fees are down a little bit, but they're coming back. They were just about 10% under budget. And interest earnings are still not coming back at this point in time because a lot of our investments are in short-term government-backed bonds.
 All in all, though, we're up 11% compared to budget at this point in time for revenue. Now, as I look at that,
 what we discussed very briefly in September when we talked about what the general fund budget believe will look like. And I think it's gonna be in a range of, we're gonna recommend about $65 million in the general fund. Looks like that revenue will be able to support it. So the revenues are roughly where I had expected them to be when I looked at them back in July. When we look at the street fund, the street fund again is very strong.
 All in all, we're up roughly 15% in the street fund. Now, remember, the street fund is driven primarily by gasoline sales. So it's motor fuel taxes remitted to us, turned back from the state. That was up 10%. And the half percent sales tax on the sale of gasoline, that's partially driven by usage, but also by the inflationary factor. That was up 24%.
 That's not going to go on forever, but right now gasoline sales are still up and people are still increasing their usage of gasoline even in the face of the inflationary prices. That's not going to go on forever, but at this point in time, street fund is up and is very strong. Parking fund, parking fund is up so far year to date about 12%.
 Most of that's driven by fees. Fines are actually minimal. Fines are about 10% over budget, but the fees were up over 12% compared to budget. So we're up in the parking revenue again. That's looking at the increase in the utilization of our restaurants and services in the downtown street area and the Dixon Street area. So those are going pretty strong and coming back.
 after the COVID decline. Water and sewer is up, billings are up 9% at this time of the year. That's extremely strong for us.
 3% of that we can attribute to the increase in rates, but that's 6% increase in the billings. And a lot of that has to do with water usage at this point in time. We did have a very, very long dry period this year, but the water and sewer revenue is strong at this point in time. When we're looking at the trash
 and recycling, I should say recycling and trash department. If we remember that was lagging a little bit under budget for most of the year, but it's now picked up and it's roughly 1% over the budgeted estimate at this point in time. Remember, commercial was lagging a bit, that seems to have caught up a bit.
 So that's in fairly good shape at this point in time. Well, I should say it's in good shape at this point in time because we're meeting budget and we're a little over it. When we look at the fuel at the airport, fuel at the airport sales are still up over, we're up 30% compared to last year.
 as far as gallonage usage. And so that is very, very strong. So they're using gasoline at the airport. There's a lot of activity at the airport. So all in all, that economic activity in the city through August was very, very strong. And I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have in the council? Anything?
 Now, Mayor, I would like to also remind the council we have scheduled for a week from Saturday a budget hearing that would be on the 12th of November.
 What I do want to mention is the Razorbacks are playing in town. There's an 11 o'clock kickoff that day. If there is interest in the council to switch that date, if you're for me, we can look and see if we can find another date, and it's certainly up to you.
 I don't know if there's interest in this point in time. Well, I do have interest in that. Okay. So do I. Okay. Well, okay, there's sufficient interest in that because certainly we all want to have concentration on it. I need to find an alternate date that will work for everybody. Are we prepared to look at that today? Well, can we get back with you tomorrow after we look at our calendar? Absolutely. And then...
 Would everybody email me with some input tomorrow and then I'll respond and we'll see if we can find something that would work out for everybody.
 Normally what we're looking at is between two and a half and three hours of looking at that so if you have some suggested dates I would appreciate if you get back and then I'll reach out to the council from there okay. What about if I mean staff were to give us a few dates that work best for you guys and then let and because instead of letting eight different people make a
 you know kind of work that out and give us three options or something like that i think that might work okay i'm like i can do that okay so we'll we'll pick three potential dates and get back to y'all we'll see if that works for uh for at least the majority or all of you okay and thank you all right thank you paul
 All right. Next order of business we have is consent agenda. Approval of the October 4th, 2022 City Council meeting minutes and the October 18th, 2022 City Council meeting minutes.
 Number two, resolution to approve a master license service agreement and quote from Samsara Incorporated for the purchase of vehicle monitoring equipment and services pursuant to a source well cooperative purchasing contract on an as needed basis. Number three.
 A resolution to approve the purchase of ammunition is needed by the Federal Police Department from various manufacturers pursuant to a State of Arkansas ammunition contract for an initial term through January 23, 2023, and as renewed by the State each year through January 23, 2029.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a budget adjustment in the amount of $4,169, recognizing hazmat services revenue received from Washington County and increasing the related expense budget. Number five, a resolution to authorize the destruction of certain records shown in
 on the attached affidavit pursuant to relevant sections of the Arkansas code related to maintenance and destruction of County and other city records number six a resolution to authorize a contract with TSW incorporated pursuant to RFQ 22-01 selection 10 any amount of ninety four thousand five hundred dollars to provide master plan design services for Walker Community Park and
 To approve a project and tendency in the amount of five thousand dollars and to prove the budget adjustment. This is park improvement bond project number seven a Resolution to approve a budget adjustment a total amount of sixteen thousand six hundred and fifteen dollars recognizing parkland dedication fees from the southwest park quadrant and
 to be used for improvements to Rodney Bryan Park and number eight, a resolution to approve the purchase of electrical conduit, wire, and fittings from Graybar Electric Company Incorporated in the amount of $42,911.15 plus applicable taxes and freight charges pursuant to an Omnia Partners cooperative purchasing contract. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Mr. Mayor? Second. Oh, sorry. Thank you.
 I'll take care of it. Okay. Would you please call the roll? Terk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Number one, an ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability of the federal city code and 151.01 definitions and 163.18 short-term rentals of unified development code to remove the conditional use permit requirement for top two short-term rentals and to
 repeal the sunset provision this was left on the second reading I will entertain a motion to go to third and final reading so moved second have a motion a second go to the third and final reading care which please call row her yes Hertzberg yes Harvey yes Jones yes Kenyon yes Whittaker no Scroggins yes yes
 And Norris amend section 118.01 applicability of the Fayetteville City Code and section 151.01 definitions and section 163.18 short-term rentals of the Unified Development Code to remove the conditional use permit requirement for type 2 short-term rentals and to repeal the sunset provision.
 Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, Council. Jonathan Kurth with the Development Services Department. This is indeed the third time we're discussing short-term rentals this fall. There's a fair bit of ground to cover and I realize there's 10 minutes to do it, so I'm going to jump right in.
 There's five issues I'd like to touch on tonight, some of which is response to questions or information that council has requested. And then I'd like to leave us on a note of how to advance this discussion to the November 15th meeting where hopefully an amendment can be entertained for some manner of adoption. I'm going to touch on workload versus fees, estimated loss of revenue from non-compliant, non-licensed short-term rentals.
 What peer cities and other cities in Arkansas are doing as it relates to fees and penalties? What manner of alternative limits can be provided or proposed for the density and concentration of short-term rentals in Fayetteville? And finally, in an effort again to continue the conversation, some recommendations to move forward.
 Jumping right in with workloads versus fees to start with, there's two processes that short-term rentals currently go through in Fayetteville, particularly type 2 rentals, which again are those primarily used as short-term rentals, not permanent residences.
 The first is a conditional use permit process that goes to our planning commission. That includes a $100 application fee plus $5 for us to craft a sign, a public notification sign. There is an estimated five to nine hours of staff time, which that $100 fee does not cover. That wide, wide variability is largely an indication of the level of familiarity with many of these applicants with the city processes. They certainly take a lot more coaching and support than...
 Those are much more familiar with development in the city. On the business licensing side,
 There is a $35 application fee. This does depend if people are late or early in their submittal. And then a $20 life safety inspection that our building safety group submits or performs. That is largely covered, does largely cover the staff time. Again, there is some variability. Of course, it depends on the applicant how well prepared they are for their inspections or for their application. But by and large, business licenses largely cover staff time. Conditional use permits do not.
 Moving on to estimated revenue loss, these are rough numbers mind you. We kind of backed into it by knowing exactly how many licensed short-term rentals we have in Fayetteville and the average amount that's collected monthly in HMR amount which is just shy of $20,000. There's an approximate 320 unlicensed operators in the Fayetteville area and that's using AirDNA data that's been referenced at these meetings before by industry operators.
 If you were to go again, work backwards into those numbers, there's an approximate $15,000 that's left on the table, if you will.
 As far as here in Arkansas cities go looking at first in the licensing perspective, it's Not too wide of a range of prices Most of them are about $100 at least in Arkansas ranging upwards to $500 if there's an involved annual inspection Hot Springs is the notable exception where they do it based on how many people occupy the units up to a maximum of $400 you can see in that second bullet
 On a peer city basis, we looked at those outlined in the memo shared with you, Fort Collins, Colorado, Asheville, North Carolina, and gosh, I'm blanking on the third. I apologize. Lawrence, Kansas. Excuse me. Again, they had not too wide of variability. Lawrence was the $17 license fee where they put most of their money into annual renewals. And I think that was part of the philosophy of getting people compliant with a low entry fee, but then keeping them compliant with that higher fee.
 As far as enforcement, that's where the variability became much more significant. There were a large number of cities that depended on a daily penalty, similar to Fayetteville, where we're at $250 a day.
 Some cities did it based on a per violation basis. A lot of cities incorporated a utility disconnection penalty if things became extreme. Outside the state is where we saw some more unique or different approaches to those not observing the standards.
 including the ability for the city to revoke frequent violators' ability to operate a particular property or that individual to operate a short-term rental for extended periods of time, including Lawrence, Kansas, which had a habitual violator clause, which said if you had three licenses revoked, you could never operate a short-term rental in the city again. Okay.
 Moving on to perhaps the bulkiest part of the conversation, what are other ways we can regulate the concentration or density of short-term rentals in Fayetteville? Those who lived through our first visiting of this ordinance may recall this was probably one of the most challenging to consider. There's a lot of different metrics that can be used. A lot of cities have tried a lot of different techniques, starting at the finest grain at a street or block level.
 That was considered probably the most thoroughly the last time short-term rentals were considered. It was found to be one of the most unworkable or most challenging where an individual could get a license just to hold it out of spite, for lack of a better term, to prevent anyone else from operating on their street. There were equity concerns with that.
 Similarly, not every block or street in Fayetteville is created the same. We have some that are an eighth of a mile long and may have dozens and dozens of units. We have some that are 400 feet long that may have eight units on it. So to have a quota by street block was very difficult.
 Similarly, and zooming out a little bit to the neighborhood level, that was determined to be unworkable for different reasons. Fayetteville, because of its varied history from older neighborhoods to newer ones, doesn't always have clear defined neighborhood boundaries. Some of those are relics I've learned of the university listserv when the University of Arkansas used to host a community neighborhood email list that weren't necessarily defined by historical neighborhood boundaries.
 So that could be done, but it's something that would take a long time and to be appropriately done would need to require quite a bit of neighborhood engagement and agency over where they felt their boundaries exist and begin and end. Moving up to the highest level by zoning district, that is perhaps the most workable one. However, it does have some challenges in itself, depending on whether the appropriate definition of a cap is,
 like the number of units based on the number of units in a district or the number or the percent of units citywide that would be allowed in a given district if that makes sense so it depends on the Avenue policy that the council would see is most appropriate and in that application whether all districts get a percent of the overall allowance or if every individual zoning district gets a specified number that may or may not be reviewed on a given basis
 Finally, there was a question of reducing the current limit, which is 2% of the city's housing units, and that's based on American Community Survey data, which if you're not familiar with that is the subset of census department data that's released annually, of which we got the most recent numbers just this week.
 Looking at those numbers, currently, even including the non-compliant, the estimates we have on non-compliant short-term rentals, they could all come in under that 2% cap. If that was reduced, however, I've heard 1% suggested, that would not allow all the non-compliant short-term rentals to come into compliance if that was reduced. So that is certainly a consideration there.
 Moving on to a proposal that staff vetted internally as an alternative that may be workable, and I wanted to touch on it again after mentioning it at agenda session.
 is the potential to keep conditional use permits, but do it for residentially zoned districts. So if you're looking at our zoning map, now you think of those areas that are yellow, or RSF4, RSF8, those that are orange, RMF24, 14, the multifamily and single family districts, and additionally some other purely residential zoning districts like neighborhood conservation.
 And the flip side of that would be removing the conditional use permit requirement for mixed use or commercial zoning districts, like those mostly found in downtown and along our corridors.
 Coupling that would be the adoption of use conditions. So planning staff and the planning commission could consider things other than just general compatibility, which is what they have to consider today. There could be specific considerations for whether there's on-street parking, whether there are pedestrian facilities like sidewalks, and even if there's existing short-term rentals elsewhere in the immediate vicinity. How that would translate is approximately
 We looked at how many conditional use permits have come through the Planning Commission so far since July when the startup period ended. The Planning Commission has considered 80 of those. 67 were in residential zoning districts. So it would be less than a, it would be about a fifth or less that if the trend continues, that would not go to the Planning Commission moving forward.
 As for the sunset clause, staff does recommend that it be extended for six months. We don't think there's value in losing the entire ordinance that's been crafted to this point, but we also have concerns about extending it indefinitely. We want to use that six months to engage proactive compliance, go after those ones we know exist out there that are operating without a license, but also solicit input from third party compliance and enforcement groups so that we can evaluate which represents the best cost saving for the city.
 And finally, with that in mind, what staff would like to propose for consideration on the 15th is the potential adoption of that extension of the sunset clause if there is appropriate revised fee costs, revised penalties.
 And that last piece I described with the conditional use permit, and that would require, since this is the third reading, tabling to the November 15th meeting, I did want to put that on your radar. And I believe that's all I have. I'm happy to take questions. I realize that is a lot. Thank you. CHAIR BAILET. Okay. What questions do we have for Jonathan from the council? MS. May I have one? Jonathan, could you go back two slides? I want to make sure I understood that correctly, that one right there.
 So 67 of the 80 would still have to go through the Planning Commission, is that correct? Correct. Using the data we have, which at this point I recognize is still fairly young, yes, 80 to 85 percent, if this trim continues, would still be going to the Planning Commission for that full public notification and full public hearing. Okay. Thank you very much.
 anything else from the council? Just want to make sure you're not suggesting that anybody that already has gone through the process and gotten their permit, that this applies to them. If we went with this zoning,
 where we're looking at you know different zonings is that going to throw anybody in that zoning back to starting over again only if they allowed their license to lapse and they wanted to come back if you have an existing license you'd be considered you would have it until you allowed it to lapse if that makes sense right anything else well
 Mr. Mayor, just my point of confusion, and it's probably just me, but I voted no on the third and final reading because I anticipated with tonight's presentation that there would be significant changes to what has been presented to us and that we would have to table versus have a presentation allow revisions to the ordinance and then consider the ordinance. So...
 we are on a third and final reading and yet the ordinance is going to be revised as originally submitted. I believe that's correct. Mayor, would you like me to answer that? Yeah, because you can table it anytime you want to. You can table it on third reading, second reading. I mean, I don't recommend that, but if you're on second reading, go two weeks, but you're on third reading, you can table it if you want to.
 Correct. There are, as I see it, three options. The proposal in front of the council tonight remains the same one that the commission forwarded several weeks ago, which is to remove the conditional use permit requirement. I think there's general acknowledgement that that is not something the council, I can't speak for all of you, but generally that there's not interest in removing that requirement.
 So, that is one option, of course, because that's what's on the table. The second option is to amend the ordinance tonight if you knew specific language and you could, of course, adopt it. The third would be, as Councilmember Wiedecker noted, because it's on the third reading, it would have to be tabled to the November 15th meeting. I think staff, that is what we're encouraging, but we'd also like concrete feedback on what language we can bring back to you on the 15th.
 And that way our aspiration has always been to not put the council in a position where you need to adopt it with an emergency clause. So if we can bring back what the council anticipates seeing by the 15th, then it could be adopted that evening and go into effect before the sunset clause enacts in December. I have a... Go ahead, Mark. It would be absolutely possible for us to extend the sunset clause if it came to that,
 Or is it, is the date set that it could not be extended? Yes, in case you would not be able to make decisions on those other options that they gave about fees and everything else, you could amend this ordinance just to basically extend the sunset clause, which would then give you enough time to,
 They would, the staff would have to bring in a new ordinance, a brand new ordinance with their new things that they're suggesting. But that would give them plenty of time. When I was drafting this up, I went six months from now rather than...
 Into June so that if they want it into June I would I would change that But there's you could if you wanted to just extend that and then work on these other items and kind of not be under the gun There's another option that I have in my mind we don't use our ordinance review committee a lot and
 But if we have something that we have a lot of different ways to look at it and we could have the, and I'm not on it anymore, the ordinance review committee, we could have a meeting where we could dedicate time specifically to this and we can look at the, look at unintended things that would be in each one of these.
 Certainly, that's what the Ordinance Review Committee was created to do. I think we've actually looked at this before in committee. I don't know if it was the Ordinance Review Committee or a special committee for this that was done, Jonathan? It was Ordinance Review several times. Okay.
 we would be going back. This was a confusing and difficult issue at the start, and it has remained. That is exactly why I thought of this, because if you'll remember, we didn't have experience with this. It went there. There was confusion. And now that we have experience, again, we didn't know the unintended consequences. We know some consequences of the way that this would work, now that we have experience. And again,
 I'm not on that committee. The chairman would have to call it, I think. But I think it's a way that we could get through it quicker.
 I think you're absolutely correct. And the committee could work with Jonathan and the planning department directly on this particular ordinance so that hopefully there can be a common kind of semi-agreement from that committee that still would have to go to the council for approval. But we might be able to get closer to the end zone if we went through the committee process.
 So, I'm very concerned about the unlicensed short-term rentals right now. I am too. And I really don't want to give them a six-month window before we enact some kind of penalty. And so, I'm very interested in either bringing forward some ideas at the next council meeting or the one after that would hopefully incentivize these unlicensed short-term rentals to get in compliance.
 because I think it undermines all the work that we've done here with the business licensing and the inspections and All of that work if we have roughly 320 that are unlicensed and and to give them a six-month leeway I think is just not workable so if we
 If we can go through, I'm not on the Ordinance Review Committee either, but I have a lot of ideas and I'd be happy to work with staff to put those out there because I do think it's really important that we take some action right now. I agree with your sentiment.
 I would say not the next meeting, though. I think if you have a meeting in between, then that gives the Ordinance Review Committee at least a chance to look at this and work with staff. The problem with continuing to the next meeting, there's really no time for that. And so I would say maybe not next meeting, but the meeting after that, there could be some chance for some work.
 Kid, I'm fine with that, but then if we pass those penalties or enforcement or compliance techniques, then we would have to have an emergency rule, right, in order to, so that the sunset clause does not expire. I actually don't think that is correct. To have an ordinance that is general and permanent, that is what requires a 31-day wait. Right.
 The original one did. It was general and permanent for at least 20 months.
 This one is specific just for this one ordinance, just changing one thing in the ordinance, just extending the suspension date, the sunset clause. So it probably would be effective immediately, even though it's always safer if you do it in plenty of time, so there's no issue about that. But in my opinion, it would be effective immediately, and so the suspension date would not end everything. Mr. Mayor, may I ask Mr. Williams a clarifying question on that?
 Yeah. Just out of curiosity, Mr. Williams, if the council were to enact additional amendments, not just extending the sunset clause, but potentially adding penalties or changing fees, would that still be considered not necessarily necessitating? No, I think those are substantive changes. It's not just affecting the effect kind of the effective or the ending date. It's substantive changes. And so that would require the 31 days. Thank you. So what do y'all.
 What are you all thinking here? Hey, Wolford. Well, do we need to make a motion to send it to ordinance review? How does that work? Well, I mean, you usually just ask the chair and they want to take it to ordinance review, don't you, Kit? That's what we usually do. But I guess you can make a motion to invite it. Yes, I think you don't have to direct it there. But the Ordinance Review Committee is on notice that the rest of the council would like you to take a look at it, I guess.
 And I'm sure, I don't know if you've had a meeting this year. We have not had a meeting. I was, I believe, the last chair, but it's been like 18 months. But, I mean, we can set something up. It's not going to be this week. I imagine that. We can certainly get it together and have a meeting before, not the next city council meeting, but the one after that. And maybe more than one meeting if it's been productive. Yes, I believe that is something we can make happen.
 I'm gonna be send this item to well, let me see if there's any public that want to speak on this issue if y'all will Okay, is anybody here wants to speak on this? It's everybody gets one turn it to Mike and
 you have a five minute duration don't engage anyone from public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating by zoom are allowed to speak first and those present in the chamber will speak after that susan do you have anyone on soon no one on zoom has raised their hand mayor okay does anyone in the chamber wish to address this on this hi my name is zach phillips i've been 14 14 or 15 57
 East Cardinal Drive in Fayetteville Ward 3. I'm a local homeowner and real estate investor in Fayetteville. I want to advocate that the requirement of conditional use permits for Type 2 SDRs be based on zoning district. Specifically, CUPs should be required for Type 2 SDRs in residential zones, but should not be required for commercial and mixed use zones.
 SDRs are a business activity and the purpose of our residential zones is not business. According to city code, if I wanted to do any business activity or home occupation in residential zone, I would need a CUP.
 However, many of our zones allow for hotels and motels by right without requiring a CUP. Why should citizens be able to build a hotel by right and not a type 2 STR? If you live in a commercial or entertainment district that allows hotels, restaurants, and shops, why should you be prevented from operating a business that would ultimately create less of a disturbance? Requiring a CUP in those circumstances creates uncertainty for investors and deters investment.
 The CUP process is ultimately subjective and no level of crossing T's and dotting I's can guarantee a permit. This uncertainty always has the marginal effect of reducing investment. On the other hand, we know that SDRs cause upward pressure on home prices and rent rates. Every unit converted to an SDR reduces the number of residents available for long-term occupants, which always has a marginal effect of pricing people out of the market. We know most of us also live in residential zones.
 So the most direct way, other than the citywide density cap, to reduce the effect of SDRs on our home prices and cost of living is to restrict them or put them through a higher level of scrutiny for a permit if they are located in a residential zone. Obviously we also have a major compliance and enforcement issue that is confusing the situation. We know we have 200 to 350 unregistered SDRs in the city not paying taxes and dues. We also know that SDRs create more of a disturbance than long-term occupied residences.
 Most of us can sympathize for our fellow citizens of Fayetteville who live near disruptive SDR, especially when legitimate complaints to the city seemingly go unheard and bad actors are allowed to continue to operate with impunity. Last month, we learned that zero SDR permits have been revoked in Fayetteville, yet all those bad actors have CUPs. That indicates either the permit application process is so weak that it failed to catch a single bad actor or that we have an enforcement issue.
 Given that the planning department has already stated that most applications for CUPs meet the level of compatibility and that city planning staff is already bogged down with STR applications, I suggest we reassess how that money is spent. We should pull resources away from CUP applications and use them to get better compliance and enforcement. Let's protect our neighborhoods and allow businesses to compete in the proper zones by requiring CUPs in residential zones and removing the requirement for CUPs in commercial and mixed-use zones.
 Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this? Hi, my name is Angie Pratt. I've been in Fayetteville for 16 years. I live up on top of Mount Sequoia. I'm a real estate investor, primarily in rental properties.
 I'd like to vote my voice my my support for keeping the CPU requirements for residential zones and removing the CPU requirement for the form based districts business zones and commercial zones. The proposal allows the city to address issues that the planning department has been facing.
 allows the city to encourage economic development in business and commercial zones and strategically direct its resources towards enforcement issues within primary which primarily pertain to residential zones the proposal empowers the city to address the three primary concerns of the planning department and the outside consultants
 Compliance translates into how well a particular STR property meets the city's requirements over time. It's about giving the city the tools it needs to identify noncompliance. Compliance is really a case of codification, penalties and induced good behavior by short-term rental owners.
 A steep escalation of fines and penalties up to the permanent removal of an owner as being qualified to have a business license and payable seems appropriate to me. From an enforcement perspective, business owners who want to stay in business are not willing to put their businesses at risk by breaking the law.
 The few bad actors that are out there need to know that the City of Fayetteville will identify those who are not in compliance and will enforce the law. Enforcement and compliance costs money and the City needs to provide the initial funding for it. From a frequency and concentration perspective, structurally, by definition, if you will, frequency concentration does not really apply to business or commercial zones as, in general, they don't have density capacity caps.
 frequency concentration does apply to residential zones. There are specific density caps, and there are existing restrictions, decades-old restrictions, on property being used as businesses. I would also like to go with Councilman Bunch and say that we'd like to see this done as quickly as possible. I don't want to wait six months on this. So anyway, thank you. I appreciate your time. And...
 do a good job thank you who else would like to address on this hi my name is logan humphrey i live in lauren circle here in fable um i've been speaking up here on this for since 2019 when it was first considered been a part of focus groups i own a property management company we have 46 properties in fayetteville that are professionally managed
 So the entire process right now under consideration is a little bit going backwards on the work that's been done previously. So I know Gardner Stolzen here and other people that have worked on the ordinance over time, but the original intent up to the day that it was passed was exactly what the two individuals before me were just stating. The conditional use permit was what the conditional use permitting process was intended for,
 applying for a conditional use of residential property to use as a commercial property. The original ordinance before it was passed over a year ago was intended to allow mixed-use or commercial-use properties to just go through the business licensing procedure. I think it's very reasonable of an ask.
 to have conditional use permitting processes in place for residential properties. It does allow neighbors to voice their opinions. However, a lot of neighborhoods already, I know from first-hand experience because we have other properties throughout Northwest Arkansas, and HOAs and POAs are also taking this into privately. They're regulating short-term rentals, allowing only a certain amount in their neighborhoods as well.
 So I agree with the council on tabling this and to the next meeting, looking at some of the data more often, so more thoroughly so that the ordinance itself can be reviewed. However, as a property manager who manages all properties for other people that own property here in Fayetteville,
 I would encourage you to do something so that the ordinance does not expire. We have our licenses. We would like to keep them. So thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address some of this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council now, if you all would. I'd like to make a motion that we send this to ordinance review. Second. And how long, Barb?
 Well, the motion needs to be to table this, and it should be tabled to December 20th, which is the second meeting in December, giving the Ordinance Review Committee... We'll update my motion to three meetings from now. I might ask you all to mute your phones. Okay, I'm sorry. December 6th, because right now is the first, so December 6th would be the first meeting in December. Better time than before Christmas, too. That gives us a little bit of time and the Ordinance Review Committee some time to look at this.
 And so that's probably what you do is motion table for that. Okay, motion to table till December the 6th and send to ordinance review committee in the meantime. Second. Okay, we have a motion and second to table to December the 6th, correct? All right. Any discussion or anything? All right, Kerwood, please call the roll. Turk? Yes. Ertzberg? Yes.
 Jones? Yes. Inion? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number two, a resolution to authorize Mayor George to sign a letter of intent defining
 development agreement terms with Rendell Properties Incorporated for the public-private partnership for construction of the mixed-use building plan to provide ground floor active uses for the Ramble Civic Plaza on the southern end of the site. Mayor, I'm gonna go ahead. Thank you.
 We have so many different voices that are chiming into this topic. I wanted to just let the council know that tonight we're going to focus on parking. Justin's going to start. I have sent you all several different things throughout the week in answer to your questions. After Justin has his moments of parking data discussion, then we'll hear back again from Rob Sharp and Brian Rendell.
 Lots of staff are available for questions. Just wanted to set the stage. Time, 10 minutes? He has 10 minutes. All right. Justin. All right. Thank you, Mayor, Council. So very briefly, I just wanted to touch on kind of what our peak utilization looks like these days, how frequently that occurs within the entertainment parking district. So on your screen here are two parking districts.
 and highlighted our off-street parking facilities. This is the intersection of Dixon and West. This is where the proposed hotel development location is. This is the downtown square, just for a point of reference.
 So how do we arrive at utilization numbers and what our peaks are? Well, we conduct counts. We commission parking studies. There's currently a parking study underway that's been commissioned by the Walton Arts Center and several Dixon Street merchants, downtown businesses. And so the boundaries of that study is highlighted in red on the screen. The city also conducted a parking study in 2016 that was completed in 2018.
 The boundary of that study is highlighted in black. And then we have five minutes, seven minute and 10 minute walk sheds from the intersection of Dixon and West, again, with the downtown square being represented here for context.
 So what does peak utilization look like? We conducted some counts recently. Anytime we conduct what we call event parking for larger Walton Arts Center events, we have good data points. We staff that with our parking attendants and assist the Walton Arts Center and
 They're patrons in nearby parking locations. So this was done just a few weeks ago and you can see that city managed spaces within the entertainment district are functionally full.
 That's a common occurrence within the entertainment district, particularly on the lots closest to, say, the Walton Arts Center. For this example, the surface parking lot along West Avenue fills up. Spring Street Deck fills up. Okay.
 We're approaching about 90% capacity overall within the entertainment district during these large events. And it can be difficult for folks to find nearby parking spaces within the entertainment district. Here's a little bit of information. I'm using the larger Walton Arts Center performances just as an example as something that drives parking demand. Obviously, you can envision football home game weekends.
 other events and areas that are bringing a lot of folks to the area. But we conduct these about somewhere between 90 and 100 unique dates each year. You can see what our 2022 utilization looks like.
 about 90 percent utilization in the lot it fills up about 70 percent of the time when we conduct event parking the spring street parking deck average utilization is around 76 fills up about 40 percent of the time we also offer reserved parking for walton arts center patrons when they purchase their ticket to the event to the performance
 On average for 2022, about 89 folks reserve parking and they're showing up. 72% of those are showing up in their reserved spaces.
 The big takeaway here for me is that these facilities typically fill up on weekends, right? So Thursday, Friday, Saturday in the evening when we're conducting event parking, these facilities are generally filling up.
 So, we want to institute programs and policies that don't add to the demand. We have, for instance, an employee parking program where we offer discounted parking in more underutilized parking spots a few blocks away from the core of activity. Again, trying not to increase the demand that we're seeing during these scenarios.
 Another strategy to mitigate that demand is valet parking. So this image is actually from the city's parking study. One of the recommendations was to encourage valet operations to underutilized parking areas.
 So what could those underutilized parking areas be? Well, if we're trying to get out of the core of the entertainment district, we can look and see what utilization looks like in the nearby downtown square business parking district. So these are five surface parking lots plus the town center that are generally available as public parking at all times. We conducted counts recently
 on these off-street parking facilities and found that their peak is during the day, during the week and during the day. So it follows kind of a typical nine to five business
 pattern with utilization existing generally on those off-street facilities in the evening times. That's not to say that some lots aren't approaching functional fullness or capacity at certain times, but on the whole, these counts were conducted the last week of September, the first two weeks of October, and these were the findings.
 does capacity exist within our downtown to potentially valet vehicles out of the entertainment district or maybe probably based on these numbers but perhaps a better approach is to not even focus on those parking facilities that are offered to the public today so i'd point you to a parking lot just south
 of the town center. It's currently being used by the police department. It's 55 parking spaces. When the police department moves into its new headquarters, those spaces will be vacated and unaccounted for. I would also note the 100 space city employee parking lot. It's used for city employees during the week. It's opened, it's a gated lot, and it's open to the public on weekends.
 Utilization in that mountain street city employee lot on a Saturday peaks around noon consistent with farmers market But even at that point there's 40 available public spaces and it's virtually empty the rest of the time and
 So, again, I feel like we have some capacity for a properly executed valet program to work. I think we have existing resources that can store vehicles. And I think it's absolutely critical that such a strategy not add to the peak demand times that we're experiencing today within the core of the entertainment district.
 So much time I have left here but I
 Those are my three main points that we generally always have capacity somewhere within our downtown parking supply that our entertainment district is filling up, particularly on Thursday, Friday, Saturdays during these large event scenarios and that these utilization and traffic patterns are a function of our management practices today. There are other strategies that can be implemented to try to.
 free up more supply at all times really and that's something that should always be considered as well so i'll stop there i know we've got some more presentations but i'm happy to take questions now or um can chime in as needed okay is the developer right but let's see if there are parking questions for justin before we
 All right. Mayor, I have one question. Sure. So, Justin, could you go back a couple of slides?
 um maybe one more um sorry one more uh that slide right there um i appreciate the percentages and all the information that you put together but you know maybe in the next presentation or adding more information could you maybe highlight how many spaces are remaining i know each lot size is a little different and it looks like i couldn't tell if the 549 spaces were the total number of spaces
 or how that actually stacked up. I see. Yeah, no, I appreciate the question. So the 549 spaces represent the total amount of spaces within each of these off off street parking facilities. So that average is combining them all together. Okay. All right. Thank you. Mm hmm.
 Yes, DeAndre. Justin, thank you so much for your presentation. This is a question. Would this be the only hotel in northwest Arkansas with valet parking? Oh, I don't know the answer to that question. That might be a good question for the developer. We actually have someone who has. I believe Chung researched that for us, the hotel that's coming in Bentonville.
 Councilmember Jones, I can speak to one that I know is currently under construction in downtown Bentonville where they have not broken ground yet. Yet there's been plenty of articles on it. It's at the intersection of Central and A, I believe, just south.
 East of the Bentonville Square, I believe it's a 135 room hotel that Ropeswing is doing, and the parking plan for that is referencing the 492 spaces that publicly surround that within a half a block. There's numerous lots there, one behind Edmonton Tap, if you're familiar with downtown Bentonville, et cetera. As to the hotels that do, I'm sure there are. I can't speak to that, but I know there is one that is coming online that is solely relying on that.
 Absolutely. Thank you. Because I'm thinking with Northwest Arkansas and Fayetteville growing at such a fast pace, it's interesting that there is no valet parking being offered at hotels. So thank you for sharing that. Thank you. So, Devin, there's a hotel coming in that's 100 percent valet? There's no plan. There's bicycle parking that's being planned on the site. But in regards to their parking plan, it is solely offsite. Okay.
 All right, do we have any other questions? Good, all right. Let's take some public comment. Well, Mayor, next we'll have... Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So next... Yes, Mr. Rendell, I'm sorry. That's right. So Mr. Sharpe and Mr. Rendell will have the next 10 minutes. Okay.
 Thank you. Since last time I was so long winded, I want Brian to go first so he can talk about big picture and then I'll give you all the backing details. Okay. Well, Mayor, City Council, thank you. Once again, thank you for considering our hotel project. In August 2021, City put out an RFP.
 And I knew that 100% there was going to be a building in front of my building, the Metro District. And so I decided if there's going to be a building there, maybe I should put a proposal in and maybe it should be me that builds it. So I put in a proposal for the hotel. And I guess I was naive, but I didn't think anybody would be against the hotel. So we haven't had one in 50 years.
 And so, but ever since we were selected, all I've heard is parking, parking, more parking. And we don't wanna be a burden on the downtown. We don't wanna be a burden on the Walton Arts Center. And obviously if you're investing $50 million, you wanna make sure you got adequate parking for your customers or they won't come back. They won't be happy. So we responded to everybody's concerns by reducing the number of rooms from 170 to 134. We, we've been doing that.
 And we also decided to add a layer of onsite parking. And then we explained our valley parking plan, which I've got some charts. I hope I have time to show them to you guys. But if I don't, I can send them to you. So I think we're going to submit a logical plan that even during peak demand will not overload the parking system.
 We have asked Justin Clay, and you guys can bring him back up here if you want to, but I asked him, I said, do you think that the hotel will create an enormous problem for the downtown parking? His answer was absolutely no if there's an adequate valet parking system put into place. So honestly, I think the whole idea of potentially rejecting this project simply because of parking is backward. By that same logic, we would have rejected putting the Walton Arts Center downtown 30 years ago.
 Because they would be sucking up thousands of parking spaces from the local businesses. We would view every business that leaves town as a net positive because it's good for the Walton Arts Center parking. We would view every business that opens like the Tin Roof as a net negative because they would be taking Walton Arts Center parking. Don't we want a vital, active, robust downtown? When the Walton Arts Center has a large event, they'll use 600 parking spaces from the local businesses.
 Rather than the city taking the strategy of no new growth downtown, maybe it's time that the Walton Arts Center created some parking strategies of their own, and of which we would be willing to work with them with our valet parking to help them. The bottom line is we don't want to hurt the Walton Arts Center. We don't want to hurt downtown. I think we can demonstrate clearly that we will not. This is not based on emotion or feelings. It's based on industry standards and a clear demonstration of how we're going to handle the valet parking.
 And if you disagree, then I need somebody to show me the evidence. So because we're going to show industry standards, how many cars, how many people bring a car when they come to a hotel, to a downtown hotel. And then how many people allow you to valet those cars. And we're going to valet them outside of this zone that everybody's worried about. So to end this on a positive note, I'm excited about bringing this new, awesome, incredible hotel to downtown Fayetteville.
 We will provide bathrooms for the park. We'll have a restaurant, a coffee shop, rooftop bar. They'll help activate the park. We'll have eyes on the park to help prevent crime. We'll produce a lot of tax revenue for the city. And I know we'll be a positive addition and a fantastic amenity for the city downtown. And whatever the council decides tonight, I want to thank the city staff and the mayor. I think they've been a tough customer. They haven't given me anything free or easy.
 But they've been fair and they've operating good faith and I think they've represented the city. Well, we're having questions for the app. Yes, Mayor Jordan. I do have a question for Brian and Brian. Thank you for investing in Fayetteville. You made a point. And if you could clarify initially.
 Was it 170 or 174 beds? Initially, we were thinking 170, and then now we've cut it to 134. And then we've added a layer of parking, which is no less than 32 spots, and it could be as many as 45. It's going to kind of depend on the design. So from the very start, you've been open to compromising, correct? Absolutely. That's very admirable. Thank you. Yes. Thank you. Okay.
 Mayor, Rob would have the next six minutes before we have question and answer. Okay, so we've got, okay. Yeah, so Rob gets until 637. Okay, so last time you sent me away with lots and lots of questions, which I appreciated. And these are the answers. You've gotten these in email format, but it was late today. So I'm going to print some out for you all and let you count each other.
 And this is sometimes written words better than we're looking at facts. And this information can be shown on the slide as well, but sometimes, again, people want to see it in writing. But if we could bring up, go to the, I'm just going to, what I'm going to do is go through these questions that you left me with, give you the quick answer.
 We'll come back and look at in detail anything you want to look at. So if we can go to the next slide. All right. So going through the questions that we were left is where does the $50 million number come from? We have an exhibit showing a breakdown of where that comes. We can go into detail if you would like. Okay.
 The second question is, or the next question, can we accommodate deliveries and emergency and solid waste? The answer is yes, we can. We have done turning radius diagrams and axis diagrams and that exhibit is in there. The next is who's going to be the architect for the hotel? And we've got a short list of three architects, two in Memphis and one in Atlanta, that do this for a living that would be responsible for the nuts and bolts of the hotel.
 Next question, what brand will it be? At this point we have not selected the brand. It will be certainly a very high quality hotel. We've gone to a lot of detail on the exterior of what it's going to look like. Everything the public sees, touches and feels will be great. We don't exactly know the brand yet and it's too early to say what that will be.
 We had a question about meeting room capacity. We got back with our consultants and what they tell us is we need a 200 seat ballroom to do the kind of events we need to do. They say 4,000 square feet will accommodate that. We had questions about the restaurant service schedule. It's a little too early for us to know what that is yet. We will work hard to complement the existing culinary scene, try to not duplicate what's already going on in the downtown. Will it be a fitness center and pool? There will be a fitness center, there will not be a pool.
 What would the parking requirements be for this building if Fayetteville had parking requirements for commercial buildings? I went through the development code and wrote out what that would be. That exhibit is attached. We can go through that if you wish. How will employee parking be managed? We ask that the employees of the hotel be treated like all the other downtown employees. We'll participate in the downtown employee system.
 downtown employee parking system and so we're obviously we want to make sure that employees are not taking up parking of customers. How will valet parking work?
 Justin Clay talked about that a little bit about that Brian talked about a little bit about that the concept is move cars from The intense zones to where they're where there's an active supply So we can go through that later if you need there's also there's a there's a valet parking Diagram that shows where we think the excess parking is during the week and during the weekends so you can see that map and you can know where they're where we're planning on having that and
 There's a question, does the City of Fayetteville have design authority over the public restrooms? The answer is yes. Will Randall Properties have their own landscape architect? The answer is yes. They'll be hired and we hired the civil engineer who will pay to construct the bicycle trail and who will pay for the easements to the trail. So our letter of intent when we got the RFP from the city, it showed the building.
 at the south edge of the park and the bicycle trail constructed on the south edge of the park. One of the key ideas of our proposal was if you would move your trail, if you let Brian sell you the land for the trail against his building, you can make a bigger park and we can move the building to the south and to the west. And the selection committee thought that that was a good idea. So we'd like to keep with that idea.
 who will operate the hotel. We have not picked a management company. It's highly likely it will be Hospitality America, which is Windsor Autry's management partner. Do we have a contract with Windsor Autry? We do not and we will not until we get through this sort of green light period here where we flesh out the deal more thoroughly. But so far they've been great advisors to us to this point and we anticipate keeping that relationship
 There's a question how many jobs are recreated. The 45 jobs for the hotel portion alone, that doesn't include restaurant, coffee shop, that kind of space. Where will trash and recycling be? They will be in the loading facilities on the west side of the building. They'll be below bicycle grade, so they'll be well hidden. That's a good place to have those. How will the hotel affect the Upper Ramble in terms of shade? And we've done some diagrams showing shade studies, and we can probably...
 go into those now if you'll advance the slides keep going keep going keep going this is the valley parking map but keep going to the shade study so if you can see this is this is june 21st at 10 a.m and if you could just advance the slides until you get to winter we've you can look at this this is this is in your printout as well but you can see you know where the shadows fall different times a year and we can talk about time but time
 I'd like to give Rob another five minutes. Second. Everybody good? Go ahead, Rob. Okay. Next slide. And then this is the dark of winter. This is kind of worst case. No, I guess the next slide is worst case. Okay, this is worst case. So January 21st, 3 p.m., the sunny place will be at the southern end of the park, not, you know, the northern end of the park, not the southern end. And go to the next image.
 And this is, we think, an important image. This is what the hotel looks like at night, lit up. And you can see what sort of acts as a beacon, provides that anchor to the park. And then next slide, I think it maybe zooms in on that. So I think it's important to think about daytime certainly, but also nighttime use. Next slide. Alright, so additional questions. How does this fit in with the local hotel ecosystem?
 Second question, what if we do nothing? And third is how does the valet parking program work specifically? So if we'll just dive into the Hokotel ecosystem with the next slide. So we've got the Graduate Hotel, sort of our legacy hotel downtown that's had a great remodel and a reinvigorating design. Next slide. We've got the Inn at Carnal Hall, great historic building on campus, wonderful facility.
 Next slide. There's an exciting hotel coming in at South Yard in the Mill District. This is going to be, you know, the place where the little micro rooms because it's more about the experience and it'll be, you know, it's the kind of place that probably the...
 The room service staff will have the most interesting stories about what goes on in that hotel. The next slide. We've also got, you know, for the people that are value conscious, convenience conscious, security conscious, we've got a lot of options on I-49. They can come and stay there and they can come into downtown if they want a little excitement or they can go stay back at the hotel if they want more quiet.
 So that sort of describes the ecosystem. Our hotel's gonna fit in there, we're gonna find the niche that's not being covered. We think being in the center of downtown on the cultural arts corridor is a great place to be. Next slide. So if we do nothing, existing situation, we had this ragged property line at the south end. Next slide. We've got a grade difference. We have surface parking that will remain if the project's not done. Next slide.
 We've got these kind of dead spots that, you know, we've heard through crime provision, through environmental design, that having these little sort of hidden spaces in the south end of parks is not ideal. Next slide. We're going to have to come up with $400,000 for a park-type bathroom, maybe twice that much, if we try to make it attractive. Next slide. And then, how does the valet parking work? So, we'll go into that. So, valet is the future. For a lot of times, people said, no, self-driving cars are the future.
 Well, the future is valet parking and micro-mobility. And the reason I say that is because structured parking is very, very hard to pay for, as we all know.
 We all know that micromobility is bringing scooters, e-bikes, regular bikes, skateboards. As we build that infrastructure, people use it more. And the next slide could  the key, the reason this is so important to valet is that typically you want to do valet within about a five-minute walk.
 I think Justin Tennant mentioned something about having the track team do our valet parking. This is a little remote. But with the e-scooters and e-bikes you can have, and with apps, you can extend your valet range to half a mile because you can get the car and back again in that five minute, six minute time period. And so that's a critical part of the program.
 So the valet parking, there is no valet parking in Northwest Arkansas yet. They do it in Little Rock, they do it other places. We know it's going to happen in Bentonville, but there's not a valet company yet. Brian Rindle is going to start that company. He started six other companies, they've all been successful, so we expect this one to be as well. But he's the one that's going to make that work and he's the one that has the most at stake to make it work. Next slide.
 This is our map. This is where the parking is going to be. A lot of people ask about it because the letter of intent says very clearly we are going to use the excess city parking that's available. This excess parking right now, it's going to waste. We're storing air down on Spring Street a lot of the time.
 So, we want to use this excess parking, pay the city for it, just like the Graduate Hotel does. And then when the things are, when it's the Alabama game and there's a Broadway show, we'll be parking over on the employee street, employee parking on Mountain, or we'll be parking over on Rock Street, these places that are now being underutilized. So, we're going to activate the downtown. It's going to be the best of all worlds. We're going to activate the downtown, and we're going to store the cars where they're least disruptive. Next slide.
 This is just talking about in downtown areas the micro mill is faster than the... It is time. It just turned time. Perfect. Alright. Well, I look forward to your questions and we'll go into detail. I'd like to extend Rob's time. Rob, how much more time do you need? I don't think... We gave five more minutes. What was the time on the five minutes?
 At 6.42, it was five minutes, so Sonia's asking if he needs more time.
 If we had two minutes for Brian to go through these parking numbers, it would be very valuable. The council is going to have to decide that. Certainly. I'm just requesting that. So what do you all want to do? I second. Well, we don't need to say. Okay. Well, I support it, though. Two more minutes. All right. What do you need, Rob? If Brian has two minutes to go through three slides, I think we'll explain a lot of the parking load in very simple terms.
 Is the council agreeable to that? Okay. Let's do it. Okay, so you said two minutes, is that correct? Alright, 6.45 there, Brian. Alright, I'm going to go quick. Alright, so if you look at this slide, there's going to be two slides. One of them is looking at average parking usage. So we've got 134 rooms and 70% occupancy is kind of what we're saying average. This would be our goal, to be 70% occupied.
 which would mean there would be 94 rooms occupied. And if you multiply that times 70%, that will bring a car. That means that there will be 66 cars that would come down on average. Out of that 66 cars, also 70% will let you valet them. That's industry standard. Same thing with the other industry standard where it says 70% occupancy and that 30% of them are going to Uber. That's an industry standard. Okay.
 So you take out the 43 cars that will let us valet them outside of that zone. It leaves you 23 car impact. All right, so next slide. And so peak parking usage is all the rooms are occupied. You've got 134 rooms. 70% will bring a car. 30% will Uber again. That gives you 94 cars. 70% will let you valet, which is 66 cars, which leaves you 28 car impact. Next slide. And so we have a 23 car impact or a 28 car impact.
 Not a big impact. But you also cannot forget that all those people that are staying with us would have come down and used some parking anyway because they were going to be out on the bypass on Highway 49, I-49, and they were going to come down to Bardino's or something downtown. And also, don't forget, we didn't even talk about the 32 to 45 spaces that we're going to provide ourselves. Okay. Thank you.
 Alright. And that is our presentation for tonight. We have a lot of staff here for council questions for Mayor. Okay, what questions do we have from the council for the applicant?
 Okay, yes mayor. I have a couple of questions so the information that you just provided about the cars That's I don't believe that's in our packet Can you share that and then can you cite the industry standard reference that you're referring to? Okay, well let's come up to the microphone Okay
 Sorry. Yeah, Windsor Archery, our hotel consultants gave us those numbers. Okay. If you could send a link to where that information is, because I'd like to find out the quote industry standard, because those could be all really large cities and really not. I specifically ask because they own two hotels, one of them in Columbia, South Carolina, and one in Baton Rouge.
 So, those are the ones we're kind of basing it off of because they're also college towns. Great. I'd love to see that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Quick question for you before you go sit down. Are any of those spaces provided by the hotel going to be used for valet or are you valeting out?
 I think we don't really know what we're going to use this for yet. They're going to be sort of flex spaces because we really, we don't know if there's going to be, you know, some more retail. We've, it's been some talk about maybe a yoga studio being there. And so we don't really, we're trying to not even include those in the impact. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for providing us this detail, these details. I mean, 17 questions, no,
 You've given us a lot of detail, a lot of information. So thank you. Thank you for that. Thank you so much. Okay. Anything else? Yes. Yeah. I appreciate the answers as well. I think I asked the majority of those questions. So I don't think I'm interested in wasting your time. I don't think you're interested in wasting mine. And I appreciate that. So we've got hotel room parking. Okay.
 But that next layer to peel back is going to be retail, number of employees, banquet hall, dining, things of that nature I would be interested in. But that's just the next layer. The concern that I have is we're not accounting for surface spaces you're removing for your existing businesses, right?
 And no one's going to valet to eat pancakes at my favorite breakfast restaurant. So I would hate for you to drive your existing businesses out of business just as well. So I'm I'm curious about how we're going to address them. We now have head in parking where we're also from my experience.
 dining at your your facilities There's a lot of daytime truck delivery activity and the hotel will only increase that So I'm going to be looking for how you're going to sophisticatedly handle those drop-offs when those delivery trucks are used to delivering in front and my admonition for staff is going to be a
 We're not spontaneously and voluntarily saying, hey, let's move our trail and purchase land from you. I'm not sure that we have a letter of intent that addresses an appraisal for that land. We have the appraisal for the hotel land. And so that's going to be a tricky step for me because. I believe the appraisal was to address any land.
 Okay, that'll be important because it's in our original scope for this project or a project, not this one, we weren't going to have the cost of relocating our trail. And so the expense of doing that is an expense that I'll be very interested in us getting a better fine tuning to.
 We can't come back to the residents of Fayetteville and say that we end up with a wash by the time we buy a trail. Can I answer some of those? I would love it because you know I'm not going to waste your time. Well, the trail, we're moving it on my land, but then I'm buying land from the city. Yeah.
 So that's where your money is going to come. You were going to have a trail on your own land. Well, that land is now going to be sold to me at a premium, and then you're going to buy the trail at a premium. So when we do the appraisal, we'll do appraisal for both pieces. You had a couple other things you said in there. Well, I think...
 The concern for me is that the original city proposal didn't necessitate relocating the trail. So that's a new expense that was not built in the original idea the city had for a building in that location. So I'm just wanting to raise that as a point. The others are handling deliveries, but I'd rather you not address that tonight. I'd rather you and your architect have an opportunity to look at that as completely separate issue from valet parking.
 So you're handling the valet parking issue very well. I'm looking for the other parking demands to make sure we don't forget. As far as the restaurant, the coffee shop, rooftop bar, we were just thinking that we would just be treated like anybody else. So if somebody else wanted to open up a coffee shop,
 They would just be able to open up a coffee shop. Somebody else wanted to open up a bar, they would open up a bar. And so the customers and the employees would participate in the downtown city parking as it is, and then the employee parking system that we have in place. So we were looking at it as two different things. One of them is the hotel. That was the one that I was trying to focus on and say, let's take care of this so that you're comfortable with the amount of parking they were going to be using.
 I mean, the other one is just, hey, we're opening up a coffee shop, a rooftop bar, a restaurant. Why would we be treated differently than anybody else? And Rob's been behind you wanting to add.
 And if I could add a little bit of, so on the, in terms of the bicycle trail, in terms of building it and who was going to pay for it, the RFP we received from the committee showed this bypass trail, showed it being built, showed it on city land. So this is not a new expense that was, that's off the, that was, you know, we're adding to the books. This is already on the books.
 So this is a relocation of an expense the city's already allocated. The only difference is that it's in a superior location because it allows a bigger park. In terms of the access and loading, if we could go through the exhibit that is in your packet there, we can also, it's the one that looks like this. If we could bring that up on the screen, we could go through the detail. We could do it at Tech Plat Review, which is probably better, but we could do it here in the city council.
 trust me, the loading will work, the trash will work, there will be fire rescue areas that will meet the code. So all these details
 And the reason is because Brian's been down there for 20 years dealing with parking and trash. Like he knows how difficult it is. And this building used to be an industrial facility. It had loading docks on three sides. Like we know how to move things in and out of that spot. But, you know, if people want to look at, you know, sort of worst-case scenario, tractor-trailer, we have those diagrams. And it's a, you know, it's a very, very complex thing.
 Something that's important. It's a detail to get right. You don't want to have a nice hotel and then have you know Diesel fumes in front of it, but we do have a plan to address that and again I'd rather talk about it at Tech Platte and talk about it here and you know, you know we I think we're hopefully we can consider larger issues here, but we do we do have the Concern that it work
 One more thing. You were talking about the parking of my existing customers. Obviously, nobody's more worried about that than me, you know, with my existing building. So I cannot let this building kill the goose that lays the golden eggs. So we're worried about it. And we also, if you look at the back of that building, there's a deck on there that we plan to tear off, and we're going to be able to create some more parking on site in the back of that building. Okay.
 Anybody have any more? Yes, sir. I don't have any questions for you. But do we have any more staff presentations? We were just going to answer questions. We definitely have staff here ready for questions. I would love to hear if our director of parks is available, Allison Jumper. I don't know if she's here. Oh, there she is. I'd love to hear what her...
 Her thoughts are on this because how this will be fit in possibly with our proposed park because you're active in crafting the park part of it. So I'd love to hear your thoughts on the hotel, how it fits in with the park. Sure. Thank you for the question, Councilmember Bunch.
 This is a new type of park for Fayetteville. It's really much more urban than what we're used to developing, which we're very excited about, but we also want to do it right.
 And so some of the things that we have found that work really well with urban parks are that they are created for a variety of uses. They have very active edges, which often contain building frontages that allow public access to areas like restaurants, cafes, retail. Those type of services really help keep a park active and they support informal surveillance
 and provide proximate access to assistance if needed, creating ultimately a safer park. We found it's not uncommon for things like hotels, restaurants, even convention centers to be co-located with an urban park or urban plaza in urban areas because those uses are quite compatible.
 While you're up there, Allison, I have a follow-up question. So are you concerned at all with the lack, with the seven-story building kind of being right in the middle of the ramble and creating a barrier and lack of continuity between the lower ramble and the rest of the arts corridor? How do you see that? Mm-hmm.
 I really see the trail as the ribbon that connects all of these spaces and the green space that surrounds that. I don't see it as a barrier. I see it as really a terminus for that portion of the park and it creates a sense of enclosure and again it helps keep more eyes on the park because that front facade will be pretty active. Thank you. I appreciate that. Any other questions for the staff or the applicant?
 Mayor Jordan, real quickly, I think I see Molly Ron with experience Fayetteville, and I'm sure that Molly was probably prepared to speak. But Molly, if you could speak to the quality of life that this hotel could bring to Fayetteville.
 Well, thank you, Councilperson Jones. I actually was here just to be a listener this evening, but I'm happy to answer your question. No, it's fine. I'm happy to stand up, and I never want to shy away from an opportunity to talk about our great city and all the great things that are happening there. Many of you may have noticed that I have not been to this podium before to talk about this issue. I wasn't at the last meeting. And frankly, that's because I had concerns, and I didn't know where I stood on this project.
 It's not lost on any of you that this has been divisive, I think more divisive than it should have been, and that always hurts my heart because I have great friends and colleagues that feel passionately about this issue. And I don't think there's anybody who has ever felt
 the room tonight that is going to speak before you all that doesn't want what's best for our city and that doesn't love Fayetteville. So I know everybody comes up with pure intentions and I truly believe that.
 One of the things that I do want to address specifically, since you asked, that has been said is I have heard a couple of people question whether or not a new hotel is needed or a hotel is needed or if the city can accommodate and has the business to accommodate another hotel. And the answer to that question is yes.
 We do, we can, we will. Those aren't my feelings. Those aren't, you know, that's not just my opinion about it. That's what the data show. And so...
 Yes, absolutely. If people have concerns about the hotel. I mentioned to you earlier that I had struggled with concerns and I wasn't quite certain how I felt. At no point did I ever question whether or not we needed this development because I believe we do. I know that there are concerns. I have faith that you all and that the
 Mr. Rendell and Mr. Sharp, who have been here tonight, are working with a reputable company and will help alleviate those concerns. Parking, those concerns should not be dismissed.
 They're important, particularly to make sure that the hotel parking doesn't do anything that is going to take away and damage the availability of parking for people on Dixon Street. But I'm confident that we can get there. But I don't think we can get there unless we move forward. I think if we just continue to talk about it and talk about it and table it, nothing will happen. To me, this seems like the great next step that we need to take to be able to make other things fall into place.
 In your role, do you hear people say that they would, they wish that they had, we had other hotel options downtown? Yes. Wow. So they're having to go to the graduate and then probably other places as well, correct? Yes.
 I don't know what you mean by having to go to... I mean, we have great properties in Fayetteville. We have wonderful hotels, the Graduate being one of them. So I think that people get to go and stay there and they have a wonderful experience when they go. But I do think, like a lot of places, it is often...
 I certainly think we have the market to be able to accommodate more rooms, if that's what you're asking. Absolutely. And someone once said that people go to Dixon Street to visit but not spend the night. And I said, well, they're probably not spending the night because there are very few options. And so if we were to give them options, it sounds like that they will take advantage of those of that option.
 mean it certainly seems like you have investors that believe that right all right so yeah well Molly I appreciate you thank you thank you the public everybody gets one turn to speak you have a five-minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom will be allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom? Susan. Well, no one has raised their hand on Zoom, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, then we will take... Yes, come on up. I'm Dash Goff.
 I'm a resident a long time in Fayetteville, 3407 Breckenridge. Let's first say I'm 83 years old and my steps have gotten a lot shorter on this parking. I'm very familiar with the parking in the city of Fayetteville. I have an office building on College Avenue and the city let Feed and Folly restaurant go in with zero parking.
 They were going to go, their tenants go across the street, four lanes of College Avenue to the parking lot, the federal building that's now closed, the parking lot behind the courthouse is condos. Now they just built 145 apartments on Township with only 148 parking places. And now the Walton Art Center parking lot, I wish we had it and the deck.
 Trust me, we need them. The Walton was full last night and two weeks ago it was full. But now we're going to build a hotel there. And I'm appalled that for the most successful parking lot in Washington County, we're going to get a hotel with inadequate parking and a homeless park. That's all. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Yes. Yes.
 Good evening, Council. I'm back. I'm Bo Counts, a resident of Ward 2, also a local business owner on Block Street. I did want to kind of mention my experience of the past month on Block Street. We just finished up our Nightmare on Block Street event. Just in the past four days, we had over 3,700 customers come through our doors. 3,700. Where did they park? They didn't have any problems. We served 1,000 customers in one night, and not a single business around me complained.
 On game days, 50,000, 60,000 residents flood our downtown. They come and eat at Hugo's.
 They come and shop at all these local stores. They stay at the Graduate. And what do the people that stay at the Graduate do? They come and shop at my business and the boutiques above me. I get to meet people from all over the world that come and visit that are staying at the hotel right across the street, which takes away from my parking, quote unquote. But it doesn't. It adds to, these are customers that are coming and living in our downtown and experiencing our downtown and possibly even moving to our downtown because they had such an amazing experience.
 in Fayetteville. Now I was looking at something while I was sitting in the audience and I kind of wanted to read a sentence and this might be familiar to all of us, but it says this project will enhance civic space and serve as a catalyst for additional development and density in the downtown area, increasing bike trails and connections and improving streets and walkability in the city of Fayetteville.
 That's the ramble, you guys. That's what we're doing. We're increasing the downtown density. And when I hear about a hotel, I want to ask, what are we really arguing about here? Because 134 customers in a hotel isn't even close to a thousand customers at a theater, or 400 customers at the theater that's right next to the theater that holds a thousand customers.
 Or the restaurant that we just all celebrated coming in that holds, it was, I think, they did over 2,000 guests on Saturday, one of the bouncers told me. Where do those people park? Where did they come from? You know, that's what a downtown is about. It's about evolving and changing. And, you know, I can already think of at least three restaurants downtown that utilize valet. I mean, you've got Theo's, you've got Bordino's, I know Veteran, some other places also utilize valet parking. It's something that they already know and their customers are used to. And I feel like...
 When I look up at the city of Fayetteville plaque, and it says, City of Fayetteville, and that makes me feel like there's a whole bunch of voices in the room, not just two, not just one, but this whole city coming together to generate money, generate revenue. And then you look at the GIS map, which I did. All of the STRs are in Ward 2, over 60% of them.
 That's our downtown. If there's not a better example of a demand for downtown lodging that just so happens to also take away workforce housing, short-term rentals are one of the things. And we can offset that need by giving other options downtown. Does this affect me? Sort of, not really. You know, I share downtown parking. I have zero parking spaces for my staff. We pay for parking just like everyone else.
 And we get it. We make do. We serve tons of customers, and we have a great time doing it. And we love this city, and we want this city to grow. If you just look at Block Street five years ago.
 It was nothing down there. And a lot of people had pushback of like, oh, another bar, another restaurant. That's going to take away from my business. But we've created a bustling, thriving downtown block street in the square are alive and attracting new people. It's no longer just Dixon Street. It's downtown Fayetteville. You know, Dixon Street is kind of a bad word to some people, but downtown Fayetteville represents all of us. And I think that's important to remember when we're making the decision for the city.
 So that's all I had to say as a person who lives down here, works down here, and has dedicated the last 20 years of my life doing arts, entertainment, and hospitality down here. So enjoy. Thanks, guys. Thank you. Well, Mayor, City Council, I'm Dot Neely. I live in Ward 3, North Mission. I'd like to just put forward that there are so many moving parts to this project. It's a good thought to have more...
 hotel accommodations downtown. Some friends of mine were in town just two weekends ago, and they stayed in the graduate, no, they stayed in Carnal Hall, and they enjoyed the walk to feed and folly down through the town. So the walking space for folks that come to town, I was their chauffeur, they were just, they flew in their own plane overnight, but anyway, they enjoyed the walk.
 And to be so close to all the amenities and my friend who came She and I were in college together here. So she was back to show her husband the town Anyway, the walking is good more hotel accommodations within the walking area of our downtown area Entertainment district that's good. I I
 One of the thoughts I have about, I was part of the concept input from the citizens for the Civic Plaza, and the thought of a hotel there was not even on my, in my radar with those planning sessions because there had been talk of the hotel that was supposedly going to go in by the Choo Choo train bank.
 So that was my thought for where the hotel was gonna be. I knew that there was gonna be a mixed use building on the south end of the Walton Arts Center parking lot, but the hotel wasn't part of it. The other thing is, is it just seems ideas are good in thought and theory and data is great for other places, but sometimes when you get to the reality of a situation,
 you can only have one chance to get it right. And I do have a concern that if this
 facility is includes 135 room hotel and then in some of the possible uses there were there were multi-family units in it and then businesses in the lower level yes where where do the business owners and the employees part where did the people that work in the restaurants and the other service amenities part where where do the residents that may or may not be
 approved for a resident dwelling space, where would they park? We've gone around and around about parking, so I guess...
 In essence, I'm just saying, you know, get it right the first time. Take all the time you need to consider the surrounding businesses that will be impacted by the construction, the service entrances, as you've discussed. Give it time. You know, nobody's turning blue or bleeding to death. We have time to get it right. And as many facets as you can look at, you know, we might not get all the details, but
 but don't rush this work with mr ronville and y'all talk a lot invite me to some of the meetings and and i thank you for this opportunity to speak thank you mr mayor and council my name is hugh
 Some of you may know or remember that many years ago, I worked for Mayor Dan Cootey. During that time, we had more than a few conversations about utilizing the parking lot for something more than parking. Let me say that we never succeeded in moving anything forward. I want to commend the staff.
 the council and the voters for what is now being done in improving this downtown area in this wonderful city. I am especially supportive of the recent plan to locate a downtown hotel in the southwest corner. Simply put, a hotel in our downtown is a great and needed component for this plan.
 Staff has informed me, and you've heard it tonight, that the parking issue has been resolved to the satisfaction of the developer. The key issue, at least from my perspective, is that the developer must be supportive of this key component of the plan, namely how parking is to be handled.
 I should also note that renderings of the plan prepared in 2019 showed a mixed use building in this location. It has always been the intent of this city, as I understand it, to secure private investment whenever and wherever feasible. In closing, this entire effort is wonderful and I commend this council and other councils for being the catalyst of this. Thank you. Thank you, Hugh.
 I'm Ted Belden. I live at 504 East Lafayette. I just want to make sure and clarify for the public that I'm involved in a hotel project in downtown Fayetteville where the choo-choo train is. When we did the parking deck partnership with the city, it was with the idea that a hotel would be there.
 We're not marketing people very well. People don't seem to know about that. They maybe forgot about it, but the city certainly knows about that. We have a relationship with them with a relationship with the new parking deck and our ability to park in that. We are spending over $2.6 million in that deck to add additional parking availability. Forty-four spaces are already being built, and we can build on the seventh floor. We're going to have that ability to do that. So parking is a big issue for us.
 I'm a little nervous. My question, I think the valet parking, I like what y'all are saying about that. It's getting to those places that are remote and if it's with a motorcycle scooter, that kind of, you can't quite understand how that's gonna work. But if you don't raise the rates in the Spring Street deck,
 And in this parking deck that we're building, then when the guests come and they can park for $5, that's where they're going to park versus coming up to a valet and paying $25. I don't know how much they're going to charge for valet parking, but those customers are going to find the cheapest parking they can get if it's convenient. And I don't know that that's been addressed at all. And if you have a relationship with your...
 your city-owned parking lots, I think it would be great for people like Hugo's and Cheers and Vitro to also have those accesses. I don't know if you're doing this exclusively for this private developer. Will other private developers and restaurant owners have the ability to use the valet parking lots that you want to make available? Thank you. Eric Green Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan, members of the city council, my name is Mike Johnson, 324 North Olive Avenue, Fayetteville, proud resident of Ward 2 since March of 2004. I've looked at this and related issues for a number of years now, and from several points of view. One is associate vice chancellor of facilities at the university for about 17 years, and as a member of the Walton Arts Center Council. Nine years on the council, my last two years as chair.
 It's a unique situation that we have in Fayetteville with numbers of businesses and events that have been talked about tonight that currently draw visitors from around the region and truly beyond our own downtown. With the stated community interest, our bond approval, and investing more in the development and this special area, I think we've got a lot of opportunities. As a member of the Walton Arts Center Council, we did see possible concepts in the Civic Plaza.
 And at some point, one of these that showed a large building in the south, multi-use at the time, and also one at the north. It was a conceptual design. Was that specific conceptual design approved by the city council? Where are the specific details about that conceptual design that were identified? If not, now's the time for all these details, and many coming out as we speak tonight,
 that are missing to be more specifically defined before we contractually go too far in the process. I'm concerned we do not know what we're getting into with this wording. It's frankly more a contractual agreement than just a net letter of intent. It's arguably the most valuable undeveloped property in the area. We don't want to agree to a proposal that does not adequately specify what will be developed and how it will be used.
 This proposal lacks the details about what the building will be, structurally and operationally, though many came out tonight. Like two hours before the meeting came out publicly, we got on emails and that type of thing. A lot more tonight as we're talking. The proposal needs those details. The city owns the property now. I encourage you to make sure that you have good clarity in what we'll be getting into in this development before moving too far forward in the process.
 We must develop. We must grow. Nobody is against that. Now is the time for these details. Now is the time to define what and how we want to see this space used, both north and south. The city, its citizens, the surrounding businesses should be the ones who develop these necessary details. It should not be signed truly over to a developer to do an LOI without an agreed-upon detailed process.
 I encourage the Council and the staff to take your time as you're doing tonight, do your research, identify what we really want, involve your community, put it into the LOI. You have the authority and the responsibility to do this. I think you have a great developer. I think you have a great design team. I think there's opportunities with this. I think there's a compatibility with what may go on north of the North Building.
 in the Choo Choo train area. I like that. I'm a big train fan. And lastly, did I forget to mention that parking is one of those vital issues? And I would just encourage you to factor that in with everything. One thing I haven't heard about tonight that I really think needs to get into this is accessibility, ADA. That's where a lot of those 30 to 40 parking spaces down below may in fact go to.
 There's an ADA requirement for a lot of things, and we have a lot of those that the Walton Arts Center and the others have to be aware of, because we have an older community that likes to enjoy their downtown, just like the college students. Thank you very much. I thank you for your service. Thank you. Hello, my name is Josiah Leong, and I live in Ward 2 on East Rebecca Street.
 So I moved here two years ago from Lamington, Indiana to work as a professor at the university. And I really enjoyed participating in the growth of this region. There's a lot of potential and I just love the work that you're putting into developing Fayetteville and the whole region.
 So I think that this whole hotel proposal is a no-brainer. And speaking from my experience at the university, our events don't draw the amounts that a pinpoint bar can. Our nerdy science events that faculty wanna host are on the order of two to 300 people.
 The key is that we are bringing people from all over the world, scientists, researchers from all over the globe to come to a campus to experience the culture of campus and to meet with potential collaborators.
 So these types of events require that you have a university with a hotel and lodging right next to the university. So the graduate's great, but obviously this hotel is closer to campus. And I know that Austin is a conf that we like to aspire to. And so I just hosted a conference at UT Austin last month that had 200 people. And we actually hosted them at a hotel called the Moxie Hotel, the same one that they're building at the South Yard. And so this is a new hotel.
 literally across the campus on the west side of UT Austin.
 We booked up the hotel fully and the guests loved it. Just imagine scientists from all over the world, the UK, from Yale, from Stanford, all living in this hotel right across from campus and able to participate in conference easily and seamlessly but then also to gather at that place afterwards. These events are small fries compared to football games and Halloween salad bars, I understand,
 But these small events are actually really useful to stimulate the economy of the region. If you think about the startup businesses that happened just by putting smart people, smart nerds in the same room drinking beer on Dixon Street, just think of the kinds of startup businesses that you could stimulate.
 Beyond that there's collaborations between the university and companies. You need places to gather and you need to draw them closer to campus all right, so I think this is a no-brainer and I know that my peers at the University have also been clamoring to be able to host these types of events at school and We're all committed to the growth of this region and my perspective from the university is Definitely for this proposal, so thank you for your time. Thank you I
 Good evening, Mayor, members of council. My name is James Jones. I live at 2189 North Libby Lane. Bought a house there four years ago. My wife and I relocated here permanently three years ago. And I am a firm believer in development. I think the artist's rendering looks good. But as others have stated, the devil is in the details. Thank you.
 And the more that we can work through some of these things before we make an official decision and move forward in an L. I think we're we're better served. Parking is a problem and my concern is trying to put a second hotel. We've talked about a hotel near the choo choo train. Uh, and if that's going to, uh,
 come to fruition. And if we're talking about a second hotel, we're putting a lot of things in a very congested area. I personally would love to see more development around the square, bring more people into a larger area of downtown instead of what's more concentrated in what I would call Dixon Street. I love coming to downtown. I've been so pleased with the development on Block Street.
 over the last few years and find myself and friends coming and dining at Block Street and at Vetro and all, you know, the areas more around here. I guess I'm showing my age. I don't spend as much time on Dixon Street.
 But I see so much great opportunity and potential, and a hotel would be, I think, ideal in a less congested area town. And so I would ask the question, is park property, is this the highest and best use for utilizing this park property?
 I think as we develop more green space and as it's connected to the rumble, I'm excited about that. And I know in issuing an RFP and only one entity responds to it, I ask myself, are we beginning to rush things?
 And so I would just request that we take a harder and longer look at this and work through some of the details before we move forward in an ally. Thank you very much. Thank you. Hi, Councilman mayor. I'm Carl Collier.
 I'm at 2165 Manor Drive in Fayetteville, but my main business that was started many, many years ago is on Dixon Street. The most glaring thing that I noticed when I saw the proposal was the ratio of parking spaces to rooms. Right.
 It immediately gets your attention that that's 0.2 parking spaces per room. The national average is 1.24 parking spaces, and that would generate 161 spaces required for this 134-room hotel. The graduate has over one space.
 because it has a deck right beside it. The 21C in Bentonville, and they do offer valet parking, has 1.13 spaces. They have a deck that's adjoining it. The towns and the cities generally that have valet parking, the valet parking is within a half a block
 It's either attached to or adjacent to the hotel. And so I think Council Member Whittaker had a very good idea on this, of the layering of the requirement. It's not just the people who sleep there. It's the people who visit the restaurant, the people who visit or are there for meetings.
 That's why you don't have just a one-to-one ratio. Also... Hang on, Carl. I think your time is off. Yeah, I think it is too. I do too. What, what, what? There you go, Carl. Yeah, well, in the layering effect, you have 45 employees probably at a minimum. We know from our businesses...
 that employees are going to park as close to that business as possible. The idea of them parking on the square and getting a ride down to that hotel are next to nothing. Also a valet to would not want to park a car clear on the square. Valet parking
 was done on Dixon Street. Bordinos had valet parking because they used our parking lot after we closed every night at 7. The service of a valet going a long distance is horrible. They were running track stars back and forth trying to valet. And so it is far more difficult than the picture that's been painted here tonight.
 So as I come down, I think as a commissioner on the Dixon Street Improvement District, we foster and encourage the growth, and we think it's going to be wonderful, a number of these improvements. When the design was done for this space, it was not a six- or seven-story facility. It did not have a high-demand traffic.
 The parking could have been underground, and we foresaw more of an office-type building that was utilized daytime with its own self-sufficient parking. Now, if Brian can furnish 45 spaces, then he needs a 30-room hotel. Thank you very much. Take your time. We don't want to vote tonight.
 And I'm surprised that it made past the planning process with that discrepancy of parking to room rate. Thank you. Good evening, Mayor Jordan, City Council. My name is Steve Carr. I'm board chairman for the Community Creative Center located in the Nadine Baum Studios. I am representing the Board of Directors and staff at the Community Creative Center.
 to unanimously voice our objection at this point in time to the construction of the commercial hotel building on the south of the Upper Ramble, located right in the middle of the Arts District. The Community Creative Center is the only arts makerspace in the Fayetteville Arts District. We are deeply concerned about the potential negative impact this building will have on our students,
 our business and the ability to meet our mission of providing engaging art experiences to the community. We have many reasons we are concerned about this project, but the main two are we feel it has changed from its original mission and the destruction of our business and the families of the Fayetteville community that we serve.
 First, we believe the Kern Hotel project potentially might have been misrepresented to the voters. Many of us attended the planning meetings and throughout the ideation stage, the building at the south end of the Arts Plaza was suggested as a performance and gathering space with art, gallery, gathering space with art, gallery space, public restrooms, et cetera, and that as a commercial hotel.
 We urge the city and the city council to return to the original goals of the project. We consider how the plaza would unite the arts district and how it was designed to bring the community together by providing beautiful and inviting spaces and experience for all who enter. Second, we feel the hotel project will be a permanent disruption to our, or, and lasting disruption to our organization and our business model.
 We feel this way because the safety of our 5,000 students and patrons who come to the CCC each year will be at risk due to the daily influx of 200-plus hotel guests, which will include cars, Uber and valet drivers, deliveries, trucks, and buses.
 Spring Street and the area in front of Nadine Baum will become an alleyway with no safe access for school buses, cars, along with parking for seniors who many times attend our facility and the other patrons being dropped off for our classes and workshops. Second, we have a substantial summer camp program where we use the studio and the outside area with the kids. Many families and parents entrust us
 the ability to take care of their kids during summer recess in a safe and manageable way. This project will cause a tremendous concern for us to execute our summer camp mission for the families of Fayetteville. We are a non-profit, but we also are a business with bills and employees to pay. And currently we offer the bulk of our classes and workshops during evenings and weekends.
 You know, it's also the same time that the busiest time for hotels and asking our patrons to navigate through congestion the hotel will bring and fighting for access to the building and parking spots potentially will be a negative challenge for our patrons, we feel. Finally, the Community Creative Center's Director of Outreach Partnerships, Anita Cowan, spoke at the last council meeting with the full authority of the board.
 She mentioned the impact of unsightly hotel infrastructure to Spring Street and the Arts District. Mr. Rob Sharp replied to our concerns this past weekend, and while we are very grateful for his attention, we are seeking more in-depth information of the logistical impact of the hotel requirements. Basically, an explanation of the logistics...
 of support vehicles, delivery docks, laundry facilities, trash dumpsters, grease traps, etc. Basically, all the things to run a 130-plus-room hotel so they will not distract from the beauty of the Upper Ramble.
 like many people here tonight parking is a great concern for the community creative center and at the last council meeting a few speakers in favor of the hotel seem to be unconcerned about the hotel not providing adequate parking and that the hotel's valley parking will work itself out that may be true for the hotel and their valley parking but has the potential to be a devastating for us at ccc and our organization um
 along with the other organizations like Walton Arts Center, George's, and many of the other businesses there.
 The hotel will occupy many spaces for their cars, occupying the spots overnight for the weekend, and our workers and students potentially will not have an option to park. As an organization, we're not opposed to progress and support new additions to the Fayetteville community. We love our neighbors. We work very well with them. But we just feel like this project has the potential to be a detriment to our business. Todd. And as a board, thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Good evening, Council Mayor. My name is Cal Rose. I'm a resident at 545 East North Street in Fayetteville. I'll start by saying I'm not here to speak for or against this proposal. I'm not here to speak for or against parking. What I am here to speak about is the letter of intent in its current form, even with the most recent revisions that I know Vicki and her team have provided recently.
 By trade, I'm an attorney. I should note, I'm none of your attorneys. You have your own. This is not legal advice. But I do want to commend Kit and his team of doing an excellent job and pointing out that even though this letter of intent is styled as a letter of intent, and even though the majority of letters of intent imply that they are not binding contracts,
 My interpretation and Kitt's interpretation as well is that this letter of intent is a binding contract. It creates a binding obligation for the city to sell the property at fair market value. Now, what that price is, we don't know exactly what the footprint of this building is going to be. We don't know exactly what the use of this building is.
 We don't know exactly how parking is going to be handled. We don't know. And that's normal. You know, at this stage in the process, it's very normal to not have all of these answers. But what's not normal is to peer all of those unknowns into a legally binding contract. And that's what I want to discuss and call that to your attention and issue my concerns with that setup.
 But Rob mentioned it. The only thing I will make about parking is what's in the letter of intent where it discusses that the city agrees to provide access to excess parking spots. That's the only thing in the letter of intent that really addresses this. And I don't know what an excess parking spot is.
 Does that mean if it's open at that particular time, it's excess? Does that mean it's never in use? Is that excess? I don't know. But there's a binding legal obligation on the city to provide access to excess parking spots. And if the city decides not to do it or if their interpretation is that the city hasn't followed through on that promise, I mean, there is legal risk there for the city. Okay.
 As many people have mentioned here tonight, there are a lot of issues with parking and other things that are still to be addressed and still to be figured out. There's a lot of time to do this and to do it right. I think having a hotel in downtown Fayetteville and having especially something that activates that Civic Plaza at night could bring a lot of benefits to businesses and
 and all of the anchor institutions in downtown Fayetteville as well. But we gotta do it right. And if you're gonna style this letter of intent as a binding commitment, which it doesn't have to be, then all of these things that we're talking about today and that you all have been talking about, I know, for the previous couple of weeks and months, they need to be in that letter of intent.
 The letter of intent should reflect the proposal that we saw today. You know, once this agreement is signed, that opportunity is out the door. Yeah, they have to construct it in accordance with the city's laws and permits and ordinances. They had to do that anyway. So to the extent that there are requirements, to the extent that the city wants to place conditions or have some sort of say, either in this parking arrangement or any of the other issues that
 and have been discussed and presented to the city council now really is the time to do it. If this were a non-binding letter of intent, yeah, we could agree to a lot of these things just at a very general level and then work through the details as the time comes. That's not how this letter of intent is structured. It is a binding obligation
 where we don't really know what all of those binding obligations are, other than you're going to sell the property at fair market value, some footprint of a property, and you're going to provide access to parking spaces. So what I would ask and encourage the city council to do is to make sure that appropriate thought is put into these things, and that agreement is reflected in the actual document itself. Thank you. Thank you.
 Mayor Jordan and council members, my name is Cynthia Curutalo and I live at 2054 North Barrington in Fayetteville. Thank you for this opportunity to speak tonight. I'd like to reiterate, you know, some of the views that have already been expressed about the significance of this decision and the long-range, short-term and long-range ramifications of what might happen. You know, in oversight, you know, in overlooking it.
 the big picture and looking to the RFP that was issued in August, I really had wondered about how did
 a building, which is what the RFP was about, within the concept of the cultural arts corridor become a hotel. There was one response to that RFP. There weren't options, there weren't considerations for choices of other facilities or opportunities. I mean we're discussing a hotel.
 And, you know, that I think we need to think about that hard, you know, in terms of making that happen, because especially if land is sold and the city suddenly loses control.
 of land that's in the middle of an art corridor. You know, the future you can't predict. You can't predict how businesses go or what happens. And I don't believe that we should be considering the sale or purchase of land, you know, in this proposal for one. There are other considerations too about parking and everything that's been discussed.
 So I have some serious concerns about the short and long term harm that will come from the building of a hotel within the arts corridor.
 These concerns include the massive structure of a seven-story hotel obstructing light and casting shadows on the corridor itself. I think we envisioned this as a different type of space in terms of looking at the quality of life that people could appreciate and experience within the center of the city. The selling of public land, as I mentioned, in the middle of the arts corridor and the loss of city control.
 the decrease in parking spaces and impact on businesses already suffering from lack of parking, the traffic and culture of hotel activity degrading the quality of leisurely enjoyment of public space, as well as the negative impact on the local businesses in proximity to the hotel. These are all good reasons to reconsider this proposal prior to making a decision very difficult to undo in the future.
 Many people I have spoken to about this believe that this is a bait and switch and have a heavy heart about the possible misrepresentation of the vote on the bond. The bond that was voted for was for the development of an arts corridor to include the vision of a civic center that would benefit public, local businesses and the arts. No hotel was mentioned in the bond measure or even implied.
 To reiterate, the city's willingness to sell public land for the future furthers concern. We should not have civic space divided by public-private property that the city has little control of in the future. It was not the belief nor intent of the development of these collaborative building projects within the Arts Corridor as understood in the original plan voted upon.
 The RFP issued in August was for a building on the south end of the Civic Center. This RFP had only one response and that was for a hotel. It was not reissued to solicit more responses or options. I appreciate your vote against this proposal with a recommendation that a new RFP be issued with more specificity and congruence to the original vision and plan for the Cultural Arts Corridor as represented to the voters.
 Thank you for your consideration and your service. Thank you. Good evening. My name is George Niblock Jr. And I'm a,
 I'm a small business owner and a long-time property owner in downtown Fayetteville. And our parking issues are near and dear to my heart because they have broken us at times and caused us to flee the square about 20 years ago to where we currently are. And so, I can't be as passionate as Carl Collier, who did an amazing job, but parking is so important especially for our older people. And so, that really needs to be taken into consideration. Thank you. Carl Collier, Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, city council members, I am Todd Martin. I live at 326 North Limestone Drive in Fayetteville. I am the lucky person that gets to have business interest in three different wards in our city, in 3, 2, and 4. I met my wife in Fayetteville, Arkansas at the university in the mid-80s. It took us 30 years to get back here when we professionally could decide to
 that we could live wherever we wanted to live and we chose Fayetteville. It has been the great love location of our life. It's an exciting place and I tell you we are vested in every way possible to make it the best place to live that is in the United States. And of course y'all are doing a great job in it in a lot of ways. From a real purpose standpoint, in five years and 50 weeks, five years and 50 weeks, this city celebrates its 200th anniversary of being founded.
 It's not very far away. And yet I sit back and I wonder, what are we going to be looking at as a city when we're looking at that 200th anniversary? We do have a lot of competition in the north to us, and I'm heavily concerned about that. And because of that, when I look at our opportunities on development, I want to see development. I want to see more development downtown. I want to see more development downtown.
 We're talking about a hotel here. In this case, I want to see opportunities for more development in hotels downtown. I am very pro-development with regards to that. Because I believe that we can offer things in Fayetteville that no other community in Arkansas can offer, let alone any other community in Northwest Arkansas. And I think our downtown is a really special place. So during the pandemic, my wife and I made the...
 uncertain choice of buying a couple of businesses, one of them being CO's, which is in the middle of Dixon Street or in the middle of the Dixon Street Entertainment District. And it has been a good choice for us. But before that, whenever parking came up, I was never concerned. Didn't matter. Didn't affect me. I could get down to Dixon and probably find a parking space where I wanted to go and when I wanted to go out to eat.
 But now with an office right off Ralston Avenue with a business right here in the middle of the entertainment district, I know that what Justin gave earlier in his presentation, parking is a critical issue in the entertainment district. So it's something that we have to be aware of. As I look at the development process, and yes, I want to see several hotels here. I'd love to see a hotel on the old Mountain Insight.
 I think the right hotel and the right proposal in the Civic Plaza is a great idea because I know that that brings more revenue, more economic development, and more purchasing power into downtown. My good friend Bo Counts gave a very passionate talk and talked about how many people that they're serving at Pinpoint. I'm thrilled over that. And yes, Block Street has transformed. Dixon Street is transforming as well.
 We want to celebrate new business and new development, but we have to be aware that we can't do damage with parking and start impacting access for the businesses that are there. When I purchased the Theo's restaurant in 2020, we bought a restaurant with no parking, no parking. We have 10 spaces in the back that are dedicated to the condos that are above Theo's.
 So we have to deal with parking as an issue every single day. We had to give up valet during COVID and we've not reestablished it as yet, but we are looking at it. But all of the decisions that we're having to do around parking and shared parking and conversations have an economic impact for us. Specifically on this issue, you've heard the legalities of the binding concepts of this letter intent, which give me a lot of pause.
 particularly what it guarantees the city must provide from a standpoint in parking. In my life, I've had an opportunity to widely travel across the country and stay in a lot of different hotels in a lot of different situations. And what I can tell you is that I use a lot of L.A. parking, and I get irked when I have to wait 15 minutes to get my car back.
 And that if I have something close that's cheaper, I may go and use it and I may not. I love downtown areas that are in close proximity, have a hotel close proximity that I can walk to a bar. And I think that's something that's very important. But in this instance, I'm going to urge you to vote against this LOI tonight because I think we need a better proposal that includes underground parking that would add only 5% to the overall project cost.
 and takes the consultant issues that we've heard about Ubering without a major airport and denies that that 30% of Uber is realistic for Fayetteville. College towns without a major airport are not going to have a lot of people Ubering to inner-city airports. So I urge you to vote against it. Let's see a better proposal. Thank you.
 Hello, Mayor, Council. My name is Shelly Simmons. I live at 1010 North Park Ave. Here in Fayetteville. I live in the Wilson Park neighborhood and I'm a member of the Walton Arts Center Council as well.
 Prior to moving to Fayetteville in 2017, I was heavily involved in the redevelopment of downtown Siloam Springs. So I understand the important role that parking plays in development. The challenges here are certainly a bit different than they were in Siloam Springs, but we did have our parking challenges there as well.
 I also understand that you're working to balance demands from groups with very different points of view and interests at a time when we as a community are seeing some really remarkable growth and development in the area. As a Walton Arts Center council member, or sorry, excuse me, as a council member yourself, you are committed to making sure that we are planning as responsibly as possible for the future of the downtown district of our city. And I thank you for that.
 Many of the recent plans for the downtown area come out of this very concern for a vibrant downtown in Fayetteville. And that planning must also include the same thoughtful and measured approach when it comes to parking. Because if the developers are no longer required to include parking in their plans, then that shifts the onus to the city to address this very important issue.
 For Walden Arts Center, 50% of our patrons come from outside of Washington County, so they are driving. And the vast majority of those who come from within Washington County are also driving. I live in Wilson Park and I come downtown often at night, and so I'm driving because I'm coming home late. And there's also a big hill between my home and the Arts Center and Dixon and all the things on this side, so I drive.
 Adequate parking is key to our success as a city. Whether it is for accessibility or convenience, parking is something that our patrons expect.
 I am a champion for downtown development, but I do believe we need to ask the right questions where parking is concerned. We need to define all of the details and address the potential challenges upfront now so that our entire community can benefit from the wonderful opportunities that our downtown has and will have to offer. Thank you for your time and for your service. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, members of the City Council, my name is Steve Clark. I'm the President and CEO of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane, Fayetteville, Arkansas, Ward 1. A couple of points I'd like to make, and I'll go take my seat and be quiet. The first point is really one of great significance to us. I was here two weeks ago. I heard a lot of what all of you said. I heard particularly what the city attorney said, and I don't think you paid attention to it.
 And so at the chamber, because if you don't know we're for pro-growth, I have not done my job. So I think you know we are for pro-growth. But we are for pro-growth that's responsible and done in a way that benefits everyone who lives here. Our city attorney said this is not a letter of intent. I happen to know Mr. Rose pretty well as equally, and I respect his skills as a lawyer. But I'm going to take him out of the equation here.
 The city attorney hasn't been setting that job just two weeks. And that area of law, municipal law, is a specialized area of law. And lots of lawyers who can give you their opinions about letters of intent never will give it to you with the same opinion and merit and weight as your city attorney.
 And what he said resonated strongly with most of you, and most of you know I'm a lawyer and a former law professor, so I know a little bit about the subject myself. And I ask you, I plead with you, before you decide to adopt something, go back, read the fine print, and figure out what is there that benefits everyone in Fayetteville, not the developer.
 My second point is pretty quick. We're already doing this in Fayetteville. We have a business. It is flourishing, and thank God it is, and in my opinion, one of the best in Fayetteville. That business is at the end of Mountain Street across College Street, sitting next to the old Washington County Jail, and there are times at night you can't get in. That owner put in that business when this city said, you don't need parking.
 None. He said, are you playing with me? No, no parking. We don't care. There have been a series of complaints to that owner, to the city, and the city's been back around saying, we got to do something about this parking. This is a real problem. The city came back to that same owner and said, oh, by the way, you need a handicapped spot. And he said, no, wait a minute. You said I don't need parking. Well, you need that parking. You either do or you don't. And that's the problems we're facing today with just this issue.
 And for me and for the chamber, we think that's worthy of noting. We haven't worked out all the bugs with that. The business is successful in spite of that. The businesses around us tell us that their businesses suffer because of that. And the Fayette police are regular attendees, not for dining, but for fender benders. And so I think you need to pay attention to that. The third thing is simply business.
 We talked about, and I understand the city has said that the, and did say tonight, that the developer is happy with the resolution as to parking. I think you're trying to serve the wrong master. There are 90,000 plus people of us here. And I take great offense at the generational issue because I have a 28-year-old grandson who sits in a wheelchair.
 He has a better mind than I do. He has so much more talent than I do. But he gets around very difficult. He has a hard enough time now. And you want to come to Dixon, there's not one handicapped spot on the street itself, unless you change it in the last month that I've missed. We got him off the street, and I guarantee you, he's a stand-up comic. He could work on Dixon. He's the only stand-up comic you know in a wheelchair. Right.
 And he's damn good. And the last thing I would say to you, and then I'll go home, and you'll all be glad. So where the devil is the fire. We're up here like if we don't do this tonight, good Lord, Fayette will be forever scarred. We will be wondering how in the world we ever made such a drastically difference.
 drastic decision that impacted us so significantly. I'm asking you to please don't do it. The chamber would ask you to please don't do it. If it's worthy of doing, it'll stand the test of time. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, who else? Yeah.
 I wasn't planning on speaking, but I just I like y'all gave me the honor to speak last time over zoom and I appreciate it very much. My name is Ben Clark and I have a business at 2291 South School being limited. I just wanted to say that I know most of these people back here actually, and most a lot of you up there too as well. But I just friction is good, actually, and it makes our city better. And so it's and I understand the issues that everyone's talking about too as well.
 But also understand that we're getting stuck on some of these details that a lot of the planning commission takes care of. I'm actually building a big building right now in South Fayetteville and trust me, they're not going to let me slide and not have a handicapped spot or like not have the right loading dock and all that stuff like that. You know, so it's like and I really believe in what the city is doing and the departments that y'all have formed can.
 Work out these details. Again, I know that being limited, we had our Christmas party last year at Theater Square and filled it up. Boy, would I have loved to send some of those employees right over to that hotel. But no, we still parked everywhere, and then a lot of them had to drive home. But boy, was I nervous. And we need more hotel rooms. I mean, that's just it. I mean, we could even have two hotels down there, if you ask me. But it's...
 The other thing is just right before this conversation, we talked about the Airbnb problem and supply and demand. It's like we need a hotel and that'll solve the Airbnb issue too as well, inside of some of these, outside these neighborhoods. The cars are going to be there regardless. If my people that I bring in, just like the university and stuff that they're staying on the outskirts of the interstate, they're still going to drive in and park because that's where they're going.
 and that's where you know they like to congregate so anyway i say let's move forward with progression in fayetteville and let's we've been talking about this for years even past mayors it sounds like now but i think it's time i'm a little nervous man thank you okay who else
 Mayor and Council, my name is Sarah Marsh. I live at 1085 West Cato Springs Road. And I am encouraging you to support this proposal because it is consistent with the plan that we took to the voters. It supports the vitality of downtown and the success of the Cultural Arts Corridor. When people stay downtown, they can walk to downtown businesses. This is consistent with the Park Once strategy that has supposedly been a priority of this city.
 The proposed design supports our community goal of creating a superbly walkable environment. And we need additional hotel units. And especially options that are viable without renting a car. I'm fortunate that I get to travel a lot. And when I look for a place to stay, I look for a place next to the things I want to see where I do not have to rent a car. That's almost impossible in Fayetteville.
 You know, and we were just talking about the short-term rental issue. Our lack of hotel rooms is displacing, it's resulting in more Airbnbs, and it's displacing our long-term residents, which is creating additional pressure on our housing market and pushing housing costs up above what our average workers can afford. And this is a good time to remind the Council that there were several proposals to include affordable housing components in the Cultural Arts Corridor.
 And the same people who are advocating against this hotel fought the proposal to include workforce housing on that site. And often, many of them chair organizations that do not pay their workers enough to afford to live in downtown. You know...
 Thinking back to the discussions that proceeded taking the cultural arts corridor bond proposal to the voters the WAC and Dixon Street merchants They threw a hissy fit about parking Initially and they threatened to kill this incredible opportunity to develop a world-class cultural amenity if we didn't build another parking deck and so we acquiesced and
 And we committed to build another parking deck, which resulted in the loss of an important business downtown, the Arcegas. And now that's still not enough. In the eight years I served on this council, there are very few votes I regret. But that's one of them. We never should have caved to their demands then, and you shouldn't now. Thank you.
 What is more important, focusing our quality of life, creating a place where people want to be, or making it easy to drive in your single occupancy vehicle to get there? This focus on parking over quality of our urban environment is myopic.
 Didn't the city adopt an energy action plan that establishes a goal of reducing vehicle miles traveled? Instead of requiring more parking from new businesses, we should be requiring existing businesses to provide alternatives to single occupancy vehicles. What do you want your legacy to be? A vibrant hotel or a parking lot? When you look back on this decision, will you feel better about delivering on this promise to the voters?
 to build a vibrant cultural center or acquiescing to the old boys club. I encourage you to be brave, to be bold, to move this city forward and to build the world-class community that this, the citizens want and deserve. Please approve the parking or I'm sorry, the hotel. Thank you. Thank you. Okay.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. I'm Garner Stoll. I live at 333 East Prospect. Some of you may recall that I used to be a city employee, but tonight I'm happily retired, and I'm here as a long-term, I hope, resident of Fayetteville. So, first of all, most of what you heard tonight has nothing to do with a letter of intent.
 And I think this letter intent should just simply be amended. The resolution should be amended. And you should say it's a letter intent, it's not a contract. Contracts come later. I've worked for other cities where I was responsible for redevelopment. I've been through this many, many times. A letter of intent is a green light to spend the money.
 to work out the details that everybody's talking about tonight. What is relevant to the letter of intent, and you've also heard a lot of misinformation about that, does it implement your master plan? Does it implement what was shown on the Cultural Arts Master Plan? And the answer is yes, precisely.
 That plan was proposing an urban plaza. Urban plazas don't always work. They usually don't work because they're not active. Nobody owns it. They're not open to the street. They don't have 24-hour uses nearby. That's why that building was placed where it is. It brackets the plaza and it activates the plaza.
 It's essential to the plan and it was in the plan and the voters voted for that plan Other benefits need I know you're aware of this but they need to be reiterated Hotels are critical to redevelopment of downtowns hotels are critical to the economic development of a city and
 Your staff report talks about how much tax money it will bring in. It also will use existing parking more fully, in my opinion. I know parking has been talked about a lot tonight. I've lived here for five years.
 I've been in the arts in this area many times on Friday night and Saturday night. I'm a frequent customer of Theater Square and the Performing Arts Center. I personally have had, I've never had a problem parking. The most challenging parking situation I had was when my wife and I were late on a Saturday night and it was raining.
 And we had to park on the top floor of the Spring Street Garage. Hardly a crisis situation. I have visited every single business on Dixon Street. I've been, we frequent the downtown plaza. I've never had a problem parking. Now, I'm not saying parking is not an issue. It is. Parking is an issue.
 But moving forward with this letter intent doesn't preclude any parking solutions. Not a single one, except possibly one that I don't even like to think about, which is, are we going to anchor this Civic Plaza with a parking garage? I don't think so. You went through an extensive selection process.
 for the garage that is under construction. And that certainly wasn't ever considered. So I don't think that's on the agenda. If you assume that that's not on the table, I cannot see how moving forward with this letter of intent properly amended to say that it's a letter of intent, it's not a contract, contract comes later, sale comes later, the closing comes later, it's a letter of intent authorizing
 the developer to spend the money to work out those details. It's typical for redevelopment projects. Downtown redevelopment projects are difficult. Time. Oh, I, you just got me going. But thanks for your attention. Okay, who else? Sarah.
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan, City Council members. My name is Anna O'Leary Kelly. I am a resident of Fayetteville. I live at 409 North Willow Street. I'm also a professor of business at the University of Arkansas, and I'm current chair of the Walton Arts Center Council.
 I am actually very excited about the new amenities that are coming to Fayetteville. The Lower Ramble, I tell everyone I see, is a green space wonder. I think the library additions are world class and I very much believe that the Civic Plaza has potential for wonderful events, hotels, restaurants, and meeting spaces.
 I believe that any and all of these amenities can bring vibrancy to our downtown and enhance the quality of life. But, amenities require sufficient infrastructure and parking, like it or not, is a key part of that.
 I don't know if we have sufficient parking capacity in downtown Dixon Street, and I don't believe anyone in this room knows the answer to that question right now. We have new information coming in all the time. We saw that tonight, and I know there's more coming in.
 I've heard from many people that I respect that there is sufficient, even ample parking downtown. I've heard from other people I respect that they're very reluctant to come to Dixon Street, especially during peak usage times because of parking shortages.
 And to me, when we see such widely divergent opinions, this suggests that people are operating either from their own personal experience or from a philosophical position more than from facts and information. I'm still one of those people who believes in facts. And I would argue that the best way out of our current parking quagmire is to slow down
 talk to each other, get the facts, and come together and try to work through this when we have all of those facts on the table. We right now have an independent consultant working on a parking study. This study is guided by a steering committee composed of diverse constituents, including members of the city, Walton Arts Center, university, and business owners.
 I would respectfully suggest that we hold off on approving the LOI for this hotel until we have a chance to get the facts from that study, which should be available in December. One of the things that I treasure about the city of Fayetteville is that we're not afraid of a good debate.
 And I think more often than not those debates get it help us to get it right and Then usually at least for a while peace returns to our little village so I would ask that we hold for a beat and
 We get some facts from this parking study and from the other information that the developers have been asked for, and we try to come back together and work to get it right. We've done this before when we sit down and work together through our debates, and I think we can do it again. So thank you for listening. Thank you. Who else?
 Okay, I'm going to bring back the couch. Mayor, I'm sorry, there is one hand raised on Zoom if you want to. That's fine. Okay. Jay Alexander? Well, either way, he's got his hand raised. Yes, okay, can you hear me? Yes. Yes, I just wanted to speak quickly. Jay, please introduce yourself. Okay, I'm Jay Alexander. I'm with Windsor Autry Company. We're a
 hotel development company and owner with a management company. And we've been working with Brian and Rob. And I just wanted to clarify where the 70% on the parking ratio came from. So that came from actual data at hotels that we own in Columbia, South Carolina, Roto, Virginia, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, Greenville, South Carolina.
 And our data shows that 70% of occupied rooms have vehicles with them. Now, where that comes from, how that happens, you have business travelers that may carpool together. If it's graduation weekend, you may have the parents, the grandparents, siblings, they carpool together. But an actual example, I'm a South Carolina Gamecock, and I came to the 
 last in September. And I will say we went to Dixon Street. I think we went to Doe's, had a steak at Doe's. And I was wearing Carolina shirts. And I had a number of people come up and thank me for coming and making the trip and hope that we had a great experience. And so I commend you for your culture and just the great experience that we had. But there were some things that we didn't know about. And I think that's what we're
 seven of us buddies from college, and we had five rooms, we stayed in Rogers, and we had one vehicle, minivan. We felt really cool coming into town, but we had one vehicle and five rooms at the hotel. So that's what kind of skews that ratio down to less than a one-to-one room to parking need.
 And just last comment is Brian, he has a lot of risk in making sure the parking works because if it doesn't work, you're not going to have satisfied hotel guests. And if it's a branded hotel, the franchisor will also scrutinize the parking situation because they don't want that to be a mess either. So just wanted to clarify that. I appreciate you kind of letting me speak there at the last minute.
 Thank you, Mayor. There's nobody else on Zoom. Okay, now I'm going to break back to the council. Mr. Mayor, could we take a 10-minute break? Okay. I mean, just... I've had a couple of... Maybe a 12-minute break or something. Just a break. The mayor takes a couple of breaks. Okay, if you don't mind. Thank you. I appreciate it. Okay, let's go. All right.
 all right we're back to the council this is a resolution um so what's the wish is the council what conversation would council like to have or i have a question i have a question about um our rfp process is did
 I guess, did we do anything exceptional or unique with this RFP versus the RFPs that we have with the rest of this? And how do we do an RFP? How long does it take? What was put out? What came back in an application? And kind of give us a rundown of that because lots of people have questioned the RFP process. As far as I know, it's the same for any RFP.
 government application that we might have. This was the same as all of the other ones. We developed the RFP, we developed what we're looking for as a project for that particular space. Actually, I reached out to engineering department, we looked at that and I said, you know, is this possible because the location of the current proposal is located very, very close to that, and I said,
 Are there other projects that work? Are there other things that we could do? And I was assured that there were. So this proposal was put together just like the rest of them were. It was put out, it was advertised, it was open to other proposers and none applied. Sometimes that happens. Paul, just I'd like to ask you how long, when was the application put out? How long is it out there before, I mean,
 For this one in particular, how long was it out there before we closed the application process? I can't answer that specifically. I don't have them off the top of my head. Paul, I do have that off the top of my head. It's normally four weeks. Okay, so the RFP was issued August 29th of 2021, and the responses were received October 26th of 2021. Okay, so. They're advertised in the paper, and they're,
 They go out for a proposal. It happened that we only got one proposal at this point in time. We certainly would have entertained where they had been. But this is a standard practice that we follow. How long have we been following practices like this?
 I can't answer for sure. It's before I was here actually and that's 16 years. So it probably goes back 16 20 years something like that and it's not uncommon for other cities to use a similar type of process and We've been doing this
 successfully for at least 16 years. I think actually our process, we're more careful to solicit bids and more careful in having a pool of people to look at them and make a final recommendation that most cities
 Most cities and the places that I work, I think the process is actually more open. Okay, thank you, Paul. I just wanted to kind of get some background on that. Now, once we got the proposals in, how long did we, you may not be part of this, but how
 investigate and talk back and forth with this one proposal that we had before we decided to go with this one proposal or right so I was on that selection committee as was Peter Niren garden and several staff and I believe when we got the response back in October
 Then the committee took a while, it usually takes a while to review and make sure that we have questions answered. So then we invited Rob and Brian, the respondents, Peter you're going to have to help me about Taiwan there, we invited them to a pre or sort of an interview meeting and then, we
 Yeah, so... And when was that? Right, the holidays last year interrupted that process a little bit, but Susan is correct. We invited the proposal team in to do an interview with us, which is standard in our process for RFP selections.
 We listened to their interview and their proposal and the selection committee that was made up of several staff members ultimately voted on whether or not they wanted to recommend the proposal to city council and that was an affirmative vote. And then we entered into a series of negotiations around letter of intent language. And that letter of intent language negotiations began
 I believe it was in February. February of this year. And we've been working with the development team on all of the items that are in the letter of proposal. It started something, you know, smaller than what you see before you today.
 Through that process, we took that letter of proposal, that letter of intent and their proposal and we visited with a number of stakeholders in and around the downtown area including our Cultural Arts Corridor Steering Committee, the group made up of all the stakeholders on the entire project and we shared the proposal with them and we took their input and we added their concerns to the letter of intent.
 We visited with the Arts Council and we visited with another number of other downtown organizations and associated entities to understand what concerns they might have. And that process has carried us forward from February when we began working on that with the development team on that letter of intent through when it was first introduced to you all last month. Peter, and in March, we had a special presentation to the Walton Arts Center Facilities Committee.
 we've been reacting and working with the Walton Arts Center and the facilities committee ever since. That is correct. Okay so we had a presentation to the we had a presentation to the Walton Arts Center facilities committee at Peter Lane's request in March. All right sorry I'm just trying to get you know trying to get this all figured out in kind of a linear fashion and it's been
 you know, there's a lot of, people say there's a lot of moving parts. Yeah, there are a lot of moving parts, but there's also this amount of time that's passed. And sometimes I need my memory refreshed a little bit. So presentation to Walton Arts Center. Okay. And that was when in March? It was, let me look, it's on the website, but it was mid-March. Let me double check that timeline. It would have been...
 so sorry it was in March March of this year yes yes no yes yes so yeah we're going into 2022 yes and so when did the when did the Walton Art Center decide that they were going to do a parking study do you remember when that was Justin will remember
 I believe the first I recall hearing about that was in September of this year.
 One other element I'll add with respect to the RFP selection process is when we received the one proposal that was mentioned as part of the response, the selection committee did spend some time debating. We only have the one proposal. We don't have another proposal to compare it against.
 When it came down to trying to decide whether or not to move that proposal forward to you all or not, what we as a selection committee determined or decided is that we laid out a series of criteria in our RFP that we were asking for in terms of this proposal. We wanted a building on the south end of the plaza that provided active uses and complemented our civic plaza space.
 We had ground floor uses that we wanted active so that there was permeability with that space so that people from that building would use our park space and that and people from the park space could use that building. A number of criteria in that RFP.
 When we laid the one proposal we had next to that criteria, it checked all of the boxes in terms of what we were wanting and what our criteria were for that RFP. And so ultimately, that's why we as a selection committee decided to recommend that to you all for consideration and develop that letter of intent so that you all could make the final determination on whether or not you want to authorize the mayor to sign that letter of intent. Thank you.
 Okay, all right. That helps me kind of refresh my memory and it also I think helps other council members you know to kind of say look okay here's what we did here and here are the steps that we went through and because one of the complaints we're getting occasionally is that the RFP process is somehow flawed.
 And I'm not really convinced of that because we've gone through all these different steps and it's been a lengthy process. And I'm kind of, you know, I have to wonder, I'm going to use Steve Clark's phrase, where's the fire? Because if Walton Art Center had a presentation of this, was this proposal in March,
 then how did we get to this point right now where everyone is coming out of the woodwork and complaining when we had all these months that this could have been discussed and I don't really, I saw some discussion maybe back in September but not very much and I'm kind of wondering, I'm feeling like,
 Maybe there should have been something else going on there. I'm not sure what that should have been, but I don't know. But I have to wonder where's the fire now to put the kibosh on this basically. And maybe I'm just a suspicious person. I have a suspicious nature or something. I don't know. But I'm trying to look at it as openmindedly as I can.
 I think that's all I have for now with this. I'd like to go back and maybe address some of the specific things that have been brought up. I do know that we've had input. I don't feel that this was not what the voters voted on a possibility. We could not say that it would not be a hotel because we didn't know what was going to go
 And, you know, I don't feel that that's been misrepresented or anything. And I don't know, there was a phrase used, this is a bait and switch. And I don't know what that means exactly because usually when there's a bait and switch, there's some, somebody's doing it for a reason. And nobody can really give me a good reason why if the city is baiting and switching,
 What that reason is, I don't really see that. A lot of the things that have been said, I'm not really seeing, okay, why you're saying we're doing something wrong, okay, why are we doing this wrong then? Because you just have to think that all this process that everything's gone through, that maybe it's not quite right.
 abate and switch. I don't know. I'm just trying to be very open-minded about this and listen to everyone's comments and try to weigh them out as best I can. When someone says these things, I take them to heart. I'm like where did we do something wrong then?
 And I'm not really quite seeing that. So I would love if there are members of the council that think we've done something wrong, I'd love to hear what you have to say so we can discuss this and make a decision on it. Thank you. I've got a couple of questions. Sorry, I've had ready to add. Yes, thank you, Peter. Yes, let's follow up to that. So a couple of things. Was a hotel specified in the RFP?
 The hotel was not specified. It was listed as one of many possible uses that we felt like would provide activity to the space.
 So, the first time the public learned about the hotel was kind of downstream in some of the process here that you've just described. I'd like to answer that. No, actually it was at the January 2019 City Council meeting when we brought you all the final conceptual designs from Nathan at Nelson Byrd Waltz, and it shows.
 the potential uses many potential uses including in that it's that one picture mayor if you'd like I can bring it up bring it up it's the one picture that they've got a list of what yeah it's the possibility it certainly does
 So when we were working to develop our criteria for the RFP, we looked back to that 2019 rendering, which is what the voters voted on for the Civic Plaza. And that list of building uses that's been public since 2019 did include hotel among other uses. And those same list of uses are what we put in the RFP for respondents to consider.
 So I'm trying to bring it up and Peter you're going to have to come over here and help me do a screen share on this thing because. IT is probably better equipped to help you with that than I am. So the second question is, was there another business or an owner in the area, could they have actually qualified for the requirements of the RFP?
 Or was there just one business or owner that met all the qualifications, all the requirements of the RFP? We certainly designed it in a way that made it open and available to any and every potential developer that might want to propose on the project. There were no restrictions on it that made it exclusive to only the adjacent property owner if that's what you're asking. There was no exclusivity in the RFP.
 But if I recall, and maybe I have this wrong, so please correct me. If I recall, they had to have access, delivery access, and those sorts of things that only Rendell was able to provide.
 The intent with the RFP was to be able to use the city's property to provide that access if it wasn't being built by an adjoining property owner. So there was access that could have been acquired on our property because we own the property all the way out to West Avenue. So it would have been possible for a non-adjoining property owner to build a building on that site and have access to it.
 Okay, thank you for clarifying that. So I brought up the picture, if you all would like. This is in the middle of the presentation. This is on the website where all of the chronology of the historical documents live, and this was presented to you all at a January 2019 agenda session to convey to you what the final conceptual design would be that Nelson-Bergwalt would move ahead with.
 And so that was the final conceptual design. They then began the conceptual design. We're now up to 90% of that design. Yeah, so north is up on this drawing and so on the bottom on the south end number 12 is the multi-story building. And you've seen it in the renderings as well at the back of the rendering. But you can see the list of uses that we identified as possible uses for that building. And that's the same list that we used in the RFB.
 So was this something that we...
 We voted on as a council or did we just over look at it at agenda session right what you did you authorized? When you voted you authorized Nelson bird waltz to take the design forward. Okay, this was not a vote This was brought to you as here is the final from the community participation in December that came and then Nathan had these final concepts brought them to you all the next time and throughout the the
 projects history, each time you had to vote on something that was going to go toward the plaza, then of course Peter would have brought that and there were several votes that you all had this item in front of you. What kind of votes did we have on this? I would say the most important vote that you all voted on was the authorization of 32 million dollars worth of bonds to build the Civic Plaza along with numerous design contract amendments with our consultants
 To move us forward through the progression of the design phases on this portion of the project Mayor Jordan, I have a question and I wasn't on the council then when the the when the bond was voted upon so I'm hearing that the voters were misled but it sounds like it sounds like what councilmember bunch said that the city has done its due diligence and I
 When about the building and there from what I understand, and please help me if I'm missing something, but nothing was said and nothing was concrete. Right. They from what I understand, it was just called a building. Right. It wasn't. No one said that it was going to be something else. And now it's not correct. Well, what the council decided, we did not know exactly what it was going to be, but we had a list of things that it could be.
 And when I presented this, and I presented this to the public, honestly, this is months of this going before. We had about six of these when we started, right, Susan? Yeah.
 i mean if you're talking about the conceptual designs yes in the year in in 2018 that's when the public looked at and and the nbw conveyed through public meetings the five different conceptual designs and then this one was selected by whoever came through that process and then was
 authorized in december of 2018 as the final and then we said then and then we brought it to the council to make sure you all were okay with it and that's now some of you council members weren't on the council then but some of you i was on the council then
 It did come to us and it had all of these possibilities and that's where the confusion is coming from. That's right. Because it has all the possibilities, but somewhere in the timeline, I think people did not realize that the hotel was the possibility to be considered. That's the perception. That is the public perception. And I don't think any other alternative was discussed openly.
 as an option, so it kind of feels like it's been pushed on them. Does that seem something that y'all are hearing? Susan, when did we put it on the website?
 Every time the consultants came to town, we published the new information on the website. So this information would have been there before it actually came to you and throughout the process. So anyone can look at the timeline on the website. It has every document, every drawing, every concept, and everything that had been discussed. Should anyone wish to go back and look? I'm trying to see where the fire started.
 And what we have here before us was office, makerspace, art galleries, cafe, restaurant, parking underneath, housing, hotel. And it seems like that we've seen the hotel because there was no other people that came with any of these other concepts, right? That's right. So that's how we got here. But it does seem like that it was a very focused decision and maybe that...
 We can decide tonight or anytime. If this isn't what we want, then we need to say it out loud. So what I'm hearing tonight is that we have before us a conceptual design. We have a letter of intent that needs some work. Needs some work. So it's really a letter of intent.
 We have a concern that we want to be a regional entertainment center. I'm hearing this right. And if we're regional, we're talking about everyone going up north these days, right? Well, if people want to come down south, we've got to have a place to park them if we want them to come here. That's what I'm hearing. I'm not saying yes or no or anything. And so that's why parking is such an issue. Okay.
 We want that money in these surrounding counties to come into Fayetteville because we feel like, and I hear it all the time, that everyone in Fayetteville is spending their money up north. I don't know whether there's any. I mean, I spend some money up there, but I've always found parking too. I don't know why. So I think what we have before us is,
 We have a concept. It's the only one that was presented to be considered, and we're considering it, and we have a letter of intent to move forward because we've considered it and we're ready to move forward. I don't think we're ready to move forward. I don't know. I think that there has got to be a real discussion so that the public understands, yes, this was in a document,
 But you might not have seen it because all the Wahoos started once that RFP came in, and that was the only one we had to consider. I mean, that's kind of how I see it. So we do have a parking study that's going to be coming in.
 It's going to be recent and I think all eight of us on here, a lot of us have good background in statistics and analysis and we'll be able to look at it and see if it's something that is valid using the variables that we find important in the study. And I don't know what those variables are right now.
 I think tonight we could either amend this, but I think it's pretty quick to do it on the spot, to be a letter of intent, or we can wait a little bit, two weeks maybe, and then have, we've already got a suggestion from our attorney of a possible letter of intent.
 I will admit, I don't want to move forward because I don't really understand why it changes it from what it was to what it is. And it's going to take more than just, you know me, I want to come have a conversation. So what I'm saying is that's how I see it. And because I see it that way, that we need to table this for two weeks.
 I would like to say this. I keep hearing delay, delay, delay. And I want to say this. I want to dispel the myth that even though I wasn't on the council, that the council did something wrong or didn't make the public aware because it sounds like that you did your due diligence. My concern is I feel that
 And I've listened to the concerns, I've read all the emails, and I did my very best to respond to most of them. But I feel like a part of me is I understand the parking study. I understand the parking challenges. Trust me, I understand the parking challenges. But I also understand the bigger picture.
 I do. And the bigger picture is the growth and development of Fayetteville. And when I've talked to so many people besides the Walton Arts Center, I've talked to a lot of businesses and they are in support of it. They do recognize that there is a problem with parking and they don't minimize that. That is a challenge. That is a barrier. And however, I don't think anyone is turning away because of that.
 I just feel that if we delay this, my concern is, and I don't want to accuse anyone of anything, I hope that if this is delayed, it's not a tactic to delay progress. I hope that we're able to move forward because if we're expecting a perfect project, that's not going to happen. And I feel as if Mr. Sharp and...
 Brian, have done everything that we've asked them to do in even a short amount of time. And my other concern is, if another business comes before us, will we give them this much energy? I believe that we had ample opportunity to have this discussion prior to now. And my concern is still, I feel like all of a sudden this happened. And it's interesting, I feel like it's even happening around election time.
 And I'm serious. This is a we can't make this. I don't want this to be political. I want this to be if we're going to wait, that it needs to be about the people of Fayetteville and what's going to improve the quality of life for all of us. And so, again, I appreciate what.
 Brian is done. Mr. Sharp is done. I just feel like the letter of intent. If there is something, if there are amendments to be made, I think that we can do that tonight. I think that so many people in Fayetteville and those who visit, they're waiting on this. And we promised the voters that.
 that we were going to do this. And if my memory serves me correctly, I think about those voices because someone said, well, all the voices weren't included. Well, interesting enough, there was no polling location in Ward 1 when this took place. So if you want to talk about the voices being left behind, we need to.
 Include that in the conversation as well now, I won't go back there But if we're going to bring that up we have to be fair and say yes That was it all voices were not included So I do think that the city of Fabio that due diligence has been done And I do think that we need to in respect of the work That mr. Sharp has put forth and Brian in the city. I think that we need to move forward if we can and
 I really do. I don't want this to be because I'm hearing that so many different things and I'm not paying attention to those things that I'm hearing. I just want what's in the best interest of Fayetteville.
 the parking study, what are we going to find that's different? What will be the perfect solution? Because I keep feeling like every week there's something different. Well, have you considered this? Have you considered that? They go back to the drawing board and they give us what we need. And I feel as if we're trying to find a problem. And I just feel like we've done, the city has done everything that they can do legally,
 And I think now that it's time for us to move forward. And I just don't feel comfortable delaying this any longer because I don't want it to become a political issue. I really don't. I really want this to be in the best interest of everyone in Fayetteville.
 I have a question about the parking study which the city did a parking study in 2017. Yes. So, thank you Justin. So we did a parking study in 2017.
 And you did that map where you showed the walk shed or whatever they call it, where you move in, how many minutes it takes you to get to the entertainment district from these different areas.
 How big was our area of the parking study? I mean, I know we focused on downtown, we focused on, you know, there were parts of it that dealt with the entertainment district, parts of it dealt with downtown, but that covered all of downtown, didn't it? It didn't just, okay, so you are working with the Walton Arts Center on their parking study. What is the area of their parking study?
 It's primarily the entertainment district. It goes a little bit further to the east to encompass Block Avenue, but it's Lafayette, down St. Charles to Block to Meadow and then back up, whatever that is on the western boundary. University over to Arkansas. Okay. So, it goes from...
 So, it goes basically from college along Lafayette to Block and then to the university, kind of in- It doesn't go as far as college. Block is the eastern boundary. Okay, so it doesn't go all the way to college? Right, Lafayette on the north down- Okay, so it really just kind of centers around mostly a couple of streets off of Dixon and kind of that-
 Doesn't include the square? Right. It does not, aside from Block Street and a portion of Meadow Street, doesn't go into our downtown square business district. Okay.
 If you all like, Justin did have that image, if you wanted him to pull it back up, he can do that, but I don't know if you need more. Well, okay, one of the things that I know from studies, parking studies or any type of study is, you know, we hire a professional, someone who dedicates themselves to crafting this really deep dive into data and, you know, deeper than, you know, the data.
 deeper than city employees can do because they're actually doing their jobs and don't have time to you know spend weeks and months on you know this type of thing. So we hire a professional and then they make you know part of their they'll they'll map out the areas where there is there could be parking problems and areas where there is
 a parking shortage and possibly an excess of parking that's not being utilized. And then they make suggestions, don't they, on how we might improve our parking. So I don't know with our big parking study, I don't know what the smaller parking study is going to find.
 because it doesn't go out to cover areas where there might be extra parking. I'm kind of, I don't really know what we will find with that parking study that the Walton Arts Center is doing. And you know, my hat's off to them for doing that, but I don't know how it's going to help us as a city because it doesn't, you know, we have parking lots and things that might be utilized that are just outside the boundaries of that.
 Okay, Teresa, did you have something? Yes, thank you, Mayor. But just to reaffirm, Justin, the parking study that was done by the city was five years ago in 2017, and so we've got a lot of new businesses now that we didn't have five years ago.
 I appreciated that study that you did. You know, I'm kind of a data hound. I like to do the deep dive with a lot of information. And we've got this parking study that is not just sponsored by the Walton Arts Center, but also by the downtown businesses. So it's a little bit larger than just the Walton Arts Center that's sponsoring that. I am concerned that we are making a very rushed decision tonight, because
 I think we need more time. I think we need more information. We just got handed a lot of information right before the meeting. That takes a lot of time to digest. I listened to our city attorney. This is a very binding agreement. It might be called a letter of intent, but it sounds like the functionality of it is a contract. We only get a chance to get this right one time. This is really, really significant.
 And I would say that about any development, whether it was a hotel or whatever else among that list would be put in there, that if it's the most expensive piece of property in Fayetteville or in Northwest Arkansas or maybe even in the state, I don't know, but it's very valuable that we spend our time and deliberation and we do not rush anything.
 We go and we do, and I don't think we've done enough due diligence, honestly. I don't feel like I've done enough due diligence, and I've read all of the information that's been provided so far.
 So I really would like to table this tonight. I don't see a reason why we need to vote on it tonight. I think we need to give more information, more time. We've heard a lot from, I don't know about you guys, but I probably got a hundred emails. So if I'm getting a hundred emails from our residents and most of them are against the hotel, then I think we need to look a little bit more carefully at that.
 i'm also concerned that they're still even with the city's process and tried and true and and uh similar to what has been done in the past that we still only had one respondent that concerns me
 I like to be able to have choice. And in this case, I guess the choice was to pull the RFP or to accept it. But I don't think that's a very thorough choice, especially when the property is worth so much. And it's so central to the bond issue, to the cultural arts corridor that just barely passed with our citizenry. It did pass, but we again need to be very careful that we get this right.
 And so those are my thoughts, but I would definitely like to table this. Susan, what's the process? How much time do we need to, if we decided to table it, what's the timeline?
 Thank you for that question, Councilmember Jones. Wade, would you please talk about the timeline? What I think you're asking has to do with the timeline for the finalization of the Civic Plaza going out for bid, because that's what we're waiting for here. Yeah, so everybody's got a different perspective, and my perspective is time and money, and it's especially related to the Civic Plaza.
 So, there are components on the south end of the plaza that need to be finalized and included in the scope for the plaza bid in January. Some of those are the stage, the infrastructure for the stage, the temporary trail route, finish elevations of the south end of the plaza. Really what we need to know is what we're going to build to. Otherwise we're just making assumptions and assumptions will cost us money. Escalations are still occurring in the market.
 As early as today, I was notified to expect pricing increases at the first of the year. So delays on the bidding and therefore locking in the price will impact the project budget negatively. And as you know, we've experienced this on some of our other bond projects. Supply chain issues and material availability is also a concern. We've experienced over one year delivery schedules on items on some of our other bond projects.
 This is difficult to overcome when you have a completion schedule. I don't predict any relief anytime soon because we have a regional supply issue due to large construction projects such as the Walton, or I'm sorry, the Walmart headquarters, Crystal Bridges and the new Tyson headquarters. I appreciate that.
 Let me ask this question. We're saying we want more time, time to know what. What exactly are we hoping to accomplish? What are we needing more time? What do we need to know about? Because I felt like the process of the selection process, I mean, we can't do that over. So what exactly are we hoping to gain when we get additional time?
 So, Council Member Jones, you're looking at me, so I'm... Absolutely, yes.
 I do think we need that parking study completed. So that is one piece of information that I would like. I would also really like to know exactly what the occupation rate is for these other hotels around here. I mean, it sounds like that there's a huge demand. Well, it sure would be nice to see what the graduate hotel, what their occupation rate is and on which days, how that works so that we understand the market a little bit better.
 I don't feel like we've gotten all the information we need. A cost benefit analysis. So what if we didn't put a hotel there? What if there was some other city owned property or some other kind of business that's there? Because, you know, again, we have a very valuable resource, an extremely valuable resource.
 And that should be very well considered. We work for the public. We're trying to protect the public's interest to get the best bang for the buck for the public, right? And so we need to drive this, not developers, although they're very helpful and they do make things happen. But as a city, we need to be driving that. We need to be in the front seat. And I don't feel like we have done that in many ways.
 I think we need a lot more details. I think the devil is in the details. We need all of that ironed out, displayed, and especially if this letter of intent is really a contract, then great specificity needs to occur. So we know what the city's responsibilities are. Can we meet those responsibilities? Why are we making a deal with just this one company and not with other businesses?
 So there are a lot of open-ended questions that I think need to be answered before we move forward with this. Well, I think they answered the question about why we're not doing business with other companies. I think that was addressed tonight. I'm just concerned about what happens when we, let's say, hypothetically, something else comes up. And Wade just mentioned that time is money.
 And we talk about being a good steward of the public's money, and we talk about public trust. Well, I think that, you know, that's something that we should consider when, as it relates to this project, time and money. And so I don't know. I just feel like there are details do matter, but I'm just really concerned about,
 About the fact that if they address these questions if they address these concerns then when they come back Well, I I have more concerns. I have more concerns. I have more concerns I have a concern that's my concern and so Councilmember Jones as part of the process is this back and forth and really within the public setting I believe I think this is a very healthy discussion That we're having tonight and could continue to happen for the next couple of weeks or a month but it could be that
 we decide we don't want a hotel there. Maybe that's not a good fit. That's a possibility. You know, there's a lot of things that, you know, it's very open. Again, the city owns the property. So what happens if we don't have a hotel down there? What happens if we don't build a stage
 right away. I mean, I think what I haven't heard are a plan B and a plan C and a plan D. And that's usually what I like to see. Okay, well, here are some options here. So if you don't choose to do this, maybe the city council, maybe the city would wanna do that.
 I haven't heard any of that. I've just heard, here's where we're going, get on board, and approve it. And I don't think that is fair to our citizens, especially when we've had so many emails and so much conversation in the last couple of weeks. And I do think part of that is because...
 We weren't, we, and I mean the collective we, including me, we're not really getting out there and talking about this is a hotel or this is a possibility of a hotel. I think it caught people off guard a little bit. I think COVID and all of our usual communication and structure that we operate in has disrupted things. So I think there's a lot of reasons why we're having so much interest right now.
 I think that if we're if we think about waiting or tabling this or getting more information, I do think that we there should be a deadline and that deadline should be conducive to what way told us. I just feel as if we
 That's my opinion. I really believe that. I mean, I'm prepared to vote tonight, and I'm not prepared to vote on a perfect process because it doesn't exist. But based on what, even considering the information that I've received from different people with diverse opinions, I'm prepared to vote tonight. So I have a question for Teresa. Sorry. Okay.
 We'll let the new guy have a turn, Mr. Maynard. Thank you. Are you talking about me? Mike hasn't had to turn. Let's give him a shot. Okay, Teresa, you had mentioned a cost-benefit analysis. What exactly do you mean by that, and what would be the...
 the scope of that that you imagine and how long would that take you know what would you put in that what would you be you know what would that entail to you so first of all i'd like to figure out how much the appraised value is the estimated appraised value is on this piece of property as a starting point and then look at a range of different um cost or different potential uses
 Because, you know, we're going to have to, under this proposal, we're going to have to move that bike trail. That's going to be an expense to the city. So I'd like to be able to understand all of those costs and know exactly what we're getting into. We've seen how much it will cost to build a hotel for Mr. Rendon. We've seen that estimate. But I haven't really seen anything else about that.
 How much the city is how much the cost of that property will be what's the estimated cost of? relocating the trail what are some other costs what are the cost of Some of the other things that were going to be required to do so all of those kinds of things would be very helpful Maybe it's not as cost-effective or beneficial to the city to have a hotel there or maybe it is but we haven't sorted that out and
 I haven't seen that. That's the kind of information that I would like to have when we're making such an important decision. Okay, thank you. So but I also feel like all of the things that you're mentioning are things that you want exact things on and I kind of, I don't see how we can get the exact cost.
 anything until we are moving forward toward an end goal of a hotel or a restaurant or whatever we decide goes in there. So cost is only an estimate until you actually start it. Now the value of the property that requires an appraisal and if it makes you feel comfortable we could get a couple of commercial appraisals. Those are used to value
 County property, state property, city property, they're used by lenders to determine loan values. I mean, it's not, you know, if we had three appraisals or, you know, that's something that we could easily do and it's not a super expensive process to invest in.
 Those are things that I think, I don't feel that, I feel like we can move forward with this and if we have questions or concerns, we can address them in the letter of intent if we need to, but then we will go through the process as it evolves and that letter of intent. I'm not shocked or disappointed.
 you know, that that is, that there are elements in that that are both not firmly defined, but also that are, could be binding at the same time. Maybe I'm just, maybe that's just my background is a little bit different than some of the people on the council, but I'm not really.
 I think that can be made to be whatever we want it to be. But I do have a fear that we've gone through this process, we've done what as a city, I think what we were supposed to do,
 And that we keep, every time the developers, it's not been driven by the developers, it's been driven, what they've done is been driven by us asking questions of them and them coming back and answering our questions. And I feel, I'm concerned about moving the goalpost constantly. That worries me because when we put together an RFP, it's not just a
 It's not like we just have a hat of different suggestions and we pull them out and stick them together. I mean it's really pretty detailed and you know and then every time the city has asked any questions.
 These people have come back and they've answered them and they've given us the information that we have asked for They've they've tried that, you know, they've tried to and they've even tried to anticipate things that we might ask for and I'm I'm worried that that delaying this
 ensures that they don't put a hotel there. That that's not, it will make it so cost prohibitive because we've slowed it down so much that no one can put anything in there.
 so so let me just be clear i'm asking for estimates i know we can't get specific numbers i i understand that but having more transparency about how much that property is worth what the different uses could be maybe the hotel is not the right use or maybe it's the perfect use i don't know but we haven't explored that enough so that that's just my perspective
 Mayor Jordan, I'm sorry. Go ahead. Thank you, sir. I'm going to go ahead and take a turn. I'd be happy to vote no on the LOI tonight, but I'd rather not. I think the hotel use...
 What we're potentially missing is that for any building to be built has to have a return on that investment. And a hotel is more likely, in my opinion, to provide a return on investment for a developer. I don't mind a building being there. I have no problem with it being a hotel. I'm not holding anyone up. The chief of staff will vouch if not
 Mr. Sharp that I've been sending emails with questions, comments, and concerns since the month of April and And so I'm not holding anybody up. I got a boatload of wonderful information in the last week And so I feel like that that was credible competent responses to my questions and
 but I'm not holding anyone up and I'm not going to claim any ownership to holding anybody up. I've been asking the best questions that I could ask. Mr. Sharp humorously indicated that maybe 85% of the questions were mine, and I told him I expected a really good Christmas card this year for doing all of that work on behalf of his project. The second thing is that parking is an issue only because...
 We have fears about impacts on other businesses, and no one is sharing the fear that I have. Once we throw out attainable, affordable housing in this community,
 Essentially, the primary way that that's ever going to happen is to write down the value of city-owned land and rent it, lease it to someone below market, and to turn a surface parking lot that the city owns into an affordable housing project.
 and we need to be looking long-term at that because that impacts the parking. If we dually out of our mouth say that we have both goals, we want a vibrant downtown and we want affordable housing, unless a church or someone donates that land, it's gonna be city land that we lease to someone who commits to produce that form of housing. The LOI we have from our city attorney, we have it from,
 two retired individuals, a development services director and the gentleman that managed facilities for the University of Arkansas, who have told us that this is not a standard letter of intent, that in fact it's a binding agreement, a binding contract. That gives me a lot of heartburn. I am not ready to enter into a contract
 for this project at this time, I don't think anyone on this dais should be willing to do that. I would be completely comfortable if we amended the letter of intent
 as the city attorney has advised us, I would be comfortable entering into that letter of intent, making Mr. Rendell the developer of record, assuring him that we're not going to dance with any other partners, and he gets the first and only opportunity to produce the project that he's willing to commit to,
 that answers our questions, that solves the problems, that comforts the community, that satisfies people, that parking is being addressed long-term responsibly, even acknowledging some of that parking may go away.
 Yes, the trail movement gives me a little bit of heartburn because I'm not excited about purchasing land for Mr. Rendell it is his land, but it is his design that moves our trail onto his land I would like to explore some alternatives about that and
 But if that's the sticking point for me, that's nothing. That can be solved. Parking, is it a big deal? It's a big deal. It is the easiest of the issues to solve on this project, to be perfectly honest with you. And although I'm the guy that preaches parking is what will bite you in the rear end if you don't plan for it ahead of time,
 We simply will not sell the land to Mr. Rendell unless he satisfies us that he has solved that long-term, not to the detriment of his neighbors, and that's the way it ought to be. So while I asked questions about parking...
 and deliveries because the real issue for me is in deliveries in a shared drive aisle with people arriving, deliveries, customers head in parking for existing businesses and restaurants backing out. That's a lot of moving parts in a shared space.
 I have concern about that. That's solvable. Nothing for me kills this project, kills this deal. There are smart people in this room. There are smart people on his project team. There's capability there. Now, I could have gotten answers three months ago.
 i'm too nice i don't have any explanation for that i'm getting them this week and it's overwhelming amount of information i only got 86 emails teresa i didn't get 100. i only got 86 not counting tonight's emails so there's no reason why mr rendall cannot succeed but i'm i'm not willing to agree to the current letter of intent as it's currently proposed and
 I have grave concerns if we as a council would be comfortable agreeing with that that said none of this is insurmountable we ought to be able to get there to be perfectly honest with you and so thank you for allowing my turn to comment thank you I just want to thank everyone for coming out and talking and voicing your concerns this has just been really helpful and I know that
 You know, we're all tired, but I think it's very helpful and very good for us to know where everyone stands on it. I do want to say that I want to thank Justin, Clay, because I was looking, what I wanted to come here tonight to listen to was what are the resources for parking?
 from the city that has been stated that is going to be used in the letter of intent and do we have said parking? Well, according to the data, we have plenty. So to me that was my main concern because that's the main concern I've heard. And so I have the data in order to make the decision.
 Now, the letter of intent is a question. However, I have a question for Kit. Is our letter of intent also the contract or are we also going to do a contract? Do we know? No. The contract would be what is actually before you in black and white. It did not incorporate the RFP. I mean, it could have.
 But that would have made it even kind of more confusing. You don't want one problem I have with this supposed letter of intent, which is a contract, is that it has too much ambiguity in it. Some of that was addressed by a letter to you all from the attorney working for this.
 And also I addressed that also, but there is a lot of ambiguity in a contract like that and it appears to be
 that Vicki Bronson is the drafter of that. And I would like to put something in a contract so that it would say that this will not be construed against the drafter because a normal legal law is, is that if you draw up a contract and it's ambiguous or unclear, then it's going to be interpreted against your interests and in favor of the other party. And so sometimes I see contracts where,
 The attorneys don't want that to happen, and so they put a clause in there saying this was a jointly agreed to and drawn up contract and is not to be interpreted against either party. But right now, this letter of intent has several things that are very unclear in it. It has questions.
 Some several things that are clear how tall the building will be what its design will be some of the stuff made That'll be made out of What we're basically it sits on the land so it has a lot of things the most important things are clear but then it has a lot of other details that are not clear and so I think that I
 They should be cleared up because they're going to be enforceable. And I it's not I don't like an unclear contract. I'd rather have it clear so that both sides really know ahead of time before they sign that this is what the agreement is. So I do think it does need some more work.
 Could we possibly, so my understanding in general, a letter of intent is just that. It's more short. It's more amended. It's more the gist of what the project is. Can we amend the letter of intent?
 intent to say this is a letter of intent and we will follow it with a contract? Can we do that? Because to me, a letter of intent is not the place to do a contract. And then we could go into those details. If you look at Black's Law Dictionary, it says a letter of intent is not supposed to be enforceable. It is basically an invitation.
 guide maybe but not enforceable and we had one before Concerning the parking deck and on October 17th. I sent you all this memo Quoting that language. It's not short. It's long. It's exactly the language that the proposal that The other sides have placed in that particular Letter of intent to make sure it was a letter of intent and not enforceable we could
 You could attach this as a proposed amendment. Of course, everything you change, just like if they want to change something, they'll have to agree. So it doesn't automatically make that. But you could attach this clause into the contract, which probably will make it a letter of intent, probably make it not enforceable. That's what this says.
 It's kind of contrary to some of the other language that says shall and will, mandatory language that you find in contracts. So I really don't recommend that. I recommend, let's make the letter of intent, which is actually a contract, a little more clear. Handle some of the issues that are still out there on that, rather than just trying to make it unenforceable and then go on from there because
 Eventually, I think that the developer, Mr. Rendell, will want something that's enforceable before he starts spending a lot of money. And so I think it'd be a better and faster way to try to do proper amendments to this proposal rather than.
 really turned it into a letter of intent where it's not enforceable. Could I ask you, if you've observed in your reading, what areas you would request more specificity? I've heard the most interesting sort of back and forth about the definition of letter of intent, that either it is or it isn't, more or less specific. Now we're back to wanting specifics.
 And I understood that you were out of town. Thank you for catching up. I appreciate that. City, assistant city attorney,
 Blake Pennington did review and the existing letter of intent was satisfactory for answering the questions at that time. So if you could help me understand some of the specificity you're looking for that we haven't already answered, that would be appreciated and any suggested language since Mr. Rendell is here and we are, it sounds to me, ready to try to amend. So if you could point out some of those areas.
 Well, I pointed out several problems in it in my memo of October 18th, which I sent to you and the council. I'm asking, I'm sorry, what recent ones, because I believe those that were in your October 18th memo are the ones that Blake Pennington said we had addressed. Blake Pennington said what? Blake identified problems.
 Blake reviewed the existing letter of intent while you were out looking for whether our letter of intent, as it currently states, represented the clarification you were asking for and I believe we got his concurrence that it did contain it. Well, I'll have to talk to Blake about that, but except for one item, it did not address that.
 Vicki did send another letter that had several suggested changes. And then I didn't want to overload you all, but I wanted to point out in a memo I sent today after I received this other letter.
 Some of the things that I thought might be very, very important, really not even dealing with the money, but dealing with the use more than anything else. For example, I would like the letter of intent or the contract to leave the power with the city council to control any outdoor amplified music because the plaza is flat and there's no big structures except on either end. And so amplified music...
 is going to go all over that plaza. And so I felt it would be much better to have the city council in control of that rather than having it even at the planning commission level because that can be appealed and so you really don't have the power.
 And there were, I also talked about the fact that they had changed the letter of intent to my criticism that they had not even said they were going to have a restaurant. That was one of the possibilities. And of course, I believe that to the parts of the building that will be activated by visitors to the plaza are going to be restaurants and bars, not the hotel. That's where people are going to stay in the hotel.
 And so I felt like that Mr. Randell probably should at least agree to put in the restaurant and cafe that he had put down on his own exhibit that he gave to you as part of this letter of intent. And so I thought that language ought to be changed to at least, you know, say that you're going to do what you indicated in your exhibit.
 There are many other things that I would like to see looked at and considered. I pointed out most of them.
 And there's a memo, for example, doing a cost share 50-50 split for the water and sewer mains when, in fact, the only thing we're going to have in there is a bathroom. They're going to have 134, 164, however many rooms they have. I'm sorry. I need Wade to address that item about water sewer because that's not actually factually correct. Oh, it didn't say split? No.
 No, it said whatever would benefit Mr. Rindell, he would pay for. And whatever benefited the city, the city would pay for. Okay. So, like, for example, like... Oh, I'm sorry. When she said Blake, I thought you meant Blake Pennington. I'm sorry. Yeah. So, yeah, if we were to need water on the south end of the plaza for irrigation or any other amenities, then we could split that water service into that part.
 of the plaza. And so what I would like to see in this, if it turns out to be a contract, I think that we ought to probably do the, consider what the pro rata share is going to be, assuming what we're going to do and assuming what they're going to do, which I think is, could be pretty accurate. The point it took further is if we don't need anything on the South Plaza, all, it's all on him. So we wouldn't be sharing that. Well, we do need it for the bathroom. Well, that's part of the development.
 Well, it's in our favor. But regardless, I'd like to see that. And also we're talking about pro rata share of when you build a bathroom for the foundation and everything up, it would be nice to know kind of what they believe is a fair pro rata share that maybe could be agreed to before the contract. That's going to be hard to do without a letter of intent. And all that. So we've changed that language to where all we want is a white box finish.
 And that gives us control of all the finishes and fixtures so we can put it in just like all of our other parks.
 Councilmember Harvey asked the question, will there be another contract? And the answer is yes. Even though we can argue about the intent of this particular document and whether it's called a contract or a letter of intent, its point is to be the first step. A contract with all the real estate terms is coming. This is not the end of the negotiation. We'll have to get approval from you all to sell the land.
 Is it possible, Mayor Jordan, to bring up Mr. Sharp and he can probably provide some... You can bring up whoever you want to, Dan. I would just like to hear his concerns about the LOI. Thank you. Hang on just a minute. How long are we going to... How long do you think... Well, go ahead. I'll be as brief as possible. And the...
 so there there are a lot of items that have come to light after the public discussion and then after some of the council discussion i think i can shed some light on some of it because i've been working on the project for a year now a little more than a year um so just um and this is in no particular order first of all this this issue of the loi letter of intent the rfp asked the applicants to provide either a final proposal like the
 like an rfp that you know the city could just sign it and we're in a way or an interim agreement after discussion with the steering committee we agreed that an interim agreement was what we wanted to do that we would go from an interim agreement we would flesh out the details and go to a final sale you know i'm used to calling an offer agreement from real estate terms but whatever you want to call it but what we're trying to do with this letter of intent is an interim agreement
 We probably made an error calling in a letter of intent, but the letter of intent was drafted. We took the deal points from the RFP and what Brian's response was, we took those deal points, we put them in a list, we gave the city and Brian negotiated all the points, then we sent it to Vicki Bronson, she drafted it. So your attorney drafted this document, the attorney that was working for you drafted this document.
 I know that the city attorney works very hard to keep everybody out of trouble and you know he put up a red flag with some of these items and the the items that he's brought up are all very good ideas and the the things like amplified music and is there
 5,000 square feet of restaurant on the ground floor, or 2,000, or the two or three restaurants on the ground floor. I feel that the way to deal with those items is we have offered to go through the PZD process, which means every one of these development details is going to come before you again.
 And we can put it in the minutes. We do not want to control amplified music on that plaza. We are happy to let the city be the judges of that. So put it in the minutes. And when we do the PZD, you'll see that language, that the amplified music is not allowed by right.
 you know, it'll be, it'll be, we'll be very careful about that. We're not, we're not building this hotel to make noise. We're going to be the alternative to jello shots and dollar pizza. We're going to be where grownups go on Dixon street. And so we're not, we're not trying to be the loudest place on Dixon street. We can't win that war. So the, the, it is, I mean, I, I wish that Vicki Bronson and Kit Williams had gotten together earlier and worked out these things, but it's, it's, so we're, we're kind of,
 This letter of intent keeps evolving. But if we, I think it's had so many evolutions where we're at the final moment. We're talking about amplified music and the size and number of the restaurants. I think we have a deal that we can get to. And the thing that I think is really good about this letter of intent, it's extremely transparent. What we're saying is we're going to pay you exactly what the land is worth.
 We are going to split the cost of the appraisal. We're going to split the cost of the surveys. All that stuff costs a terrific amount of money, and no one is going to spend that money on the promise that maybe the city will think it's a good idea in the future. We have to have some kind of commitment from you all, and so that's what we're asking for.
 In terms of the public knowing, when we reported to the steering committee, the press nipped it out immediately. They published all the pictures. They published all the hotel, all the renderings. It's been in the public realm for a long time. So it is not something that was hidden from view. I'll point out that...
 this city has always always supported the walton arts center they've always prioritized walton center parking brian is going into this deal knowing that that will continue he's not he's not counting on getting his fair share of the bargaining he's coming behind the walton arts center coming behind existing businesses to use the parking that's not being used we we can keep studying this but we're going to keep finding the same thing and the uh
 the thing that also we need to remember and all my clients tell me this is delay kills deals we're in a situation with rising interest rates rising construction costs we have put the staff has put a terrific amount of time and energy to bring you a fully fleshed out proposal we've gotten a flurry of people concerned about parking at the last minute i understand it but
 When we break ground on this hotel in two years, when the thing is standing in four years, we're going to be a different town. And we think we're going to be a better town for it. But it is we will never get there if we keep studying it, if we keep nitpicking it. There's a time in our agreement to nitpick it. We need to nitpick it. When you get your final real estate contract, be that thick, and everyone will be happy with it.
 or it won't get signed. When you get your PZD documents, you'll have 50 pages of evidence. You'll have 50 pages of very specific details, but we cannot do that until we get a commitment. That's what we're asking for.
 And Brian's gone through the whole process. He's done everything right. On top of he has a 20-year track record of doing good projects. So it's very discouraging to hear that we need to take more time. We need to think about it. What's the hurry? So it's the... I would hope that you could pass what we have and work with us to make it better.
 When we're here for PZD, make it better. When we're here for the final agreement, make it better. But now is the time to commit, and I would hope that you would do that tonight. I have a question, and maybe this is just my thoughts were when we got a six-page email from KID talking about on October 18th
 And then we got the page and a half from him today. I kind of read that to mean that has other questions in it, that we had resolved the first issues that took up the six pages. And now we're down to this. Is that fair assumption or? I certainly felt like the use issues and the Amplified Music issue was the most important long-term issue, more important even than money because
 Anyway, that's why I addressed those two things. So that was my kind of, you know, I feel like if we start with a big email and then the next email is much smaller, then I think we've probably gotten some of the issues resolved in the big email. So Kit, is there anything in this that you see in the second email that you sent of today
 that we will not be able to cover in a PZD agreement that won't be able to be addressed in that? I think it would be much better addressed in the actual real agreement. PZD is a zoning decision and you can argue about various conditions on that, but if you have an agreement that already says you're going to approve this basically, then you really don't have much
 much leeway in a PZD as you would if you're looking at a blank canvas because you'll already have an agreement that says it looks like this and everything else and these are its uses so when it comes to the uses including how to do the amplified music I think some of those things would be good to have in the actual agreement. Okay.
 We keep going back to amplified music. I mean, I know for people that live downtown, that's a pretty big issue. It's been something that we've discussed a lot, but that seems like something that we could put, we could say, okay, if we're going to vote to table this, we vote to table it, or we vote to maybe add it to the letter of intent or something like that. It's not something that...
 If we're just talking about something like amplified music, that seems fairly... I mean, I know if I live next to a...
 band that's playing all the time. It's a big issue, but it seems like something that would be a small issue to get resolved in the. Well, it's something I think that they could certainly agree to. I mean, you heard that they're not wanting to do that, but as your attorney, I'm always looking at a potential worst case scenario. And so I would like to keep the city council in control.
 And that's why I even drafted the language for that. And does that, that doesn't seem like a, I mean to me that doesn't seem like a hard thing to add in. And they've said they don't want to control the music.
 I don't know. Yeah. I feel like right now, in general, my concern is that a lot of the things that we're talking about need the letter of intent so that we can continue to make the decisions. And so it's a gray hard area because it's a big, giant decision as we're deliberating it.
 But all the process, we've seen it come through the process, we've seen it go through the process. And I feel like at this point, from what I've heard now with the contract and kind of how we can continue to clarify and ensure that that can be still part of the process...
 but again with the letter of intent it's the it to me it's the big picture um and the big picture to me is that we have a place for visitors to come to fayetteville in the arts corridor
 And we've missed out for 10 years, y'all, with Crystal Bridges. We have all the artists, all the creative, and I'm just going to claim it. We export all of that. They take all of the stuff that we make and do and create, and they take it over there, and they put it on display at Crystal Bridges.
 Um, we need a stage here. We need people here. We need for them to sleep here, eat here, spend money here, feel like it's an arts destination. Um,
 This was the perfect idea. I mean, I don't know we didn't know what was going to come up But I think a hotel is a great idea for they've come to the Arts Council And and I I know we've received I think we received a letter from the Arts Council have to look back There's a lot of emails. I didn't count them but
 The support that we're receiving, that I'm hearing from the creative economy, in terms of what is the big idea of a hotel, is exactly what we need for a destination arts place. So with the information I have, I'm going to just go ahead and move that we approve the resolution.
 I'm going to second it, but before I do that, Mayor Jordan, as the leader of this city and as the visionary of this city, I would love to hear from you as it relates to your thoughts on moving forward. Well, you know, I think the process wasn't flawed.
 I mean, we talked about this in public meeting after public meetings. Susan can give you a list of the people that they presented four or five of these different
 Designs and they picked this design and it was on our website in January the 29th 2019 four months before we had that vote because I wanted to be sure that everybody was on board Now granted I didn't I didn't mention a hotel I didn't because I did not know what that was going to be I had a list of things that could be and you saw what I saw and
 And I showed to the public about, I did 18 public hearings in four months to get everybody's input. So on the process, it wasn't flawed. There wasn't no switching bait. I didn't lie to anybody. I didn't try to bamboozle anybody. I gave them what I had. Show that picture, Susan. This is what I showed people.
 This was what is on our website. This was on the federal flyer back many years ago. That was something that we could be proud of. And I brought this to the council. Now, that's a fact. Now, some of you council members weren't there. But some of you were there. I mean, I just want to clear that up. The mayor didn't try to bamboozle anybody.
 and i didn't appreciate hearing that but because that's not true okay so that clears that up now i'm watching hotels go in two in bentonville i think one's going in in rogers one's going in in springdale now we don't have anything in our downtown area sonya's right the time has come you know we talk about getting 86 emails
 You know how many emails I got during the LGBTQ ordinance? Around 1800. And 75% of those was against it. But I want you to know this council had the heart and the courage to pass that ordinance. And I want to thank Sarah Marsh for reminding me of that. Not that, but you know what I mean.
 Now I'm watching hotels go in and we need a hotel. We need a hotel. Now I'm going to support this hotel. I'm going to be out there up front with it because I need it. This city needs it. I'll support another one that goes in too. If there's two that goes in there, if there's eight that goes in, in the downtown area I'll support them all. Because we need them. And I believe there's enough for all of us.
 Now, I, I, and we took this to the ULI, is that right Susan? Um, Mayor, the Urban Land Institute, the national group did. The national group. Right. To, to check that and they said this is a good looking project, Mayor. Now, what I told the people,
 that there was going to be a multi-story, multi-use building on the south end and then there will be a smaller building on the north end. Didn't know what they were going to be. That's what I told the people and we showed that picture around. Now, another thing I want to address because a hotel will get more eyes on the park. A hotel will help us with this ADU discussion we're kicking around.
 One of the reasons people use ADUs, they don't have a good quality hotel in this city right now. I mean, the graduate's good, and we have a few, but we don't have a major hotel in that downtown area besides graduate. I heard people say they were charging $1,000 a night. Did I hear that right? And you meant short-term rental. You accidentally said ADU, but you mean short-term rental. I mean short-term rental. Yes. In fact, that's true.
 uh short-term rentals will help us with it will help us with that now uh the other things i want to say if you want my two cents worth the city needs to take bold action and the city needs to be courageous or you can take rank with those timid souls that know neither any wins or any losses that lives her whole life out in mediocrity and i don't intend
 to live my life out in mediocrity, nor do I intend to lead this city to mediocrity. So if you want my two cents worth, that is fine. Amen. Mr. Mayor, no one's really opposed to the hotel. Is there any reason why this council wouldn't want to include Kitt's non-binding agreement paragraph in this letter of intent before it's voted on?
 i don't have any is that a motion because i would second it if it's a motion so we can get this moving that's a motion thank you i second it okay all righty
 What discussion do we want to have on that? Mayor, I'm sorry, the motion in the second, before that motion in second. There was one before that, so. Okay. All right. It's to amend the motion to authorize the mayor to sign a letter of intent. Hang on, hang on. He'll explain it.
 Okay, well we have a couple issues here. There was a motion just to pass the resolution and Your motion would be to actually change the Entitled letter of intent So I think that that's probably not a proper motion to amend and
 So I don't think that yours would be in order there, so it would still be on the floor. A motion to table would take precedence, but not a motion to amend the resolution. I would need to request the original person making the motion to amend their motion, it sounds like.
 okay so basically you're asking if i would amend my motion or i could retract it and then you could add yours as well i think that would also be in the order would that be order if you wanted to talk about the uh actual letter of intent language then i think that would have to be a separate motion rather than a motion to amend the res passing the resolution so if you were drew your second
 Or do you mean you made them? I made the motion. Okay then then you could withdraw your motion and then he could make his. Let me go ahead and
 retract my motion so that you can add your amendment councilmember Whitaker okay so at this point there's not a motion on the table so a motion from you councilmember Weiderker would be in order I would move that we amend the proposed litter of intent
 to include the city attorney's paragraph labeled, titled, non-binding agreement from his October 17th, 2022 memo to council to be a part of the proposed letter of intent. Would you read that? I will. It's long and it's exactly the same letter of intent that was adopted, that language was adopted in the previous letter of intent. Okay, non-binding agreement
 This proposal is not intended as, and does not constitute, a binding agreement by any party, nor an agreement by any party to enter into a binding agreement, but is merely intended to specify some of the proposed terms and conditions of the transaction contemplated herein. Neither party may claim any legal rights against the other by reason of the signing of this letter, or by taking any action in reliance thereon,
 Each party hereto fully understands that no party shall have any legal obligations to the other, or with respect to the proposed transaction, unless and until all of the terms and conditions of the proposed transaction have been negotiated, agreed to by all parties, and set forth in a definitive agreement which has been signed and delivered by all parties.
 The only legal obligations which any party shall have shall be those contained in such signed and delivered definitive agreement referred to above. I second that I'm hoping that this can get moved forward. I think a lot of the questions we have about what the appraisal is going to come back like those can be answered after the letter intent is signed, and they can't really be really explained until after. So, second.
 all right caravans please call the road kirk yes harpsburg yes harvey yes jones yes minion well with the amendment i guess it's yes i'm still very reluctant that we didn't have more specificity on the parking we're just looking i know i know what it is i know okay i got yes for yes
 councilmember Kenyon could you give your answer one more time yes we'd occur yes Scroggins yes bench yes okay unless you want to make other changes to the letter of intent which is now a letter of intent then you would have before you the question of the resolution itself if we pass the amended resolution I second
 All right, final comments or you have anything else to say? I do think this was a great discussion for all this time. It's a relatively simple solution since we're just adding a paragraph and I do trust that it will do the trick. We still have a lot of work ahead of us to be sure that the parties that have expressed interest are heard.
 I never said I was against the hotel, by the way. I just said I was against the letter of intent, the way it was written. So I will support it as it's been amended. Any other final comments? Yes. Well, I'd like to thank everybody for coming out. I think that one of the things that makes this city great is people intensely love it. And I think somebody mentioned friction before. That happens.
 you know, this is a next step in the conversation. I truly believe that we do need to continue to look at parking, not just
 in this isolation, but in general, because if we're talking four years from now, a lot can happen. A lot of businesses could go in independent of this and then have parking issues. So that conversation needs to continue both here and outside of this item. I hope that we continue to do that, but I look forward to moving this on to the next step. Anybody else?
 yes I'm sorry I just want to say I really believe we need more time I don't feel like we still have enough information and I'm not going to support it because of those reasons okay one thing I do want to say when I took up this office when I became the mayor of this city you know what the number one item was in the downtown area Park flash forward it
 14 years later and you know what we're talking about? Parking. And I've built a parking deck and I've got one not quite finished and we're talking about yet another one. So parking has always been an issue and it will be an issue. And you can't stop the progress of a city just on one issue, one item. We got to move forward. Okay. That, Kerowitz, please call the roll.
 Kirk no Hertzberg yes, RV. Yes Jones yes, Indian. Yes, we did Kirk. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes, thank you Now let's move along to number three I
 All right. An ordinance to approve vacation 22-022 property located at 3615 North Steel Boulevard in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of utility easement. Now y'all this was, this was, everybody's abandoning me. This was left on the first reading and I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading. So moved.
 Care which please call the Tur yes Hertzberg yes, RV. Yes Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes, yes, okay
 and norton's approves vacation bac 22-22 for property located at 3615 north steel boulevard and ward 3 to vacate a portion of a utility easement do you all need another break i'm just everybody looks a little tired okay all right okay are we are we taking an eight minute break
 Five. We're going to take five. Okay, let's go ahead and get started again. We're on item three. We're really moving along, Mayor. We're all right. We're all right. Look, ten. We're this far already. We're good. We're good. We're good.
 Jonathan, I believe you're up. Yes, Mayor, thank you. I don't have any new updates on this item. Just as a brief reminder for council, this was left on the first reading, given a very specific condition of approval with the easement vacation that Mr. Williams wanted the applicant or the representative to be present here to acknowledge it as a part of that. I did get the opportunity between the last meeting and this one to connect with Brett Roberts, who's the representative for the applicant, and he is attending the meeting online and available. Thanks.
 Okay, let's see is would the applicant like to speak for the council? Is he online? Okay Well, what questions does the council have for the staff? Well, I guess he has one more chance to make a meeting Mr. Roberts has now raised his mr. Mayor Mayor the applicant has raised his hand, okay
 Would the applicant like to speak before the council? Or shall we give him a few, the applicant a few more minutes? He was there a moment ago. He was? Here he is, Brett Roberts. Okay, Brett. You're muted. How about now? Now's good. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and council members. And I appreciate getting this insight into the,
 Fayetteville City Council. My understanding is that this vacation is simply before the council get on second reading to ensure that JJ's, the applicant, understands the condition of use. And I believe we do. And I guess I'm just here to, I don't know that the council has any questions that the staff wouldn't address, but I'm available if necessary. Thank you.
 Well, sir, I probably was the one that asked that you all be present. And I want to read you the second condition of this vacation to make sure that you as an official representative of the owner understands. It says the applicant agrees that in an event that at any time in the future, a utility company needs to do work in the area of the utility easement being vacated.
 And if the canopy post located along the building setback line, approximately five feet south of the utility easement line, would interfere with the performance of the work, applicant will temporarily remove the canopy post at the applicant's expense to allow the work to be performed without interference. I just want to make sure that you, as the official representative of the applicant, understands that duty that you are assuming.
 Absolutely, Mr. Harrington. I appreciate that. We certainly do. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Okay. What questions does the council have for the applicant? Or no? Okay, then let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Who do you have on Zoom, Susan?
 No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay. Is there anyone in the chamber who would like to address us on this topic? No. Okay. Well, I shall bring it back to the council. What is the wishes of the council? What action would you like to take tonight, or what discussion would you love to have?
 Move to suspend rules and go to the second or third? We're going to the third. Go to the third. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third. Chair, would you please call the roll? Turf? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Lederker? Yes.
 Orders approved the AC 22-22 for property located at 3615 North Steel Boulevard in Ward 3 to vacate a portion of utility easement What final comments we have in council? No, okay care, would you please call the roll? Yes, Ertzberg. Yes, RV. Yes Jones. Yes, Kenyon. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Yes, now we're moving on to new business. I
 at a rapid pace. Number one, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign a subrecipient agreement with Watershed Conservation Resource Center for the purchase of about 223 acres of land near Dead Horse Mountain Road, utilizing American Rescue Plan Act funds in the amount of $1,444,400 and to approve a budget adjustment. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yes, I'm bringing this before us tonight because we're at risk of losing the opportunity to purchase this land. Beaver Water District has committed $800,000 of the total amount. ARPA funds have been used or can be used to improve water quality.
 The West Fork of the White River goes, deposits water into Beaver Lake, which supplies all of Northwest Arkansas and is really critical to the success, the economic development of our region. And so this piece of property is 223 acres. And it is directly adjacent to the city's 98 acres that was purchased in 2019. It has 2.5 miles of riverfront.
 and has 22 acres of wetland. And so restoring the riparian zone, not having this flood often and keeping this area intact is really critical to the continued improvement of water quality that goes into Beaver Lake.
 So I am looking forward to hearing from staff or some of the details on the the contract on the arrangement but I think this is very important and an appropriate use of ARPA funds. Okay Teresa do you have an applicant? I hope the applicant is here. Sandy would you like to come up and tell us more about it? Yes you have 10 minutes.
 I don't have ten minutes of things to say. Hello everybody, thank you for allowing me to speak and to consider our application. I'm Sandy Formica with Watershed Conservation Resource Center, I'm their Executive Director.
 I have three categories of benefits. One is the environmental benefits. This project supports water quality protection and protection of the West Fork of the White River and its floodplain is important to the City of Fayetteville to ensure that we have clean drinking water now and in the future.
 The expansive floodplain and 22 acres are important natural features that work for us and they serve to filter out sediment nutrients from floodwaters which in turn helps to protect Northwest Arkansas drinking water source Beaver Lake.
 40% of the city drains to the West Fork White River, a little bit to the white but mostly to the West Fork White River and all of that stormwater ends up in the West Fork. And this floodplain helps to treat the stormwater runoff that we create through our urbanization.
 Natural resources are disappearing at a rapid rate. Floodplains are a vulnerable landscape and once their function is lost, the impacts are irreversible. Protecting this 223-acre property would set a positive precedent. It's very forward thinking on how we should manage floodplain areas.
 Most of the parcels in the Town Branch Watershed, so you guys all know Town Branch, and Beaver Lake Watershed associated with Bayville, they're small parcels. This is a very rare opportunity to get a large parcel of land that can protect our water quality in one purchase.
 Wetland habitat is scarce in northwest Arkansas, especially in the White River Basin. The over 22 acres of wetlands are important for treatment of stormwater to improve water quality and they're also important for fish and wildlife. Protection and restoration of the floodplain will help to mitigate the effects of climate change.
 The floodplain acts as a natural carbon sink, helps to reduce heat island effect, and also is flood relief. There's many more benefits besides that. The purchase to protect the floodplain helps to mitigate the hydrologic impacts of development where we're creating more impervious surface in Fayetteville and it helps to keep the city on a path of sustainable development.
 From an economic standpoint, the property is adjacent to low to moderate income areas, having public access to a natural area benefits these areas and also the entire community of Fayetteville. The use of ARPA funds to purchase the property would leverage over $800,000 match from Beaver Water District, protection of the floodplain.
 results in reduction of sediment loads to Beaver Lake, our drinking water source. This reduction in sediment and nutrients has a direct impact on our drinking water costs. So it directly relates to how much people are going to pay for their water. So that's a direct impact to residents of Fayetteville.
 River recreation is a growing recreational activity and we have this treasure flowing through our city that will contribute to Fayetteville's tax revenue through creating an access point. There's very little access to this river at this time. And then just the final thing that I wrote is it also creates a
 public welfare, or health and safety. The purchase of this property will include restoration and conservation efforts that will benefit the surrounding communities and public by providing a green space to engage in natural resource education,
 walking trails, access to the river, fish, bird, and then fishing and birding and enjoying nature. Throughout the COVID pandemic, the outdoor areas of our communities were inundated with people and families looking to find safe, healthy ways to recreate for physical and mental health. Green spaces have proven to be a valuable community asset and will continue to be needed as our communities grow.
 Okay. Does staff have anything to add, Paul or... Yes, the resolution as written authorizes the mayor to sign the agreement contingent on a final signature on the sub-grantee agreement. So that's where we stand at this point in time. It is in fact an eligible use of ARPA funds.
 So what questions do we have from the council? I have one. So I thought last week, Susan, when we were talking about this, that staff was going to make a recommendation on the ownership, how that was going to be structured. I believe Steve and Kit have been working on that. I'm sorry. And Blake, I'm so sorry. So if we could have a discussion about that, that would be nice.
 I think the point was I happen to be out of town, but I sent an email, and you can speak to this if you'd like to, that I was concerned that it was in the subgrantee agreement that it was conserved, that we had an agreement on the deed that it would be conserved. That's what we're working on right now to make sure that that's done before the mayor signs the subgrantee agreement.
 So Paul just to clarify that means that the city would be on the on the deed No the city would not be on the deed Hi councilmember Turk this city would be on the deed we'd be tenants in common Thank you very much for clarifying did everybody hear that okay all right thank you
 Anything else from the council? Yes. Clean water is in the top three uses for ARPA funds. This is environmentally a smart thing to do. Rather than having to build a facility to clean water, we're going to purchase land, and it will do that for free for the next hundred years after it's purchased. And finally, it represents, because of the Beaver Water District grant,
 in lieu a 57% return on investment immediately by them co-joining with this. So I thank the people that were smart enough to come up with this agreement. I endorse that. I tell you what, this is a good economical choice, a good investment, already a return, and we certainly need the protection.
 The association has worked hard on improving the water quality and the west fork of the White River. We have now their sewage being treated in Fayetteville, that helps. Then we've done a lot of stream restoration. This is certainly a project that enhances everything that's already happening out there. It's a great deal.
 I really like the fact that we have the opportunity to do this and it ties in with land that we already have and gives us a bigger area of protection, but I think this is a good use of the funds and I'm really appreciative of the people that brought this forward.
 i feel like we're wrapping up but we haven't done public we haven't done public input right i haven't got there i'm letting you all okay asking all the questions i'm fixing to get to that i was ready to vote oh are we gonna okay well i just wanted
 because I feel like we're making ending comments but if but it but since we are I'm just gonna go in the spirit of it what really caught my eye is that of course I'm definitely want to support you know clean water and it's very important that we need to support this for the future Fayetteville and conserve land when we have the opportunity and glad that ARPA allows us to do that
 one of the pieces that stands out about your application to me is your equity piece and making access to the lower income neighborhoods because that was a big part of ARPA as well and we'd love to see them let us see that piece you know come to fruition besides the entire project so okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak
 You have a five minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first. And those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one has raised their hand, Mayor. Okay. Who wants to speak? Who's in the chamber? Good evening, everyone. I am James McCarty. I live outside the city of Fayetteville limits, but I'm here representing Beaver Water District, a party to this proposal.
 Just very briefly, I just wanted to say as most of you know and we've already said floodplains are essential for healthy river corridors. They provide connectivity of the water to the land. They create margin and buffer for higher flow events. But unfortunately floodplains are prime for development and our buffering ability is diminishing as these areas are developed. This leads to larger peak river flows during storm events and increased transport of sediments and nutrients.
 which ultimately impacts Beaver Lake, the drinking water source for 1 in 6 Arkansans and most of northwest Arkansas. The protection of this floodplain would extend a protected corridor along the West Fork that the City of Fayetteville has already invested heavily in and enhance restoration work being done for the low head dam at the Fayetteville ballpark. It would be a treasured natural feature and revitalize the health of the West Fork.
 the state of Fayetteville has been just an absolutely excellent partner to Beaver Water District and all you know people who are interested in conservation and our natural resources and I just want to encourage you all to extend that track record and vote for this proposal and purchase of the property thank you thank you who else like to address us hello
 Council members, my name is Sarah Lewis and I live at 1908 West Berry Street in Fayetteville. I want to highlight some of the broader context of really the whole body of work that the City of Fayetteville has been working on for decades. Part of that is the Enduring Green Network.
 It includes the work some of us all did on the streamside protection ordinance and the low impact development ordinance, the redesign of the drainage criteria manual. All of that is part of this whole big piece, and most recently you all have successfully made a decision to strategically purchase land and set that aside as an economic resource
 more efficient way to reduce flooding rather than going in and fix the damages to reduce the flooding ahead of time by purchasing land and setting that aside to reduce flooding and protect water quality.
 All of that is part of also the vision to potentially creating the discussions around creating stormwater utilities. So all of this is part of these big pieces, these puzzle pieces, right, of protecting this precious resource, our water quality. And I wanted to paint that all out because it's an important story to keep alive for our community that we value this. And it's one reason why people are moving here.
 And so how can we protect that for future generations? Also I want to highlight one of the points that I really appreciate Councilmember Turk bringing this forward is the urgency of this is that this is property that is being looked at by potential buyers.
 by potential buyers and only because people are looking in our area. We don't know who that, we don't know if there's actively people looking to purchase, but we know people are coming and buying land in our area and it is open for purchase.
 So please do support this this evening and thank you already for the comments. But that is part of the urgency of this. So I just want to say thank you again for hearing this and discussing it. And I'm thrilled that it's come to this point and I hope that you'll support it. Thank you so much.
 Hi, I'm Jonathan or John Johnson. I live at 305 West Cleburne here in the city. And I was also born in the city when was 61 years ago. I'm at the University, do a lot of work in sustainability and involved in a lot of different things. I'm also on the board of the Watershed Conservation Resource Center. And I think you've already heard the benefits that the purchase of this property would bring to the environment, environmental protection. I won't belabor those.
 I would like to reinforce that those are direct economic benefits there as well. So 100-year floods are becoming five-year floods, and in 50 years are going to be one-year floods. These are exactly the kinds of properties that mitigate flood damage, so it's a very direct impact on communities about some things just sort of abstract and out there. So I think it's a really important piece, and then also we're all seeing the benefits
 increasing trail networks and other outdoor recreation in the area, something we're working on at the university we're really excited about. This is something that will supplement that, that will reinforce, that would be a great addition to all the resources that we're seeing, and it will make those resources more accessible to everyone, not just the folks who can afford all the equipment and everything else. So thank you very much. And I also would like to reiterate Sarah's point that there is urgency on this property. Thank you. CHAIR BAILET. Thank you. Anybody else?
 Good evening, Mayor Jordan, council members. My name is Matt Van Epps. I live at 1718 North Wheeler Avenue. I'm also part of the Watershed Conservation Resource Center. I serve as the associate director. I have been a practicing water resources engineer for nearly a quarter of a century, spending a lot of time working in Arkansas on water quality and ecological concerns.
 Most of that time I've spent in Northwest Arkansas. And in those 25 years of practice, what I've seen over and over again, community after community,
 is lost opportunities to have adequate floodplains and green space to accommodate growth. I think that you all are aware of some of the issues that happen when growth encroaches on floodplains, and it's a lot easier to address on the front end, and you get a lot more benefit addressing on the front end than trying to redress flooding issues after the fact.
 and so i'm here before you tonight to encourage you to support this resolution and uh you know it's a unique nexus of external funding and a willing and negotiating landowner who has you know negotiated a fair price for this property and it's a unique property for a variety of reasons and you know i think the
 the greatest benefit is just the large size of the flood if you look at a map you'll see that the preponderance of this property is within the 100-year floodplain and so whatever we can do as a society to kind of minimize the encroachment of that 100-year floodplain it's going to serve us you know for perpetuity if we're able to move this thing forward and and make this land purchase
 So, I would like to acknowledge Beaver Water District supporting this effort.
 There are a lot of nonprofit and other government entities that are spending a lot of time and effort and money to improve water quality. And it's for the drinking side. It's also for the ecology side. It's for the social and the economic values that it provides. So I encourage you to support this resolution and look forward to helping the city preserve more floodplains in the future. Thank you. Thank you. Anybody else?
 Thanks Mayor Jordan, thanks to the Council for your important service. I'm here to speak in support of the floodplain conservation project located right on the West Fork of the White River and adjacent to a 98-acre Watershed Conservation Resource Center in the City of Fayetteville project.
 Floodplain Conservation Project will provide important protection for our rapidly growing urbanized region served by Beaver Lake downstream. And I would also just second the acknowledgement of Beaver Water District's remarkable and generous $800,000 in matching contributions toward this project.
 The floodplain with river frontage will provide native green space and wetland habitat for natural and cultural resource education. And the property encompasses land first purchased by early Fayetteville founders beginning as early as 1838.
 Owners have included Judge David Walker and Stephen K Stone. The 1831 General Land Office Platte, one of our earliest maps, indicates an early road that crossed the property and forded the West Fork in the vicinity of City of Fayetteville owned Northwest Arkansas transfer station and compost yard.
 The project would connect city property on the east and the west and preserve a gem of Fayetteville's natural and cultural history for the future. Thank you very much for your consideration. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 I'm Dot Neely, Ward 3 resident, North Mission Boulevard. I'm a retired environmental educator having worked in public outreach and education for the general public as well as the K-12 education system in the four major cities in Northwest Arkansas. And our whole outreach
 purpose was to help people understand where their drinking water comes from, why they should care, and ways to protect the source. And prior to working for Beaver Water District, I've been involved in
 the green infrastructure planning projects and various types of habitat restorations and assisted with these things for the better part of 21 years and then 12 years at Beaver Water District. And I just want to thank you for bringing this forward and for considering this opportunity to envision and put in place.
 and utilize the natural services that open space can provide in a much more efficient way than the built environment can. So we're using nature's function to do the job it knows how to do best. And this will preserve and, as has been said, help protect the water quality in Beaver Lake, which is the economic engine of Northwest Arkansas.
 provides all the education opportunities that have been mentioned. There was the trail system mentioned. It would make an excellent water trail that can be used
 have access to the river there to have floats maybe down to Lake Sequoia so people can be in contact and see where that water flows and see where the west fork of the White River and the main channel of the White River come together to go into Lake Sequoia.
 on down to Beaver Lake. So thank you for this consideration. It's a wonderful opportunity. It's good to be alive to see this happening. It's also wonderful to see Fayetteville leading the way once again in working with nature to do what it does best. So thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Oh, I guess that's everyone. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Would it be possible to see a map of the actual space? Do you have something, Teresa, that you can reference for us? I mean, in the application, I don't. Just to see the geography that we're talking about. It was in our packet, but it was kind of down a little bit, so it looks like they're going to bring it up for us. Okay, great. I missed it. It's pretty impressive. Okay, there we go. There you go. Awesome, yeah. That one's awesome.
 Thank you. I wanted to just really let that soak in. Since I've been in office, Dead Horse Mountain has been quite a big issue. We've heard a lot of flooding and we've seen a lot of flooding lately.
 and this is definitely in the right step to help prevent and protect people's homes and people's livelihoods so I'll definitely be supporting and I want to thank council member Turk for bringing it forward and
 I know with ARPA funds it's been taking time, so I want to thank you all too, the applicants, for being so patient and having Theresa to advocate for you. When I asked about how the ARPA funds were being dispersed and how was that going, I was able to reach out to Steven and he let me know that funds have not been dispersed and I was very surprised. I was kind of a little bit shocked.
 So I actually would like to make an amendment that we allow all the, in addition to doing this, that we allow all the ARPA funds that we've approved to be, for them to receive their funding because we approved a lot of funding and we didn't, we just hadn't really
 We were kind of, we, I don't know for, I got a great email about why we haven't released that funding, but this is an emergency item, but so is all of the other COVID related. All these people have been providing these emergency services. And so I feel in my heart that I'm, this is the right thing to do. I have no reservation, but I also feel that I want to be equitable to all of the other people who have been experiencing COVID related.
 issues and so I just wanted to add an amendment that we release the funds and that we allow those applicants to show their any documentation they have from 2020 that their lost revenues because I just feel like we're things are just going slow and you're bringing your item is helping to bring that forward but I just want to also allow everyone else to receive funding as well
 So maybe I can respond to that. Sonia, I agree. I mean, we really need to get those funds out, but we don't have an itemized list. We had that workshop on September 7th, and I think we agreed on quite a few things, but we never voted on it. So I would suggest that maybe at the next, maybe you do a walk-on at the agenda session so at our next council meeting we could maybe vote on those specific items. Sure.
 Okay, we're working right now on the items that we talked about at the work session. We've got a schedule to bring them forward. We'll bring at least one of them forward at the next agenda session, and then the one after that we'll bring the other ones that we've discussed.
 We are still waiting on documentation for some of the ones who requested losses to prove those losses. So we are working on those. We are bringing them forward. Some will be in November and some will be in December, but we are working on those right now, the vouchers.
 all of the things that we discussed so I don't think we need an amendment on that at this point in time okay and then how is the assistant the grant assistant grant administrator process going I was that going to help as we do have a grant administrator on board that grantor administrator right now is working very hard on getting working individually with the with the claimants for getting the documentation to us so we hired the
 the grant administrator i think it was three weeks ago we have already hired that in process and she's working now doing a very good job so we're working on bringing all of that stuff forward as rapidly as we can thank you appreciate the update um i don't i don't think i need to make the amendment right now but i if anyone has any thoughts or comments on that i know we're all very tired but that was something i had in mind um
 okay so i'll i'll just hold on my amendment at this moment would appreciate what coming forward and the amendment would have been sony please well i was wanting to re so i i asked if arpa funds that we have approved been released to people because i thought we approved like a lot quite a bit of funds
 I think we agreed on them, but we didn't vote because it was a workshop. The only way the city council really makes an official action is by passing a resolution or an ordinance. If you're just in a regular meeting. The workshop wasn't an official vote. Thank you. That's what I'm recalling, but I'm now. The workshop was intended to discuss and see what the council would support. Before we would then bring it forward, we can't have a workshop.
 and have a vote on this unless it's open to the public. So we talked about that. We didn't have the documentation at that point in time because we weren't gonna spend the time to pursue it. So that's what had waited. That's why we're getting all the documentation in order now. Okay, great. Thank you. It's late, I'm tired. Thanks for the re-explanations. Okay.
 I want to make one final comment, Mayor, if I can. I just want to really thank Sandy at WCRC and Matt and everybody at Beaver Water District and everybody for showing up tonight and staying at this long meeting. So you got to see a lot more than you probably envisioned you would tonight. So thank you again for moving this forward, bringing it before us, and having that larger and longer vision about our water quality. Thank you.
 come back soon we'll have more meetings I just want to possibly be longer I want to thank Teresa for bringing this forward and again for everybody for coming out tonight and voicing your support and with that I would like to vote that we pass this resolution second motion to say in the past resolution he's on comments from the council care which please call the roll
 Turd. Yes. Ertzberg. Yes. Harvey. Yes. Jones. Yes. Inion. Yes. Whitaker. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Okay, moving on to number two. This is the highlight of tonight. Don't everybody get excited, we haven't passed it yet. All right.
 An ordinance to amend 162.01 , offices, studios, and related services of the Federal Unified Development Code to add personnel services.
 Whereas this amendment is to reduce the administrative burdens for business owners seeking to open businesses categorized as personal services in the residential office zoning district, many multifamily and mixed-use zoning districts, and the neighborhood conservation zoning district.
 And whereas city staff and the Planning Commission have recommended approval of adding personal services to Section 16201Z, offices, studios, and related services for Use Unit 25. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 at the city council of the city of fable arcs are here by men section 16201z offices studios and related services of the fatal united unified development code by adding the following to the table at section 16201 z2 which covers included uses within use unit 25 offices studios and related services also as shown on the attached exhibit a
 And quote, personal services, this is to be added, barber salon, daycare, dry cleaning, and tailoring. I told you it'd be exciting. Okay.
 John. Thank you, Mayor. I'll try to be brief on this. I touched on it in a little bit of higher detail than normal at agenda session, but I know everybody wasn't able to attend. As Mr. Williams noted, this is a text amendment. This is brought forward with the interest of the Planning Commission. Long-range planning took it from there and took it before the Planning Commission itself, before it came to you all.
 What is that question? Specifically, it's to modify the RO, residential office zoning district. If you can imagine the zoning tables that we include in your packet in your head, every property in Fayetteville is zoned. Every zoning district has a list of permitted and conditional uses.
 What you may not look into detail on is every allowed and conditional use has a series of included uses that get even more prescriptive than that. And that's what serves as staff's guide to what is an auto-oriented use. It may not say gas station when you all look at it, but if you look deeper and deeper, you get more and more detail.
 For one specific use unit, which is 25, offices, studios, and related services, what's currently allowed are professional offices, medical clinics, services like a CPA, not like a barber, and the supply and equipment sales like art supplies, architecture supplies. It does not include the nuanced personal services, which does include things like barbers, salons, daycares, tailors, and dry cleaners.
 What the Planning Commission proposes and what staff supports is to modify that use unit 25 to include those personal services. And this was prompted by several years of conditional use permit requests in zoning districts where we found that many of those uses almost always barbers, salons and daycares would be perfectly appropriate. This most frequently falls in our residential office zoning district, which constitutes about 1.5% of the city,
 but it's in very key locations that are often in transitional portions of our city between very busy corridors with very intense commercial uses and very low intensity residential uses. So by allowing these smaller scale niche personal services, it puts them in closer proximity to residential uses.
 That brings us to an issue that was brought up at the Planning Commission and again at agenda session, which is concerned about dry cleaning, which on the face of it and for a lot of people, it may just seem like a typical service that people could solicit as needed. But what a lot of people do not understand is there are a lot of environmental consequences and considerations associated with dry cleaning.
 When a planning commissioner brought that up and expressed concern about including it, staff dove a little bit into the Environmental Protection Agency standards and found that they felt ultimately that the standards that the EPA enforces are adequate to protect residents. That said, I consulted with planning staff. I don't think any of us have any opposition to removing that if that remains a concern or to the city council.
 So that's certainly on the table to be amended away if the city council prefers. And with that, as it was proposed and is in front of you, the Planning Commission did recommend in favor of it unanimously, staff supported it as well. And to date, we've not received any public comment on the request. And again, I'm happy to take any questions, whether on the ordinances at large or whether it's specific to the dry cleaning question. Thank you.
 Okay, what questions do we have for John? So after we had the agenda session, I went online and looked up about quite a bit of the issues with dry cleaning. So dry cleaning mostly is using perchloroethylene, it's also called PERC, P-E-R-C, it's a potential human carcinogen.
 and it's a cleaning solvent. Symptoms include exposure, depression, the central nervous system, damage to the liver and kidneys, impaired memory, confusion, dizziness. There's a whole long list of issues with dry cleaners. A lot of the studies have been done with the workers themselves, but you actually have to get a special hood and ventilation system. With most things, the
 I don't really think that, at least down here in Fayetteville, that we have adequate state and federal oversight to regulate these. So I would ask that we amend this proposal and remove dry cleaning out of an abundance of caution for neighborhood areas and still leave dry cleaning as a conditional use permit issue.
 May I comment on that as well? And this is getting into a very deep dive in the code, but as someone who's interpreted it in the past, I think it would be beneficial to include the language excludes dry cleaning because oftentimes when you go from sections of code that appear to repeat each other over and over again, and suddenly something like this is missing, it leaves it open to interpretation whether it could be allowed unless there's an explicit clause saying that it's not.
 So if the council or Councilman Bitterk is amenable to that. I'm definitely amenable to excluding dry cleaning, yes, or using the language that you recommend for clarity. Thank you. I don't have any problem with taking that out, but I don't know, I don't go to the dry cleaners much anymore like I used to, but the last time I did go, I do know that the place where I picked up my dry cleaning was not the place that did the dry cleaning.
 I don't go to the dry cleaners that much anymore, but I don't have any problem with removing this because I understand the concern.
 Yeah, and I think, actually what I thought you were going to say, because I've heard about this, but I don't know if it exists in Fayetteville, that there's like green dry cleaners that actually, if we take out dry cleaners and the green ones maybe can't do their thing. But if it's conditional, then...
 you know they can say well we're a green dry cleaner and right is that correct right so if they're treating green dry cleaner they could still do it if with a conditional correct okay
 I would support that amendment, Teresa. So we're going to put an amendment that is conditionally used on dry cleaners. I get this one. That's correct. And you're right, Sonia. I meant to mention that these organic dry cleaners, they don't use PERC or some of these other really hazardous chemicals. They've tried to take a much more environmentally friendly approach. But how we regulate that or how we codify that in an ordinance, I think, might be challenging. So...
 But I do think the daycares, I know how hard it has been in the past for people to get a simple daycare put in their home where they're going to see just a couple kids, you know, take care of a couple of kids. I'm absolutely in support of that, and I can't believe we didn't have this made, you know, happen.
 easier earlier on because that has always been a challenge and for people that just want to take care of four or five kids and then they've got to deal with parking and you know all these other things that you know just
 Well, don't talk about parking. I know. Just haven't we all had enough parking tonight? Don't say the P word. I did not. Did I say parking? I did not mean to say parking. I meant to say fences. Oh, God.
 and mayor in the council's defense you all did consider an ordinance about two years ago to make in-home daycares much easier we basically defer to the state standard and if anyone wants to go beyond that then it might slip into a land use consideration locally okay so we're going to leave in everything but the dry cleaners do we need to have a separate amendment or can we just yes you do need to go ahead i thought there was an amendment to remove dry cleaning so that needs to be the first vote okay
 We have a motion to say correct is right I just like for the record clarify councilmember Turk made the motion and councilmember Harvey your second Correct Okay, would you please call the roll hurt? Yes, Pittsburgh. Yes, Harvey. Yes Jones yes Indian yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes I
 Okay. All right. Now we're back to the amended and I haven't taken any public comment. Unless you would like to discuss. Run them all out of here, Mayor. We scared them away. There might be somebody on Zoom here. Then I get a call tomorrow. All right.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those participating by Zoom are allowed to speak first, and those present in the chamber will speak after that. Susan, who do you have on Zoom? No one with their hand raised, Mayor. I think whoever has been on has fallen asleep by now.
 i gotta see if you're tired all right i'm gonna bring you back to the council
 And what action would the council like to take or what discussion would the council like to have? Move to suspend rules and go to second reading. Second. And they're sad. We have a motion to second to go to second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Turk? Yes. Erzberg? Yes. Harvey? Yes. Jones? Yes. Inyon? Yes. Ledecker? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes.
 And your order is to amend section 16201Z, offices, studios, and related services of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to add personal services. Move to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Turf yes Hertzberg yes, RV. Yes. Yeah. Yes Indian yes, we'd occur. Yes Scroggins yes, but yes in order to amend section 162 l1z offices studios and related services of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to add personal services any final comments from the council I
 No, okay care would you please call the roll? Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, RB. Yes Jones. Yes, Indian. Yes Whitaker yes Scroggins yes Yes
 Well, that concludes our business for tonight. Have we any announcements? Two announcements. Two? Have any? Wanted to bring to everybody's attention that the Historic Preservation Plan Survey is now online on Speak Up, and so we can encourage residents to go ahead and...
 Complete that survey and then the second announcement is that to remind you all that your agenda Your agenda meeting has been moved from Tuesday to Thursday next week because Tuesday is the election That's right. We decided to and so on election nights. We moved to the following Thursday So the council agenda setting session will be Thursday November 10th, okay, everybody got that so we'll be meeting on
 We have. On Thursday. That way you get a couple more days off. All right.