I would like to call the City Council meeting to order for November 7, 2024. Carrie, would you please call the roll? Hertzberg? Here. Stafford? Here. Jones? Here. Moore? Here. Lederker? Here. Berna? Here. Bunch?
 Sir? Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Good evening, everyone. The first order of business we have is the
 We have a walk-on. Is that correct, Kit, or do you want to do the finance report? Yes, the walk-on is a resolution to approve a land sale agreement with Lewis Brothers Leasing Company incorporated for the sale of approximately 0.057 acres for $100. And the first thing that needs to happen is that the city council needs to suspend the rule so we can place this on the agenda. Yep.
 i would move to suspend the rules and place that item on the agenda the motion second place the item on the agenda here please call the role earthspire yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes leaker yes arnaud yes punch yes turk yes okay mr mayor if you if i could i would read the body of this since you hadn't been out in the public very long
 Whereas on October 15th of 2024, the City Council passed Resolution 250-24, expressing its intent to sell city-owned property on Westmore Lane to Lewis Brothers Leasing Company, Inc.,
 whereas land sale agreement provides for the sale of approximately 0.057 acres to Lewis Brothers Leasing Company Incorporated for the amount of $100 and whereas the property is not needed for municipal purposes and it's not necessary to rezone the property at this time now therefore be resolved by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby approves the land sale agreement attached from this resolution with Lewis Brothers Leasing Company Incorporated
 to convey .057 acres of city property to Lewis Brothers Leasing Company, Inc. for the amount of $100. And Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Arts are hereby authorized as Mayor Jordan to sign the land sale agreement and all other documents necessary to accomplish this conveyance. Who has this from staff?
 Thank you, Mayor John. The current development services department, when I presented this to council three weeks ago at your last meeting, I shared that this was an item that came up during the vacation of –
 some public right-of-way in the vicinity of the new Lewis Automotive Mall. After that was vacated, which included several parcels, it was identified that one single piece of that land was given to the city by deed rather than by dedication. As a result, when it was vacated, it became fee-simple property of the city of Fayetteville. It represents a strip of land that serves no public good, which was their original rationale for supporting its right-of-way vacation.
 Now the adjacent property owner for whom the only person it can generally serve a purpose wishes to purchase it from the city of Fayetteville. Since that last meeting, staff performed the required notification that ordinance dictates, including advertising in a.
 a local newspaper of wide distribution and posting a sign on the property and accordingly satisfied the public notification portion of that request and so this is part two of that proposal which is the actual resolution to sell the land where the first one was a resolution with indicating intent to sell the land With that I'm happy to take any questions that the council has what questions we have council on on this anybody anything We've been working on this a while. I
 Is there an applicant? Mayor Suzanne Clark is available if the council has questions. Do you want to speak for the council? You have ten minutes. Good evening, Mr. Mayor and council. I have no intention of taking ten minutes. Thank you very much. Really just to cross the T's and dot the I's and follow up with the resolution you all passed a few weeks ago. Would appreciate the approval for Mr. Mayor to execute that land sale agreement. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Suzanne. Okay. Any other questions or anything? Everybody good? All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You'll hear this a few times tonight. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic? Let's end the chamber.
 okay do you have anybody on zoom no sir all right I'm gonna bring it back to the council this is a resolution what discussion would the council like to have what action would the council like to take mayor I'd like to make a motion to pass resolution as presented second motion second to pass resolution any final comments from the council care which please call the roll Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes
 Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Okay. The next order of business we have is the monthly financial report and sales tax report from the Chief Financial Officer, Paul Becker. Paul. Paul.
 Good evening, Mayor and Council. Since I was not at the agenda session last week, I will talk a little more about sales taxes than normal on the time that I present the monthly report to the council. So this report is for the month of September. Sales taxes, we were down substantially. We were down actually to budget roughly 13% for the month.
 That's primarily because August is normally a very, very large month. Year-to-date, that puts us down about 6% in total. For compared to prior year, however, we were up about 1.8% compared to prior year.
 For the county, we're up 3% compared to prior year. So for the month, we were up 2.3% for the year. However, when we do the estimates by month, we do them as an average over the last five years. So that's why there's that distortion. It's much clearer to look at where the year-to-date is, which is 6% behind what budget
 is. However, at this point in time the city's up about 0.6%, a little over half a percent. The county's up 2%. So all in all combined, we're up about 1.2% compared to last year. So sales tax is down this year and it has been down most of the year.
 As I look at the other revenue for the month of September, sales tax again was down for the month and down year to date. And the general fund were down just about $2.1 million at this point in time. Franchise fees are down 4%. Beverage taxes are down about 5%.
 State turn back is down 4% and charges for services is down 3%. However, when we look at some other categories, we are up. Property taxes are up 9% compared to budget.
 Building permits is up 14%. Now, this is as of September. So that is going very strong through the rest of the year. So I expect us to be up substantially in building permits by the end of the year.
 And beside the property taxes and the building permits, also court fees and fines were up roughly 20%. And interest earnings are up over double what was estimated. If you follow fixed income, that has been a lot higher than we had anticipated at the end of last year.
 So all in all in this point of time, we're down roughly 1.6 percent or excuse me 1.6 million dollars. I expect this year We could be down in the two million dollar range could range up to two and a half million depending on the last three months coming forward and
 But we will be down compared to what our anticipated revenue is. Of course, we're going to also look at how the expenditures are tracking at that time of year when we close the year.
 As far as street revenue is concerned, street revenue is down in total about 3%. Remember the street revenue, that's mostly turn back. That comes from state turn back from motor fuel tax turn back and the half percent sales tax dedicated to street funds and transportation. So that's down roughly 3% at this point in time.
 parking fees parking fees are down roughly 7% at this point in time parks development if you remember that's HMR taxes and they have been
 behind most of the year. However, now they're slightly up the budget. They're about three tenths of a percent compared to budget. It's up almost 2%, however, to last year, and it's been up substantially the last three months.
 So I expect that to be positive by the end of the year. Water and sewer revenues are pretty flat compared to budget at this point in time. As far as the recycling and trash collection, that's down right about 1% at this point in time. However, that's pretty level. That's only down about $60,000 for the year, so that's pretty minimal when we look at the fund side.
 As far as the airport, although flights are down about 2% compared to last year, sales are up 2.3% compared to last year, so we're doing much better. If you remember, sales were very soft at the beginning of the year, so we're starting to come back. So that's my report for the month of September. Remember, we have three more months coming, so this is three-quarters of the year, and I'll be happy to answer questions. What questions do we have? Okay.
 Okay. Thank you, Paul. All right. Let's look at the consent agenda now. A resolution to award RFP 24-12 an authorized contract with Agar LLC in the amount of $84,882 for the curation and installation of the West Avenue parking garage mural. Number two, a resolution to approve and adopt a master plan for 220 acres on...
 Deadhorse Mountain Road. Number three, a resolution to approve the lease agreement with the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas through December 31, 2025 for the Walker Park Senior Activity and Wellness Center, any amount of a dollar per year with an automatic renewal for seven additional one-year terms.
 4. A resolution to approve Amendment No. 11 to the Contract with Environmental Consulting Operations, incorporated any amount of $68,000 for wetlands mitigation, site monitoring and management in 2025.
 Number five, a resolution to award bid number 24-43 and to authorize a contract with NEC Incorporated in the amount of $155,903.50 for the Salem Road ADA Improvements Project and to approve the project, 10C, in the amount of $20,000. Number six, a resolution to award bid number 24-39 and to authorize a contract with NEC
 steel work industrial group LLC in the amount of 554 thousand nine hundred fifty six dollars for the construction of the Elmhurst and Clinton phase one drainage improvements project to approve project tenancy in the amount of sixty thousand dollars and to approve a budget adjustment
 This 2019 drainage bond program. Number seven, a resolution to authorize purchase of property located on North Gregg Avenue owned by Federal Warehouse Partners LLC for the amount of $261,473 plus $10,000 for closing costs and to approve a budget adjustment. This 2019 street improvement bond project.
 8. A resolution to approve a cost share agreement with the City of Springdale in the total amount of $144,000 for the Railroad Crossing Elimination Study, of which $62,400 will be the City of Federal's responsibility. 9. A resolution to approve Amendment No. 1 to the Engineering Services Agreement with McClellan Consulting Engineers.
 in the amount of $101,682 to include construction phase and additional design services and to approve a budget adjustment. Number 10, a resolution to approve and adopt the Federal Fire Department External Agency Relations Policy.
 11. A resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement and prosecution grant for state funding of the Fourth Judicial District Drug Task Force in the amount of $533,067 to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign all necessary documents to receive the grant funds and to approve a budget adjustment.
 And number 12 a resolution to authorize acceptance of a 2025 selective traffic enforcement project grant award in the amount of forty thousand six hundred dollars and approve a budget I'll entertain a motion except consent agenda is read mayor and can I please pull a 11 off of consent? All right? All right. Well, let's go ahead and pass the rest of it then the amended consent agenda
 I'll ask that I'll ask for a motion in a second to pass it I move that we pass the amended consent agenda all right we have a motion to pass the amended consent agenda here which please call roll Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes
 Moore. Yes. Wienker. Yes. Berna. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Okay, now let's go to A11, which is...
 a resolution to authorize acceptance of a state drug crime enforcement prosecution grant for the state funding of the fourth judicial district drug task force any amount of 533 thousand sixty seven dollars authorized mayor jordan signed all necessary documents to receive the grant funds and to approve budget adjustment sarah this is yours
 Thank you, Mayor. So I just pulled this because I'm probably maybe the only no vote. I do want to just reiterate what I brought up previously, and I do appreciate that Chief Reynolds has brought forward the data and the stats that have been kept on the impact in the community. But I want to remind us that
 The drug task forces across our nation came out of the war on drugs, and so there's been a lot of identification about the harms that punitive measures in our communities have on those that are needing to seek or might want to seek out harm reduction measures, and that individuals especially who are
 incarcerated have a much higher rate of overdose and death following that incarceration. And so we really need to be thinking about putting our actions and our funding and our efforts in our city towards creating true, full community safety, which unfortunately I feel like when we oftentimes are putting these punitive measures in place, we actually
 increase the harm that happens in our communities so I'm happy to hear back from my colleagues if there's anything additional but again just because I'm tonight I won't be able to support this item okay what questions do we have for council member Moore on this one younger I think I see chief in the back chief if you don't mind coming forward
 Thank you, Chief. You're welcome. I know that there's been, my colleague has mentioned harm reduction, and I'm aware of your efforts of working in the community as it relates to the social response. But when you think about the work of the task force.
 So I remember the last time that you spoke, you talked about meth and some of the heart drugs that you were getting off the street. If you don't mind reminding us of what that looks like or the work that y'all have done around that as it relates to making fan bills safer. Sure.
 Yeah, I don't mind at all. So the stats that I'll share with you are the same stats when you accepted the grant back in August, the grant funds. And so just as a reminder, the fiscal year for the Fourth Judicial District Drug Task Force runs from July 1 through June 30. So this will cover July 1 of 2023 through June 30 of 2024. So during that timeframe, we seized approximately 40 pounds of methamphetamine.
 10 pounds of cocaine, about 37 grams of heroin, and approximately 11,500 fentanyl pills, and then 72 guns, and we disrupted 23 different drug trafficking organizations. So not... Thank you, Chief. So not only are you addressing the drug...
 but you're also guns and sex trafficking, right? Which are very impactful, which hurt our community significantly, right?
 That's correct. I mean, any time that our detectives encounter someone that is doing something nefarious, they're going to intervene. And like I said, I certainly respect Councilmember Moore's opinion, but I certainly believe we're just once again a cog in that wheel when it comes to narcotics enforcement and addiction. And I see our role sometimes as being intervention.
 I think that sometimes you have to have an intervention before someone can change their behavior and like I've said to you all time and time again, we as police department will welcome any type of resource that the state, that this community or that this council will provide to us. So your point, I work at Northwest and
 you guys often bring individuals to the hospital for treatment, opposed to putting them in jail. And we really appreciate that. So I think that you're right. When it comes to the work of the drug task force, I think that it's very important that the community understands how your work is helping keep people safe. Also, too, if you could explain,
 I guess, explain to the council the role of working with the Northwest Arkansas harm reduction. I had a talk with Brittany Kelly and she did say that there has been some collaboration. As a matter of fact, I believe that Fayetteville has been the only police department in Northwest Arkansas. I could be wrong.
 Maybe I'm hopeful, but I did hear that you guys were probably the only police department in the region that is working with the Northwest Arkansas Harm Reduction, or that has worked
 Yeah, just as a reminder, I mean, Council, you're aware that you've approved the Crisis Intervention Response Team. We have two social workers paired up with two officers right now. You just approved a grant for us to hire two more social workers. We're in the process of doing that. And they certainly, you know, utilize many resources throughout our community. And they work hand in hand and they collaborate both internally and externally, internally with our officers and then externally with the resources that we have available within our community.
 And certainly we have folks out in our community that are drug abusers, and then we have folks that are drug sellers. You know, and sometimes when we encounter folks that are abusing narcotics and addicted to narcotics, if there's other resources that we can utilize,
 harm reduction being one of them will certainly utilize that and our detectives do refer folks that they encounter that are Low-level drug users to our crisis intervention response team so that they can connect them with services that could probably help them Battle their addiction if you will and I want the council to know that I've seen this happen personally and and and so I
 I feel like our department has balanced this, that you've done your job as it relates to the heart drugs, but you've also done your job as it relates to the social response. And so I don't think that we could ask for anything else. There's always room for improvement, but I do believe that you are meeting our citizens' needs.
 Where they are and of course you've always been open to additional help and feedback. So thank you. Yeah, I appreciate that. And like I said, we're always looking for those resources. You know, we work hand in hand with drug court. Um, I think that's a successful program in our community. Um, and I'm looking forward to the launch of our mental health court as well, and that should occur hopefully at the 1st of the year, both in Washington County and Benton County as well. And so.
 Once again, another resource, and we pride ourselves being as progressive as we possibly can. But at the end of the day, the police department has a job, and we hold those accountable that break the law. One last thing. At some point, if you could—
 I would like to see how far we've come as it relates to what Sarah has said, making the arrest and then looking at the progress that we've made with the social response. How many people have we helped opposed to arrested?
 Oh, gosh, I would just be taking a shot in the dark on that. I don't, Council Member Jones, I mean, I would say, you know, it's a small percentage that they're able to divert to that crisis intervention response team. It's those that are bent on mental health.
 Usually, I think the bigger help comes with our collaboration with Drug Court and getting those individuals diverted to Drug Court. The Drug Court has a very stringent program that the individuals have to complete. If they successfully complete that program, then the charges go away and their criminal records are wiped clean as well.
 better success working with drug court in this area and probably with our crisis intervention response team.
 probably would be more along the lines of those that are battling homelessness and mental health issues. Absolutely, so my final point is that the it comes down to collaboration and so you've seen it sounds like you've seen a lot of success with collaborating with drug court and mental health facilities and so that's that's that's also great because I
 We recognize that collaboration is key as it relates to solving this crisis. So thank you, Chief. Thank you so much. And I do look forward to helping you identify any other resources to help our citizens. Thank you. I always appreciate your support. Thank you. Any? Yes. Yeah. Sir, did you have?
 oh i was just going to say if i may i would just like to thank you and the department for the work you do and the work that the drug task force does i think it's vitally important i appreciate that thank you councilmember stafford chief could i ask you to run through that list in
 The list of drugs seized last year. The yen and the guns and just... Yeah, absolutely. And so, once again, the year of July 1st, 2023 through June 30th of 2024, the 4th Judicial District Drug Task Force seized 40 pounds of methamphetamine
 10 pounds of cocaine, a little over 37 grams of heroin, and then also our biggest issue that we're facing within our community right now is the fentanyl crisis and about 11,500 fentanyl pills and then 72 guns and then, like I said, the dismantling or disruption of 23 different drug trafficking organizations. That's exactly the point. Thank you very much for the work that you're doing. Thank you, sir.
 What else do we have? Chief, one last thing. I don't know if y'all are aware of this, but fentanyl has been wreaking havoc in so many communities. And so this is nothing to play with.
 I mean, this is serious. I mean, we can't I mean, we we have to work with our police department. We have to. This is a collaborative effort and we have to give them the allow them to have the resources to help our citizens. So, Chief, thank you so very much because I see it every day.
 maybe once or twice a month, y'all are bringing someone into our facility. And so I really appreciate your being proactive and recognizing the mental health issues that a lot of those who are incarcerated
 what they're facing, but also to making sure that our streets are safe with our college students, our young people, just everyone. So thank you so much. Thank you, Chief. You're welcome. Just as a reminder, all of our officers that are in uniform carry fentanyl. I'm sorry, carry fentanyl, carry Narcan to battle fentanyl overdoses.
 All of our officers do carry Narcan to battle Fentanyl overdoses. We probably average, probably save a week on average in our community. So I'm very proud of the work that they do. And then just this last year, the Arkansas legislator passed a law that requires our school resource officers to carry the Narcan on their person as well. So we do have that.
 Okay. All right. Thanks, Chief. All right. All right.
 All right, now let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating in the meeting will speak after that. Who would like to speak on this particular topic that's in the chamber?
 Who do you have on Zoom? No one has their hand raised, Mayor. All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. I'd like to make a motion that we pass the resolution. Second. We have a motion and a second to pass the resolution. Caravans, please call the roll. Ertsberg? Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? No. Whitaker? Yes. Verna? Yes. Okay.
 Yes, sir. Yes Thank you all let's go on to unfinished business a Resolution to approve and adopt the urban forestry management plan John Good evening council mayor and attendees. I do have a presentation And if you all would like to see that presentation, I will share that with you Mr. Mayor
 I think at agenda session we had asked that maybe we'd table this until later, and I wouldn't want you to have to go through all of that, John. I didn't know the protocol. I was like, you know, roll with it. I'm prepared if we want to do it, but if we don't, we can shorten the meeting this evening. That's fine. I would prefer if we waited, since we have such a long agenda tonight, until later on when we have it before us again.
 That's okay with you. Yeah. I'd like to agree with Council Member Turk. It's been a long few weeks. Our last meeting went to 1 o'clock in the morning. We have two gigantic agendas to get through in the next week. And...
 the big election and thanksgiving i i would love if we could table this till uh i believe december 3rd um would be great i would just like to really get my eyes on it and have some actual real time to concentrate on it and uh i've had so many rezonings in front of me that i just haven't had that time yet i second i'm gonna motion second to table for till december the third okay any comments or anything uh here which please call the rob herzberg
 Yes. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Beaker? Yes. Arna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Well, thank you, John. See you next time. All right. Number two.
 An ordinance to amend 161.36 urban corridor by enacting a new protections for single-family zone districts to provide the same protections for adjoining single-family residential districts as currently required for urban thoroughfare and all multifamily districts. This was left on the second reading I believe so
 I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Yes, Trish. I don't know if I'm jumping protocol here, but I think I would like to definitely table this. I think there are other avenues that we can proceed, and I'm hoping the word has gotten out to the public in these areas that are bordering the urban corridor where single-family residents are. So I don't know if we need to move to have another vote or if we can—
 indefinitely table this item you could you could since you have the floor you can move the table it indefinitely which means if it's not brought back up by the City Council prior to December 31st then it will automatically die so I will move to indefinitely table this or table indefinitely second we have a motion in second to take care of its please call wrong Hertzberg yes
 Stafford yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes Okay, let's move number three an ordinance to amend 161.36 urban corridor by enacting use unit 38 mini storage units as a conditional use for urban corridor
 And section B2, this was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to, no, it's left on the first reading. I'll entertain a motion to go to the second reading or not. I'll make the motion to go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Yes. Yes.
 stafford yes jones yes moore yes beaker yes vernon yes yes yes yes and in order to submit section 161.36 urban corridor by enacting use unit 38 many storage units as a conditional use for urban corridor and section b twerk 2.
 Thank you, Mayor. I brought this, as we said at the last meeting, I brought this forward because a concerned citizen brought it to me about the fact that with the rezoning, the ability for many storages were eliminated and put it up there with the same
 situation is strip clubs and I we could all agree with that but With the many storages after after looking at the situation With the fact that we're going to push for housing on 71 business 71 corridor, I thought that it was realistic to add that as a conditional use permit not not certainly not a buy right use of
 but a conditional use, and they still have to conform to planning commission review and all of that. So I felt like it was a justifiable request, so that's why I'm bringing it forward. Okay. What questions does the council have?
 on this i just got yeah some comments that actually uh much to the chagrin of many of my friends i have comments in favor of council member berners bernas uh ordinance um i don't think this does much harm and as we look forward you know we live in a society where we we're
 As a nation, we're a nation of hoarders, more or less. We like our stuff, and sometimes we need places to store our stuff. I don't think you're going to see a CUP for a big, sprawling...
 storage unit place get passed. That's not, it's just not gonna, that's just not gonna happen. But what we can have is inappropriate spots. We can't have limited storage areas. We can do these like last year we had one come up where they basically build an empty building, like a four-story empty building, and inside that they put these kits that are
 can be removed just as easily as they're installed and they they you know basically storage lockers inside these buildings so as we have density and and and residential on the corridor i'd rather have those people be able to walk down
 the street to access their things than have to drive across town to do it in a big sprawling lot. And I think that, you know, as we turn into the city, this is very common in urban areas. We had a number of them in San Francisco. And from the outside they just look like any other building. They're not high traffic. They're not going to spread like wildfire because they have to have a market for it. And there's only going to be a limited market for this type of thing for it to make financial sense.
 And again, these buildings, they're basically convertible buildings. The storage units themselves in these buildings can be taken out. You can repurpose the building. You can turn it into lofts, studios. Again, that's something that's very common in larger areas. So I totally support this. I don't think it's going to cause any harm. And it has my vote. Okay. Anybody else?
 anything else okay well let's uh take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone from the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone that wants to speak on this topic
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name is Nick Thorne. I live at 629 North Gray Avenue in Ward 4. I ask that you please deny this request to add self-storage units as a conditional use in the newly created urban corridor zoning. Even though there are more and more people regularly moving to our beautiful city and the University is regularly expanding and growing, self-storage units like
 Council has mentioned are a regular part of life for new residents during a move or college students between semesters however previous experience of mine in big cities show that these uses usually end up being a a
 They're generally used to hold land on speculation that development will potentially become more advantageous and they definitely do cause significant vehicular traffic. So I just ask that you consider the grand vision of remaking College Avenue and not lose sight of the future city that we all committed to with creating the urban corridor district as a city through great public input process.
 um as we transform that from a sprawling vehicle central centric part of our city into an active people-centric corridor with mixed-use development and multimodal transportation thank you thank you who else would like to address us good evening mayor and council kyle smith 2801 dove drive my first inclination and what i thought i was going to ask when i walked in would be to ask you to to not change the the uc zoning in this way
 Because staff had done such a thorough job of researching it and making it fit the needs of plan but councilmember Stafford does paint a pretty compelling picture and I can see where this would be a useful scenario my concern is that the type of storage unit you've used indicated for us is not what I
 We would necessarily get and so I would before adding this as a conditional use permit. I would like to see maybe some more supplemental regulations dictating the reusability of a storage unit in this kind of zone or even just standard standard conditions for the planning commission to to apply.
 a little more care on that would make me feel a whole lot better about putting storage units in as a conditional use just to make sure that we knew what kind of conditions and and that it really would fit so I don't know if that's a Senate ordinance review or send it to Planning Commission for their discussion and feedback There's two good avenues where you could can make some improvements to this before you tackle it tonight, but it's not a it's not a
 Terrible idea, but I would love to see it fine-tuned a little bit. Thanks. Thank you Who else selected dresses have anybody on zoom? Yes, sir. Okay. I'll bring back to the council now remember This is on the second reading It's an ordinance yeah, and I'd be open to leave it on the second reading to have discussions with staff and To see if there are you know can certain conditions that we can add to this if I
 if we vote on it tonight i'll probably vote for it like i said but um if if we want to have somebody just give it a second look make sure there's nothing you know if as as mr smith said you know if there's something we could add to it to ensure that we're not ending up with these sprawling lots whether it's size limitations or or other restrictions i'd be happy to leave it on the second reading if councilmember verna is open to that
 I'm fine. And just as a, and I should have said this in my first comments, but this came forward because we have a piece of property that has a below-grade access to the backside of the building that he had plans to consider doing the climate control storage. It would not even be viewable from college, so I thought it was a perfect scenario for that. So that's why I brought it forward. Okay.
 i i would like to hold it so that we can give some more consideration i mean maybe there's some particular items like can't be viewable or must be able to be reusable or refitted or something like that that would fit both avenues with our vision of the urban corridor and and allowing this use at certain times that's more than one thank you mayor i i
 I think that there have been a lot of good points made around this, but I want to kind of recenter us to the investment that we've made in this corridor as we're kind of considering this, that we really were looking to really create, you know, a very, you know, an area that would have transit with lots of density of individuals that are, you know, walking to like services and thinking about sidewalk cafes and coffee shops.
 And so, you know, I have hesitation and concern when I think about the considerable spend that taxpayers are making where we really want to have, you know, bodies there in commerce versus storing goods and the fact that we store in our housing crisis. And so, you know, I'll do some thinking on what was shared tonight, but I have a lot of misgivings about us really considering that.
 That is even with a as a conditional use just because again we've made considerable investment to the type of infrastructure That's going to go through there and especially with our adoption of wanting to do the vision zero to try to reduce the vehicle to pedestrian interaction and as much as a
 You know, we may have a vision of someone walking to the storage. There's probably a large likelihood that folks would end up, you know, driving to this and having trips. And so just something to consider when we're thinking about this.
 Mayor, I'll hold it on the second reading and I'll work with staff to see if we can come up with some ideas. I just want to counter a little bit of an argument that was just made that to me if this is done right it's a reduction of traffic not an increase because you're giving people storage to their stuff they may be living in apartments that have storage to their stuff that's going to be close to them instead of having to drive out to the city's edge to
 So I think it's a difference of opinion here of whether or not this is going to increase or decrease. I don't think the people on the edge of town are going to rent an expensive storage unit in town. That just makes no sense to me. Okay. Well, I guess we'll leave this one on the second rating. Well, let's move right along. We seem to be looking at these again, are you? Yeah.
 All right, number four, a resolution to approve a revised T-Hanger lease format updating terms and conditions increasing rent for 2025 by 15% and adopting a yearly 3% inflation adjustment beginning in 2026 and to authorize Mayor Jordan to sign the T-Hanger leases. Chair? Oh, Chris.
 Thank you, Mayor. Jared is away at a conference. I see that. Representing the airport today. Oh, you've changed. So this was tabled last time due to some questions and concerns that the airport board had raised. So after that meeting on the 17th, the staff
 and Councilmember Stafford met with the airport board, talked through all of the concerns, got questions answered, and I think the issue, or the one issue that we have addressed through this lease agreement that we've made it more clear that the rent will increase by 15 percent
 2025 and then every year thereafter through 2029 at which point no more increases will occur until reviewed by the city That was one of one of the biggest concerns and that's that change has been made and I believe that new Resolution or new new lease agreement has been provided on your agenda
 And with that, I can answer any questions. Okay, what questions? Thank you, Mayor. You know, Chris, we received an email, I think, this week. I think all of us received it. The leases, the hangar leases, are those only monthly, or can they be yearly or multi-year leases?
 They are month to month and I will defer to our finance staff. That's a concern that they had with longer term leases and I think they can better explain that. Okay. Yeah, I guess first I'd like to say those leases have been month to month for, Chris, correct me if I'm wrong, about 10 years or so. So our position is we like to leave those as is.
 and recently some new accounting provisions have been enacted that require the city to account for long-term leases in a different way and the end result of that is going to mean additional staff costs for the airport for the accounting department and additional ongoing yearly costs for audit expense if we classify those as long-term leases I indicated
 As such to the airport board when we had that meeting in October and so for those reasons were Recommending that we leave the contract as is as it's presented to the council tonight. I
 So could I follow up real quickly? Sure. It would, I mean, if I had my airplane out there, which of course I don't fly much, but I would want something more stable. So I was kind of surprised that they were only on a monthly, on a month-to-month provision, and I would have thought that it would be easier to manage them yearly.
 Are the changes or the additional auditing that you mentioned, is that required by some state or federal law, that additional overhead? Yeah. The Governmental Accounting Standards Board is requiring us to account for long-term leases in that manner going forward. And this is city best practice to...
 to manage the terms of both leases and subscription-based IT arrangements, to make sure that we handle those properly, and to basically manage how our costs are concerned.
 And one last question. The airport board, do they have an opinion about monthly leases? Was month-to-month okay or did they advocate for longer term leases? Yeah, Dr. Charles Wallace is here and he can speak to that if you'd like. I would also mention that we have 81 hangers. They're all completely full.
 as Steve mentioned this arrangement has been in place for several years so it's we've not ever terminated anyone's lease for anything other than not meeting the minimum standards that's described in the lease so we're not in the practice of kicking people out unless there's a really good reason for it. Well that's extremely helpful to know that.
 mayor i'd like to also talk about this from a legal point of view it puts the city in a much better situation not to have to file termination and eviction if we have a problem tenant not paying or having other problems it's pretty easily just to say well your lease is over at the end of this month it's much better than having to go to court and try to evict them and do all that kind of stuff so the city attorney's office was strongly in favor of the change but years and years ago there were some long-term leases
 It puts the city in a much stronger position to make sure that the tenants are behaving and if they don't if there's a problem We don't have to go to court to get them out We just say you know your lease is over at the end of this next month And so that encourages good behavior because the city is in a good position and I think that as Chris said all of the tea hangers right now or are full with people waiting and
 So I think that we have a good product and we've been treating the tenants well because they have remained. Okay. Yes, I have a question for staff here, probably Kit. So in this instance, what constitutes a long-term lease? Is that anything over one month or is it a year or? That would really be the question for finance if they're talking about what the requirements are to do accounting and stuff. Sorry about that.
 Generally speaking, in terms of the airport board committee meeting that we attended, it was discussed for both three- and five-year leases were long-term, which sounded like that's what they were looking for. For the city itself, anything beyond a year. But once again, the ability to cancel the lease on a month on a 30-day notice is significant.
 is really what keeps these leases. It's one of the main provisions that keeps us with the ability to manage these leases the way we do. Okay, I was just wondering if we might work out something that was a shorter term
 term still fairly short but not not a year maybe sure and uh you know just to reiterate this this is how we've been managing the leases out there at the airport for at least 10 years and uh i guess another part of this is we do have a a very long waiting list of people who are waiting to uh
 to go ahead and get a tea hanger lease. Okay, thank you very much Steve. Okay, Bob. I'd like to thank Councilmember Turk and Councilmember Bunch for their questions because this was a big issue that came up. And that, you know, I kind of have the same thoughts. Like you, when you're in general aviation, I mean, you have a big investment
 in that and some people put their life into it and a lot of people are have a misconception of general aviation they see that the jets coming in and out and that's really not what we're talking about here we're talking about people that have their passion and were able to get a plane and so I understand the concerns and they were I share those concerns the airport work shares those concerns but at the end of the day the finance department was just like I
 we can't do it and it's you know there's there's not a path forward for that see they seem to be pretty uh strong on that position like that it was just a there was no way that they were going to do that and it was something that we had to just
 kind of suck up and um i would like to uh thank city staff um the finance department and the airport board for for coming together and having what i thought was a very productive meeting and working through most of the issues really well and and i would say yeah that one thing we weren't able to get but but i think we came to a great
 a great spot and a great position and a greater understanding uh between the board and uh and the staff so okay anything else all right well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address
 Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Yes? Right. I'd like the clock not to start until after I've introduced myself. Okay. Make me introduce myself every time. Okay. My name is Rick McKinney. My wife, Anita, and I live at 609 Olive, our business at 2420 South School. So two words are represented here. In 1986, we bought a single-engine airplane and hangered it at Drake Field.
 the rumor got around that there weren't long-term leases i'm holding my hand in 1993 in a 2005 five-year annually renewable leases which have a 30-day eviction clause in each one of these for the tenant and for the city so i'm not a dream of kid on that one now the thing is
 We have been 14 years. That 2005 lease ended in 2010. Maintenance went downhill. The deaf ears that felled on didn't matter. We had roofs that were leaking, and when roof leaks at those hangars, it goes through the roof to red steel frame and drips rusted, stained water onto an aircraft that stains the paint. You can't wipe it off.
 Lance Ashmore has a Kristen Husky in one hangar. He was covering it with plastic inside the hangar so it wouldn't leak and damage on his aircraft. The doors, out of maintenance. You have two hangars that are, doors are damaged, it cannot be occupied, that's why you only have 81 tents. I also talked to Jerry Chisholm with the Arkansas Aeronautical Commission and with our program manager was out on vacation
 who is, I talked to Kathleen Franklin, Lauren Kennedy is our program manager at FAA out of Fort Worth. She directed me to grant assurances. Hangers being built have to have leases signed before you can even apply for the grant, not month to month, long-term lease. That's what they look for to pay 80% of those hangers. Sometimes it hits 10 or 15% to the city and 10% to the Aeronautical Commission. The grant assurance says this,
 it will make the airport available to airport public use reasonable terms without unjust discrimination all types kinds classes or not activities including commercial and article activities offering services to public the airport in any agreement contract lease arrangement under which the right of privilege airport is granted the person confirmed corporation conduct engage their knuckle activity for services airport sponsor enforces provisions requiring these contracts these grants have to be guaranteed for 20 years after they're paid for
 We have west side tenants with long-term leases. You have new ground leases coming in for private hangers, finally building some new hangers on the east side. Those have to be 25- to 30-year leases. You are discriminating against 81 tenants on the east side by not offering us long-term leases that we had for many years before we came to the end of those leases in 2010.
 You're jeopardizing your FAA future, FAA grant assurances, by not allowing all the tenants on that airport to have long-term leases. And I think it is discriminating against us in that manner. We have one farm faucet left out there. The other one froze for 81 people. We can't drive these aircraft to the car park. Time, Rick. Time. May I answer any questions? Thank you.
 Okay. If I make a response to some of that, Mayor, I've got some new information I think that would help out. At that October meeting that we had with the airport committee, they requested, they indicated that they had some issues with maintenance requests. I'd just like to let everyone know that we've introduced the C-Click Fix system out there. That went live last week. So any tenants or...
 can request maintenance through the regular channels out there that'll get routed to where it needs to go to get anything addressed that needs to be. Okay. Who else would like to address this? Mayor, members of the council, good evening. I'm Charles Wallace, and I'm the chair of your airport board. I'm conflicted on what is before you because I don't see this as an issue having...
 a great deal of contention on any side, and I'd like it not to become that, because there are some people who feel strongly about leases, but there's not a great movement toward that. At the meeting that was referenced a few minutes ago, we did raise the question when the airport board met with staff. We were told it was non-negotiable and that there should be no more discussion of it. That's the way it is.
 That's probably not the best way to leave it. If there is some way that this could come back and be discussed in a reasonable way, airport board ask if we might understand why and how this is creating a burden for the city, because we don't want to do that.
 We also wanted to make it clear that in many, many years, there's been one eviction from the airport, well-deserved. And so kicking people out is really not something that happens very often. And I've been here 30 years. It's happened once. Is there some way without burden on anyone that maybe this could go back and we could have a little more reasonable discussion and then bring it back to you next time? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. Thank you.
 all right does anybody else like to address us on this anybody on zoom no sir okay well i'm gonna bring this little item back to the council um
 bob you've been kind of involved in some of this yeah and um i'm glad to see that maintenance has been an issue and i'm glad to see that the the it was another one of the big topics we talked about at this meeting and i'm glad to see that the seat click fix i believe it's chris you know has that been implemented now is it is it a go i think i got a message that
 that it's up and running, but I'm not. Yes, that is live now. If it, if we're having issues or anybody has issues with it, they can let us know, but it should be working. So I think this is, I mean, those maintenance issues were legitimate maintenance issues for years, and I'm hoping and I want to give,
 our new airport director and everybody that benefited out and let them get the system up and going and You know and then if it doesn't work we can readdress that I would like to ask you know kit the the question about the leases again in white with what was brought up Is that it? Where are we at and is that a concern is it something we need to look deeper into or I?
 Don't believe that's a legal concern and you know we have had of course I've been city attorney for 23 years So I've seen it even before we started having the shorter term leases and we did have supposedly a 30-day out But we have had a time or two where we've had to We had issues with with a tenant either not having the right stuff in there trying to store something besides a plane or things like that and
 And it really puts the city in a much stronger position if we just have an actual 30-day lease, a month-to-month lease. It really helps the city as a landlord so we never have to go to court. Yeah. And I would rather not have to go to court, come in here and ask you to give me authority to sue somebody to victim.
 And so I think this is just much more effective. Obviously some tenants would like to have a longer lease because it gives them long term rights and therefore we might have to go to court if we got into an argument. And I would hope we would not do that. Yeah, and again, I totally understand the concern, you know, definitely.
 In practice so far, like they said, in the last decade, only one person has been removed, and that was for good reason. It is scary when you have this kind of investment, to have it, you know, it's so hard to get a hanger in this area, in this whole northwest Arkansas, that it definitely is, I understand the fear. But again, as Mr. Wallace pointed out, we were told that it was a hard no by the city,
 It just seemed like the board decided that, you know, basically we were told it's not a fight, that it was just a hard no, that there was no fight to be had. And it sounds like Kit is kind of agreeing with that sentiment. Yes, I represent our taxpayers, and so I'd rather have our taxpayers in as good a position legally as possible, and that's what we have right now.
 Thank you, Mayor. I was going to take a different tact here. I was going to ask, request, if maybe in the next six months or so, maybe we could get a report from the airport director to talk about this issue of, well, how maintenance is going. Are people using C-Click fix? Is that being solved? Or at least the maintenance issue reduced?
 And then secondly, how do long-term leases affect grant opportunities that the gentleman brought up to us? So if that is an issue, I think we really need to think about that a little bit. We always like to get a little help and a little funding, especially to expand that. So if maybe that can happen in six months or so, I would really be interested in that. Thank you. Mike?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's so much easier to go from month to month to long-term leases than to try to switch back the other way. So I commend both council members for your flexibility on that, and I can certainly see staff's justification. There's costs associated with the repairs, and I would just hate to see us hold up this resolution because, in fact, those repairs –
 costs money and Presumably everyone's in agreement that the rent increases are justified and appropriate and market driven And so I would prefer we pass this so those could be effective in January and like councilmember Turk said we can deal with The idea of reverting some the long term or pursuing grants down the road So I would like to make a motion that we pass the resolution second motion to second to pass the resolution and
 um any final thoughts or discussion okay care which please call the role harpsburg yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes leaker yes vernon yes punch yes kirk yes okay let's go to number five
 resolution to approve a contract with first repair incorporated of Edmonston Illinois to train federal leaders to repair harm done to African Americans in Fed DeAndre but I might ask you to silence your phone whoever that is it's got a nice ring to it okay
 Did get my attention DeAndre yes, I Sent over this evening an amended version of this to change some of the language I sent it to kit. I believe I included a Susan and Kara's office in opposed to the original language
 We're saying a resolution expressing intent to train leaders to repair harm done to African Americans in Fayetteville opposed to the what was sent earlier. The commitment language. Yes, yes. So opposed to commitment.
 The new language is a resolution expressing intent to train leaders to repair harm done to African Americans in Fayetteville. Okay, so you're going to change it to intent instead of... Expressing intent opposed to commit. Okay.
 And Mary's a whole new resolution. That's the title Do you want to well, I think do you think you might want to read that? Yeah, I could if you if you want me to I think they're gonna come here and explain it So it might need I if before we actually a minute though the whole language needs to be read. I
 Okay, let me read it now or well, I think I think Where you wanted to do an amendment, right? Yes, I would like that. Yes, and then do we have a second on the amendment? second, okay Okay, the whole resolution the mayor read the title the whole resolution says whereas in 2020 the City Council of City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and
 passed a resolution admitting that racism is a public health emergency and committing to repair harm done to African Americans in Fayetteville by writing a racial equity plan. And whereas in 2024, a racial equity plan has not been written,
 and whereas first repair of evanston illinois is a national non-profit training local leaders to repair harm done to african americans by writing racial equity plans now therefore it be resolved by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section 1 that the city council of the city of fayetteville hereby expresses intent to send two leaders from city government council and or staff
 to first repair trainings in 2025, where they will learn with other local leaders how to write a racial equity plan. Two, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby express its intent to send two leaders from city government, council, and or staff to three first repair trainings in 2025, one being a half-day virtual training in June
 The second being a one-day live training in Fayetteville in September. And the third being a three-day live training at Evanston, Illinois in December of 2025. And finally, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby expresses its intent to pay for travel of two leaders from the City Government, Council, and or staff.
 from fayetteville to evanston illinois in december of 2025 with council and or staff travel budgets yeah okay do we want to have some discussion on any of that or yes uh and um mayor jordan i do have lowell here uh lowell is going to um
 uh he's going to make a presentation based on some of the questions that the council members had at the last council meeting there were some concerns and so he's prepared to address those concerns tonight as he promised so i think he'll only need about 10 minutes he brought dustin along with him because they
 both done this work before but there were some concerns that council members who were present uh that they were they wanted to know they had some questions so dustin is here to answer those concerns those questions in the form of a presentation okay now i think my question is on the procedure do we need to vote on the amendment before a presentation or do we
 I would only first and then here the presentation I think his presentation can be based on the amendments well it might not be bad to go ahead and get that I'll be sure everybody's on the same page okay all right so it might be good to go ahead and vote on amendment first
 Motion we pass the amendment. Oh, we already have we are yeah I was just making sure I didn't get ahead of what we're doing here all right Cambridge please call the roll Hertzberg Yes Stafford yes, Jones yes more yes weaker yes Erna yes Punch yes Turk yes, okay now DeAndre you have presentation
 Yes. So 10 minutes? 10 minutes should be fine. Okay. Thank you all. I'll take five or less and then Dustin, who wasn't able to be with us last month, will take the balance of our time. The resolution has been read so I can speed through some parts of this. Five C's tonight in five minutes or less. First, if we go to the next slide, context.
 As has been stated, this is the context of today's resolution, what was done in 2020, where we are now, and then what First Repair does. We're familiar with this, so I won't belabor it. The next slide. Content was also expressed in the reading of the resolution. Two leaders, council and or staff, three trainings in 2025, June, September, December. Next slide.
 Cost, so there's been some, we've made some progress in previous meetings relative to cost and we're now at I think a very attractive place where what we're asking for in terms of cost is for the city to pay for travel of two liters from Fayetteville to Evanston in December with existing travel budgets. Travel expenses are estimated and
 At $1,500 per person or $3,000 total, I've explained some of the details there, how I got to that number. This is the cost of the resolution down from $6,000 at a previous point, $3,000 using existing travel budgets.
 So this is new and based on what I think were some really reasonable concerns that were expressed in previous meetings, concerns that I appreciate and have some good answers to, I think. So I've expressed these concerns in the form of four questions. The first, can we pay for travel to training? Yes, we can pay $3,000.
 with travel budgets. A second concern, will we contract with First Repair? This is a legal concern. No, we won't pay First Repair for either training or travel. Therefore, we don't need to contract, thus the amendment to the language now expressing intent as opposed to previous language that was used.
 A third concern expressed, I think, by Ms. Hertzberg, Councilmember Hertzberg, is first repair training duplicative of DEI training that the city received previously? A reasonable question. No, DEI training, which we appreciate, did not equip us to write a racial equity plan. However, first repair training will. There's unique value to the first repair training.
 Fourth and finally, is First Repair the best fit for us? Yes. We heard from Ms. Simmons in last month's meeting. She shared some of her unique experiences speaking to the United Nations and others. First Repair is a national organization with wide experience.
 Training local leaders to repair harm done to African Americans what we've committed to do previously First Repair is working currently with 29 cities as close as Tulsa and Kansas City So I do believe that they are the best fit for us Finally, I'm doing good on time conclusion
 I thought it helpful to frame this in terms of inputs, outputs, and outcomes. So the input of our resolution, what we're asking the city to give, is leaders' time at racial equity trainings in 2025. The output of our resolution, what we believe we will get, is equipping to write a racial equity plan at a later date in 2026.
 And the outcome of our resolution, what we hope will happen, really the spirit of the resolution, the why behind the what, is racial repair and healing. So lastly, I want to ask simply, do we want to be healed? I know I do, and I believe you all do too. If we want to be healed, then we need to repair
 and to train leaders to repair harm done to African Americans in Fayetteville. I'll yield the balance of my time to my friend Dustin. Thank you. Good evening to the council, to the mayor, to everyone here.
 appreciative of the opportunity to be able to come and speak for a few minutes about this particular issue. You will immediately sense that my way of speaking is quite different than Lowell's. So please excuse me. I'm a pastor at Genesis Church in Fayetteville, South Fayetteville. So...
 Give grace to my cadence as I speak for the next few minutes. I love that Lowell postured the question, do we want to be healed?
 And I think it's important because when we talk about racism as a public health crisis, people are assuming that there are those who exist in our community who have felt the negative effects of that crisis.
 who need to be healed and not just a small contingency, but that is a broader impact because it affects those who have been directly impacted and those who have been passively impacted by that as well. That all of us, directly or indirectly, have been harmed by racism. That's a complex thing to unpack. I wanna unpack it now.
 But I love this quote. I was invited to speak in January at the day of racial healing here in this very room And I mentioned a quote by Malcolm X where he says if you stick a knife in my back six inches And you pull it out three inches that is not progress. He says if you pull it out all the way That is not progress progress begins when we heal the womb
 And that is the important thing for us. One, are we willing to acknowledge the wound and then do the necessary work to heal the wound. What happens to a wound that is not healed? It becomes infected and has lots of other complications that arise from unhealed wounds. And so I would encourage us to
 as a city that claims to want to make progress on this issue, to make the intentional steps to move in a direction that allows us to get there. Dr. King makes this statement. He says that we must move past pious irrelevancies.
 and sanctimonious trivialities, oftentimes some of the things that we might see. But I think we also, it is important that we move past hollow symbolic gestures and then fruitless acts of harmful paternalism until we can make real progress. What is real progress? That means us actually putting some skin in the game, actually taking proactive steps
 to move to a place to where we can actually overcome the issue and to see restoration, see wholeness, see the healing that we have by our own words, by our own declaration, that said that we want to experience in Fayetteville. And so we have the opportunity to do the lowest hanging fruit possible in that pursuit, which is to learn, right?
 to learn. You don't have to commit anything to learn. And so we are always learning, passively or intentionally. Can we make room to learn so that we can figure out as a community what is the best way for us to move forward in something that we have already in writing on paper committed ourselves to? That's the invitation. So thank you for your time. Thank you. All right.
 What questions does the council have? Bob. Well, I'd just like to thank the gentleman that came up and spoke. And I think that the changes now make this something that I hope we can all get on board with, because we're using travel budgets that already exist. The first repair will be having their own travel budget that's not paid for by the city. I don't see harm in this. I see that it's taking this first step
 educating ourselves learning i i fully support this um and hope that we're able to move forward on it yeah please i um continue to have some concerns um because we are directing staff or city council members to a specific company and i'm wondering if that it has a legal problem because in effect it's sole source so if somebody could address that i would really appreciate it
 It's not really causing a legal problem because this is a statement of intent which is really not enforceable. You've passed in the past many statements of intent on issues that showed what you wanted to do, but they were never going to be enforceable against the city. So it's not a commitment like that had been proposed before when the contract like it was been pulled before. So from a legal point of view, you're not directing the staff or city to do anything.
 you are expressing an intention that that will happen, and then it won't happen at least until next year. And at that point in time, you don't have to go forward with it or not. You can. I would say you should probably think that that's what we're going to do before you say that's our intention, but it's not enforceable, and therefore from a legal point of view,
 Not a policy point of view. From a legal point of view, it is okay. So just to follow up on that, Kit, so if the city went through with the intent and actually sent some staff people there, council members there, specifically to First Repair as opposed to another company that may provide the same services, is that an issue? Well, First Repair is not charging us anything for attending their training.
 You know, each one of you has a travel and training budget, so if one of you or two of you wanted to go, you certainly could do it. You don't need anything in this resolution to do it, you just do it because you want to. Yep. And so I would say no, that this, as a statement of intent, remains legal. All right. Any other questions? All righty then, let's take some public comment.
 All right, everybody gets one turn. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us that's in the chamber on this particular topic? Oh, I see. Who do you have on? No one has their hand raised, Mayor.
 Well, all righty then. I will bring it back to the council. Thank you, Mayor. I want to thank Councilmember Jones for his work on this and bringing this forward, and Dustin and
 um lull for um continuing to work through kind of you know those questions so i appreciate the diligence that's been done um you know i do agree you know we made a declaration and we um we said that racism is public health crisis you know i believe that my own personal life and i really appreciate that before i was on council
 that our city had that leadership in recognizing it. And so I look forward to being able to approve this tonight. And I hope that while our city attorney did explain to us that this doesn't make us legally obligated, I hope that we feel something within us that stirs us to really want to learn, to be able to be better, to help our community learn.
 Really would encourage us at the bare minimum is the two people that we're talking about and I'd really encourage it that We do get our staff and to attend as well as counsel because I do think it's going to take Many of us to be on this path of healing in this journey and so again, I appreciate this coming forward and I look forward to Supporting it tonight. Is there something I
 yeah well hang on you i mean we closed public comment and they're going to have they're going to have to give you the audience mayor i'd like to allow to us to open public comment up do i need to specify and we'll hold it to three minutes for three minutes each individual all right okay you're up
 Thank you. I'll try to take less than three minutes. I think this is a straightforward resolution. The student really does want to develop. Can we have the speaker announce themselves? Yeah, and I've got to get the timer turned on. Okay. Hang on. Okay, you're up. My name is Dave McMath. I live in Ward 3.
 I do think this is a pretty straightforward resolution. I appreciate what Councilmember Moore was saying. If the City really does want to develop a racial equity plan, it's been four years since the passing of the resolution, and some help seems like it should be appreciated. The City committed to allocating funding
 staff and additional resources back in 2020 or in 2020 and This is an attempt to follow through on that and I really appreciate your consideration of it. Thank you. Yeah. Yes My name is Glenn Siegel I live in Ward three and I just wanted to add a dimension to the concept of what healing means in this situation
 It's not just about healing those directly wounded by racism. All of us, white particularly, are damaged by holding the legacy of our ancestors and within ourselves the capacity to dehumanize other people. That leaves us with parts of ourselves that need to be addressed and healed.
 The degree to which we continue complicit to anything racist is the degree to which our own mental health is not whole. And I just wanted to add that dimension to healing. Thank you. Okay. Now we'll bring it back to the council. All right. What do we got here? All right, Sarah. I move that we pass the resolution. Second. Okay. Any discussion? Yonder, do you have something? Yeah. I just wanted to say thank you to
 um boyle and dustin and um i remember the the night that this was passed mayor jordan this came out of your african-american advisory group it was passed unanimously and dustin said something that made a lot of sense as it relates to investing and um since then we haven't done a lot
 And it would I would be remiss if I didn't acknowledge and say thank you for the things that we have done as a community. We've done things that a lot of other communities haven't done. But, of course, with anything we can always do more. So I believe that this is a step in the right direction. No, I know that this is a step in the right direction. And the last conversation that we had about this at the last council meeting, a lot of people left very disappointed.
 They were very angry because this wasn't the Fayetteville that they knew and the Fayetteville that they loved. So it's good to know that tonight that the conversation has shifted and that this is the Fayetteville that they know and loved. And I know that this is a very sensitive topic for many reasons, but I really appreciate the comment that the gentleman who just left made.
 the comment that he made because racism just doesn't impact uh people of color it is it's proven to impact everyone and i believe that that the training is going to prove just that i think that this training is that the training is going to help us if we want to heal if we want to
 If we want to learn and grow, I know that this training is going to make us better as a community. And I know that it's not easy. It's not easy talking about it. But as I've said before, if it's hard talking about it, imagine being impacted by it. But nonetheless, I'm glad that we are over the hump and that we are going to, to a degree, invest in...
 looking at repairing the harm that's been done to African Americans. And I know that that's going to make Fayetteville better, and that's going to make us love Fayetteville even more. So fellow city council members and Mayor Jordan, thank you. Okay. Teresa. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to clear something up for Councilmember Jones. I think our hesitancy, or certainly my hesitancy, it's not the training itself, it was the payment method. It was making sure that the city was going to follow all local, state, and federal regulations.
 So that's what's changed. That's what's changed tonight. I don't think we had any reservations about the idea of training, of healing. I think we all want to do that. We all recognize that this is an ongoing issue that we need to repair.
 within our here and within our larger society. So I just want to clarify why my hesitation, my concern was previously. But now that there's no contract that's needed or required, I don't think there's an impasse. Thank you. Okay. Chair? And I just wanted to clarify with Kit.
 We've got no payment, and everyone can use their particular budget to go to this. Anyone on staff that has a training budget, is that what we're looking at? That's the way I understand the wording of this resolution, is that you would use your own travel and training budget, or the staff would if the staff was assigned to go there. If the mayor felt that that wasn't—
 relevant and good for the staff to do, or if two council members want, or even maybe three, if you can sneak into their free training, you know, you could go up there and use your own budget for it. So, Kit, remind me exactly what our budget is for training and education. Better ask for Paul on that. Paul. What the City Attorney, what the City Council's budget is. Yes, Paul, what is the, what is each council member's budget? $3,000.
 Yes. Okay. Thank you, Paul. Appreciate that. Mayor, Council Member Hertzberg has her hand raised. Okay. Thank you, Mayor. I remain concerned about the organization, particularly the lawsuit within Evanston, Illinois. And so I will not be in support of this tonight. Thank you. Okay.
 Anything else? I would say one more thing. I tried to go through and you know go to the first repair website and connect to the different cities that were participating and what they were and I had a little difficulty getting to the level where I could understand what each city was doing so I know I did see Kansas City on there, and I did see Tulsa and you know different places like that so you know and I just you know I still have some concerns, but I
 lot of this has been alleviated and I don't it's not that it's not about training or education it's about getting figuring out exactly who's doing what why we're doing it and and I think some of that's been corrected in my mind so thank you mayor again it seems to be implied that that
 We who had concerns about this, uh, did not feel the need to, uh, move forward as a community and that's that's certainly not the case. Um, I still have concerns about this because. Uh, we have brought this organization forward, uh, as the. The the the organization we want to go with, and we have not done any.
 research in my eyes to identify why they are the organization to go with. And I don't think that we have in previous resolutions like this followed through on something like that without some due diligence. And if you go through your due diligence,
 with this organization there are some red flags that have to be considered so sounds like it's going to pass tonight but I just want to make sure that we are setting expectation levels on what we can as a as a city do by state law and we need to go into it with our eyes wide open so
 I won't be supporting this just because I have questions about the organization. So, thank you. Well, I want to say something. When, I think Kit brought up a good point about the contract. I do. And, but, you've got a travel budget. We all have a travel budget and we can use our travel budget any way you want to.
 Now, I'm interested in this topic, so I'll probably use my travel budget to go, just to be honest with everybody. I think I made that statement a couple weeks ago. Now, I mean, we go to the National League of Cities, we go here, we go there, we use our travel budget to do that. I put the travel budget in place a few years ago, where you council members can go anywhere you want to go and learn whatever you want to learn, and I think that's important.
 Now, if we were trying to do something like a contract or something like that, where we were without taking it out to a bed or something like that, that would be a little bit of a red flag. But I don't have the red flag of using my travel budget to travel because I never go anywhere anymore. But I'm interested in this particular topic. So I would like to just learn.
 so that's just that's just me so anyway so i believe who was next mike or yeah thank you i appreciate it mr mayor i'll go ahead and go next
 I want to thank Dustin for not having an altar call tonight, so I appreciate that, sir. My schedule just worked out to attend I think 10 of the 12 DEI trainings through the University Ideals Institute. It doesn't make me special, it just means my schedule allowed me to attend and participate in those and, you know, I have to agree that training doesn't hurt anyone, the more
 we can have our eyes open the better off we are. And so I think any concerns that I had about expenditure of funds or contracts have been removed, and I'm deeply appreciative for that. And so I am prepared to move forward tonight and thank everyone for that. Thank you. I think DeAndre was next.
 oh okay i just want to be clear and i have to say this i didn't imply that anyone from the council didn't want to do anything so i'm not sure how that even came about i said what i said and what i said was what the impression that was left when people left here i didn't say who wanted to do what
 addressed, Lowell addressed the concerns tonight, Kitt addressed the concerns tonight, and that was it. So please don't put words in my mouth, because that is not what I said. If I wanted to say something, I would definitely say it. I have no issues with saying anything. Thank you. OK. Bob? Hmm. Hmm. I don't even know where to begin. I have concerns about concerns. No, I'm serious. I have concerns about concerns. I had concerns about spending a million dollars
 of American Rescue Plan money, a million dollars, for bocce ball and horseshoes. I had concerns about that. My fellow council members did not. A million dollars. We have bus shelters sitting in a storage shed. We could have built pads. It's like bus shelters on pads so people don't have to wait for the bus in the rain. No, bocce ball and horseshoes. Every week, Inframark, we've got...
 $8,450,000 that we're about to approve for a contract. Probably not much concern. We had a little concern, and we worked that out. Every week on consent agenda, thousands of dollars. Equipment purchases, contracts, consent agenda, pass, pass, pass. This is costing us nothing. It's voluntary. We get to use our own travel budget. I do not, like I said, I have concerns about concerns, and I'll leave it at that.
 Okay. Sarah. Well, I'm looking over this resolution, the original resolution, and number nine, it says continue to commit to increase funding for public recreation resources serving many low-income families. And I do feel that that is investment in Walker Park. I'm sorry, Bob, but I do. Okay.
 And I have no issues with supporting this. I think anything that I wondered about or when people bring up a question, I think it's all been resolved, and I think it's all good. But I'm sitting here looking at this right now, and I do, sorry, Bob, I just don't agree with you on that. But I guess we're ready to move on and vote, maybe? Well, do we have a motion and a second? I thought we did. Okay, thank you. All right.
 Alright, care which police call bro Hertzberg No, Stafford. Yes. Yeah. Yes more. Yes weaker Yes, Arna. No Punch yes Yes All right now we're about to go into new business now. I want to I want you all to know that we are going to after the first three items I
 We're going to cut, we're going to recess the meeting. We're going to be done tonight. So the next one will be this coming Tuesday, right? At 530. So none of the re- I'm sorry, Mayor. Mayor at 430 you're starting next week's meeting. Okay, at 430 then. But none of the rezonings is, we're going to do those tonight.
 So we're going to end after the Federal Police Department policies. So that will be the conclusion of tonight's meeting. So if you hear the talk about the rezonings, we put out an announcement. When did we do that? Last week. So it was announced. So we're going to end it after item three tonight. All right. Well, let's get started.
 Mr. Mayor, could we take just a five-minute break? Oh, sure we can. Would you like that? Yes, sir, I would. Would that make you happy? That would make me happy. Well, your happiness is all that matters. Thank you, sir. All right, let's go ahead and get started. All right.
 let's go ahead and get started all right let's go to new business a resolution to grant the appeal of city council member deandre jones and deny large-scale development application lsd 2024-0011 deandre yes uh we are appealing the the large-scale development i believe uh
 with urban logs and i believe we have residents from that community here to speak out okay before we get started jonathan do you want to mayor that's up to the council i do have a presentation okay hang on just a minute what i would do i thought we'd get the staff okay whatever applicant that you've got yes and then give them 10 minutes as well that works fine and then everybody else gets three that's perfect okay jonathan you're up
 Thank you, Mayor. To begin by orienting the City Council, this property is just south of where we're sitting today, about two blocks. It is a one and a quarter approximately acre piece of property that is bordered on four sides by streets. It includes effectively what is this full city block with Nelson Hackett on the west, South Street on the north, Block Avenue on the east, and Fourth Street to the south.
 The property is within the downtown master plan as it was adopted in the early 2000s. Previously developed with four fourplexes which you can see on the aerial image here but which have since been demolished.
 uh the requests before council are being appealed to council tonight is their approval of two structures and which includes 138 units and 138 beds so they're all single bed units residential multi-family residential development the larger of the two buildings is proposed to front north or to front excuse me nelson hackett and south street to the north and northwest and a second smaller building facing the southeast corner of the site at the corner of block and 4th
 Taking the Council through a bit of a visual tour through some of the renderings that have been submitted We're going clockwise around the property starting in the southwest corner This is the view of the large of the two buildings which is proposed to front Nelson Hackett Includes some subgrade units that will be accessed by stairs up to Nelson Hackett where sidewalks and on-street parking will be installed with the building will segue into at grade units at the corner itself of South and Nelson Hackett and
 Before segueing downhill as you go down South Street, east of Nelson Hackett, where the building will decrease in size as it approaches the single family houses to the east to a third story building.
 and then a two-story building being proposed at the, again, the northwest corner of Block and 4th. As a part of the request, four variances are being requested, and those are a part of the consideration with this large-scale development appeal. The first is regard to a section of code titled Conformance of Plans and Regulations. Specifically, this refers to our Master Street plan. With this development is the proposal to include on-street parallel parking along Nelson Hackett.
 In evaluating the request with the developer early on, staff did have safety concerns, traffic safety concerns with this parking, given the volume of traffic and traffic speeds along Nelson Hackett, and ultimately what was proposed is a slip lane that would allow traffic to be diverted from the through traffic into the slip lane where it could parallel park back into those spaces.
 As a part of this, staff is recommending that a modified curb be installed. This is near the recently completed Fayetteville Police Department headquarters, if this roundabout looks familiar. That would help clarify where traffic is intended to continue on Nelson Hackett as opposed to entering that slip lane to Parallel Park. The second variance given before being considered tonight is regarding access management. Again, this is how properties interact with our public street network.
 That ordinance requires that properties access the lowest volume, lowest classification street, so those with the least amount of traffic. This development, however, in an effort or in the need to require to accommodate fire codes, needs two entrances to serve its site, one on Block Avenue and one on 4th Street, which necessitates a variance from our access management standards.
 Staff is in favor of this finding that these are the two lowest classification lowest volume streets even if there are two connections and also an acknowledgement that this is necessary to accommodate fire code
 The third variance is for dumpster location. Our downtown design overlay district standards which apply to this project, again given its location within the downtown master plan, that dumpsters be located in the rear yard of any building. Unfortunately, this is a four-sided lot and there is no technical rear yard, so they are immediately in a conflict with our ordinance and the ability to conform with the letter of the law.
 Uh, accordingly, they've located it in the location they find it to be most efficient for the site and do plan to have it screened in accordance with our ordinances, uh, both the landscaping and a, uh, a screening wall. Finally, uh, the last variance being requested with this proposal is for parking lot location standards.
 This is specific to several of our zoning districts that require urban form or buildings that are located closer to the street. Those zoning districts, parking is not supposed to be located in that build-to zone where we would like to see buildings located. In an effort to accommodate as much parking as possible in this development, the developer is requesting these two minor encroachments into the build-to zone that you see here indicated in red to accommodate, I believe it's seven total additional parking spaces.
 Staff does support all of those requests, all four of those variances. Moving on to street modifications or street improvements. As I alluded to, Nelson Hackett is being proposed to be modified and improved to add additional width, both for a slip lane and additional parallel parking. Beyond that will be accommodated a furniture zone, an eight-foot sidewalk, which includes tree wells.
 Along the other three frontages of the property, south block and fourth, there will be additional right away dedicated street widening on street parking provided in addition to tree wells and sidewalks. All told this will provide or formalize on street parking on all four frontages of the development. With that in mind, parking is certainly 1 of the banner topics of this development. So I wanted to run through what those numbers look like for the council.
 As I noted at the top of the presentation, this is a 138 unit development. It also has 138 bedrooms. Our residential parking requirements mandate that multifamily units provide one space per bedroom which would, at its face, require 138 parking spaces.
 Our ordinance also allows several by-right reductions to that number. Those can be taken for proximity to transit, substituting motorcycle scooter spaces, substituting bike racks, and also counting parking spaces that are along a property's frontage.
 All told, with those considerations in mind, the developer has opted to utilize some of those reductions, but not all of them, and is including 77 on-site parking spaces, 29 off-street parking spaces, and 14 motorcycle scooter spaces to achieve 120 total vehicle spaces, counting cars and motorcycles and scooters. Additionally, the developer is proposing 17 bike racks, which is above and beyond what ordinance requires.
 As a consideration and something for the Council to consider or to factor into this is that there are 17 transit stops within a quarter mile of this location. While none currently exist on any of its immediate frontages, that quarter mile distance that allows those reductions does capture over a dozen transit spots on both Razorback and Ozark Transit that serve this area.
 Moving into some of the more recent background on this project, it was heard at the August 12th 2024 Planning Commission. Staff recommended approval. At that time there were six variances being requested. After hearing the proposal, the Planning Commission ultimately denied the request. It was a unanimous denial. The primary concern cited by the commissioners was traffic safety.
 After hearing from the developer and their intent to modify the proposal, the Planning Commission opted out their August 26th meeting to reconsider the item. Similar to the City Council, the Planning Commission does have in its bylaws the authority to reconsider items either at the meeting where an action is taken or the subsequent one, which is what occurred here.
 However, the Planning Commission did acknowledge that there was a lot of public interest in this item, and so they opted to table it immediately and require the applicant to re-notify. This brings it to the September 23rd Planning Commission meeting. At that time, the Commission heard an amended request, which reduced the number of units from 163 to the 138 that you've heard me cite several times tonight.
 There's also revisions made to remove two of the six variances, which is why there's only four now, not six. There's also a proposal to add a bike wash and stand to accommodate bicyclists more readily, and a commitment to offer up to 15% of units to set medium income levels. Staff's recommendation to approval remained. Again, there were four variances instead of six at this point, and the Planning Commission ultimately approved the item by a vote of eight to one.
 Since the City Council has accepted this appeal onto their agenda, I did want to touch on the main reasons for denial that you, sitting now as the Planning Commission, effectively have to consider. There are six that are codified.
 These include that the project's not submitted in accordance with our development code, that the project would develop or violate state, city, or federal ordinances or statutes, that the developer is refusing to dedicate easements or right-of-ways necessary to make the project function, that the project could create or compound a dangerous traffic situation, that
 That city or water city water or sewer is not available and finally that the developer is refusing to comply with required on or off site improvements at this point staff and the planning commission have found that none of these are at the case. Um, and accordingly we had staff I'd recommended approval and the planning commission approve the project. Uh, I do realize I'm towards the end of my time, so I'll try to touch on some additional items briefly.
 There has been a significant amount of public comment on this item. Council has seen quite a bit of that delivered to you in person since this appeal was accepted. Jonathan, they're going to have to give you more time. We will absolutely give him some more time. How much do you need? Four minutes, please. Five minutes? Yeah, go ahead. Take six. No, take five minutes.
 The public comment has both been in favor and against. I would say it's a fair characterization to say there have been more people concerned and opposed to this project than in favor of it. Those in favor have cited concerns about housing availability and the need to have additional housing not just in Fayetteville but in this location specifically. Many of those that are concerned or opposed to the project are immediate residents or immediate neighbors of the property, and many of their concerns are in favor of it.
 revolve around parking in particular and concerns that their existing street system can't accommodate that. Additionally there was a question about topography at the City Council's agenda session. I provided an exhibit here to indicate what the site looks like today. While generally there is about a 10 to 15 percent slope across the site, those who attended the tour probably saw that there is a lower flat area that's about five or six percent as you get down towards the corner of 4th Street and Block Avenue.
 There's also a requested agenda session for information about traffic or in crashes. I believe the police department was kind enough, Captain Shepherd, to forward that directly to the council. That included all of Nelson-Hackett, including its adjoining side streets with the numbers that you see below, totaling 16 total documented accidents in the last five years with one occurring so far in 2024.
 Finally, touching on some of the items discussed at the City Council tour that we held Monday. One that was consistently brought up again on the subject of parking is what establishment of a parking district would look like.
 The short answer is that is something the City Council can establish and that's something only the City Council can establish. The more complicated long-winded answer is there's no turnkey process for doing that. There are a number of different considerations that a council has to consider when they do this. One perhaps foremost is who is eligible for parking permits? Is it the people who are living in an area at the time? Does it include new developments that are coming in? What is the cost of those residential permits, if anything?
 What will parking rates be for non-permit holders? And also, are there additional staff resources that are necessary to enforce that area? So we did get some feedback from our parking group that when we have provided these residential parking districts in other parts of downtown, utilization has been so low that we've ultimately flipped them into what's called a mixed use district, which allows them to be used for both by residential permit holders and for visitors to the downtown area.
 uh additionally as a part of that subject there was discussion about parking at the town center and concerns or questions about its availability conferring with our parking division with city fable they did advise that there are a large number of available parking spaces which residents of this development could apply for for parking permits to that we looked to could not identify any instances where the town center parking deck has the ability to evict permit holders during events
 But that's something that we can continue to look at and see if there's more details on that. And finally, I did have an opportunity to speak with the fire marshal about their scope of review, and they shared that they would be available tonight if the council would like to hear from them, as I know there had been some concerns about that.
 With that said, I'm happy to take any questions. And I have Mayor, depending on which order you go next, Cara McElia is here for the representative of the applicant, so the developer. So depending if you want to hear from the residents first or the developer. We will hear from the developers now. And they have 10 minutes.
 And then the neighborhood, if they have a spokesman, they get 10 minutes. And then we do three minutes for everybody. I want to be sure everybody's got that. Okay, you're on. I have a presentation. Thank you.
 Good evening, my name is Karen MacLeay. I'm the architect of record of this project and I'm the owner of Arch & Craft Design, which is located here in Fayetteville. I'd like to thank the city staff for their extensive work and their support of our project and also I want to thank the Planning Commission for their approval of the project. We're really grateful for the opportunity to present the project to you tonight and I appreciate
 your time and attention. As it's been mentioned, the Urban Lofts is 138 beds. There are four stories on Nelson Hackett, three of which are visible from the road because there is a lower level that's accessed from a below grade courtyard. We have scaled the buildings down in the southwest and northeast quarters to two stories of a building
 above grade to transition it and scale to the neighborhood. And then we've also provided the two-story building on the corner that we believe really helps integrate it with the surrounding neighborhood. As mentioned previously, our parking is at 90%
 ratio 120 parking spaces for 138 residents and that does not count the bike racks that is just vehicle parking
 To better understand the parking needs of this project, the owners have been monitoring their other projects in other cities. They took a month-long study of pictures every night at midnight of their project and have found that it ranges, but it averages about 67% occupancy on their parking.
 at midnight and that's in Jonesboro, a city, and on a site that has a lower walk score. That site has a 65 walk score and our site has an 85 walk score.
 This project is designed to attract residents that prioritize alternative transportation. We have on-site amenities that encourage walking, biking, and public transportation use. There's going to be a designated pick-up and drop-off spot on Nelson Hackett.
 And we've also been talking with the public transportation in the area. There will be stops established on the site, up to three stops. Certainly one on the front to begin with and then maybe some on the side streets if it demands it. And Ozark Regional Transit has also said that they will provide on-demand service until we can get those bus stops established.
 And the owner has created a parking management plan as well.
 Contrary to perception as primarily student oriented, the Urban Loft projects in other cities, including other college towns, really attract a diverse demographic. They have knowledge workers, newcomers, empty nesters, young professionals and other individuals. The Urban Loft projects contain vibrant and dynamic groups of people who value urban living, flexibility and community.
 We really feel like our project embodies the City of Avila's development goals, especially the 71B corridor rezoning and the City Plan 2040. The proximity to downtown and public transportation aligns with the City's goals of reducing reliance on cars and promoting sustainable living.
 We really think that our project is gonna be a prime example of infill that will reduce sprawl in the associated traffic problems. Your own downtown master plan calls for increasing residential density downtown, which we feel that our project will do, and it will help bolster existing businesses and spur on new economic activity.
 um our project's located in a tier one center the downtown and according to the city plan 2040 this is the most urban the highest concentration of amenities and we feel it's really imperative to locate our project here so that residents will have the best chance of walking to their jobs or different leisure activities
 We strongly believe that the loss at Nelson will be a valuable asset to the city and will help address the city's housing shortage. This is especially critical given the rapid population growth. The city plan 2040 says that there will be 40,000 new residents in 16 years. That is an average of seven new residents a day.
 Our development will only accommodate 19 days of that projected growth. So if that gives you an idea of the amount of housing that we need to build just to keep up. Our project is located within walking distance of downtown and other amenities and it means that 138 more people get to enjoy all the wonderful things that Fayetteville has to offer.
 We are committed to creating a project that benefits the community and we really believe that it aligns with your goals for growth and development. We urge the Council to approve the project and support the creation of much needed housing in Fayetteville.
 Thank you for your time. With me here tonight, we have Parker Stitton, who is the VP of Real Estate and Property Management for Urban Lofts, Chase Hendricks, who is a civil engineer with Development Consultants Incorporated, and Andrew Berner, who is the developer and managing partner of Urban Lofts. I am going to pass the mic over to Nathan Becknell, who is the traffic engineer. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, Council. I'm Nathan Bagnall for Traffic Engineering Consultants. I'm a professional traffic operations engineer and a professional transportation planner. I have reviewed this development and it has met all the typical traffic analysis required for this size of development and they are doing all the standard traffic calming and safety measures that would typically be required by the city code.
 i do not believe or it is not my opinion that the proposed development does it does not create or compound a dangerous traffic condition is my opinion um i'm available for any questions if you might have any okay thank you now let's hear from the neighborhood i assume you all have a spokesman for the group they have 10 minutes
 Hello, my name is Alan Osner. I live at 312 South Block Avenue. I appreciate you letting us speak and I appreciate your service on this great board. I know it's difficult. So not very clear. I'm not sure what is going on. We do have a presentation. You can go to the next slide. So as an overview, the neighbors are in favor of density.
 We're not against this project. It's unfortunate the appeal had to be phrased that way. That was our only choice. We are in favor of 40, 50, or 60 units per acre. Remember, this is over 100 units per acre, per one acre, sitting next to residential housing that's 10 units per acre. So they're abutting each other. And I noticed on the agenda previous tonight, that is something the council is concerned about.
 when you all are doing the 71 rezoning, that is something you all are aware of, the connection between density and lower density. So that's part of why we're here. The other part of the overview is parking, as has been spoken about. So next. So I'm not much of a gambler. I'm a terrible gambler. I don't like casinos. I just think a lot of what's going on here tonight
 is a gamble. A gamble for our neighborhood that all the terrific things spoken are going to happen and I want that. I want success. I think everyone in the audience raise your hand if you're here with the neighborhood. Uh, yeah, I'll stay. So sorry. Stay with me. Mr. Mayor, thank you for that. I won't do it again. Part of what's going on is what is going to happen after this is built.
 Are people going to all drive there or are people not? That's the risk. We feel like we're taking the gamble as the neighborhood. Next slide. We did some walking. It's hard to see from there. Our streets house about 100 cars on street. We just walked around, we guessed, we're neighbors. It could be a little more, it could be a little less. Of those 100 spots that are on the street, we take about 30 every night.
 Some of us don't have driveways. Some of us, our properties are too small. This neighborhood's been here for a long time. So think about that. There are 100 spots available on the streets. 30 of them are taken. Next. So do we drive cars? So we do. Some of us don't. What we're going to talk about, what you all have to decide,
 is, is this being built so it won't create some kind of traffic situation that doesn't work out for the neighborhood? 92% of Arkansans who have a license do drive a car, but that's a broad average. Next. Excuse me, if we could just go back. The point of this slide is that reducing the parking requirements for commercial and shopping, fantastic. The classic liquor store next to a church, they can share.
 they have different times a day that they're operational. But no one lives there. When we all go home tonight, we've got a place to park if we're driving. So no one lives at the commercial areas. Next slide. So if you count it differently, if you assume or figure that people moved to Fayetteville in a car, there's 79%.
 parked cars. In other words, not a lot of people ride a scooter from Jonesboro or Russellville or, you know, Little Rock. They got here. Now, they might not. Please prove me wrong. But if you don't count scooters, they're 79% parked. If you count guests, roommates, significant others, the percentages drop to 70% covered. That's part of why the neighbors are concerned.
 So, that math leaves 46 possible cars on our neighborhood streets. I don't think that's good for the neighbors, but I also don't think it's good for the success of urban loss. If I rented there, I would like to know that I had a parking place on site and not have to park in front of the neighbors or walk a block or two. I think that's a gamble. I don't think infrastructure is a wise place to gamble that.
 You all have understood the slip lane already in Mr. Kurtz's presentation. Right now I want to talk about the variances. Next. I don't think the variance is wise. I think it should be denied. To me, the road diet made the street narrower and stuff slowed down immediately. Our front porch looks up at Nelson Hackett. We watched it overnight, my wife and I. People speeding and going crazy. It was instantly.
 Fantastic. You all did a great job. That took a long time. The proposal is widening the road there. I think that makes it dangerous. One thing that wasn't mentioned in the presentation, that's a curve. That's a curve. People can be pulling off ahead of you in traffic. You can't see them. People can be getting back on if it's stacked up.
 Moving slower, but still you can't fully see them. It's a curve. I don't think that's safe. I think the space that they're proposing is Makes it even more dangerous Next look the dumpster can go a lot of places on this project. I
 I know there's a situation with the wording that the dumpster is supposed to go in the back and where's the back. Look, just find a place to move it. Find a place that's not shaking hands with this guy on the south side. It's very, very close to the street. Find a place, the intent of the rule by placing the dumpster in the back of a property, common sense,
 It's supposed to be out of the way of the neighborhood or the adjoining neighbors. That can still be done. Next slide. You can skip this next. So here again, the other variance is allowing the parking lots to be in the build-to zone, essentially the front yard. Once again, same logic. The thinking behind that rule is to be a good neighbor.
 To not push the parking lot as we've all grown up with through the 70s and 60s, etc Push the parking lot all the way up to the sidewalk. Well, that's not a great way to build a town It's a good rule stick to it. This is part of what we're asking for Since there are a hundred and thirty eight units. Excuse me next to a ten ten units per acre neighborhood just follow the rules and
 be considerate of the gamble that's going on. What if things don't exactly work out? So we'd like these variances to be worked on and removed. Next, next. So the next is four or five items of traffic danger and health risks from what I believe was a limited review so far.
 Number one that the current design allows cars to park in the safety site site safety triangles and This is the engineering staff report on page 13. I don't think that's wise What that means is that the parallel parking being proposed? Blocks are our cone of vision when we're stopped at a stop sign. We look left we look rook right when there's a car in the way we can't fully see and
 there are impairments on this project proposal, if I'm understanding it right, and she, and the staff engineer said, well this is okay in this instance. That's my concern. That concerns me a lot. Next. Fire Marshall's report. The way I read it, he examined the property, the urban loss project. He had a little drawing of it, he says this, this meets our safety standards. We're requesting as a neighborhood, look two dominoes away,
 What if people decide to buy a car? What if they rent here without a car and just a scooter, and they change their mind, and they need to park it a block away? Our streets become more crowded. We saw that map earlier. Is the neighborhood still safe with the streets that we have today with a lot more cars parked on it? Next. The traffic study the fine gentleman just presented, it examined one segment of Nelson Hackett.
 It examined the segment from South Street, we saw kind of the top of the picture, to the left. I believe that's Locust. It examined Nelson Hackett. I think the neighborhood warrants a safety report, too, with the parallel parking in place that could happen if we're mistaken on how many people arrive with scooters only. Next. Small street, just an example. Trash truck trying to get through. It did, but it's very narrow. Next.
 Next. Oh, Alan, your time. Is it? May I have two more minutes? Yes. Yes, sir. Can we give us some more time? Oh, how much do you want to give? Five? Thank you. That'll work. So, health and sanitation, the trash collection report, here again. He was asked to review the urban loss project.
 The way I read the report, he did. He said, we've emptied dumpsters there for a long time. We'll get to it just fine. It's the neighborhood filled with more on-street parking that I think warrants a review. Is that going to be working out? We watch difficulties all the time as neighbors without excess cars parking there. That's on page 23 of your packet. Next. This is one block away. This is down the hill from the project site.
 This manhole blows three to four times a year, every year, and we don't get three to four disaster storms every year. That is a manhole, and the rainwater is coming down and is blowing the lid off. The next day we scoot it back before someone falls in, we think. So this isn't right. There's a lot of stormwater coming off this square heading straight down the hill,
 I think it warrants a more thorough review. I didn't see off-site improvements included in the project packet. I don't think the storm pipes can handle more development. Next slide. Now, this is the corner of, I'm standing at Block Street looking to the west. That's south on the right. This little geyser, that's nothing. This is maybe five storms a year. Two or three, the geyser is bigger than me.
 The water coming off the square and Nelson Hackett is incredible. Here again, I didn't see off-site improvements scheduled to study this stuff. This isn't safe to drive through and of course it's not safe to walk through. I've never seen this kind of stuff in most neighborhoods. So next. So this just talks about the storms cause major impact currently. We just want this project to pay for its fair share.
 And we want parking in that fair share. Parking is infrastructure. Parking is a part of life, like internet. It might not be a wire or anything like that, but we rely on it. Next. These are repairs. We just walked around. My good friend Kelly, she just noted, we call them blowouts. I know they're all over town. I know we're acquainted after that LSU game, but we got a lot of them.
 I'm not sure. Thank you for reminding me. Well, yeah, sorry. We as a city, I know this is a problem, but this is the thing. Is this being addressed? If the project's going in, is it going to pay its fair share to upgrade our system that needs help? I think, is there another slide? Okay. So this is our summary. We're in favor of a project with density.
 We do request that the project support itself with the parking infrastructure so it can add to the neighborhood, avoid parking conflict, and help send the overall neighborhood into the future with success. If I were a tenant renting at this fine place, it does sound great, and I had to walk two or three blocks to my car every night, I'm not sure I would enjoy that.
 Um, maybe it won't happen. I'm not much of a gambler. I don't think we should risk that. I think there's another way. If you table tonight, I'm sure there's a way this could be worked out.
 renegotiated so before I finish that I would like to invite the developer I'm not supposed to talk to him mr. mayor I would like to invite the developer to have a neighborhood meeting and we can get together and maybe hash some of these things out maybe some counsel I'm not sure so thank you for your time thank you okay all right we heard from the staff and the developer so
 What questions does council have? DeAndre. I wrote some down. Let me see. I guess this is for Jonathan. So, Jonathan, my first question, of course, is if the project is not in compliance with ordinance unless the variances are approved, correct?
 That's correct as part of staff's review identify those areas where ordinance was not being complied and accordingly a Planning Commission approved variances. Okay. I think that's the only question I have for right now. Bob you or Mike? I have lots of questions and and probably too many to be answered. I you know I
 We've probably heard from over 100, I mean if you count the, I think there were over 70 on that, the petition that got filed and then the additional emails and phone calls. I have gotten some in favor as well, even from people who live in the neighborhood, gotten phone calls from people who live in the neighborhood. They're kind of like, I don't want to speak out because I don't want my neighbors to hear it. They hate me. But I mean this is gigantic.
 rarely do we see this kind of, it's happened, but rarely do we see this kind of opposition. You know, I think I mentioned last week, Jonathan reminded me that agenda that I said, you know, this is where our desire to build housing and our need to build housing and this kind of housing, this is critical.
 As far as the type of housing that's this, this is great, this is workforce housing, this is small studio units, but this is where it butts up against our neighborhoods. And so now we're in this situation. I was surprised to hear throughout this time that the developers and the neighbors haven't gotten together.
 You both know about this. It's like, you know, reach out to one another. I would like, and I have lots of people that don't want me at a table this night, but I'll tell you, I would like the neighbors to get together with the developer to say, to make this work. We need this housing. And this is a great, overall, this is a great project and a great type of project, and it's
 It's the type of housing we need. It's a weird, hard, difficult lot. I understand that. I understand the concerns of the neighbors. I feel that when I look at this project and I've poured over it and I've had multiple discussions about it, literally hours of discussions about it with all sides of it, and, sorry, brain skip, I think what I'm trying to say is
 we need this housing, we need this type of housing. This is a weird lot, it's a difficult lot, it's a difficult project. How do we make it work? And I said to multiple people today on different phone calls that you need to get together and work together. When everybody is unhappy, that's when you know you've got a good compromise, when none of you are getting exactly what you want. But I think that's, for me, that's
 That's kind of what needs to happen. I mean, I'm fine with the slip lane. I think the slip lane is a good idea. Personally, I do understand the corner block in south and the concerns there. You know, as far as the dumpster goes, whatever goes in this property and something will go in this property, it's going to have a dumpster.
 whether it's in one spot or another it's gonna make the same sound and you're gonna hear from You know, I have a dumpster behind my we have townhouses behind us and they have a dumpster and you know I hear it every every week and it's I don't know. I've gotten to kind of like it in a way in a weird way But it's like oh, it's dumpster I Do think there's some things that need to be addressed. I I feel that some of the I
 I understand the fear, and there's a lot of fear because we don't know. Even in Alan's presentation, there were a lot of, what if this doesn't work? And it's like, well, what if it does? But I understand that you live there, so you have these what ifs, and they're legitimate. When I hear your complaints and whatever, you're my constituents, and those are legitimate concerns. When I look at the project and pour over it,
 i don't have necessarily the same degree of concerns i think that they're i i i feel like that that the parking is not going to be as bad as you think it is but then again i could be wrong you know um so i'd like to hear from the fire department about the street wits uh and i don't know if someone could answer that tonight if we have anybody from the fire department here yep i see somebody
 you want can you come up for a second yeah if you if you and i don't know if you're prepared to have an answer for this but it was brought up that there was concern about the street widths i i i imagine on the surrounding streets fourth fifth the south is plenty wide obviously but right some of those streets are a little
 They are, but Chief Hardin is also on the line in case he wants to chime in. But we do look at, I know it was mentioned that we didn't look at any other streets, and we do. If they're 20 foot wide,
 That's meets the fire code so that's you know we look to assess that our route Will will take us on a on a street that is meets the minimum Standard for the fire code and they did so we didn't make any comments about that now
 on their property, we can make them widen the street, which I think they have planned on doing to accommodate on-street parking. But with, because people do park on the street down there and all the streets are like, say, Fourth Street, away from the project, like east of the project, is that wide enough to accommodate on-street parking and, Yeah.
 fire truck? No. Those are, if parking is, if it's 20 foot and parking is going on right now, it's illegal parking right now. Now we do not, we've not had any calls about any illegal parking down there. Nobody has called to report that to us. Okay.
 That's good to know because when I go down there, it does seem there is some street parking happening down there. Is that a... If, and I would have to go down there and re-measure everything. I look at a lot of plans. So I'm trying to go back off of memory. If a road is 26 feet wide, it can have parking on one side. Okay.
 okay thank you yeah um jonathan you you we were talking there was a mention of parking districts could the neighbors request a parking district and get a parking district there to protect parking outside of their houses yes and ultimately it'd be the council's authority whether to create it or not so i mean that could be a remediation for any parking concerns now again i don't know if the streets are wide enough to necessarily allow that is that what we're kind of
 Possibly hearing but maybe the case I think what the fire marshal chief Ashley was commenting on is he's not Intimately familiar with necessarily what streets are what widths and where parking may or may not be happening But that would likely need to be a consideration with the establishment of any parking district It's usually that comes with striping the streets and indicating where on street parking can occur If this does end up getting tabling table tonight, could we get the the street widths? I
 Yes, I think we can do that, certainly. I think the more specific question for me then is what streets and to what extent, what scope of the area are we considering? I would say fourth and fifth between Church and East Avenue. You know, I know South is pretty wide, but fourth, fifth block and Southeast Avenue,
 I think would be important to look at those. You know, I know we have infrastructure problems as far as sewer goes. And we are going to be working on that. And it's going to be a big project. And it's probably going to be a bond issue that I hope you all support because it's going to be huge. We have problems all over this town with outdated sewer pipes and water mains.
 Both, but that's a bigger problem that goes outside of the scope of any project we're looking at on an individual basis. Like that's a citywide problem and it's gonna, we have to address it and we plan to. I hope we will. So, you know, it was mentioned that there's 100 spots on the streets and 30 of them are used. I mean, that's an extra 70 spots. And we have a, you know, by my reading of the numbers,
 And I'm not looking at worst case scenario, I'm looking at kind of maybe a middle ground, but my reading of the numbers is they're pretty much parking around 90% of the folk. And so you're going to have 10%, you're going to have 14 to 20 vehicles maybe looking for parking. So I think the parking's there right now. Now, it was mentioned to me earlier in a conversation, well, as the neighborhood grows and more projects come along,
 those projects will need street parking as well um i hear that um i think that's all i got for the moment until i read through the all the notes i just did
 Okay, Mike. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'll have comments later. My one question is could staff, any staff, walk us through the off-site improvements that the project is either required to make or is making and obviously that means water, sewer, storm water management. I think the question was raised and it would be valuable for us to see what's going on in that area. Thank you. Certainly.
 I'll begin with i'll do item by item if that's possibly helpful as far as street improvements. There are no what we would classify as off site improvements. So actually, I should probably begin with how we define often on site improvements in the city of Fayetteville. If it's along a property, if it's on a property or along its front edges, that's considered an onsite improvement. So, as long as you leave that, or as soon as you leave that scope, it's considered an off site improvement. So.
 beginning with that in mind talking about street improvements as i noted in the presentation all four frontages of this projects are proposed to be improved they're all proposed to have on street parking along them and to the point that the fire marshal made that also includes widening of several of those streets to accommodate the twenty foot necessary for fire access prior to adding also beyond that parallel parking on
 the subject properties frontage in addition to the sidewalk, street trees and furniture zones, which is the area generally between sidewalk and the street.
 On the on the stormwater side, uh, there's not currently any proposed off site improvements to be made. Uh, we generally do not have the authority to require a development to solve an existing problem. Uh, so if there is, if there's existing drainage problem in the neighborhood, unless they're contributing to it, or if their project can potentially be, uh.
 partnered with something the city is doing for a cost share that can help assist addressing a stormwater issue. So, as I said, there's not any proposed offsite stormwater improvements with this project. They have been reviewed for compliance with our drainage criteria manual, which says that your pre-development and your post-development drainage numbers can't show an increased amount of runoff. So this project is proposing to capture it and store it in underground storage before gradually allowing it into our stormwater system.
 That said, with the street improvements around the property, there's a proposal to add some new stormwater infrastructure. I think the resident specifically indicated the northeast corner of the property where there was the water pushing up over the curb. As you go on to South Street, there's a proposal to install a new stormwater box that would then tie into our stormwater network from there. On the water and sewer side of things,
 Similarly, that we're not proposing or the project's not being required to make any offsite improvements at this point. Our initial review of the project shows that there are not any capacity concerns. There's adequate water pressure. There's adequate sanitary sewer capacity leaving the property.
 Similar to runoff concerns, generally we don't have a substantial amount of authority to require projects like this to make system-wide changes that they're not creating. So if there's an old pipe in the ground a block away, two blocks away, three blocks away, we don't always have the ability to require a project to make that improvement unless their impact is causing that line to fail or something to that effect.
 So I believe that hits stormwater, water, sewer, and street. I'm sorry, Karen Mayer, if there's an additional category you asked about. Okay, thank you. Karen. Yes. Jonathan, I have a question about the slip lane and where it comes back onto the
 Nelson Hackett, how far away from the light is it? Or does it come right back up at the light? I was kind of trying to figure that out by looking at the diagram. I don't have the exact distance. It's about 40 to 60 feet where the slip lane ends and where the stop bar for the traffic signal at South and Nelson Hackett is. Okay, and remind me again that there's going to be some widening of streets, and so one of them is going to be...
 block street right on the backs I guess it would be the backside of the project and script and how much is going to be added to that street because it's gonna make it just wide enough people to park on right that's a good question I don't know if I have that exact number the breakdown generally is they have to provide
 from the center line of the street this project is providing a 10 foot drive lane an eight foot parallel parking lane and then beyond that there's curb gutter a furniture zone and then eight foot sidewalk okay so the end product ultimately has to have that 20 foot clear area of driving space for the fire department to be able to pass around the property without being prevented by on-street parking okay yes thank you and and so
 Some of those streets down there, like in particular block, about how wide is that now? It varies. I don't have exact numbers, so I don't want to assert that I have. Some of them do appear to be about 20 feet. Some range upwards of 25 or so feet. Many of them do not appear to currently have the 28 foot of clear that our fire department would normally want to see to accommodate 8 feet for parking and 20 feet for their vehicles.
 Yeah, what I was thinking when I heard the fire marshal talking about that is that there's probably currently people unknowingly parking maybe illegally. We probably parked illegally when we parked down there because the street's not wide enough. And it just hasn't been an issue, so they're concerned. But their concern is if you put more people on the street and more cars on the street, it will...
 It turned into a concern. Okay. Well, thank you Jonathan. I appreciate that Thank You mayor, I kind of want to follow up to what Sarah just said I'm wondering I mean, it sounds like the neighbors have counted parking spots But many of those could be illegal that they're not the streets not wide enough to accommodate that and so I'm wondering if the fire marshal the fire department could go back in and actually measure and
 the streets in the parking area, so in this neighborhood area, so we could get an accurate count of what really legally exists and what would legally exist if this development was approved, since they're going to widen a couple of those streets. So I think that would be incredibly helpful. Thank you.
 And I also want to echo what Councilmember Stafford said about the neighbors and the developers getting together. I'm so surprised that that hasn't happened. And I think when people sit across the table and get their pen out and start trying to come to an agreement, a lot of progress is made. I know that we have encouraged that a lot in the past, and oftentimes
 They come back with an agreed upon plan. And that sure makes our life a lot easier. And hopefully it will yours. So I really want to encourage that to happen. Thank you. Okay. Anything else?
 Thank you, Mayor. I have potentially a couple of questions for the applicant, for the developer team. It was touched on about the parking management plan. I was hoping that someone might be able to give us a little more detail of that.
 And then just secondarily, because I'm not sure who covers who, I was going to give you my other question. There's been a lot of talk about, you know, there is some elevation change to work with. And so there's been some lack of desirability from the neighborhood kind of referring to this pit. When I look at your pictures, I don't really see it as a pit.
 The pit seems like a very livable, workable space that's being very serviced with plants and ways to interact with it. So I was hoping that you might be able to tell us who has ownership of it, who maintains it, what kind of uses will it have, will it look like you're drawing, will it be landscaped, can you please fill us in on, and what do we call that? Is that a plaza, a piazza? What do we call that? I don't know. I don't think, it doesn't seem like a pit in your pictures.
 Good evening, council members and mayor. I do have copies of the parking plan. I'm happy to pass around if that would be beneficial. Pass them around. I'd be happy to address the question of, we would like to refer to it as a courtyard. And then I'm also happy to walk through my parking plan if time is allowed. It would probably take about five to 10 minutes. As long as the council has asked the questions, we'll be here all night. So...
 Just take your time. Yes, sir Yes, I mean we obviously feel like the courtyard adds an interesting design element that we feel could enhance Walkability and and resident interaction as well. Absolutely We will be the ones to maintain that landscape that you know We would treat that as a source of pride just as any part of our of our building or their surrounding areas. I
 As far as the parking management plan goes, there's a lot of factors at play here that ultimately kind of led us to the conclusion of some of the strategy behind this plan. I obviously am hoping I can be neighbors with Mr. Osner, and I think we'll share one thing in common. I, as well as he, does not like to gamble. And so I hope after I walk through my parking plan, we'll all feel like we've had the necessary homework. Okay. Yeah.
 Hang on just a minute now. Sarah, on the question, how long do you want him to present? I want him to present until he's answered my question. I'd like him to go through his parking management plan. It seems like it's pretty thorough, so if I need to set him a time, I haven't set any time for our council members asking or questioning or questions and commenting, but do I need to set one for the speaker?
 Not necessarily. Okay. But I mean, I just kind of wanted to get an idea. I mean, it looks quite comprehensive. Yeah, it does. How long do you need to? Well, how about this? How about I go down the bullet points and if it doesn't quite answer your question, you can always ask more. All right. Let's just start with 10 minutes and see where we get with that. Sure. Sure. I think surely 10 minutes or less would be good.
 Yes, of course. So generally I would like to point out a lot of the data behind, we did a parking utilization study that was mentioned earlier and what this was is 30 days in one building and 45 days in another building where we actually captured parking lot footage at midnight, 4 a.m. and 8 a.m. to get the most comprehensive idea just how parked our projects are. These two properties were in Jonesboro, Arkansas.
 Ultimately, we feel like some of the things that contribute to this, A, as you'll hear in our parking plan, we do believe in encouraging a car-free lifestyle. But B, one factor of reality as well that I don't think gets talked about, but the reality
 No 138 residents are all going to be at their apartment at the same time all of the time. People are traveling, they're visiting. And so I think that plays another factor. But the data, what we saw, we saw in two different sites, the average was 67% of all available parking spaces were utilized over a consistent average.
 As I mentioned, I'll go down the bullet points here. So point number one for us is to encourage car-free living. We want to provide rent reduction incentives where you will actually pay a cheaper rent if you do not own a vehicle. Now, to clarify for us, this is not saying, hey,
 you can save $100 and go and park in the neighborhoods. Our option is you either live in our building and pay the parking and park in our lot, or if necessary, you'll hear about one of our additional plans, or you do not have a car. There is no have a car and park in the neighborhood. Number two, bike and micro-mobility support. We obviously, if you've heard, we're providing a good number of bike racks, also a bike wash station as well, as we certainly want to promote the use of biking in this wonderful city.
 Thirdly, public transit integration. I think as you've heard, we hope to work with ORT in the future to establish, and it sounds like we will, have three onsite pickup zones for the ORT. In addition, we plan to reimburse residents. You can buy a 10 trips pass for the on-demand service of ORT, and we will plan to reimburse residents for that monthly.
 And lastly on this plan we'll have rideshare and delivery zones clearly marking for Uber and Lyft. Moving on to point number two is preserving neighborhood integrity. You know I think one thing has been clear over the several sessions we've had on this project. This is an incredibly passionate neighborhood and our hope is to contribute to that neighborhood and to the growth of that neighborhood.
 Firstly, for us, we're going to require all of our vehicles to be marked with branded permits. And so for us, that says if it's noncompliant, then it's very easy to spot. Secondly, it's resident education and communication. We're not going to blur any lines. We're going to be very clear about our stance on where you can and where you cannot park.
 thirdly we're going to have active monitoring and enforcement where we will happily and certainly encourage the the creation of a parking district and and monitor where those cars are parked if there are any violations
 And we are willing, by the way, to include in our lease language that we absolutely will prohibit on street neighborhood parking and are willing to enforce that with fines and lease penalties and if necessary lease termination. And lastly, we do plan to have proactive community engagement where we consistently engage with community stakeholders. We believe that at all of our buildings that our community manager, our property manager, will live on site. We will be their neighbor as well. That's a key, key foundation piece for us.
 Moving on to number three, additional parking resources. So kind of for us, a great glass in case of emergency situation. We feel like there is more than an adequate number of parking spaces available. As Justin Clay, the city's parking manager, has mentioned to us and have you heard tonight, it could be a mutually beneficial solution for us to rent spots from the town center parking deck just 300 yards away from the property. Okay.
 by us renting them we're allowed to we will be managing that supply and know which of our tenants are parking there secondly we will uh designate those spots again you'll see the visible parking permits for those parking spaces as well and again as i mentioned this is a break glass in case of emergency type situation that we don't anticipate having to utilize fourth visitor parking allocation one of the questions that was brought up in the sitting planning session was was what happened if a visitor comes over
 Our answer to that, and again based on data of an underutilized parking spot, we believe we can have and manage designated visitor spots. We plan to use a service called Parking Boss, which will help us digitally monitor the usage and the time of those visitor spots, making sure we can have consistent turnover.
 And thirdly, again, as I mentioned, we'll have real-time monitoring and oversight on that as well. And lastly, just in summary, I think for us, our plan for anything is to always be flexible. As issues arise, we're always willing to maintain changes, whatever necessary, to make sure that we're good neighbors and we have a served building. I hope that answers your question, but I'm certainly willing to answer any more you might have. I mean, you answered mine, so I'll yield the floor to others.
 okay uh oh go ahead bob that doesn't matter tracy okay thank you um i guess i've got a couple of follow-up questions do you implement do you have all of these parking standards at your place in jonesboro that you did the comparisons with yes ma'am and then did you meet with the community before you um put your um
 building in Jonesboro? Did you do some outreach? Because I mean it looks like you have a really good community engagement plan but that's kind of after the fact a little bit. Yeah you know at one of our buildings we actually have some parking that serves as a shared parking for other nearby businesses rather that be a cookie shop, a movie theater, a boutique and so certainly there were some discussions and even some giving of those spots to some employees in terms of community engagement.
 And I guess, have you had very many complaints on your property in Jonesboro? And if so, how have you addressed that? How have you worked with the neighborhood more than what you just mentioned? Honestly, no, we've not had any complaints.
 And is it in a very urban setting, kind of like this will be with, you know, surrounding single-family properties? Yes. As I mentioned, there were two sites we studied, one certainly more urban than the other. In the one that was not as urban, we saw a utilization rate of 72% parked in our study. The one that was more urban, we saw a 62% utilization rate.
 and based on what we feel this site provides close to the downtown core, we believe it's appropriate to assume a similar utilization rate.
 And, you know, I was in Jonesboro maybe three months ago. It's too bad I didn't have a chance to kind of go by and was knowledgeable of your buildings over there. But, you know, Jonesboro is pretty flat. And so we have our topographic challenges. I mean, is your area, your building, are your two buildings in a really flat area or is there more...
 topography similar to Fayetteville yeah you know honestly I'm probably not the right person to ask that question I can certainly get one of the members of our team up um I believe there's probably some some elevation on some of those that have been managed uh to the extent of which I'm just unsure okay thank you yes ma'am so yeah I have a question about there's talk of utilizing the um the town center parking
 Is this the same parking that we rely on for event space or do they have a certain amount of reserved spots that they lease out that aren't? Because I mean right now if there's a big event down on the square or at the town center, you rely on that, the public relies on that garage. I guess a question is that a public, does Fayetteville, do we own that building?
 Yes, yeah, we own the parking deck. Yeah, we own the parking day So that would be us that we lease it through the town center To me now Center and then they're able to do with it how they please and there are a certain number of the city employee Spaces also in in there used to be a lot of police parking there But we still have probably 30 or 40 employee spaces there, which are correct I mean every now and then the town center is full and
 And sometimes even during the day, but especially in the evening when they have events. That's a concern that we're using a public building. I mean, I know we lease it to the town center, but I mean, that parking is used up a lot of times for our citizens. I don't know if they'd be happy about me.
 I would like to reiterate that Justin Clay, the city's parking manager, has assured us that there is more than an ample number of spots available to rent, if so necessary. How many spots would you be talking about?
 How many would we rent? Yeah. Well, as you can see by the study, we're pretty decently parked here. So if this was a worst-case scenario, you're not looking at that many. But of course, if we did, we would happily rent those. And I heard from the budget meeting earlier, maybe there was a little bit of a parking rental shortage in terms of income. I would obviously love if we could find a mutually beneficial partnership there. Okay. Thank you. Yes, sir. Do we have any other questions?
 Well, let's take some public comment. Thank you, guys. Thank you. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. All righty. Good evening. My name is Molly Jensen. I live at 312 South Block Avenue.
 I'd just like to say that I agree with all the things that Alan, who happens to be my husband, said. I would like to say that we have heard from various people I will not name a semi-bullying approach of, oh, you should accept this. It could be worse. So my feeling about this is no.
 Don't give the variances. Make them draw something that fits our city ordinances. And do better. Do better. We are an amazing neighborhood. And from what I see, it's a beautiful building. I'm not opposed. Build a Dallas donut. Do it. Make all the parking be inside. I think this needs to be a development. I think there needs to be mixed use.
 I just don't see anything that adds to my neighborhood. I don't see one thing that adds. The parking that you're talking about, that you're saying parallel parking, they're going to build the parallel parking. It will eliminate half the existing parking spots that are on my street right now with all of the bump outs. So the word add is incredibly deceptive.
 So I want this to be something cool. I'm not even opposed to the way it looks. I just don't see what they're doing to add to my neighborhood. I see them taking our good nature, taking our funk, taking the love of Fayetteville that we have. And I'd just like to say, do better. Do better. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. My name's Eric Pollack. I live at 38 West 4th Street.
 Um on the parking and the traffic this project will essentially double if not more the number of cars in the neighborhood in a few block area so in addition to finding places to store those ie the parking we're going to create a significant greater traffic flow in the area and
 And that is problematic, I believe, on these streets. I'd like to read a quote from the fire chief, Brad Hayden. This is from the Fayetteville Flyer from last December. Fire chief Brad Hayden agreed, and he said, the apartment complexes that don't provide enough on-site parking could create major safety issues. Harding pointed to the atmosphere apartments on Duncan Avenue as an example,
 We have a perpetual parking problem there, and you can drive by there and you'll see illegally parked cars everywhere. This creates a great deal of problems for the fire department. Driving our big trucks around there is really difficult, so we beg you not to approve this. That's our fire chief about not providing enough parking for apartment complexes.
 And lastly, I'd like to follow up on Molly's comment that while this seems to have some benefit for the city, it really doesn't integrate very well with the neighborhood. Most of this is sort of internally accessed, sort of a snout house of an apartment complex, and really the interface to the street doesn't really seem to be there, from my point. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm Ron Hollingshead. I've lived in and owned property in the neighborhood for over 30 years. My family lives at 2040's 5th. We asked that the developers provide one on-site, full-size parking space for each unit. The neighborhood is not against the development, but we are very concerned that there isn't enough on-site parking and that our neighborhood streets will be used as a development's parking lot.
 Not enough on-site parking creates and compounds serious health, safety, and welfare problems. Our old neighborhood was never designed for that much on-street parking and traffic. Ambulances, fire trucks, and other emergency vehicles will have difficulty getting to the development and to the people in the neighborhood when our old and narrow streets are clogged with cars. The fire department's review didn't take this into account.
 Delivery vehicles already have problems using our streets. Urban lofts residents will be forced to drive around and around, searching for a place to park, creating more vehicle trips and opportunities for accidents. The developer's traffic study is grossly inadequate,
 It only looked at Nelson Hackett and then only for a couple of blocks and then only for one day. Vehicle access to development is only on 4th Street and Block Avenue which are both old and narrow. There is no vehicle access to the development from Nelson Hackett. A more comprehensive traffic study needs to be done that will take these safety factors into account.
 Old narrow streets clogged with cars make it difficult to collect trash and recycle materials. How will mail be delivered if mailboxes are blocked? Neighborhood residents may often find their driveways blocked. And already some neighbors must park on the street because they don't have a driveway. How will the streets be cleaned if they are clogged with cars? It's already not easy to find a place to park on the street that doesn't block someone's driveway, trash cart, recycle bin, or mailbox.
 The developer claims that their parking utilization rates show that development has enough on-site parking, however, these utilization rates are for projects in Jonesboro. These project sites are on flat sites and in different types of areas than this project. Their existing projects are in much more lightly developed areas, they are not in dense existing neighborhoods like this one, and are either across the street or a few blocks away from universities.
 Also, these projects had enough on-site parking built so that there are available on-site parking spaces. They do not need to use an existing neighborhood as a parking lot. City staff claim that parking utilization rates at large Fayetteville projects show that this development will have enough on-site parking. This is misleading because the local projects that have been cited are all much closer to the U of A as well as necessities such as grocery stores which make having a vehicle perhaps not as necessary.
 Thank you so much for your consideration. Thank you. Howdy, my name is Bayard Blaine, homeowner, business owner, and resident of 19 East 4th Street since 2011. Thanks for listening to us today. You guys have a tough job. I'm not against this development, just the excess as these variances on the table enable and conflict with this unique location. There are major concerns as is evident by this appeal today.
 These four variances all have repercussions to the safety and quality of life in our neighborhood, as well as this city's financial obligation to present and future utility infrastructure, road safety, parking management, emergency vehicle access and services, not to mention this project's own residents being potentially left underserved. I'd ask you all not to let this vague and potentially outdated city code enable irresponsible development to take advantage of housing needs.
 to maximize profit margins while leaving the rest of us, residents and city public resources, to put the bill and mediate potentially dangerous traffic safety issues. 2.2% of Fayetteville residents bike to work or school. 90% parking is disingenuous as they're including existing parking on the street, which you've heard.
 I'd like to see less cars, but public transit needs to step up. 138 units to 73 on-site parking spots doesn't work. I would ask that you vote like you live in this house, directly across from the dumpster, or vote that you live in that street where that parking lot is going to shine their lights in on you every night.
 A couple points about the latest things I've heard is that Jonesboro and Fayetteville are very different locations So comparing the two is very disingenuous The town center parking deck is up a very steep hill three or four blocks Very steep and it's absurd to think that anyone would use that as logistical parking for their homes Is their parking management really going to police our whole neighborhood because I don't see how that's possible. I
 You know, you guys tell me, but that seems absurd. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Richard Berquist, and I own the property. My wife and I own the property at 33 East 4th Street, where my daughter and her three children live. And I know there's no one's spoken much about this, but there are more than 30 children in this neighborhood, elementary school and younger.
 And they play in the street and they walk. They walk across the street. They ride their bikes in the street. They visit their friends in the neighborhood. They walk to the trail. They walk to the farmer's market. They walk to the library. There's a lot of children traffic in this neighborhood, and they're accustomed and habituated to what we have going on there. To triple the traffic...
 that would occur from 138 units just seems extreme. And also, these units are 300 square feet and 400 square feet in that range. This isn't family size units.
 And this seems to me like we're appealing to students. This will be a dormitory. I'd be quite shocked. And they're furnished, right? They're rentals, they're furnished. I don't see this as being compatible with this neighborhood. This is a dormitory. This is university housing with no university oversight.
 I just I would be quite surprised if it worked out At this volume if we could cut this volume in half the amount of traffic In half that would be a big help the amount of units if we could cut them in half That might be something that we could live with. Thank you. Thank you Lindsay Lloyd 777 South Razorback Road Yes, Lindsay Lloyd 777 South Razorback Road
 Good evening members of the City Council. Thank you for the chance to speak. My name is Lindsay Lloyd and I'm a soon-to-be graduate at the University of Arkansas. Fayetteville has become my home over the last few years and this is a place where I want to begin my career and build my future. However, finding a place to live in Fayetteville that fits within a graduate's budget is increasingly challenging. Many of my classmates and friends are in the same position wanting to stay and contribute to this community but facing limited options.
 The city has so much to offer yet affordable housing options are scarce, especially for those of us starting out. I believe that projects like this one can make a real difference by giving people a better chance to stay in Fayetteville. It's not just about providing more housing, it's about keeping the city accessible for everyone who wants to be a part of it. Thank you for considering this project and for supporting the future of Fayetteville's community. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 Good evening mayors, council, city staff. My name is Nick Thorne. I live at 629 North Gray Avenue in Ward 4. Overall, I'm expressing my support of this proposed project at the corner of Nelson Hackett and South Street. Overall, it is a thoughtful project in keeping with the popular motto of keep pay at Bill Funke. It will provide much needed housing near the center of our city and I commend the work of the architect and the developer for bringing a thoughtful project on a very tricky site.
 This site was created when Nelson Hackett Boulevard was unceremoniously cut through the historic city street grid in the 1950s and created a handful of very tricky sites.
 All of the requested variances are reasonable and necessary for developing this land to its highest and best use. And any project that would get built or proposed on this property would likely need at least the forbearance of being asked by this project.
 Our city is currently dealing with a housing crisis as declared by this very city council a few months ago. And providing urban infill housing like this project is necessary to accommodate our population growth responsibly and in keeping with the city goals that have previously been outlined. It also provides a unique and different type of apartment offerings to a city where more than 60% of households are made up of one or two individuals. Is this project perfect? No.
 but we can't let perfect be the enemy of good when we are in a declared housing crisis i ask that you please deny this appeal and let this project move forward thank you thank you who else sorry good evening my name is kelly schwarting i live at 324 southeast avenue i retired to fayetteville in 2017 after spending 30 plus years in real estate and multi-family property management we welcome infill in our neighborhood we just want to protect
 a new development from adversely affecting our single-family homes. Our tiny neighborhood is a heritage neighborhood that is adjacent to downtown. It is not downtown. We have 80 single-family homes, this project adding 138 units. That is a 72% increase to our streets and already failing infrastructure without enough parking.
 They will dazzle you with parking percentages which are calculated by taking full advantages of discounts for bike parking, scooter parking, bus service, etc. But let's be real, everyone has a car and they are not providing enough parking for their residents. They have thrown around the idea of using the parking deck at Town Center for their residents because they know they are not providing enough parking. Just because they can take these allowances doesn't mean they should.
 This will create a dangerous traffic problem in our neighborhood with a minimum of 40 cars looking for parking constantly. If we make all the streets on one side no parking, this will put at a minimum one car in front of each of our homes where we already park our cars.
 Proposing parallel parking on Nelson Hackett is a very dangerous idea. The state of Arkansas does not test drivers for proficiency of parallel parking, yet here we are adding it to a dangerous curve on one of the busiest streets in town. I have provided a copy of the water line patches which you saw in the presentation in our neighborhood. I know it's a problem all over town, but that is not an excuse to add to our problems.
 My house has flooded twice from the South Street breaks. Runoff from South Street causes other houses to flood in the area. I also provided a picture of a house just this week on 4th Street that flooded.
 just from runoff i asked the city to do a parking study to the immediate five streets for the shortage of parking for this development and their guests i ask the city to manage to i'm sorry to change the immediate five streets to no parking on one side for emergency vehicle access mail delivery trash pickup school buses etc
 I ask the City to notify all residents of street cleaning days so cars can be moved so our drainage areas stay clear. I ask the City to give all single-family housing resident-reserved parking prior to street parking becoming a problem. I ask the City to police the area for parking violations so that residents don't have to be burdened by complaining to authorities.
 I also ask the city to evaluate our failing infrastructure, water lines and sewer for needed upgrades on all the streets before allowing a huge development that will further tax our system. I also would ask that you ask the developer on the other properties what is the occupancy of their property. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening, my name is Madison Wright. I live at 558 North Highland Avenue, and I'm a business and real estate attorney here in Fayetteville. While I'm not directly involved in this project, I strongly support the Urban Loft Company development because it aligns with our city's long-term vision, particularly regarding the 71B corridor. Fayetteville's comprehensive plan calls for mixed-use developments and urban infill along the corridor, emphasizing the need for smart, sustainable growth.
 This development is perfectly in line with those goals by offering high density housing close to transportation routes and amenities. This type of development reduces the need for expansion into underdeveloped areas and encourages for more efficient use of our city's infrastructure. The Urban Loft Company will contribute to the ongoing revitalization of the 71B corridor, turning it into a vibrant, attractive area for both current residents and newcomers.
 From a legal perspective, this project meets all zoning requirements and complies with the city's long-term goals for growth management. Furthermore, it provides a much-needed housing option for single professionals and small households who are seeking urban-style living without the need for large homes or long commutes. Approving this development would be a significant step towards making Fayetteville an even more connected, inclusive, and forth-thinking city. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Okay.
 Good evening, my name is Addison Mitchell and I live at 221 South School Avenue. I'm here today to express my strong support for the Urban Loft Company development. As a lender, I work with countless clients who are moving to the area seeking high quality, convenient housing options in Fayetteville and we are running out of available well-situated properties.
 This project directly addresses the need for infill development, utilizing existing infrastructure without contributing to urban sprawl. Fayetteville's housing market is under immense pressure due to increased demand, especially from single professionals, young couples, and empty nesters.
 The Urban Loft Company development is designed specifically to meet this demand by offering modern, comfortable living spaces for one or two person households in a prime location near key amenities and employment centers. This type of housing is crucial for attracting and retaining a strong workforce, ensuring that our city continues to thrive both economically and socially.
 This development will provide a diverse range of housing options that will also help stabilize rent prices, preventing the housing market from becoming inaccessible to many of our residents. I strongly encourage the council members to approve the Urban Loft Company development for the future of our city and the people who call Fayetteville home. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else?
 Okay, did I got it? All right. You know how much I hate public speaking. I'm Rebecca LaTourette. I live at 15761 Brown Mountain Road. I own a large piece of property zoned downtown general directly across Nelson Hackett from this property.
 and I have a different point of view about the number of things that have been brought up tonight. First of all, I am for infill, quality infill. That's properly done. I think there's a lot of good things about this project, but
 I keep hearing the argument tossed around about affordable housing, infill, and how this is going to solve the housing crisis. They keep talking about these units, which, and please correct me if I'm wrong, but they are 350 square feet. Do you know how small that is?
 They are $1,200 a month, and you pay an additional fee for the parking. Now, I'm going to stop so I can be corrected if those figures are wrong.
 I know I can't do that. All right. Okay. Does anybody think that that's who is that affordable for? Nobody who's renting from me can afford that and I get more and more calls every day from low-income people who are being displaced by all the
 Cheaper apartments that are being put torn down near campus for the currently I say four or five Giant projects that are going up. I had five calls this week This it is disingenuous It is it's really not telling the truth in my opinion took all this affordable housing or to imply that somehow this is going to be
 magically cause additional cheaper housing to spring up elsewhere in walkable neighborhoods. It's not going to. The other thing about low-income people who are being displaced out of these areas, they walk, they take the bus because they're too poor to afford a giant truck or car.
 So I just wanted to clarify that because I hear the word affordable tossed around a lot, but they don't attach a number to it. All right. Kids won't walk uphill for parking. I've run to an attorney who worked up at the Federal Building. I'm like three blocks from there.
 she never walked once to work she drove i run to the people who who worked at the payable public library that three blocks away from them they drove their cars none of my comments walk to work they walk for recreation okay so i'm not against it but let's be honest
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Skylar Schwarting. I live at 324 Southeast Avenue, which is one block from this proposed development. I'm a retired civil engineer and past Environmental Action Committee member. I am opposed to the micro-sized apartments without enough parking, which could create or compound a dangerous traffic condition.
 The plan to add parallel parking on a busy, steep, and curved Nelson Hackett is unsafe. Most drivers don't even know how to parallel park very well. With 138 units, there are only 36 standard and 37 compact-sized car parking spots. The rest of the parking is on the street surrounding the site where our neighbors are already parking.
 This is displacing the street parking that is already being used by the neighbors, making them compete for on-street parking right in front of their own house. I urge the council to look at the parking reductions for this project. This site should not be eligible for 40 parking space reductions. They are further than a quarter mile from the bus stop if you walk it.
 They are 0.3 miles up the hill with a 100 foot elevation ascent over an 11 minute walk for a bus that stops there about once an hour. That is resulting in 24 spaces. Increased bicycle racks inside the apartment should not qualify for a reduction of 16 parking spaces.
 The proposed development would create or compound a dangerous traffic condition in which the risk of accidents involving motor vehicles, pedestrians, and children is significant because of the high traffic volume, topography, and the nature of the traffic pattern. The recent road diet from four lanes to two lanes on Nelson Hackett has increased the traffic through our neighborhood.
 because they cannot turn from the south or going south on Rock Street at Nelson Hackett. This adds all those cars right on to South Street. There needs to be a traffic study on our neighborhood streets.
 This site is going from 19% to 79% of previous cover. Overcrowding the surrounding streets will affect the proper street cleaning, resulting in high potential of inlets clogging and debris and flooding of homes. This project does not meet the downtown master plan strategies 3, 4, 5, or 6. It does not meet the unified development code, especially required parking and compounding in dangerous traffic conditions.
 It does not meet the economic development plan. The city's main focus points are to create high-quality places, especially responsible managed growth. It does not meet the Walker Park neighborhood plan. We spent a lot of time and resources developing these master plans. We should adhere to them. We are in favor of smart increased infill on this site, but not without enough parking. Thank you. Thank you very much. I appreciate your time.
 Walker Herd, 558 North Highland Avenue, 72701. Good evening, council members. I'm Walker Herd, and I work as a broker for a local insurance firm. I want to share why I believe that the Urban Loft Company development is a great opportunity for Fayetteville, particularly when it comes to increasing property values, boosting tax revenue, and supporting local businesses.
 First, developments like this tend to raise property values in the surrounding area. When you bring in a well-planned modern project, it adds value to the neighborhood, which benefits homeowners and makes the area more attractive for future investments. This is a positive ripple effect that improves the whole community. Second, more homes means more tax revenue for the city. This project will bring in additional property taxes, which can be reinvested in essential services like schools, public safety, and infrastructure improvements.
 That's money that goes straight back into making Fayetteville an even better place to live. Lastly, the Urban Loft Company development will be a huge boost for local businesses. With more residents living nearby, businesses like shops, restaurants, and service providers will see increased foot traffic and new customers. This helps strengthen our local economy and supports the small businesses that are the heart of our community. Approving this project means investing in Fayetteville's future, both economically and thriving, connected community. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 My name is Rosalind Cicerone, 25 East South Street. I would like to point out what a previous speaker didn't quite have time to finish saying.
 If they needed emergency rental of places at the town center, what that would mean is people had already gone through every block in the neighborhood and couldn't find a parking place. Because nobody is going to want to walk up and down a steep hill carrying things in the heat or in the cold. They will fill out all the neighborhood streets first.
 And the idea that they are going to be able to enforce any kind of parking, they would have to have a force patrolling the streets day and night.
 making 800 more car trips probable in our neighborhood will not do anything to help Fayetteville or especially our neighborhood, but Fayetteville on the whole. Whatever they say about affording affordable housing, $1200 a month
 For I would know last meeting they were mentioning senior citizens It's not something senior senior citizens are going to want to do this is being marketed mainly to Transients I mean, you know, I don't mean like bombs. I mean people who are only transiently going to be living in Fayetteville and and
 I know senior citizens would not consider $1,200 a month affordable. People who have a bike does not necessarily mean they don't have a car. And many of those people that only have a driveway, of course, have more than one car in the family. There could be several. To expect all of the taxpayers of Fayetteville
 to spend money improving the streets in our neighborhood when the neighborhood doesn't want it seems like a poor use of our tax dollars that would be abused by time. Thank you for your attention. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Good evening. Good evening.
 I'm Louise Gamache. I live at 311 East Huntsville Road, which is the south side, but not this particular neighborhood. But I happen to love Fayetteville, and I happen to love that neighborhood, and I walk around it a lot.
 You talk about affordable housing. Well, $1,200 isn't. Maybe I'm old-fashioned, and maybe I'm on Social Security, and it isn't affordable. It's basically student housing. It's furnished, and let me sell you. It's furnished now, brand new. Well, give it two years. Then what? Are they going to replace the furnishing? Are they going to up the rent? Are they going to sell the building? And all the promises they made, are they going to keep it, or is the next person that moves in there and buys this
 conglomeration of buildings gonna gonna abide by these rules that's questionable you know there's plenty of places to rent in town in this area i walk it all the time yet these young people are saying oh poor me i can't find housing you can find housing
 You can find rentals. So I don't understand that part either. It's too many units for that lot. It just simply is an overkill. The infrastructure can't handle it, and the city's going to have to cover that expense. And the last thing is when I walk around this neighborhood, I envision a child getting hurt or killed.
 Oh, it's going to ruin that person that's driving the car's life. It's going to destroy that family, and it's going to cost the city. And these kids are out there. They are walking around.
 And so please be aware, it's a lovely place. Downsize the size. They're willing to work with you. They never came to these people once to talk to them in all these months. They never approached the neighbors. Please remember this. They're out to make money. And a lot of people that spoke for it are looking to do the same. And I just want to preserve the city.
 It's a beautiful place. Please, if you haven't seen it, walk around it. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Clark Eccles and I live at 4011 North Highway 112. However, I lived in a townhouse on South College Avenue near the old Jefferson Elementary for three years. This development is in my old neighborhood. I loved living here with its proximity to the square, Walker Park, the Greenway, library, etc.
 I'm here tonight to speak strongly in favor of this project, and I believe that it's a very thoughtful project. I think the developers have seriously considered the city's goals and the neighborhood's concerns. This project is in alignment with the city's goals outlined in City Plan 2040 and conforms with the recent rezoning of Business 71. We're in the middle of a housing crisis. Some may not think so, but we are. I work with international students who struggle to find housing every day.
 many of whom have no cars whatsoever. This project in a Tier 1 growth center, in just a few blocks from the square, is a good project. It's beneficial to the city and will not detract from the neighborhood. In the US, transportation costs are backed into our housing cost due to parking minimums. That is one of the many causes of the housing affordability crisis that we're dealing with now. This project is very thoughtful,
 because it divorces the parking costs from the housing costs, and residents who do drive will have to pay those costs, and those who do not will not have to. This development can provide cheaper units for those who do not drive, and because of that it will attract those types of people. We need more housing like this in Fayetteville. I believe that the city and developers are addressing the neighborhood's parking concerns due to its proximity to downtown and to transit,
 and the developer's parking management plan. A residential parking district like what we see on the south side of Wilson Park could be a solution to help prevent some of the spillover into the neighborhood that the residents are rightly concerned about.
 Our city needs a mix of housing types for different types of residents, and this provides good density in all the right places. Like others mentioned, I would love to see a little bit of mixed use, but I'm fully supportive of the project, and I urge you to uphold the variances and improve it. And since I got a little bit of time, you know, I'm a parent. I have a daughter, and I want her to grow up in a Fayetteville where she can, this
 Decide to stay here if she wants and that's not gonna happen if we keep kicking down housing So we need to say yes to projects like this And so I urge you to support. Thank you. Thank you Good evening. My name is Holly and I'm at two six for a North Gully Grove circle I am also a realtor here in Fayetteville and over the course of my career I've worked with a wide range of clients and
 Anyone from nurses to teachers to service workers and many, many more. All of who would love to live in Fayetteville and like living in Fayetteville, but they do struggle to find housing that meets their needs. They work here, they contribute to our community, but they cannot afford the available options, particularly in the central parts of town where they need to be for work. The Urban Law Company Development directly addresses this problem. It is designed for exactly the kind of residents that I see each and every day.
 workers who want affordable modern housing in a convenient location. These are the types of homes my clients are asking for, but they simply are not available right now. By approving this development, you are helping to create a community where the people who work here can afford to live here. This development will meet the real needs of our diverse workforce and help ensure that Fayetteville remains an accessible, inclusive place to live and work. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 good evening again kyle smith 2801 dove drive the development codes we have are written for nice rectangular lots with one street frontage sometimes we tack on a little extra sentence that accommodates a corner lot with two streets the code just simply isn't written for a trapezoidal piece of property with a concave side four streets and a three-story grade change over the course of the property that this is what variances
 are for and here you are despite everything that we're talking about considering an appeal of variances. They've requested very reasonable accommodations that make sense for this site. They meet the goals of the code better than the code would if it were applied strictly here and honestly, it's just like everything else that has been built on Nelson Hackett ever.
 Mostly we heard about parking. The neighbors have talked about gambling with parking infrastructure, but this is the opposite of a gamble. The developers have complied with all of our parking requirements. They're not asking for variances on parking. That's not what's being appealed. If, against all odds, the worst case parking scenario does happen, y'all have insurance. You've got a backup plan. We've solved a very similar problem to that several years ago on the south side of Wilson Park.
 It's a tool in your toolbox that you can come back to if it becomes necessary. I don't think it will because they've already introduced a variety of creative, proactive parking management solutions that we really haven't seen anywhere else and ought to give a chance to work. We may end up with some new tools in the toolbox. With all of that in mind, denying this project on the basis of parking demands that are not written into our code would be entirely arbitrary.
 um councilmember stafford talked about compromise earlier we support density just not in our backyard that's not compromise the developers compromised at planning commission when they removed 25 units from their original proposal compromise seems like a virtue unless it's undermining your goals and in this case if they cut the project in half as has been suggested we would need twice the lands to house the same people
 If they cut the project in half, they would still need their master street plan variance. They would still need their access management variance. They would still need the dumpster placement variance and they would still need the parking lot variance because they've got four streets wrapped around them. They're not asking for a parking variance. Those are the things that they're asking for and they will need that regardless.
 So, when you consider the appeal, I hope you will deny the appeal and let this project go through. Thank you. Good evening. My name is Louise Rosier and I live at 11 West South Street, right across from where this project is supposed to be. I have lived in Fayetteville and at my home for 40 years.
 I am one of the neighbors who does not have a driveway. So my husband and I have to park in the street. And it is really interesting because as I am hearing all the comments from everybody, there are certain things we agree on. We all love neighborhood. We love our neighborhood, we do, and we want to have a community.
 But we need to pay attention to the community who is already living there, which is the neighbors in that neighborhood. It is interesting to me that the people who have spoken in favor of the project, and we are not against the project.
 I think that was made clear many times. We just think that the project is too ambitious. That's all. You know, we want the project to be scaled down in order to accommodate everybody's needs. Infrastructure being one of them, parking being another one of them. And yes,
 You know, variances are important, but there are four variances. That's many, isn't it? I mean, I'm not an engineer, but it seems to me that if they don't have these variances, the project doesn't exist, right? And also the people who've really spoke in favor of the urban loves, you know, are people who don't live in the neighborhood. And I would like you to
 you know think about that if you if you can i want to thank you and i also want to say that one of the reasons why we live in fayetteville and we love fayetteville is because to my experience the city has always been responsive to the needs of the residents so please do think about this project in those terms thank you very much
 Hey everybody, Scott Hill, 618 Selma Street, Ward 2. I'm here just to kind of talk about scale with this project. The main reason I'm here to talk about it is because I specifically referenced this project when we were talking about the 71B corridor rezoned project.
 Where the properties were rezoned to eight stories and I went on record saying hey, this is an example of a project that I would support my neighborhood. I don't think it's respectful to the scale of the neighborhood. I think it's four stories at maximum. You go a mile in either direction of 71 B. You can build eight stories by right without any of the required step downs.
 So yeah, if this was in my neighborhood, I would support it. It's not in my neighborhood, but I would support this and I've told staff that and I've emailed some of you guys that same thing. I think it's really respectful the way that it steps down to two stories before it comes in to close proximity to single-family housing and there are a lot of projects in the city that don't even do stuff like that. So I think it's thoughtfully designed.
 Think it meets a lot of the goals of the 71 B quarter rezone and I heard you to support it Thanks. Thank you Good evening. Hi, my name is Rudy Oxford. I'm a licensed real estate broker realtor and leasing manager here in Northwest, Arkansas Can you hear me now? Yeah while I'm not a resident of Fayetteville, I do work in Fayetteville as well as the rest of Northwest, Arkansas and
 In my role as a leasing manager, I'm aware of a need for one-bedroom and studio rentals in Fayetteville. Every day I get calls from people inquiring about our rentals and with people looking for housing options for lease in Fayetteville. There are a broad range of individuals that call. A small number of those calls are students, and those do tend to be seasonal.
 or from people receiving housing assistance and individuals that are looking for income-based housing. The majority of the calls though are from people going through some type of change in their lives that would require a change in housing, such as relocating for a job or individuals going through a divorce. There's many reasons for the need.
 Many people prefer to rent so they can become familiar with Fayetteville and the rest of Northwest Arkansas before purchasing a home and are finding that locating a decent one-bed or studio rental is like finding a needle in a haystack. As of this morning, in our local MLS, there were only eight one-bedroom units available in Fayetteville, eight units in a city with a population of approximately 100,000 people.
 Our MLS recently expanded and now includes data outside of the Northwest Arkansas bubble. In all of our MLS, only 13 units are listed.
 In my opinion, there's a need for projects such as this in the city. We finally have a project being delivered in the downtown area that is affordable product for the average person. Hope you will take this into consideration and approve this needed addition to the city. Keeping in mind there are only eight similar units listed right now in Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? My name is Franklin Everts. I live at 11 West South Street in Fayetteville, and I just want to reiterate that we're not against
 Housing in Fayetteville, affordable housing in Fayetteville. We're just against the size of this and how it fits into our neighborhood. That's all. Thank you very much. Thank you. Good evening. My name is PB Osner and I live at 312 South block directly across the street from the proposed development. I think that our
 Sanctuary of South Fayetteville is an example of what makes people want to move to Fayetteville in the first place. Not to attend the U of A, but because we as a city have preserved the essence of a funky and authentic Fayetteville. I think it's a shame that people here are giving their perspective at this meeting that will not have to face the parking challenges that this development creates. I think that
 to provide housing for our residents, not only for students, but for permanent residents of Fayetteville. Housing is, sorry, this development has been marketed towards college students only, based on the square footage of the units. Separately, based on how many students leave Fayetteville every weekend and when the U of A is on break to go home, it's expected that these are temporary homes. I think that this invites a disrespect for our neighborhood,
 and a lack of awareness for safety. And I'm sorry I didn't have more time to collect my thoughts. Thank you. Okay, who else? Okay, do you have anybody on Zoom? I have several people on Zoom, and I'm going to see who's going to raise their hand first because every time I do this, nobody has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. Oh, okay.
 Shall we begin? Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I think this highlights the challenges we face as a city of Fayetteville. We, I don't think there's anybody up here that does not recognize the fact that we've got a housing shortage and housing need. And so I look at the neighbors that have spoken and I applaud the fact that they're recognizing the same thing.
 They're not backing away from that. They're not saying that they don't want that. They don't want density. They see the need there. Um, but it as city council members, we're restricted on what we can consider and a lot of things that were mentioned tonight. We can't take into consideration. Um, but.
 the one thing i think we can take into consideration is uh if we are saying this project is going to um if there if if we're taking consideration on street parking into the calculation when we already know
 that because of the makeup of the neighborhood that there's already on-street parking, that means that's going to be displaced. Someone's going to get displaced. So does that create a potential traffic issue? Do we move the traffic issue around? And I think a strong case could be made for that. So as I've said many times, if...
 if development in Fayetteville was easy, we'd all be doing it. But all the good pieces of property is gone. So it becomes a challenge. I think I know which direction I'm going, but I'm anxious to hear what everybody else has to say. But that's the one angle that I think that we have that we can seriously take into consideration is what's going to happen to the –
 to the cars that are already there, we're clearly going to displace somebody. So that's kind of what I'm thinking. Okay. Would you do me a favor, Jonathan, and pull the slope up on some of the slides? Go ahead, Sarah. Okay.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you to the community members that spoke tonight. Thank you to the development team. There's been a lot of time and thought that's been put into this project, into the conversation. I've watched your planning commission comments. You've been nice enough to welcome me into your homes and into your neighborhood. I have friends that are in this area. My children have played in this neighborhood.
 I, too, you know, some of the things that you mentioned resonate, you know, with me when you make comments that we, you know, we have these strong feelings about what our neighborhoods really mean to us. And these, like, feelings they almost put within ourselves that you almost don't even have words for, right? And so I think that's probably what brings all that passion forward from individuals today.
 I think also from this neighborhood and our community at large, you probably would also agree to saying something like all are welcome here. I heard tonight just recently mentioned it's essential to provide housing. There may be some of your neighbors that are currently in your neighborhood today that would struggle to afford to come back into your neighborhood.
 I couldn't afford to buy in your neighborhood today. And that's because we do have a housing crisis and we have a lack of inventory. And so because I know we have that alignment together to make sure that we're welcoming everyone to think about those beautiful 30 children that are running around that need a future of Fayetteville that they can belong to, that they can afford to live in. I want my children to have that too.
 I really look at this, and I hope you'll consider it when I'm making my decision, is that you probably have friends and family that are not able to be in Fayetteville. You probably know of people that want to live in the downtown area, that want to be close to amenities, that desire to have a certain lifestyle that they're not able to have.
 There was talk about safety and quality of life. We've listened to stories while we declared a housing crisis of individuals that are having to make safety choices staying with domestic partnerships where there is violence because they don't have housing they can get to. Options like this open that up for them.
 There have been conversations about everyone owns a car. 22% of our population is in poverty, unfortunately, and that's growing. Also, as I've heard people share, I have a loved one in this situation. Divorces happen. People are professionals, but they have to support those they've left behind, their children. And so I know someone who could benefit from one of these properties like this, and you probably do as well.
 So I want to acknowledge concerns that were brought up tonight. We do have infrastructure needs. This project doesn't bring that to us. We have this as a city as a challenge of our aging infrastructure and the fact that so many people are coming to Fayetteville whether we make a place for them or not. I also, there was a comment made tonight about, I'm sorry I was writing fast and furious with all your amazing comments, to be responsive to the needs of residents
 We have residents that are begging us to provide housing, to provide opportunities for them to stay in this community close to the amenities that they desire to be close to. This project has been zoned downtown general for many number of years. It could have looked a lot different than it does. We don't always get thoughtful projects that come forward and
 I have great concern that when folks come and they bring something thoughtful that really tries to honor Fayetteville and to follow our strategic priorities and we give them such a hard time that we are going to suffer the consequences of projects that we don't like finding ways to come in and there have probably been some that you can think about and that maybe weren't as desirable
 For all of those reasons, I really think that there were some concerns that were brought up that I feel like the project has tried to be as responsive as possible and to address.
 I don't know any way we don't support this project if we really believe that we're striving for equity in Fayetteville, if we're trying to make a place for everyone, and we think that we're in a housing crisis. It was mentioned by one resident, the concern that because we're in a housing crisis, that might make us make certain decisions. I want to say yes, it does make us make certain decisions.
 And we're faced with that and we need more projects like this up and down our corridor And so I I hope that we'll sit and think on this about you know the kind of fate Well, we do want to be going forward and I just want to kind of level set You know there was discussion about wanting to welcome and just not this much density there if we reduced that down to half and
 There was someone lamenting about $1,200. I mean, you would easily double the rent to $2,400. I can't afford $2,400 rent. That becomes incredibly unachievable. And so what kind of neighbors are we actually welcoming at this portion of our community? Again, because I think that our alignment with our values is that we want to welcome as many neighbors as we can.
 So for that reason tonight, I'm not supportive of the appeal. I think this project really should go forward and I hope we'll see more like it Jonathan did you let me see that? Is this what you're referencing there, yeah, I'm sorry Yeah, yeah go ahead okay
 I didn't see any other lights come on so I'll start. I've got lots of notes there on four different pieces of paper But I'll just have to look at it. You know one argument I heard is Students are gonna live here or people who are trans. I am NOT legally allowed to discriminate who lives where I cannot discriminate
 Everybody has to live somewhere. I cannot discriminate in housing in any way, shape or form. I cannot take under consideration whether it's gonna be a student, a retired person, anybody. And we need housing for everybody. So any argument that students are gonna live there, whatever, it's like, well, they may and they have a right to just like we all do. They're not, you won't get cooties from them, we'll be fine.
 You know, the developer just wants to make money. My wife and I own a business. I get up every day and I work a lot of days. Today I didn't do because today I was doing this, but most days I get up to work, I work to make money. That's what we all do. I don't know a person, I mean I'm sure they're out there, I don't know that many people that just work for the heck of it for fun.
 It's a person's right to work and make a living. It's how our system is in the United States. You don't have to love it, but it's yes, people make money. Developers take risks. They invest money, they take a risk, and sometimes they make money, and sometimes they lose money. But it's their right to do that. And we need the housing that they develop. I have no legal way, constitutionally viable way to dictate what rent is. I don't know where the 1200 number came up
 from is the developer still here or is that a accurate number for the studios
 and it's really none of my concern but i just wondered because i kept hearing it sure you know the reality um is there's obviously a lot of time left i mean obviously we haven't even gotten approved for the project so so a project that this far in advance there's a serious number of factors that would not be able to dictate the final rent you know we're not off the mark there uh our our research and what we see on other projects uh is that's a um actually a totally acceptable and affordable rent in fact i've got some statistics in terms of
 the workforce housing data that I think you might find relevant in this discussion of affordability, if you'd like to hear it. Yeah, okay. Thank you. And I would say, you know, having a project take extra time
 COST MONEY AND THAT MONEY IS PAID FOR BY THE RENTERS. YEAH, ABSOLUTELY. AND I'LL TELL YOU THIS, YOU KNOW, OBVIOUSLY AS YOU SAW IN THE FIRST PRESENTATION, THIS PROJECT WAS FIRST BROUGHT UP IN EARLY AUGUST. AND SO THIS HAS BEEN OVER THREE MONTHS OF US LISTENING TO THE NEIGHBOR'S CONCERNS. I PERSONALLY READ EVERY SINGLE LETTER THEY WROTE. AND I THINK WHAT YOU FOUND IN OUR PARKING PLAN AND OTHER MEASURES, WE'VE TAKEN EVERY CONSIDERATION THAT WE POSSIBLY CAN. I THINK YOU MENTIONED EARLIER A COMPROMISE IS WHEN BOTH SIDES FEEL LIKE THEY'VE LOST
 And as you know, we've reduced the unit count by 30 units. And at the market rent that you just suggested, that's almost a $500,000 annual loss. And that was 15% that you cut from. Yes, yes, sir. And as you can imagine, 500,000 is a tough pill to swallow, but one we're certainly willing to make to honor the pride of that neighborhood.
 in terms of the area media income you know as far as the size of the project it's zoned a certain way they can build I can't keep them I can't make them build less I think it's it's it's only four stories on one side it's it's only two on the neighborhood facing side it creates a buffer
 for the neighborhood between that and the parking and the four-story building. I think it's modest. A lot, you know, I'm not threatening anybody, but a lot worse things could go in there. I mean, it's true. And you have to understand, too, we can't, am I correct to say we cannot, we're not here to
 Deny a variance the variances have been granted right where this is a deal of the whole Project correct when the project gets appealed everything About the project has been appealed including your variances, but I can't pick out an individual variance and say we're scratching that variance Oh, I think the City Council could you couldn't by yourself? I would say the danger in that is when I look at these variances taking away a variance is only going to reduce parking and
 And they're still going to be above what they need to do the same project, which would only exacerbate, exacerbate that, and I'm not going to say that word, it would only make the parking problem worse by saying you can't have the slip lane. Okay, well they could still do the project pretty much as is. It would just put more parking pressure on the neighborhood.
 As far as the parking up at the town center, I imagine those will be used by people that have a car but don't use it a lot and maybe have a scooter or bike and prefer that method. I hear people say that this isn't walkable. It's very walkable. I walk. We've had a mold issue at the house. I've been walking from our office to one of my favorite breweries in your neighborhood quite often. I don't drive. I could drive, but I walk.
 You gotta burn off those calories. My wife, we're one car household right now. We live out near the coming day, like east, southeast Fayetteville. My wife walks to our office. She walks to the grocery store. She walks pretty much everywhere. I barely ever have to give her a ride. She barely rides her bike, she walks. In this neighborhood, it's super walking. My wife walks to the farmer market. This neighbor is so much closer to the farmer market than where we're at. It's close to O and F.
 It's close to neighborhood market. It's a very walkable neighborhood. No one's being displaced by this. It's an empty lot. I've heard that, you know, my kids play in the road.
 i can't that's not a kind of that's not a protected use of the road the road is for our vehicles it's great that they can play in the road we're a town of a hundred thousand in in a not too distant future we're gonna be a town of 150 000 no matter what happens here your kids in a few years aren't gonna be okay on the road and that's probably you know there's walker park right down the street
 We have no way to legally downsize this project, no legally viable way that I know of, maybe you can tell me wrong, but you know that I could say you need to reduce the number of units. That's not something that I have the power that I know of to do. Yeah, that's a zoning decision and not a development decision. Yeah, I mean it's a zone for the density it's being built at and they've already reduced it 15 percent.
 You know the bus stop, they're gonna be bringing that you know it seems like they've been very proactive They're bringing a bus stop to that spot and in the meantime they're giving you know vouchers for travel It seems like they're doing everything to encourage Non-vehicular traffic that they can You know giving a voucher for the on-call And and and working with ORT and Razorback to get a real bus stop there and
 So, you know, I hear the fears, but when I look at this project and I look at what they're asking for and I'm looking at the amount of parking, I just, I can't bring myself to share those fears. I don't say they're not legitimate. We all have our worries and our fears, but I just don't see these fears being realized. And if they are, please hold me accountable.
 and send me packing. But I just, when I look at this, I don't. And as I said earlier, I ran, we have a housing crisis. We have 0%, I think 2% available rental stock in this town of our rentals. That's basically effectively zero. And this type of housing
 that's small, where a single person in our workforce can live and be close to downtown, it's vital. It's exactly the type of housing we need. Do I wish it was a block down the street? Yes, I do, because I think it could be a much better project. I don't think this is the best site for this project, but it's where it is, and the person that owns that project has a right to build there.
 and they have the correct zoning to build there. Is it the way it should have been zoned? Well, that's down the river. That day has passed. You know, I talked to both sides today and I was like, have you all talked to each other? And both sides said no, they didn't reach out to me. Here's the neat thing about phones is they have this pad on them with numbers on it and you can make a phone call to the other person and I really wish that had been done.
 that somebody, once I reached out to the other, and you guys have already had a few neighborhood meetings and stuff, that would have been excellent. I do have concerns about the parking in this neighborhood in the width of the streets for fire safety. That is my biggest concern, but it goes beyond. But besides that, there's a lot of remediation that can be done. I will advocate for you to have a parking district.
 where you get parking in front of your house and nobody else can take it. I will advocate for you to get speed tables if you want speed tables. I love speed tables. I know some of my other council members don't. I think they're great and I will advocate for that and I will help you with that. I will help advocate for a parking district. But at the end of the day, we have a housing crisis. We need housing so bad. This project, to me, going over it through the nail
 Is it perfect? No. But as someone said earlier, we can't let perfect be the enemy of the good. And I think this is a good project, and I think they've done their homework, and I think they've made not only concessions, but I think they've done things that are pretty proactive.
 as far as encouraging alternative uses of transportation. And I've got to take people on the word. I can't question people's integrity. Now, if people prove me wrong, then the next time they come to me, I can say, hey, last time you said you were going to do this, and you didn't do it. And now I can say, I don't trust what you're telling me. But when somebody comes to me for something, it's like, I'm going to take you at your word. If you say you're doing this,
 i'm gonna i'm gonna believe you and i'm gonna expect that that's what you're gonna do um so i'm i'm happy with this with tabling this and letting the sides get together and and and work through differences but just realize you're not going to be able to talk somebody down we only want you to build 50 houses that's not gonna 50 units that's not gonna happen that's not realistic
 so like i said earlier it's like you have to meet with each other when you when you both are unhappy with the result that's when you know you've got a good negotiation and a good compromise um but if we don't table it tonight i i i've gotta i can't i don't think i and let me ask you this we only have six reasons for denial that we went over and is there a threshold that we have to have to can it just be our opinion or do we need
 actual data to judge on one of those? Well, five of the six are basically just check the box. Very objective. Did they follow the rules or not?
 And the only one that has any subjectivity about it is to whether it would create or compound a dangerous traffic situation, but even then You need some facts you need to show that This this intersection is is dangerous They've been a lot of wrecks there and one of the problems with that is that within the last year or so They put a traffic light there. So information before that might not be relevant and
 to what it is right now with the traffic light. But I think with the surrounding blocks, and I think that's what the neighbors are considering, you know, 4th and 5th and Block and Southeast, like those are the streets that are really worried about the impact on. Well, and if they have evidence about a lot of traffic accidents that were not only accidents, but they must also
 be a dangerous traffic condition shall be construed to mean a traffic condition in which the risk of accidents Involving motor vehicles is significant So, you know That's the burden that they would have to show you in order to reach the standard that they're creating or compounding a dangerous traffic situation Show that burden
 The person's against this development. We have to say that they are creating or compounding a dangerous traffic situation. Therefore, they have the burden of showing you there is a dangerous traffic situation, and this is going to make it worse. Well, I'm willing to give the table and give the two weeks to allow them to do that. I'll leave it up to my other council members. This was brought up. It's planning commission too, right?
 Has there been any, but no one's done, in the meantime no one's brought forth anything? Well, not to my office. Yeah. If this goes to a vote tonight, I mean I'm going to have to deny the appeal and I know that hurts, but everything that's been brought to me seems to be a fear and it seems to be a what if.
 And I look at it, and I don't live there, granted, but I don't have the fear. I think that they're providing the parking that is needed. Not everybody does drive. I know when you're a driver, you think everybody else drives, because I drive, therefore everybody drives. I know plenty of people that don't drive that live in this town, and they get around more than the people I know that do drive. But anyways, if this goes to a vote tonight, I'm going to have to...
 deny the appeal. If it's tabled, I'm willing to look at evidence of, you know, talk to the fire department, talk to the police department, let's find out is it safe for parking on these streets, is it safe for, you know, what's the accident reports, and so forth. But that's where I'm at now. I said I know I've got a lot of constituents that are very, you know, the neighbors are very much against this, but
 I have to operate on, like that can't be my only factor, and I have to look at this, and I have, I've reached out to every site, I've spent hours talking to people, and looking over these plans, and looking over the presentations. And I just don't have that, I'm not saying fairs aren't warranted, but when I look at it, it's like, I don't think these are going to be realized, these fairs. Okay, DeAndre. Can I say something? No.
 Not right now unless Councilmember brings you up. DeAndre. I have a question for the developer. You mentioned that basically that you had exhausted a lot of sounds like you were saying that you've exhausted all of your resources as it relates to communicating with the neighbors. You said that you reached out via email.
 and you called them have you scheduled a meeting I I didn't hear that because to my fellow uh Council members point I'm hoping that maybe you guys can sit down and schedule a meeting and talk through this I feel like I've met with them with the neighbors probably about
 three weeks ago, and they were certainly open to visiting. And they did tell me that no one has reached out to them.
 And so I'm curious to know if that's something that you are interested in doing. Sure. Yeah, I, you know, I'll absolutely tell you, I think there's been, there's been some informal conversation, certainly post planning commission, pre-planning commission, where we've heard some of those concerns. You know, one of the members of our development team is a professional urban planner that lives in the neighborhood. And so I think there's been a lot of thought into what we've designed and, and, and, and
 There's been conversations with the neighbors from our professional in the neighborhood. You know, additionally, I think as I stated before, this is a really, really passionate neighborhood. And I think sometimes that can make intimidation in terms of opening up those lines of conversation. I think what was mentioned earlier is there's even some neighbors that are in support of this project.
 But just haven't felt the courage to stand out, you know as I mentioned earlier We've made a considerable concession in terms of the units that we've cut from this project And I think the the neighbors would certainly like to see more, you know the reality is I'm sure as you all know there's significant economic headwinds to development and Banks not only require you be profitable, but require you to be profitable over a certain percentage and
 The reality is I know to some the suggested rent seems high, but it certainly meets area median income. In fact, it's under area median income in terms of what we're suggesting. And if our hope is to provide that workforce housing, then there's no feasible reduction in unit count. I appreciate that information, but my question goes back to are you willing to meet with
 Absolutely. I think one of the biggest points of my parking plan was point number two. Not only are we willing to meet with them, we're going to be their neighbor. Our building manager is going to live there. They're going to work there. They're going to be in that neighborhood. And so not just today, not just tomorrow, but throughout the lifespan of this project. And one thing I'll point out too, I think one of the fears was what happens when we sell this project? We don't sell our projects.
 We've owned and operated every single one of our projects since we've opened, so there will always be a building manager there as a neighbor. So are you willing to meet with the neighbors if we were just say to table this to have a discussion about a potential compromise to kind of hear them out, not after the fact,
 But before we as a council proceed, are you willing to hear, to sit down with them and have a meeting with them before we move forward? Sure, of course we're willing. You know, I think these two sides are a decent way apart. You know, we're at 130. They would like us to be at 40, 50, or 60. And so I think when two sides are this far apart, sometimes an arbitrator is needed. And I think that's why we're here tonight.
 Well, again, my question is, are you willing to sit down with them? Yes, sir. Absolutely. Okay. Yes, sir. Okay. Because I kind of feel like my response is, your response is, I'm asking a question and it's not as direct as I need it to be and as they would like for it to be because they told me, I mean, that, and we all heard that they're not against development. That's not what they're saying. No one...
 has ever said that. I think that it's only fair for us to know that they're wanting some input, and they feel like that they haven't had that from the developer from you. And I think that that's only fair. So if you're not opposed to that, I think that just sitting down, having a meeting,
 and working towards some type of compromise, if that's possible. I mean, we've done that before, and sometimes that's worked out. But if you're willing, I know they're willing. And they're nodding their heads saying that they are willing.
 Sorry, may I have leave to speak? Because I believe, my name is Tom Wyatt. I'm an attorney for the development team, and I wanted to answer the question that you had specifically. We are definitely not opposed to a neighborhood meeting, but the concern that the development team has with what you're proposing relates to the bylaws of the city council.
 In any application that is deferred, it must be taken up by this council, again, by the end of the calendar year. The city attorney can correct me if I'm wrong. Otherwise, it is considered to be deemed denied. The other concern is that for concessions that were to be provided for the neighborhood at the meeting,
 I'm not certain I would have to yield to the planning department and the planning director to confirm, but that may require a resubmission that would require us to have to go back to the planning commission and redo the process because it would be an entirely new application. And so to address the concerns directly, we're not against meeting with the neighborhood and hearing their concerns. The practical application of what happens for any concessions
 or compromises that might be developed at that meeting run up against certain time clocks that are problematic. I understand it, and that's why we have a city attorney here who can clarify that for us. Well, let me use your concern a little bit. It's only if an item is tabled indefinitely that it is deemed dead on December 31st. So if it's tabled to a definite date, that doesn't count. You're still OK.
 And if Jonathan wanted to add anything else, I mean, as long as it's going on, I don't think you have to resubmit anything. So we might be tough, but we're not really that unfair. Okay. And I just wanted to make sure we were getting those procedural clarifications understood.
 Mayor, I can speak generally to that second half of that question, which was whether they would have to resubmit the project if they make substantial changes or changes. Generally, our policy and practices are that if an impact on a project is lessened, it does not have to be resubmitted because most of our reviews are done based on that upper threshold of what is actually proposed. So if the numbers of units are being reduced, the amount of imperviousness is being reduced, any of those factors, we tend to allow a project to be subject to a re-review with staff.
 So my question is, yeah, Commissioner Jones, we are absolutely willing to sit down with the neighbors and discuss. Yeah, there's no question about that. Okay. I appreciate that. Yes, sir. And I'm sure they appreciate it as well because we want to do they want to do this. We all know that we need housing. Yeah. And I feel is that it's only fair that we.
 sit down and talk through this and see exactly what type what can what could be the outcome that works best for the neighborhood For all of Fayetteville sure of course I understand so what happens next with with Scheduling a meeting or with the procedural part of this. There's probably more comments that are Yes, sir Oh
 I was just going to remind everybody that, you know, Councilmember Berna had brought up that, you know, and I agree with him. The way that I see this is really the only, you know, of all the things that I can use to, if I were to, you know, back the appeal, that it has to deal with traffic.
 That's pretty much it. I didn't hear you, Sarah. Pardon me? You repeat that. I didn't hear you. My understanding, when I look at the things that we could base an appeal on, that we could support the appeal, I really only see traffic as the issue that I can look at. The other things are things that I don't really feel are...
 that I can consider and a lot of the things that have been brought up by the neighborhood are things that we can't really consider. So if the people want to get together and talk, I think that's fine. I'm in favor of that. However, one thing I heard was when we talk about we've got, what is it, 130 some odd units now
 And neighbors are saying, you know, what I've heard is we'd be fine with 40 or 50. That's a big difference. That's like a Grand Canyon of difference there. And I don't know that there's going to be anything that can be worked out when a developer is saying, we need this number of units, we've already cut it down some.
 And the neighborhood's saying, well, we'd be fine with 40 or 50. And that's just a huge cut. So I don't know if that's going to go anywhere or not. But if y'all want to table it and let these folks try to work something out or maybe make me make the neighborhood feel a little bit better about the project, that's fine. Thank you. All right. Or Sarah. That's okay. You can go, Mike. Thank you, Sarah. And thank you, Mr. Mayor. I want to thank you.
 the development team for their answers and their input, and for the neighbors and the hospitality that you've shown to council members in expressing your opinions and your concerns. I think you've done an exceptional job of communicating clearly and precisely what your concerns are, and that's extremely valuable to us. I appreciate the opinions of staff
 I sent a rather almost inappropriate and lengthy email to the development team and had the courtesy to copy staff so that they would know what concerns I was expressing. And they courteously and brilliantly and professionally painted me in the corner and said, Mr. Whittaker, none of those things are under consideration tonight. And so we are, as council have expressed,
 remarkably constrained in what we're actually going to be voting on tonight. That said, I think Councilmember Bunch is exactly right. It's any potential increase in life safety traffic hazard. We're not looking at water infrastructure, sewer infrastructure. I have concerns about that.
 and 90 percent of what i'm going to say are going to be concerns about policy which i cannot vote on tonight but it's my opportunity to get it on the table to staff for instance one project no impact the second project comes along of size in the neighborhood
 No impact. You get a third project of density and suddenly the third guy has to pay for massive water and sewer upgrades because we didn't create any escrow that people pay into incrementally. I'm just putting that out there as a cost concern as we're going to grow. This city is going to need to begin to consider that. The neighbors have said that they are not against development. I actually believe them. I think that their concerns are very credible.
 The street frontage that meets the slip lane, I have tremendous safety concerns about those on-street parking spaces on Nelson Hackett, which tells me my issue is a policy issue with our categorization of that street.
 We took over College Avenue so that we could control curb cuts to both control access, increase safety, and move traffic more rapidly. It is counterintuitive to want to control and reduce curb cuts than to put on-street parking on a major transportation artery.
 That's nothing I can vote on tonight, but I can tell you I have major concerns, and we're going to need to address the recategorization of College Avenue. I will say there is no bus stop on this stretch of Nelson Hackett, because in fact it is illogical, having improved the safety to reduce the street to a lane either way with a turn lane, a brilliant move. I was not smart enough to see, as Engineer Chris Brown has said,
 has advocated for this but it has radically improved the safety on that street. There's not a bus stop because it's an illogical place for us to stop traffic and try to re-enter traffic again. Can't vote on it tonight but it's a policy issue I put out for the future. If I vote against the slip lane per our code they're allowed to have those exact same parking spaces and I have solved nothing.
 If the parking spaces go away, they're meeting our parking code even without those. Again, I can't vote on that, but I'm telling you this is a policy decision that we as a community are going to need to address because, in fact, the residents are right. The project is right, and the rub is right.
 We are attempting to eliminate vehicles by saying, let's make it harder for people to find a parking space, and the world simply does not work that way. Someone with a vehicle needs long-term vehicle storage, and we are impacting the neighborhood. There's no way around that. To the project's credit, they're widening the street, and they're simply moving on street parking to their own property. It doesn't solve anything.
 This worked great for one project, no one's going to die two years from now. We would say the project was a success, things are not nearly as traumatic as we thought they would be. You get a second project and all of a sudden the competition for that on-street parking becomes untenable. And I'm only saying this because I lived in a dense community where people were parking a mile from where they lived because...
 No one project did anything wrong, but the cumulative impact of project after project kicks the can down the road and you get caught. Now I'm getting a little too preachy. People are getting glassy-eyed. I'm not making any brownie points with anyone. I'm unhappy. Everyone else is unhappy when I talk. That's just life. The last thing I'm going to say is there was a project just like this one that met code. It was a use by right.
 happened to be on Garland. It needed variances to close access points and improve the safety of the site. I took a huge amount of grief for saying, I don't care about this project, it's a use by right, the variances improve the safety, how am I supposed to deny this project and regrettably, begrudgingly
 I supported the city staff that painted us in the corner and said there is no legal, rational basis to deny that project. The people that spoke for this project and hammered me for my vote on that project are hypocrites. Please print that in the paper. I would likewise, having voted for that project, would be a hypocrite to turn around and say, they're meeting code.
 I don't have a leg to stand on to deny it. My chief concern is the on-street parking on Nelson Hackett, which I believe is an abomination to the Lord, and there's not a thing that I can do about it. The only variance is for the slip lane. That's going to be a problem, and that's an illogical place to have people on a former highway to be parking on the highway and pull out onto a highway, in my opinion. Dead gummit, we...
 The city and our code is the problem, not the project. And the people in the neighborhood are experiencing the impacts of us believing that all roads are the same versus a massive transportation artery that we want to move traffic on.
 We want this housing, we want diverse housing. This is a model of housing that isn't met elsewhere in our city. It's a logical place to put that housing. But we need to address our code, and my challenge is to staff, not to the developer and not to the residents. They're simply caught with a code that is not actively delivering the quality of life that we want. And so I am unhappily
 I'm going to say the developer has met the code. I don't have a leg to stand on for this project, and I expect to take heat for that inappropriately. I am done, Mr. Mayor. I apologize for preaching. I should have listened to the gentleman, the preacher in the back of the room who did a much better job than I did. Thank you. OK, sir.
 Thank you, Mayor. So I want to kind of piggyback off of Councilmember Bunch's comments as well as Councilmember Whitaker. You know, one of the things that Councilmember Bunch said was, you know, while, you know, it might make us feel good to get together at this, you know, kind of late juncture meeting,
 there is a huge chasm between what's been brought forward with the community versus the development. There's been so much time that's been spent already in all of these meetings, and I know folks are really feeling that,
 And so to me tonight, it feels like we've really hashed this out quite a lot. It feels like some level of finality should happen. And so I hope tonight, this evening, that we actually would vote. I see, though, that you maybe want to make a comment, but I did want to go ahead and move this appeal forward.
 Thank you. Yes, I have a couple of ideas. You know, I never give up on the people. There may be a big gulf between what the two sides want, but I really think it would be worthwhile to give it a try. Maybe the gulf is shortened. Maybe it's not as deep after their discussion. So I'd really like to go ahead and table that. The second thing is that
 Think it would make everybody feel a little bit better if we were able to create a parking district And I know that takes a while, but again this would offer some solution some certainty For the residents that are living there and and maybe clarify that a little bit so Those are my two ideas. I would really like to fast-track the parking district and
 and see if that could not be achieved, or some discussion about that. I do think that this neighborhood is fairly contained. I think it would be helpful to know the width of the streets, to know really what legally exists now, and then also what the developer has planned, and how that would eliminate or increase what the change would be. How would that be configured?
 and this is not a delay tactic this is trying to find some middle ground here where this neighborhood can keep its community, can exist and the project can go forward in some form I do think we're missing that that urban loft idea, the small studio apartments, we don't have very many of those I think that is very much needed but
 But I think with those two items, meeting with the neighbors and creating a fast track parking district, I think this may help quite a bit. And I agree with you, Councilmember, we'd occur that we really need to redo our policy on this, on many of these, because this is not, our policy is not addressing this situation right now. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I'll keep this short.
 We do table this and and the developer and the neighbors Get together which I hope you do please be laser focused on what the items are that we can take in consideration and
 Because I think we've we've displayed to you that a lot of the comments that were made tonight We can't even take into consideration So if if you have concerns make sure when you get together with the developer that that those concerns Only are focused on the things that we can take into consideration. I
 because it's unfair to waste both of you time on issues that we can't take into consideration. So please, I ask you to do that so that when we come back we can make a good decision. I agree completely with what Councilmember Turk and what Councilmember Burner just said. I don't know what we need to do to start.
 process of looking at a parking district, but whatever we have to do let's first thing you gotta do is table If you go yeah, but let's start looking at that parking district, which I think is a separate issue And just start working ahead on that anyways no matter what happens I can I can tell you without Stretching the tape across those roads if you park two cars on either side of that I don't believe the fire trucks go and get in there. I mean, I'm just I know that area and
 I mean, I wish I can say everything will be hunky-dory, but I don't want if they if they and I The slip lane thing I have issues with that I don't think parking along a major road like that very reason that we did the road diet to begin with is
 was because it was a safety issue we had four lanes and if you stopped then that inside lane to turn like you're going to city hall you were concerned somebody come around that corner and hit you in the rear end now putting it's like we're starting to look at widening again and i don't i don't think i don't think the parking will work there i really don't i i got issues with that always did i told the staff that from the beginning
 Parking districts are intriguing idea. I'm a little concerned too with slope. I don't know if anybody's looked at the slope of that. It's about a 12, that's why I had Jonathan pull it up. It's 12 degrees and that's steep. And they're gonna have to cut into the side of that hillside, well not cut into it, but it's steep. It's 12 degrees
 on the one side and looks like 12.2 on the other side and it's like five and it it the slope is steep and they were already talking about the uh flooding issues that they're having when everything's kind of normal so um the the uh those are my concerns they're concerns but the main thing i heard and i got to hear from several people in the uh
 Well, the parking lot over the last week or two and the neighborhood did come in there quite often to express some concerns But the main thing that they want is to have a meeting with the developers That's the main thing and they felt like that if we would hold this and they would have time to Work with them, but they could probably maybe figure something out and I think it's worth a shot. I
 That's just me, but that's some of my concerns. But I agree with you. I think parking on a main road like that is a concern of mine, too, and slow. That's Tracy. Mayor, I would like to move that we table this to December 17th.
 And that gives us some time to deal with the parking district issue. It's not indefinite, so it won't roll off the, you know, it won't be at the end of the year. It won't die.
 And hopefully that'll be plenty of time for the neighbors and the developers to meet at least once, but maybe twice or two or three times, whatever is needed so that you all can communicate well and see if you can find some common ground in this. Before we make that decision, I actually had some questions that I turned my light on previous
 that I'd like to try to understand as well. With the development team, as far as with their timeline, I know I've been reached out to by developers who've been talking about the price point for this project. And holding something a month, two months, et cetera, I know can add quite a bit of cost onto a project.
 And so I'd like to understand, too, if potentially this puts anything in jeopardy with the project or if there are any additional hurdles that we need to be made aware of if we come back to that date. And so then see if we might need to make an adjustment.
 I have lots of reservations that I don't think there's going to be a lot of movability most likely, and so we're potentially adding timeline where we continue to not have units moving forward. And so if there's somebody from that team that could please come up and answer those questions, that would be very helpful. As I understand it best, is your focal question the challenges of pushing the project back on its timeline and just sitting on it?
 Correct. My question is around, is there the potential that we're, are we adding cost? Is your timeline, because I'm not sure when you were thinking you were going to have approvals and shovel on the ground. So I want us to be very realistic about what we might be seeing with a project.
 sure yeah yeah as i mentioned you know this first came up for discussion in early august so as you can imagine obviously sitting on a project like this for the that time frame and certainly adding to it has added an increased challenge but as i as i mentioned to uh you know councilman jones we're absolutely willing to sit down with the neighbors and and see what we can work towards however as i mentioned the feasibility of this project to maintain these units at an acceptable rent to provide housing for the work
 There's no leeway to move off of that unit count and so I know that obviously as has been mentioned. There's a pretty significant difference there
 Thank you. I appreciate it. Yes, ma'am. So just in relationship to that, given some of the concerns that were posed, my question is could we not vote on this tonight? And they can still meet with the development team to express, especially around the parking management, the safety into the neighborhood, and there can be ongoing conversations that can happen. I just don't know what holding this is going to accomplish significantly with this project. And if you see something that I'm not seeing, I'm very open to hearing it. I just don't see it.
 Do we have a motion on the floor or something? I was going to ask, Theresa, would you be open to, instead of doing a month, do two weeks for the actual tabling of the resolution, understanding that if it's approved, we still have the construction period of time to work on a parking district if we need to versus holding it for a full month?
 I'm certainly open to that. I just I don't want to give up on on Conversation and so if it's two weeks we can hold it two weeks. I I'd feel more comfortable if we had a parking district in place or a significant movement on that But if that's what the council that's the compromise with the council I could that's a friendly amendment. I think we should
 i'm sorry councilmember johnson i was just going to second that um i i uh you know i think we've got thanksgiving coming up um we've got budget coming up i i think thanksgiving i i and and i i know that you know
 Like I think, I forgot who mentioned, you know, having that time to have an ability to have two or three meetings to, you know, like I said, you're not going to, I don't think there's any feasible way you're not going to talk this project in half. I mean, I think expectations have to be realistic, but I do think that when you get people in the same room at the same table to hash through the objections, the safety at block and third,
 It seems like there's a lot of concern about the slip lane. Work through these projects. In the meantime, we can find out what we can do as far as the parking district. I know that stalling the project adds cost, but I think in this case where we're dealing with a project like this butting up against a neighborhood that...
 It's worth that month. I think it's important. I think the dialogue between the developer and the neighborhood is important. We don't want to create animosity right off the bat with new neighbors and old neighbors. And we want the best project. And there's always something that you may not have thought of. And you're not going to think of it until somebody says, hey, what about this?
 Up to that point, like I had talked about, the courtyard with the architect, and they had some ideas about that too, about seeking a variance to change some of those stairways. And it seemed like they were open to that idea, and hopefully that's something that could be improved as well. And it doesn't need to happen before this happens.
 i i would be open to councilmember turk's idea of tabling this until the 17th so what would you all like to do i have one sure absolutely one thing mr mayor uh thank you um jonathan i have a question for you and maybe you can kind of fill me in on this uh or give me an idea on it maybe um but how long when we worked on the wilson park
 parking district. That didn't happen in a month. That happened over a lot of discussion between neighbors, a lot of Justin Clay was involved and I seem to recall that came back to us several times
 That's my recollection as well. I did not have the fortune of sitting with the council at that time though So I don't have as fine a memory as perhaps you or councilman Paterka or mayor Jordan have I'll confirm. Yeah, it took a while. It took a while. So I Just don't know And I just don't know that we can I
 Craft and come up with a parking district that will work in a month. I don't think that and my Feeling when I met with some of the neighbors was that I kind of got the feeling that they weren't really interested in a parking district or maybe not So but you know
 If you want to talk about that, that's fine. But I don't know that we can put all that together in a month and have something down the road that would work with everyone. But I understand the, you know...
 When we talk about different projects going in, the parking district might help with this and maybe future projects or something. I don't know. But anyway, I just don't think it's going to happen overnight. So may I respond to that, Mayor? I agree with you. It took a long time, but I think it was more complicated. I think there were fewer spaces. I think there was a sorority house and another sorority house. I think it was a very, very complicated situation.
 situation and I think this one would be a lot more straightforward and if we may not get it finished but I think we could make some significant headway on it so I'd like us to be ambitious and try and and work hard on that one well I'm just trying to figure out how long y'all want to table this I have a question for Chris Brown okay Chris we received that uh
 I believe the Safe Streets grant. Yes, sir. Did we, has all that money been allocated? Yes, those projects were all prescribed in the grant. Darn it. Where's that money, Chris? Darn it. Okay. That's the wrong answer, Chris. I thought maybe. Sorry. Just magically come up with money. I was looking for a magic bullet there. We spent it, Bob. We spent it all. Okay.
 But, you know, I understand that the parking district – thanks, Chris. That was my question. If you had a different answer, I would have had more. But I understand the parking district is going to take time. But I think, like, you know, getting the conversation going and starting to look at it and getting the ball rolling would be a good idea. You know, the longer we wait, the longer time it's going to take. And if Teresa's – did Teresa have a motion to table to the 17th?
 I'm going to go back to my original motion. Can we table to the 17th of December? I'll second that. That's a month and ten days from now. Are we skipping any? Yes, the third would be three weeks from now. You go to the 17th, it's a month and ten days, and I think that you've got to realize for developers time is money, especially when you have loans that you're having to pay,
 Okay, if you can get something done you sure you can get it done in three weeks Okay, I'll modify that to December 3rd. I'll second that Okay, so December the third will table to December the third well, I guess we got to have a motion Do we have seconds? All right
 Karen, would you please call the roll? Mayor, can I make a comment? Sorry, before we vote, final comment. My only ask would be, having a concrete goal, I'm curious when we go and take this time, my concern is we're probably going to come back with just the project as is. I mean, there might be, again, some just outlier things that they're going to talk about. But is there some identified goal that we can also leave everybody with that we really want them to come back with? Sure.
 Because like you mentioned, maybe the slip lane. I think that's between the two parties that are going to have the discussion. Between the neighborhood and the developer. It's not our business to dictate what they're going to talk about. That's their meeting, not ours. I was just saying if we wanted to see if that was too specific. I'm not going to dictate their meeting. Are we ready to vote? Let's vote. Call the roll. Mayor Jordan, before we...
 go through and did vote, really, for just a moment. There is a runoff race that is going to be in the election on December 3rd. Well, I didn't forget about it. We all probably forgot about it. It would be a little handy for me if you might want to postpone it until it's there. I just want to say I understand that date.
 But I don't think a decision has been made yet on if that election then moves that Tuesday's meeting to that Thursday. And with the amount of people that we've had that have interest in this, I want to make sure that we're clear in our calendar.
 Okay, I would prefer the feds do it. Mayor, it did come up, and we were talking about that. Thank you, Kara. As to, you know, anytime there's a general election, that's a federal holiday, and we move the council meeting. I'm sorry, Mayor, do you remember if, when we have a special election, do we move council meetings? Well, I thought we did with fall. We, when there's, like, if the council meeting
 falls on that first tuesday even even the city council in the off years then we usually move it to that thursday but this year you've only got one so well i know but i mean in the present makeup of the council oh yeah it's just me and then there's the other one do we need to make a motion to change the meeting from the
 third to the yeah i think probably uh city council you know you control your meetings and so i think you would really it'd be good to make that decision now like cara has said so that the audience won't be confused and show up tuesday night and we're not meeting i make a motion that we move our december 3rd meeting to thursday the 5th so those are the correct dates
 I have a motion second to move to the even though this is unusual let's vote on that one first before the day yeah we'll look down on that one first I'm interested in this one care which please call her Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes more yes we did her yes Arna yes
 Yes. Eric. Yes. Now let's vote on the tabling. So now we have the motion to table. So it's here. But you want to adjust your motion? Yes. I'd like to amend my motion that we table to December 5th. Second. I just wanted to point out earlier in the evening we tabled something to the third. Okay.
 oh yeah thank you for that council member bernard that's one thing that i was going to bring up also is if we can at the end of the meeting talk about that really quickly if we need to go back and do another motion what was the one we tabled to that it doesn't matter it doesn't matter let i just want to get this done um care would you please call the row
 Hertzberg yes Stafford yes Jones yes Moore yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go on to number two
 I think both sides for all the information they've provided us. That wasn't too bad. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay.
 All right. Okay.
 Number two, a resolution to award RFQ 24-05 and authorize a five-year contract with Inframark LLC for wastewater treatment operations, maintenance, and management services through December 31, 2029, and to approve payment in the amount of $8,450,000 for services provided in 2025.
 Mayor, I'd like to start with giving a little background of our O&M operations at the wastewater facilities. When the original Nolan Wastewater Plant was upgraded in 87, the city contracted with OMI, which is now CH2M Hill, for Jacobs, for wastewater treatment services. Following that, the current contract they were under was approved by the- Excuse me, Tim. You've been asked to speak up a little louder. Of course. Of course. Of course.
 So in December of 2009, the council passed another contract that had a five-year duration with the option of two five-year extensions. 2024 is the final year of the entire contract period, and it's time to formally select a contractor for the next five years.
 In the first quarter of this year, the city sent out requests for qualifications. The solicitation produced three potential candidates. Inframark Incorporated, Jacobs Engineering Group, and Veolia Water North America. The selection committee was formed and presentations and interviews were conducted on May 30, 2024.
 The selection committee unanimously selected Inframark as the city's wastewater treatment contractor beginning on January the 1st of 2025. The scope of their services are going to be to operate and maintain Nolan and Westside treatment facilities as well as the 38 wastewater list stations, administer the NPDES permits, the air, storm water, and any other permits.
 manage the city's biosolids disposal program, and manage the city's industrial treatment program. Also support our SCADA system and continue to pursue operation economies, efficiencies, and continued permit compliance. The agreement shall commence on January the 1st and shall remain in full force for five years, and the initial term will be followed by two five-year optional renewals.
 Annual amendments for scope budget and additions shall be agreed to upon by all parties for each calendar year and will be contingent upon annual budget approval by the City Council. Approval of this amendment before you tonight is also contingent on the City Council's approval of the 2025 City budget.
 The compensation for these services, as the Mayor described, the base fee will consist of a firm fixed price of $6,450,000 and then two annual rebatable accounts for maintenance $1,550,000 and for chemicals $450,000. The total contract is $8,450,000 for 2025.
 This is in line with our current contract. Actually, it is actually $26,000 less than our current contract. The base fee for all expenses are for labor, supplies, landscaping, safety, licenses. It goes into the base fee.
 The risk with this, the shared risk for both entities is that if InfraMart goes over on these items like overtime costs or anything like that, they bear the risk of paying for those items. The city does not. But likewise, if they come under the allotted amount, they get to keep that money as well.
 Spending out of the two rebateable funds has to have approval. Between $2,500 and $5,000, the city has to be notified. Anything greater than $5,000 must have city approval. What does not get spent during the 12 months is rebated back to the city. If additional funding is needed during the year, negotiations between InfoMark and the city will occur.
 The funds are available in utilities wastewater treatment management budget. This item was presented to the water service hauled waste committee on October the 8th which voted by four to zero to forward to the city council with a recommendation for approval. Be certainly happy to answer any questions that you may have. What questions do we have for Tim? Let's take some public comment.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. I made a mistake that InfoMark folks should be able to speak before the council for 10 minutes. Do you want to say anything? Nothing? Okay. All right. Who would like to address us first then?
 Nobody. All right, anybody on Zoom? No, sir. All right. Well, here we are. I didn't know that, why don't you go ahead, Sarah? Yeah, thank you. I didn't know if there were some community members, the reason I had asked to, obviously it's one of our biggest contracts and there had been some questions and so we didn't wanna leave it on consent. So I didn't know if those community members who'd asked questions would stay to this late hour, but we might've lost them by now.
 One of the things, and thank you, InfraMark, for being here tonight. And I got to attend the Water and Sewer Committee, so I was very thankful to get to hear and learn more. And one of the questions that came up then, and now some time has elapsed, I'm curious. One of the things that was brought up is that there's movement between
 um companies and at the time that we were having that conversation i don't even remember how long ago that was at this point maybe in october um there was the potential that there were some staffing that had been with the um the old contract that might be coming over to the new firm and so there were questions about you know at the upper levels of inframarket they were going to be taking over some of the jacobs staff and so i just didn't know if that was something that we had clarification on at this point
 Yeah, we can certainly clarify that. The InfraBAR management has talked to all Jacob staff members, and they're bringing over quite a contingency of the rank-and-file operators. Of course, they're going to have their own management team, but the boots on the ground are mostly made up of what will soon be former Jacob employees.
 Okay, thank you for answering on that. And then the other thing that had been asked to me was if that was taking place, you know, and I wasn't on the selection committee, so I don't know what all the conversations were. If many of those folks were going to be coming over from the old firm, just was curious why the changeover to the new firm, given that, you know, many of the individuals that are doing that work today then are coming over with this firm.
 Well, while there are many individuals that's worked for several of these firms, what we look at is the culture of the management team. And while we have former Jacobs employees that are now in for market management, the culture of their management is something that we were quite pleased with. In other words, to carry on the efficiencies that the city of Fayetteville has as far as public health and continued compliance,
 What we want to do is do the maximum amount of treatment at the lowest possible cost. That's our job as public servants to do that. And the fact that we really are interested in the new energy that InfraMark brings to our waste water treatment facilities and to our contracts. Thank you. Okay. Okay, go ahead.
 Tim, yeah, I had some questions that were given to me by a couple of citizens and they were concerned about InfoMark and their business dealings in Houston. And they reached out to me about that contract.
 Yeah, those links were given to all the city council members, and we did address that with the CEO at our September 10th Water and Sewer Committee meeting. We also had our senior assistant attorney go through all the reports before sending it out, sending it to me. He didn't have any major concerns. I didn't have any major concerns. But I would like to ask Steve Weinecker to come up to the podium and address the Houston—
 Issue that you're talking about so you'd already really addressed that in a water sewer Yeah, and I remember that but I wanted the citizens to kind of know yeah, absolutely I
 All right. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Councilmembers. I appreciate the opportunity to be here and we're really excited about the potential partnership with the city. This is a really important opportunity for us and we understand how critical Fayetteville is and this would be a flagship partnership if we got this opportunity. Specific to Houston, that was an issue that transpired
 22 months ago now. And it was, you know, the facility in particular had
 challenges related to infrastructure and it was related to ultimately some concerns around compliance issues that were happening at the facility. And I want to assure you that compliance is the highest priority that we have within the company. And we are very focused on with a lot of urgency of our around sustaining compliance. But as you may or may not know, uh,
 The wastewater infrastructure investment across the country is a real challenge, and specifically at these facilities was a significant challenge. In 2017, it was devastated with Hurricane Harvey.
 Even six years later they had not been able to invest the money to get the facilities in the condition to be able to sustain under particularly heavy rainfall conditions. We had four inches of rain in less than an hour. It washed out the clarifiers, the biosolids, which raised concern in the community, rightly so. We had concerns as well, but it did trigger some additional
 attention to the situation and as part of that effort, we did a complete investigation around everything that was happening at the facilities as with the concerns expressed. And we did identify with the city that there was a third party contractor who was doing sampling that was improperly sampling.
 And when that was identified, they were immediately terminated. Their contract for that lab was completely terminated.
 But that was obviously a big concern that we had. And there was a lot of attention around it. You saw newspaper articles, et cetera. Subsequent to that, the city did decide to take the services back in-house. We actually, because of all that attention, they were actually starting to reinvest. So we were excited about the opportunity to actually finally get the investment that was needed.
 But they decided to take in-house. We worked professionally to transition it back. They insourced all the other 37 facilities, so these are the only facilities that they had outsourced, so they decided to take them all back in-house. So that's. Thank you. Hi. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I want to commend Council Member Turk, who's our chair of our Water and Sewer Committee and does an outstanding job.
 and purchasing as well for managing the process for interviewing considering qualifications and making the selection I simply have no concerns about how the process worked. I think Jacobs is a terribly credible company and does a really good job and they've bought other companies and expanded and they are a world-class engineering firm and I have no beef with them and
 But it is logical also for organizations after 15 years to change operators just to ensure that there's not a blind spot and you're not missing something and someone new is coming in and looking at your processes.
 The most important change though in the contract is the pricing where you have the guarantee for the rate payers of the city of Fayetteville That the operator has no incentive for time and materials used to expand the money of the contract That there is a base rate of pay they're protected by a
 City identifying additional capital improvements that need to be made to operate that plant and that's entirely appropriate way to operate so I come in staff are coming up and purchasing with the model of the new contract and And I'm enthusiastic and ready to approve this after hearing from Councilmember Berna everything you've said but in the
 of complete transparency, I think considering the question was asked about, that the citizen had asked about the issues with Houston. I see Blake has slipped in the back there. You're trying to hide, but I see you back there. Could you do a quick synopsis of the due diligence that you did to verify the situation?
 I'm glad I printed out a copy of my report. I did pull every available public record that I could find in both EPA records and the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality. I provided all of those records to Tim Nyander, who reviewed them, gave me feedback. I prepared a draft of the report. I provided that to InfraMark's council. Their council provided responses.
 and I think you had a complete picture of what occurred in Houston and Pasadena, Texas. Okay. Thank you very much. And with that, I'd make a motion to pass a resolution as presented. Second. No, motion is seconded to pass a resolution. Caravans, please call the roll. Hertzberg? Hertzberg?
 yes Stafford yes yes yes yes yes yes yes okay let's go number three resolution to approve amendments to federal police department policies
 Good morning, Mayor and Council. I'm Captain Tim Shepherd with the Fayetteville Police Department. We're seeking approval for a resolution to amend 12 existing policies. These policies have already been
 approved by this governing board. One of the policies is the 44.1.1 juvenile operations. During the agenda session, Councilmember Moore requested some potential, or she gave some feedback of some potential changes, adding the word allegedly into the sections that were highlighted for revision. We went ahead and made those changes and we sent it to Ms. Paxton's office on Tuesday.
 We received another email this morning requesting some additional changes and we were able to address most of those as they were outside of the scope of our revisions and
 And these requests are, these revisions are very necessary for us right now because our accreditation is due on November 11th of this year. And if you recall back in September we brought nine policies forward to, as the first batch to address that issue and this is the last 12 policies. I'll be ready to answer any questions.
 thank you mayor i appreciate you addressing um the first um area in the youth interactions that we have obviously we all care want to make sure we're protecting children and all of our interactions around children and so there was some language that made it very definitive that if they were being accused of something it sounded like they were fully convicted or found guilty of that alleged occurrence
 And so I do appreciate that that was updated. I did have some questions because again, as a mom for one, if I think about my 12 year old who goes and does her 20 and 30 minute walks around, I wanna make sure that the interactions that she's having, that she's safe and protected as much as possible like all other parents.
 And so there is some wording in here on page three, under the three, that talks about encountering youth and officers using whatever is the least coercive among reasonable alternatives.
 And for me, honestly, as much as I look at legalese, and I cannot interpret what that is, and I'm hopeful that you might be able to explain that. Yes, ma'am. So that language mirrors exactly CALEA accreditation standards. And when you pointed that out, it was odd to me too. But basically, it's the least punitive action out of those available options, as long as they're reasonable. If you look at the policy pertaining to that,
 and the A, B, and C below that, it defines those situations when that would be. So basically, if we have an option and it's reasonable, we want to take the less punitive approach.
 And that's what that outlines. They could have just said that, you would think, huh? It was odd because I was even trying to figure out how that would work. I don't even know what those words mean together. So, okay, thank you very much. In that same section there in 3 as well, you know, it talks about a child who has committed a delinquent act. But I think, again, that allegedly would be appropriate there. Yes, ma'am, and I went ahead and added that language to this section.
 Okay, thank you.
 That was outside of, I found it separately in your new copy. Absolutely. And like I said, we were trying to stay in those areas where we're merging our written directives into the policy. So a lot of this language is based on those directives and those updates and accreditation and state law. So we weren't going into some of these other areas. So thank you for identifying that. We've updated it. Okay. And I have a couple other questions in some of these sections. So on page 3, under the policy,
 under five, the investigation of juvenile non-custodial interview.
 I just wasn't sure in this language and so I wanted to get clarification around how we're interacting when it's a noncustodial interview. Is that voluntary and does the child have the ability to leave at any time? Yes, ma'am. So if you on the first page on definitions 2b, noncustodial interview has a definition assigned to it and it's a voluntary encounter where they are free to leave.
 And that's kind of the confusion here. So right now we have these policies, and some of your other questions actually reference to other policies, like a field interview in that. And right now we have an officer who is working. If they want to find this information, they'll go to this policy, and then they have to go to another policy. But as well, they have to go and find these written directives. And it becomes kind of cumbersome and complex. And that's why we're trying to merge those directives into this policy, into the appropriate policies.
 Okay, thank you for explaining that. And then I had one other question to get clarification on as well is under 7, taking a juvenile into custody with or without a warrant.
 I just I didn't understand in there and again you might You might reference somewhere else and so that will be helpful for me And what time frame is it expected that the parent or legal guardian is going to be contacted? So I think about my child, you know my child and trying to you know, I would want to be notified immediately So I will say most of the time almost all the time
 the parents or guardians notified very quickly because there's so many processes we can't do without the guardian. But from the time we arrest a juvenile,
 we have six hours to get them to a juvenile facility. So that clock starts immediately. And in situations where they may come to the Fayetteville Police Department for an interview or interrogation, we cannot do that without the guardian on site or on premises. So we really can't proceed without a parent or guardian. And then in section F, and you pointed that out in your email, but it says they should attempt to make contact with a parent or legal guardian of any juvenile taken into custody and advise them of the situation.
 So we outline it, but we don't have a timeline and that is consistent with criminal procedure But in most cases we have to contact a guardian as fast as possible or we just can't proceed Through the process. Well, and I understand I guess to aligning to maybe you know state But also I always think fate will goes above and beyond so that might be something for the future that would be helpful to define more specifically. Yeah, but I do believe it is a
 within the frame of D1, the six-hour window. So for sure we would have to do with it and that is a long time. If you had my 12 year old for six hours I would probably have an issue with that. Yes ma'am. But there's very few situations they would even be able to be at our police department and there being a process being completed without that guardian.
 if that makes sense. So it is something we could consider and talk about, but that would be outside of what is normal for our criminal procedure and best practices.
 And I guess the reason that all struck me kind of as a little odd, because I went back and read through was that there is an area that's the very last J that talks about when they're in custody, when a youth is in custody of DHS, that you have to be, they have to be represented by their attorney ad litem before they can be questioned by police. And so that's why I was like,
 Curious it's like they seem like that's a pretty fast timeline that they have somebody with them potentially or and that is completely different than if They're when they're in the custody of DHS that is specific to that situation We can't even interview with them not present So and I guess I don't know the history of why that became that way But that is specific to being in custody of the state what I understand though is that
 the need of timeline to get approved because you're up against a timeline. But I just would hope on some of those we might be able to revisit in the future on that. We could absolutely do some research and see if there's other agencies that are within our accreditation practices that have anything on guidance for that. Okay, thank you. Anybody got anything? Okay.
 Well, then we'll take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. And those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone in the chamber that would like to address us on this?
 Hi, Nicole Lynn, Ward 3. Thank you, Councilmember Moore, for discussing about working with juveniles. I worked at the juvenile detention center as an intern. I would just ask that you make sure to follow up and see if you can follow up with people maybe who have had children who are arrested and make sure that we are holding
 our promises accountable because I like the commitment but there's like when will we follow up it's just it's kind of broad yeah we can do that in the future so my only thing is is when we get these promises please make sure to follow up and make sure that we are actually getting that done and that's all thank you anybody you have anybody on zoom there's nobody on soon okay gonna bring back to the council
 i'd make a motion to pass the resolution as it presented second all right we have a motion to second pass resolution please thank you care with police call the road earthspark yes stafford yes jones yes moore yes leaker yes arnold yes yes turk yes all right now we will be
 Any announcements, Susan? That we will have our budget workshop tomorrow evening. Paul scheduled it to begin at 4.30. It's scheduled to go from 4.30 to 8.30. And then as you all know, and as the mayor already announced at the beginning of this new business, the rest of the items that were scheduled for tonight have been moved to next Tuesday in front of the agenda session. And all that begins Tuesday at 4.30.
 Susan, what, are we going to be in here for the budget meeting? We will be in here, yes. Okay, thank you. Until the meeting is recessed, we're not adjourned. It's a recess.