I would like to call the order of the City Council meeting November 5th, 2019. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty. Scroggins. Present. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Smith. Here. Gutierrez. Here. Marsh. Here. Kenyon. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Would you join me in the Pledge of Allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. All right, good evening, everyone. Tonight, the First Order of Business under Presentation is number one, the Federal Citizen Recognition of the Federal...
 Fire Department would like to recognize 12-year-old Jacoby Gibson for his quick thinking, his bravery, and courage in the face of an emergency structure fire at 6321 West El Paso Street on the morning of August 17, 2019. Jacoby's actions were valiant, and they without a doubt saved his life along with the family dog. I believe the Fire Department has a presentation to start with.
 Mr. Mayor and Council, we have the Fire Marshal here to do a presentation. Mr. Mayor, City Council, members of the public, I'd like to present Jacoby Gibson to you. Every year in October, fire departments across the country participate in Fire Prevention Week. We do a lot of fire safety talks in schools and this is the reason why.
 On the morning of August 17th, 2019, Fayetteville fire units responded to a structured fire on the west side of Fayetteville. Upon arrival, units found a single-story residence with smoke and flames showing. Jacoby Gibson, then 11, residing in the home with his family, was the only person at the house when the fire broke out. Jacoby was asleep in his room when he heard a smoke detector. Jacoby went to his door, felt it, tested it to see if it was hot.
 He opened the door, saw smoke and flames in the living room. He quickly got down low and started to crawl down the hallway towards the kitchen. In the hallway, he grabbed the collar of the family dog and pulled the dog through the kitchen, into the garage, and outside. Once he exited the structure, he immediately went to a neighbor's house to call 911.
 The Fayetteville Fire Department would like to recognize Jacoby for his quick thinking, his bravery, and his courage in the face of an emergency. His actions were courageous and, without a doubt, saved his life and the family's dog. Thank you very much. Thank you all. Okay, the next order of business tonight is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker.
 Good evening mayor and council this report was is for the month of August so it's the end of the third quarter of our fiscal year Sales tax did very well
 For the fiscal period of August, which was actually collections for July, we're up 4.2% compared to prior year. For the county, we were up 6.29% compared to the prior year. All in all, that puts us to the budget. We're up 0.5% in sales tax.
 And remember, that's coming a long way from what we were doing for a while. The overall revenue to the general fund is up about 1% right now. So we should make budget this year. We're still down from where we wanted to be to meet the salary increases which were granted earlier in the year, but we're making progress.
 There's starting to be evidence that the internet sales tax is kicking in and is helping us in our revenue collections for sales taxes. As far as the street fund is concerned.
 Revenue for the street fund is up 2% about one hundred and sixty thousand dollars That's driven primarily by the gasoline tax state gasoline tax turn back that we get So that is up by about one hundred and sixty thousand dollars. The parking fees are relatively flat Actually fees are up fines are down. I guess that's a good thing actually, but we're right about on budget for the parking fund and
 As far as the HMR fund, that's the Parks Maintenance Fund, we're doing well this year. We're up 3%. And that's generated by our entertainment throughout the city, by hotels, motels, and restaurants.
 So we're up about 3%, so it equates to about $85,000 this year. Trash and recycling is up over 5%. If you remember, we increased the recycling and trash collection fees this year.
 to meet the expanded programs that you had approved prior year. So that is our expectation. Remember, we budgeted the year at a deficit, so this is catching us up to that. But that's up pretty strong at this point in time. That should be expected for our revenue increases.
 As far as the water and sewer fund is concerned, revenues are up about 2% this year. We'll finish with a surplus for the year this year in water and sewer. Airport is down about 10% in gasoline sales for aircraft.
 That's compared to last year. Remember, last year was very, very strong, the gasoline sales at the airport. Puts us behind budget about 5%, but we're still roughly breaking even when we consider revenues compared to expenses. So I'm not concerned at this point in time there. All in all...
 We're having a pretty positive year this year. I hope to see sales tax pick up in the final quarter. And we'll be talking about the budget a week from Saturday, so we'll talk more about finances at that point in time. I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have, Paul, on the finance report? Everybody good? Okay. Thank you, Paul. Thank you. Next order of business now is the consent agenda.
 number one approval of the october 1st 2019 city council meeting minutes number two resolution to approve tea hanger lease agreements in 2020 at the current rental rate or as adjusted upward by the airport board for all tea hangers rented at the federal executive airport number three
 a resolution to approve the purchase of a Dodge Ram 1500 quad cab 4x4 truck from Superior Chevrolet of Siloam Springs in the amount of $22,434 to a state procurement contract for use by the Water and Sewer Operations Division.
 Number four, a resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Columbia Consulting Engineers Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01, any amount of $92,200 for the design of the West Center Street and North Harmon Avenue intersection and to approve budget adjustment. Number five, a resolution to approve a Professional Engineering Services
 Services agreement with Garver LLC pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $87,200 to provide for a conceptual study and design of a
 Interstate 49 overpass at 15th Street. Number six, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan to sell approximately 2,621 square feet of city property and convey a 124 square foot temporary construction easement along Highway 16 to the Arkansas Department of Transportation for the Highway 16 South School to Armstrong project for the total amount of $1,225.
 Number seven, a resolution to award bid number 19-39 and authorize contract with JBZ Incorporated DBA Ellingson contracting any amount of $329,299 for phase one of the restoration and reconstruction of the Woolsey Armstead to approve change order number one reflecting value engineering items and reducing the total contract amount
 to $279,099 and to project contingency the amount of $15,000. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 62123-1902 and authorize a contract with Grasshopper Construction LLC in the amount of $29,993
 and 37 cents for community development block grant rehabilitation of an eligible residence located at 306 Ella Street. Number nine, a resolution to approve a renewal of the contract with Community Access Television Incorporated, DBA, Your Media, in the amount of $170,095 for the...
 provision of public access television services and the operation of the public access television channel through 2020 contingent on approval of the 2020 annual city budget and work program. And number 10, a resolution to authorize Mayor Jordan sell approximately 223 square feet of city property and convey an access easement.
 of about 701 square feet adjacent to the west boundary property located at 93 Southwest Avenue to Christina Meyer for $1,215. I'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. Sarah? So moved. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the consent agenda as read. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. All right, thank you all. An unfinished business, number one.
 In order to amend 72.18 residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the federal city code to expand residential only parking in the north zone of the entertainment district parking zone. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Mark. I move we go to the third and final reading. Sloan. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? I can't.
 I don't have a button to move. I don't either. Okay. We don't have any buttons to move. There we go. The buttons have come on. Nobody panic. All right. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Punch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 And ordinance amend section 72-1-8, residential parking permit program for the entertainment district parking zone of the Fayetteville City Code to expand residential only parking in the north zone of the entertainment district parking zone. Okay. I believe that we were asked at the last council meeting, if I remember correctly, that we were to do a few things. One, have a public input session.
 I know that the ordinance review was supposed to review that. I understand they have that on their agenda tomorrow. Is that correct? Yes, ma'am. All right. And that we were to look at, the staff was to look at a proposal of a draft, not something that we're going to vote on or anything, but it was a suggestion on how this plan could work.
 And so with that, I will turn it over to Council Member Kenyon because I believe he is the sponsor of the ordinance. Right. I think that we have to go back to the beginning of this ordinance and keep it simple. Over the past several weeks, we've took something as simple as Tinker Toys and made it as complicated as the Manhattan Project. Put the neighbors requested with this ordinance together.
 was to have residential parking not paid parking not some type of parking that is so complicated that it's going to be confusing from beginning to the end and add to the further confusion of our current parking that we have throughout especially downtown Fayetteville let's talk about what is happening here this is a residential neighborhood that was established
 as a residential neighborhood in the early days of Fayetteville. It saw growth in the 20s and has continued to grow as a single-family residential neighborhood. There are some multifamily dwellings in this area too that fit very nicely into the neighborhood. And this is not what the problem is, because these residential homes have had the opportunity to,
 to park near their homes from day one. The residents did not make this problem. They've been there since the 20s without this problem. What has happened is these neighbors are being invaded by the irresponsible actions of the University of Arkansas by expanding out of control without looking at the impact that this has on the neighboring neighborhoods, and we've seen it in other instances as well.
 This neighborhood, when we look at what we saw in the report from the parking administration, they didn't consider a residential parking plan. They considered three other options, but it wasn't what the neighbors asked for. So in my estimation, the neighbors were not listened to. And anyone that comes to city council knows how I feel about that. If you want to know what's happening in a neighborhood,
 And you want to know how the neighbors want it to be handled. If you've ever been here, do you know what I say? Go ask the neighbors. And the neighbors want residential parking to protect the property that they've invested in, to live in a neighborhood that has a well-defined aura about it. It's got a nice groove, so to say, there.
 The neighbors are very tight throughout this neighborhood. The neighborhood association over the years has been so active that they have protected this neighborhood in the face of adversity in the past.
 For instance, there was a proposal for Prospect Street to be expanded to a major arterial. And the neighbors said, we don't want our neighborhood cut in half. And now we have Prospect Street and it's nice, the neighborhood is still intact.
 The only neighborhood that I know of that actually had good results working with SWEPCO in regards to protecting their trees was the Wilson Park neighborhood. The neighborhood was very united. They got together. They worked with the board of directors and the executives of SWEPCO. And fortunately, one of those persons was...
 was a native of Fayetteville and they knew how important it was to protect the tree canopy in Wilson Park. They brought their arborists over and they had an alternative plan to help protect the trees. Now the neighborhood is asking for residential parking, again to protect the heritage
 the lifestyle and the expectations of those people that live in this neighborhood. And to disregard what they have in place and what has been in place from day one, to me is totally irresponsible. The university needs to step up and handle the parking problem for the university. Anyone that drives through this neighborhood at any time of day will see
 number of cars that are directly associated with the University. You can tell by their bumper stickers, you can tell by their license plates. It's not a secret and it pushes the neighbors out of their own neighborhood. That is not fair. It is not right. The neighbors are having to deal with an issue that they did not make and we deserve to respect
 the neighborhood that they live in, that they want to raise their family in, and give them some respite by having not paid parking, not hybrid parking, not some fancy-mancy parking based on numbers rather than attitudes, but give them residential parking like the original ordinance stated. That was the intent, and I'm going to support it because that is what the neighbors asked for.
 So I hope that that's how we'll vote tonight. Anybody else? No? Okay. Well, we will take public comment. Tracy, I believe you have something before me. Okay. All right. I'm going to take public comment. I'm sorry. I had a question. So if we pass this tonight, does that mean we're not sending it to ordinance review as we had previously discussed? That's my understanding.
 correct thank you that's my that's my understanding we've had plenty of time for this meeting and it just didn't occur and that's unfair to the neighbors too because they've been waiting on pins and needles to get this taken care of that's why i think it's okay to vote this evening
 Just to clarify, we asked to go to ordinance review, but we also asked for a neighborhood form and it took some time to pull that together.
 Justin and I had talked that he might need some time to process that input before we did. So that's why we just weren't able to get both of those things done in the intervening time. Though if we deal with it tonight, then I'm perfectly happy to cancel tomorrow's meeting. If it becomes unnecessary, if we decide tonight that there is still work to do, then we're already on the calendar and I think everybody knows what the agenda is. So either way, it's not a problem, I don't think, for an interview.
 Okay. Mark? To further explain this, I think that we can go ahead tonight and vote on this and still take it to ordinance review to see how we should move forward. We've already had one step forward by having the 400 block try out this, and it worked. And then the next step would be to accept this ordinance, and we can take it a step at a time until the issue is resolved. And that could include the ordinance review committee. Okay. Matthew? Thank you.
 Well, I'm curious, now that the prospect of skipping the ordinance review committee meeting that we voted to hold last time is on the table, if staff is prepared with the presentation that we might otherwise receive tomorrow night. I know Justin has mailed what he came up with as a suggestion that you all could look at an ordinance review, but I'm—
 Yeah, thank you, Mayor. We have compiled some ideas for Ordinance Review Committee based on comments from you all the last time this was taken up, some alternatives that you wanted to look at based on input from interested parties, based on the public input session, but no, I don't have a presentation prepared for this evening.
 Those ideas largely revolve around some sort of shared parking where you know nearly half not quite half but Half the spaces are dedicated to resident permit only parking in the neighborhood the other half or some sort of shared use and then depending on input from you all how that shared use breaks out whether it's a
 paid parking, hourly rate, whether it's some other secondary permit that's available for purchase, whether it's other ideas. That's the starting point, anyway, for the discussion. That sounds like a lot of points to cover to me. I still feel as though having the meeting that we plan to have is the right move. I think there are more viewpoints that's come out in this public forum that are being –
 representative represented in the comments that have been made so far okay and I want everybody you know looking back at the tape we just prepared some ideas for y'all to look at and I mean it you know we presented something I think it council meeting that we decided to do more there was a motion made to look at some ideas to hold a public meeting to contact the University but nothing was absolutely other than that we just
 basically did what we were asked to do and we're bringing that to you tonight. So if we vote this down tonight, does that mean it has to go all the way back through the process to get on the ordinance? No. No.
 Okay, so no if it's voted down tonight, then yeah, you'd have to start with a new ordinance If you want we'd have to start with a new ordinance. So that sends us back to zero Your other option would be to table it. Yeah, or you can pass it. Those are your basically your three options Okay. Thank you
 Okay. Is everybody good? All right. Now we'll take some public input. Everybody gets one turn at the microphone. There's a five-minute limit, and that's not just the mayor's rules. That was passed by city council a few years ago. So everybody gets five minutes, and then if the council decides to give you more time,
 Then by a motion and a second and a vote of the council, they can give you more time, and they will decide how much time that would be. Or they can ask you questions, and I guess they can keep you up here as long as they need to to ask questions. And please don't engage anyone on the council or anyone out in the audience. Let's be polite to one another. Stay on the topic. Right now, I think...
 you know, we understand the topic by now, which is now Mark, I believe that was your original proposal, which included the 300 block of Isla or is it okay? I just want to be sure I'm right on. All right. Now folks, please don't have any outbursts tonight. Now I've, my job is to make sure that every thing stays calm and everybody stays polite to one another. So, um,
 Let's not get into the hand clapping, booing, laughing, carrying on stuff. We don't want that here. We want everybody to stay orderly and everybody have a chance at the microphone. And please give us your name and address. So having said all that, is everybody clear now? Okay. Who would like to be first? Who would like to be first?
 Melinda Jones, 408 Iowa. Been there for 38 years. Raised my two children there. Went to the University of Arkansas so they could see Old Main from my house and know that's where they were headed next. The one thing I want to throw in here that I don't think anybody has brought up so far, we might have brought it up when we had the little community meeting downstairs, but regardless of your decision to...
 if you decide that we have to share our parking in our neighborhood, I would like to request that our 400 block of Iowa Street, which we were the first people, thanks to Mark Kenyon, to come to the city council and ask that it be made residential only, which it is the only block that is. And there's a good reason for that. The good reason is that the...
 event centers, the sorority event centers, are right in front of the 400 block of Iowa. There's soon to be a third on the corner of Wilson and Maple. So if I can't get my way about having the entire neighborhood made residential, I would like to have to be grandfathered down on the 400 block to keep it just the way it is. Thank you very much. Okay. Who else would like to address us on this? Nobody? Nobody?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. So, Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to take a couple of seconds out of respect to my colleague that sits next to me to try to explain why I think this process has been important. I think that it is more complicated than the initial proposal because there are a lot more
 interests across the neighborhood that came to light and it's our responsibility I think to address it for instance the comment we just heard that the 400 block is different from the others I think is true because of the proximity and that might be true for one of the blocks on Vanaventer as well being right there but other other streets are are different
 Whenever we did this before for the 400 block, we heard from neighbors a fear that it would push parking into their blocks. And we did it anyway because there were good arguments that the 400 block was different. But those fears also came true. And now coming back to address those is, I think, absolutely the right thing to do. And this area of town is unique for a lot of different reasons. It's different.
 It's also, I think, unique enough to deserve a good faith attempt at a new program. And that means it's not going to be cookie cutter like our other residential parking program. I'm very eager for the staff report. It seems to me like there's been a lot of valuable work so far that's been put into the process from the neighbors,
 from the staff. I mean, if we were just to list out, I think all the different ideas that different people think are good ideas, even if we just list the ideas that have come from neighbors, I mean, there's at least a dozen competing ideas. And I think a process like this is important for us to sift through those and synthesize them together and come up with the best program. And I think too, that's,
 I think too that's the legacy of Wilson Park, isn't it? That it works through things like this. And I think this can be another example of a program that neighbors there with different ideas about how things should be done have come together and come up with a program that does give respite for the pressures that they're experiencing now.
 So I'm obviously more optimistic about what can come out of the ordinance review committee and the work of the neighborhood forum and that staff has also contributed. So I'm eager for what we'll see tomorrow night. And with that, I'll move that we table this for two weeks until the next city council meeting. But I thought Mark had made – you wanted to –
 It can. It can. Then he has, yeah, I wasn't right. Okay. I see. All right. Sarah. Thank you. I will second that motion, and I want to talk about why. I absolutely agree that we need strong parking controls in this neighborhood. Okay.
 But I also feel strongly that these are public streets and those are part of the public trust. And so there has to be some accommodation of public parking. So I will not support a residential only district. But I will work hard with my colleagues to make sure that we implement a parking solution that prioritizes residents.
 that meets the needs of those with mobility challenges, but will still allow for some access by the public, controlled by whatever mechanism we deem fit, whether that's a pay-to-park or some other system. But I think that this is a great problem to have. It shows that, hey, these downtown neighborhoods without big driveways and huge garages are still very popular and desirable and much loved.
 and we as a community are going to work together to ensure that we have the right parking solution that meets the needs and Hopefully that is replicable because I think that we're going to be seeing other areas of our community that could benefit from some parking controls As well. Thanks. Okay, so we do have a motion second to table Teresa. Thank you mayor I really hope that if we table this at tomorrow night the ordinance review group committee
 really listens to the neighbors. These folks have been here a long time. I would say that they've paid their dues. They've paid taxes for 38 years. This is an old historic neighborhood. This is why it's thriving, this is why it's popular, but this is a recent problem and the void of leadership created by the lack of the University of Arkansas dealing with this or the sororities actually dealing with this problem is striking and disappointing to me.
 I really think they need to be there. They need to speak up. They need to help to solve this problem And they are not doing that but the residents I think should prevail and I hope that is seriously taken in consideration So
 That really should be our priority here, not newcomers, not people that have overbuilt, that have actually thought that they can just have their overflow Monday night events be taken up by neighborhood parking, by residential parking. So I'll be there tomorrow night, and I'm going to be really interested to see how this takes place if we table it. Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. I really see, you know, I see the merit in tabling this because we have already started the process of getting more information. We put staff to work on this, but I also, you know, I also was kind of thinking that it would have already happened by now, but no.
 That's neither here nor there. I really feel for this neighborhood. I know Melinda, and I've seen her sitting there every single night and standing up and making her comments, and she's an advocate for her neighborhood. And I know it's hard to show up at these meetings, and when we keep delaying things and we keep tabling things, we're actually trying to come up with a better solution. We're trying to come up with a good solution.
 But it's hard on people to show up for all the meetings. It's hard on us to attend all the meetings, honestly. But if this does get tabled, you know, I would be, you know, I can go either way on it, honestly. I'm kind of thinking right now I might vote toward tabling. But I just wanted to make my comments. Thank you. Okay. Kyle. Yeah.
 I think everyone agrees that there is a problem here. And I don't think there's a whole lot of dispute that, yes, the university that created this problem. Now we have to decide who's going to fix the problem and who suffers if it goes unfixed. So that's why I'm, while it would be convenient to push it all off on the university and insist that they deal with it, I don't trust that they will.
 And so I think it's up to us to look at ways that we can ease the pain in this neighborhood. I do not think the neighbors want to maintain the status quo, and so I don't want to vote on something tonight that I would probably find myself voting against. I do not believe the solution to this is to subsidize street parking to the exclusion of everyone else. They do pay property taxes. Unfortunately, the biggest – if that's the metric we're going to use, the biggest property taxpayer in the neighborhood is the Pi Phi House.
 I don't think that's a fair metric to base this on because these eight blocks annually contribute $7,434 in property tax revenue to our general fund. Our estimates from the preliminary report were that a parking program here was going to cost about $15,000.
 Now that's not counting all of the other things that property taxes have to pay for. And that's an awful big lift to ask all taxpayers to subsidize for a neighborhood to be entirely residential only. So I think there has to be a balance in there somewhere that we can strike.
 And I think that it's going to be a fairly reasonable one. There's about 77. I'm going to preface These are all soft numbers estimates only from what I could cobble together from the assessor's office because I've been Trying to do my homework in preparation for tomorrow, but there's about 77 addresses on these eight blocks We think we can get 155 marked parking spots. That's more than two on street spaces per address and
 And there's 153-ish private off-street parking spots already in the neighborhood, not counting the sorority houses. When we look at 300...
 plus parking spaces total for 77 people on just 77 addresses. I just don't know that reserving it all for residential use is the most effective way to spend our resources. So I hope that we can table it for two weeks, take a chance to go over the staff plan proposals, talk out some of the options.
 and come back together, because I did sit in the back of the neighborhood forum and did my best to keep my mouth shut through the whole thing and just listen. And what I heard was a lot of frustration, but also a lot of willingness to find an equitable shared use plan. I didn't hear a lot of broad down the block support for all residential, because I think they recognize that they have a problem, but that they also have room to share. Okay, Sarah.
 OK. So? Yes, I'm also in favor of tabling. But I do feel the pain for the neighbors that they are being patient. And I want to thank them for being patient.
 But I do think that this recites a very dedicated response upon reviewing the minutes from the last ordinance review committee, meaning I just want to thank you guys for all of the things that you already checked off. I know you met last night, I think, or the night before. I saw the minutes recently. There were recent minutes that were reviewed. It was very packed with lots of ordinance review minutes.
 What I love about the possibility of coming back to it is that it can be a dedicated meeting, hopefully around this very important topic. And so I think it's a good idea to put a lot of energy and effort toward it. Definitely we need to do that. So I'm sorry a little bit longer, but I think we need to do it right. It needs to be done right. Okay. Any other discussion on the table?
 I believe we have a motion and a second to table for two weeks. Is that correct? It goes to ordinance review tomorrow night. Okay. Any final comments on that? All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. Okay. So it will be tabled for two weeks. Ordinance review looks at it tomorrow night. Correct? All right.
 Let's move along to number two. An owner to amend 172.11 driveway and parking standards for four or less parking spaces.
 and 166.08 street design and access management standards of the federal unified development code to reduce driveway lists and zoning districts requiring a built-in zone and to reduce driveway setbacks for single family homes and zoning districts requiring a built-in zone. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. Sloan. I move to go to the third and final reading. Powell. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Atiras. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 Okay. An ordinance to amend Section 172.11, driveway and parking standards for four or less parking spaces, and Section 166.08, street design and access management standards of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to reduce driveway widths in zoning districts requiring a build-to zone and to reduce driveway setbacks for single-family homes in zoning districts requiring a build-to zone.
 this month i have an amendment when uh make that yes make it right now i suppose okay okay um after talking to um builders realtors um
 staff Matt Hoffman who brought it the original ordinance from Planning Commission I'm making an amendment that will eliminate I believe in C would you like me to read it or would you like to read them but this is the amendment I think that you handed out or was handed out at the agenda session and
 Originally, subsection 2 said in all zoning districts that require a bill 2 zone, and that would be changed by this amendment too, an additional driveway width requirement shall apply to the following zoning districts. RSF 18, residential single family, 18 units per acre. RIU, residential intermediate urban. Downtown core, main street center, and downtown general.
 And as you noted, the principal change here would be neighborhood conservation would no longer be included, and I think that has been the zone that a lot of these houses are being developed in greenfield development.
 uh correct um after talking to a lot of people in this i think that is the appropriate move so that's why i'm pushing it forward there's a lot of people that i appreciate their time and letting me know what their issues were it wasn't just me who came up with this several people and staff and planning commission to bring this forward and make appropriate changes to it
 several builders have Expressed support in the amendment. So hopefully we can pass the amendment
 I'll go ahead and state it now. I've said it to several realtors, builders, and staff that without this amendment, I will not vote for the original ordinance as written. I think this is very important to protect the city, protect the interest of builders, while at the same time hoping to move the city forward as we make smaller and smaller lots to protect from stormwater and other issues.
 I looked before. Okay. You have a motion. Sarah. I'm just curious. You recognize that that would fail to protect neighborhoods like Walker Park, Great House Park neighborhood, and many of our older historic neighborhoods where the land values now exceed the value of the structures and which is typically the catalyst for major redevelopment. And so we're going to be throwing those neighborhoods under the bus. There's a little bit of order here. What,
 You've made a motion to amend this. Yes. Is there a second on the amendment before we get into too much discussion? Mark. I will second that amendment. Okay. I don't like it, but it's better than what we had. So there you go. There you have it. Okay. Sarah, would you like to continue on? Yeah. It's, you know, a large part of what we're supposed to be doing is making infill appropriate. Right.
 And what is not appropriate in these older historic neighborhoods are the big garage-fronted homes and the giant driveways. That is what makes new development stand out and inconsistent with the traditional development patterns. I look around at my neighborhood down in Fayette Junction, and a lot of those structures were built without garages at all. And a lot of the land down there is...
 the land values now exceed the values of the structures. And so that's why we are seeing so much redevelopment in those areas. And now they will be vulnerable to these types of structures that are incompatible with the existing the existing structures and are making neighborhoods that are already difficult to walk because a lot of them don't have sidewalks even unfriendly or to walk in and I think that
 We are defeating a huge portion of the ordinance, you know, to make safe neighborhoods, to make appropriate infill by excluding neighborhood conservation, where we have so many of our older neighborhoods, our zone neighborhood conservation. How are we conserving those neighborhoods if we're allowing this type of development there? So I absolutely will not be supporting the amendment because I don't think it protects our existing neighborhoods. Okay. What other comments do we have?
 Okay, well we're going to open it up for some public comment On the amendment I can hardly wait Now everybody gets one turn at the microphone and you get five minutes unless by vote of the council They give you more time or have questions for you and they will determine how much time they will give you Extra
 Don't engage anybody on the council or anybody out in the public. Stay on topic. Everybody got the amendment? It's basically an amendment to remove this particular ordinance, original ordinance, remove the NC. Is that correct? That's correct, Mayor. Okay. So that's the topic. And then we'll come back to the amended ordinance after that. No outbursts, no hand clapping, booing.
 Yellen, Cherin, stay orderly. Remember the topic. Please give us your name and address. The topic is the amendment. Everybody with me on that? Which basically takes away the NC. Okay. Who would like to address us first? And so, yes. Good evening, Mayor, Council. My name's Aaron Wirth.
 with the Arkansas Home Builders Association and quite a ride this has been and honestly I've I've struggled the night takes exactly how to express what what what we need to but here's what I'm gonna try to do appreciate the conversations that have happened I've talked with several folks a lot of my membership and the other interested parties just try to balance this we feel like the home builders
 the amendment is an improvement and it's a substantial improvement for where we've been. I think it's safe to say that none of us want to go through this process quite the same way again. We want to have better communication first and foremost. I feel like this probably did start with a misunderstanding. You know, we thought that this wasn't
 that this wasn't going to be an issue that it was, and it turned into quite an issue that's got a lot of people very concerned. I mean, it really is. It's something we've taken very seriously. I've expressed this several times. I've talked to him. Really, and I'll summarize him quickly, but it's changing midstream. You're doing a 180, and I feel like this amendment limits a lot of that. It's still changing, but...
 something midstream, but it's a lot less. We're very concerned about the property rights of individuals. Take it very seriously. We understand zoning's needed. I don't think anybody up here has come up and said that we're against zoning. Doing it correct. I think even the intent of a lot of folks has been pretty good to get something they think is what they'd like to see. However, I'll go back to changing midstream on a zoning perspective.
 is changing the game and it's something that changes the property rights, the owner's property rights, and that's something that's just very hard for us to deal with. So with that being said, we'll support the amendment, you know, but I want to be clear there's a lot of people that have concerns and I expect them to voice them tonight. And, you know, I just want to be careful to say that because I really want to try to bridge the gap. Like I've said along, I love Fayetteville.
 A lot of people do they want to work here. They want to do work They want to I think they even produce products that you guys want to see but We think the market should do that and changing midstream is just just not the way to go about it and Communication process. Hopefully we can continue to improve that Thank you, who else would like to address this Even mr. Mayor members of the council. My name is Larry McCready and
 excuse me I live at 3146 old wire road I'm also a lawyer by trade and I represent residential home builders who work and build within the city I've previously submitted a letter to mr. Williams I believe he probably distributed that to you all I just want to highlight some of the points I raised in that letter because
 As I felt they were applicable to the original ordinance, I think those same points are equally applicable to the amendment that's been presented. And even though I think the amendment is an improvement, it still leaves open the ability for several legal challenges and ultimately is simply unneeded. The biggest problem even with the amendment I think is that it violates the statute about residential building design standards. I know there's probably disagreement about that.
 I'M NOT HERE TO DEBATE THE PROS AND CONS, BUT I THINK EVEN SOME OF THE COMMENTS WE HEARD TONIGHT IS THAT EVEN WITH THIS AMENDMENT, THE EFFECT WILL BE TO LIMIT THE DESIGN OF WHAT CAN BE BUILT. AND I THINK THAT'S A CLEAR VIOLATION OF WHAT THAT STATUTE IS. PUTTING THAT STATUTE ASIDE, WE STILL HAVE THE ISSUE OF WHETHER OR NOT THIS CONSTITUTES A REGULATORY TAKING, AND I THINK THAT I'D LIKE TO POINT OUT THAT THERE'S REALLY TWO
 CATEGORIES OF TAKINGS THAT ARE APPLICABLE. THERE'S A CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING. AGAIN, I THINK IN WHAT I'VE SEEN FROM MR. WILLIAMS AND WHAT HE'S DISTRIBUTED, HE HAS ADDRESSED THAT. TO HAVE A CONSTITUTIONAL TAKING, YOU'VE GOT TO HAVE A PUBLIC USE. AND IF THERE IS A TAKING, THEN THERE'S GOT TO BE JUST COMPENSATION. AND I THINK EVEN THIS AMENDMENT LEAVES OPEN CLAIMS FOR A REGULATORY TAKING.
 In addition to that type of taking, there's also a state statute that allows private claims, individual claims, for people who have had their property impacted by a regulatory action of a municipality if it affects the impact of their property by more than 20%.
 The analysis under that statute is much different than just the standard or traditional regulatory taking one. It's really a battle of appraisers. And I think that the way this ordinance, even if it's amended, would be applied is going to implicate lots of properties who will have the ability to claim that their property values have been impacted by more than 20%.
 So I think that is another avenue of relief that the council should consider very carefully. I also raised the issue of the applicability of the Americans with Disability Act.
 I do not think that it applies and it mandates certain standards in residential construction, but I think the guidelines are nevertheless instructive. And if somebody who has a disability or challenges with mobility...
 The ADA guidelines provide, I think, a good barometer to use about what sort of width of a driveway would be needed and under the, even the amended ordinance, there's going to be questions whether or not that type of standard could be met.
 with construction. So certainly that ADA implication would spill over to the statute I talked about, about a reduction by 20% in property values. If you're not able to build the property to meet the needs that you require, that certainly would be a factor under that statutory taking, if you will. And one final thing that I want to bring up to the council is
 I know it's been discussed. It's the issue of conflicts of interest. My job here tonight is not to suggest that someone does or does not have a conflict of interest. I won't. I think that on the public record, there are those who have spoken out where conflicts may exist. I think Mr. Williams has acknowledged that. And so I just want to respectfully remind the council of their obligations.
 NOT ONLY UNDER THE STATE STATUTE, BUT JUST UNDER THE COUNCIL'S OWN RULES AND REGULATIONS ABOUT SPEAKING FOR AND VOTING ON MATTERS IN WHICH THEY HAVE A DIRECT OR INDIRECT INTEREST. AND SO I'D ENCOURAGE THE COUNCIL AS THEY CONSIDER THIS TO BE SURE THAT THE PROCEEDING IS CARRIED ON BEYOND REPROACH AND DOES NOT IMPLICATE ANY ETHICAL ISSUES.
 And then I think finally in conclusion, I think the biggest thing is I don't think the ordinance or even the amendment, while it's an improvement, is needed. The market determines what gets built and what the public wants to buy. There have been comments in the past about the great desire. Okay. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Mr. Mayor, I think we need to remind the audience to confine your remarks to the amendment that's before the table rather than the ordinance itself. It's going to be after the amendment is voted on one way or another. Then you can talk about what the ordinance says then, either the amended version or the non-amended version. But this part of the meeting is supposed to be only talking about the amendment. Mr. Mayor, City Council. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm Don McNaughton 3689 West Bowling Green. I will be very brief Thank you for the amendment. We don't believe it's enough. We cannot agree to it It is still taking of private property rights in some areas and we as Realtors have Fought long and hard and stood against taking a private property rights in all areas even those in Walker Park
 And if something is built that doesn't look right for the neighborhood, it simply won't sell. I've done real estate for 27 years. If you have an oddball in the neighborhood, people don't want to buy it. So it's not like...
 Someone's in jeopardy for them to go to a specific area where all the homes look like this and now we're going to throw up Five-car garages three car garages big garage fronts That's not going to happen in those areas And if it did it's only going to happen once because nobody's going to buy it and every Developer is going to say but don't try that again because it didn't work so the market can speak to what people want and it can speak to what people want in Walker Park and
 So we as realtors stand against taking of private property rights on all fronts. Thank you. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address this? Good evening, Mayor and Council. My name is Jack Butt. I live at 526 East Lafayette Street. I'm appearing tonight as an attorney for the John and Reba Jordan family. We've heard the technical comments. I don't disagree with these, but this is kind of a real life. What is this amendment going to do to real people in Fayetteville?
 I represent the John and Reva Jordan family. John and Reva Jordan came to me about 15 years ago as elderly clients and advised me that they had an 80-acre farm that they wanted to preserve for their financial security and for their family. They had acquired the farm half a century earlier on the western outskirts of Fayetteville. It now lies along Broyles Avenue. To get the farm, they both worked two jobs.
 and raised cattle on the farm to pay for it. They raised their three daughters there. They wanted to make sure the financial security and legacy that they had built over their adult life would get them through the rest of their lives and wouldn't get eaten up and destroyed by probate or administrative expenses and would provide a legacy and financial security for their three daughters. So I put the farm in a trust for them back in 2003.
 John Jordan died in 2004. Reba lived on the farm until she died this last spring at age 92. By that time, one of her daughters, Rita, a disabled Air Force veteran, was living with her. Rita now requires full-time medical care and attention for her disabilities.
 John and Reba's thrift and dreams were fulfilled when at Reba's death earlier this year, the farm was left in trust as a paid-up legacy for their three daughters, Donna, Bobby, and Rita, all at retirement age, and Rita with substantial personal care costs from her disabilities. The farm now lies along Prime Development property on Broyles Avenue.
 After their mother died this spring, the sisters went to a great deal of effort to find a qualified buyer and get a good price for their legacy. They were successful and contracted late this summer with Riggins Construction, a reputable developer. At this point, the driveway ordinance did not exist. As with almost all development contracts, Riggins had a feasibility period during which he could confirm that he could meet all the city requirements to make this development work at the agreed price.
 If you ran into insurmountable administrative difficulties, he gets to back out of the contract, leaving the Jordan sisters with no buyer. This driveway ordinance will make this an unfeasible deal for Riggins. He can't get the financing, can't build the houses, can't find the buyers, nor make a profit with the driveway ordinance imposed on him. And he has advised the sisters that he will back out under the feasibility clause if this ordinance passes.
 If Riggins can't develop it, probably no one else can, so the family legacy will have been gutted by the administrative regulations, which didn't come up for consideration until after this deal was struck.
 My clients are not without legal remedy. If the best deal they can get, if and after the driveway ordinance is passed, is for a million dollars or a million and a half dollars less than what they have now, the United States and Arkansas constitutions both guarantee them due process for the taking of their property.
 For Fayetteville, by its regulations, has taken the value of their property. Fayetteville must pay the value it has taken and the value which the Jordan sisters have lost. So this would go to court and Fayetteville would pay substantially for having enacted this ordinance. But that is through a bothersome, protracted, expensive lawsuit.
 I'm here to ask you on behalf of John and Reuben Jordan, and now their three children, all past retirement age, that you take no action imposing driveway restrictions on this pending contract. That would destroy the financial value of this legacy that has been for more than half a year lost.
 half a century of thrift and hardworking in the making by this family. I realize that this is a very specific quest for this specific family. They would prefer that the ordinance not pass at all, but they are most concerned, obviously, about their property. The amendment, I believe, would take this property out of the ordinance, and they are asking for any relief for their particular position, whether it's through the passage of this amendment or the defeating of the ordinance that would give that to them. Thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Let me go through this again. We're talking about the amendment to remove NC. Let's try and stay on the amendment to remove NC, and we're going to come back if this amendment either passes or doesn't pass, back to the ordinance again so everybody will get another chance at the microphone. So what I need to know is what you all think about the amendment. Okay, let's start again.
 okay i got jack okay enough nothing nothing got it you give me another chance to talk about the ordinance as a whole all right yes please
 Mayor Jordan, City Council members, my name is Bobbie Jordan Hardin and I do want to address our family's concerns regarding the city's proposed amendment. Our parents owned, farmed, and raised cattle on this 80-acre homestead located in West Feville and South Royals Avenue for 60 years.
 Our mother passed away this May, and my two sisters and I have inherited the farm. We decided to sell the property, and after going through a lengthy negotiation process, we signed a contract with a developer in September. If this ordinance passes, the developer will be forced to withdraw from our contract, and this will greatly diminish the value of our property, our family legacy that was left to us by our parents.
 Our family legacy is our primary source of financial security and our income for us in our old age. We're requesting that the ordinance not be passed, as it will be devastating for our family, especially for our disabled sister. If the ordinance passes, we're requesting that our 80-acre farm be exempt from the ordinance or any similar ordinances in the proposed future. Thank you for your time and consideration of our request. You're welcome.
 Who else would like to address this on the amendment? Good evening, Mr. Mayor, Council. I'm Mark Marquis, 4669 Clear Creek Boulevard, Fayetteville. I find it ironic that we're going through this after we just listened to the one right before on parking problems. But given the options of the original ordinance and the option of today's ordinance, we're going to –
 Being my company will support the the revised ordinance as it is We certainly will not support the other one, but we stand to support the revised ordinance as mr. Scroggins has proposed Thank you. Thank you Who else would like to address us? Yes, please. I'm a little confused about the amendment. Is it I
 Doing away with neighborhood conservation and implementing RSF 8 no, it's just If you have land that's neighborhood conservation This ordinance under the amendment would not limit the driveway Situationally, there would be no narrow driveway Limitation if it's neighborhood conservation zoning district but if you've got where does the limitation to the driveways and
 somewhere comes into the original ordinance. Is that correct? With properties already identified in the map that are red? OK, if in fact the amendment does not pass, then neighborhood conservation would remain in the ordinance. And so if you had a build two zone,
 for residential, then you would be subject to the narrow driveway regulations. What this does is that a lot of the new development that's going on is being built in Greenfield development, is being built with neighborhood conservation. So that was a lot of the problems that we heard about. It's also the problem that Jack Butt had with his clients because I think Mr. Riggins probably wanted to do neighborhood conservation.
 So by removing neighborhood conservation from the requirement of narrow driveways, then those particular properties are not going to be affected by the ordinance anymore. I believe your question is what's left in the ordinance after the amendment. Thank you. Okay. It would be RSF 18. It would be RIU, D.C., downtown core, Main Street Center.
 and downtown general, mostly downtown zones. Okay. Thank you very much. I have my question answered. You're welcome. Okay. Everybody got the amendment? Okay. I'm Mary Bassett. I live at 4647 Clear Creek Boulevard in Fayetteville, Arkansas, and I own property in downtown Fayetteville, so I'm a little bit unclear about the amendment too. I own a current property that I'm getting ready to lease
 Actually, the retaining wall is falling, so I'm going to remove that and make it a larger driveway for the property, and the whole driveway is getting torn up, too. So I want to make sure that if this is voted on and goes through for downtown Fayetteville, this is off the Fayetteville Square that I'm talking about, and...
 It would be a remodel on the house interior and then just redoing the driveway that's falling down from the retaining wall. It's not occupied at this time. So I'd just like a clarification, if I could, on what that means for a remodel or a property that is not being built on, but what does that do to a property that you want to remodel the driveway as it exists? Thank you. Okay. Okay.
 You probably ought to ask Andrew, planning director, about that. And a lot of it depends on what is the actual zoning district that your house is in. Yeah, what's it zoned in? It's probably downtown Fayetteville.
 Well, we have downtown general. We have some others. We don't have one called downtown. Downtown general. Can we address that, Mayor? Yes, please. So if the property is in one of the zoning districts where this code would apply, if they want to expand the driveway, the code would apply to it. So they would not be able to expand it beyond the 20% number that we're talking about. So it would affect if you're downtown general. And then what would that be in effect? Okay.
 When that would go into effect? When would that go into effect? January or? When would that be passed tonight, Kit? Well, no ordinance goes into effect for at least 31 days. If you get building permits and you're in, you won't lose your building permit on that. We have some other exemptions here, but I don't know if they would be effective. There is a Section 3. I don't know if you want to explain that to them, Andrew, which would...
 has exempted some preliminary plats and things like that, but you probably don't have a preliminary plat. You probably just have a building permit. The ordinance as written would not exempt an individual property like Ms. Bassett's. It really would exempt those properties that have gone through the platting process as a larger subdivision, and that gives them, I think it's in the ordinance within the last –
 12 months as well. So there's a, there would be a, some time as well before this would apply to some of those areas. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this on the amendment? Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right, let's get to the amendment. Sarah. Thank you. Um, I'd just like to talk for a moment just to point out some of the areas that then would be exempted by this ordinance that I feel deserve protection.
 It's some of our historic neighborhoods along Lafayette Street and Mount Nord. It's some of our newer neighborhoods like Mark Mills. But predominantly it's our older, lower income neighborhoods like Walker Park, Jennings Edition, Great House Park. Areas that really need this protection.
 The other areas that this covers is some of our new neighborhoods around Rupel Road, which if this was the type of development I knew that we were going to approve along Rupel Road, I would not have supported that project. I don't think that these are the type of neighborhoods we need to be building more of. There's this concept that may be relevant with us this month, the trick or treat test.
 and the idea that you know that you live in a good neighborhood if you have a lot of trick-or-treaters. And I would just be curious to know, you know, what kind of... When you take your kids to trick-or-treat in a neighborhood, do you take them to these neighborhoods that are garage-dominated? And I think probably the answer is no. No. So I just...
 We've already given a one-year allowance to give people time to build out projects that are already in the works. But, you know, I want good quality development for this town. I ran on that. That was a key part of my campaign. In fact, I dug up my little flyer, and responsible growth was the number one thing that I ran on.
 And I'm not going to throw the neighborhoods that elected me under the bus in favor of the real estate lobby. I'm going to fight to protect them in good quality development and to advocate for the 2030 city plans that our city enacted or that our citizens asked us to do. In the election, there was a clear choice between me and someone who took money and advocated for unrestrained growth.
 And the people of my board elected me, and I promised that I was going to stand firm for responsible growth. So that's what I'm going to do, and I'm going to vote against this amendment. Okay. Kyle? Well, we're making some sausage tonight. This, I think, a lot of the conversation that we've had around this ordinance has set what I think is a dangerous precedent that our design codes are somehow etched in stone.
 that we are unable to respond to changing conditions, that somehow a change to the code is changing course midstream for developers. Well, it's a raging river of development. It's always going to be flowing. There's no place to make a change or a correction or to fix something that's gone wrong that won't be a change midstream for someone somewhere.
 Three weeks ago we looked at lengthening the exemption periods and accepting allowances for developments that were already in progress. I don't like this amendment. I feel like, as Councilmember Marsh has put, this sells out large portions of town that need this.
 I understand the reason for this amendment is to exempt our largest areas of greenfield development, which is one of the main reasons that I decided to co-sponsor this, because I see on my side of town where the largest areas of greenfield development are going, a plan that does not match what was envisioned when this area was zoned.
 That's exactly what calls for a mid-course correction, whether the river's raging or not. And I spent three weeks trying to figure out how I wanted to make that argument, and then I read my argument in the editorial to the newspaper, so I'm just going to share that with you. The reality is the matter might have been decided back in 2011,
 that's when the city council adopted a collection of goals for fayetteville's future among them number three future featured in this statement we will make traditional town form the standard that's not the standard that we're seeing in our new development they go on to say that in fayetteville the move to traditional town form type of development has not moved as quickly as some intended
 and that's at the center of a proposed change to the city code. Even though new types of zoning were adopted to usher this new era of development in, they've left enough wiggle room for developers to continue building subdivisions that don't meet the expectations of traditional town form. It's not that those expectations were clear or were not clear. I think they were pretty clear when those discussions happened, and so this should not be a surprise for any developer that took advantage of the wiggle room that the newspaper identified.
 This should not be a surprise. We should have taken that warning in 2011 as the sign to make the adjustments because the changes are coming. And to stand here now and say that we are changing things midstream or pulling the rug out from someone is just simply not fair. That said, I've said a few times up here that I made a commitment to myself not to hold out for perfect when better was an option.
 And while I think that this amendment will leave some of the areas of town most in need without the changes that we're pushing for here, it will add it for some areas that don't currently have it. It will be an improvement over what we have now if we can pass this ordinance with this amendment. It will not do everything that I want it to do, but it will do some of what I want. And that's better than the condition that I feel like we're in today. Okay.
 So I understand compromise and I will reluctantly support this amendment because I don't believe from the conversations we've had that the ordinance is likely to pass without it. And so I will yield that huge part of town reluctantly.
 in hopes that we can revisit this someday and with proper warning let everyone know that we have a vision for our future development in this town and we are eight years later still not living up to it. Okay. Swap. Yeah, I want to say I actually agree that we need to protect neighborhoods. The argument that
 because it sells, it's what people want. It doesn't work when there's limited buildings. There are three-story buildings that are going in South Bay, they'll look absolutely nothing like what they're around and they sell before they're done. So we do have to work on getting protections. I just don't believe the way this has been going, that this ordinance is what we need to do.
 I think we need to start looking at drainage ordinances.
 Anytime we rezone or we up zone neighborhoods come out in mass Not always as big as this room is now, but they come out and say we're worried about drainage. We're worried about Traffic we're worried about all of these issues And it makes it hard to give up zones when there aren't protections So I hope that we can work on adding those protections in a way that doesn't hurt private property rights
 In the future, I'm not done with that. There's a rezone that we're going to look at tonight that two weeks ago I tabled because I was worried about drainage issues. I wish developers would push more PZDs.
 where this is what we actually want to do so that citizens are a little less concerned about drainage a little less concerned about traffic flow and all the things that we're trying to handle with this driveway ordinance i just think right now the ordinance isn't the right way to go so that's why i amended it i hope that my fellow council members support the amendment
 and then support the ordinance. And then this fight isn't over. Fayetteville's a great place. We gotta start continuing to make small tweaks so that this city works 30, 40 years from now, not just 10 years ago. So thank you. Okay, and I might add, please silence your cell phones. Those have been entertaining to listen to, but honestly, you need to silence your phones, okay?
 All right, let's see. Matthew. Yes, thank you, Mayor. I haven't quite made up my mind on the amendment yet. We got a letter today that expressed a lot of the same concerns that I have about the amendment. It's mostly that it creates a more uneven playing field across the city than I would like. I'm very sensitive to the concerns of leaving some of the neighborhoods that I think need this most.
 I'm also double-minded in the respect that Councilmember Smith's arguments about not letting the perfect be the only good are compelling to me as well. So I don't really know what I'm going to do for the amendment just yet. But I do have some concerns about the way we've responded as a group to some of the questions or challenges that have been raised. Thank you.
 I don't think it's so easy to say that this ordinance, with or without the amendment, is taking a property value with respect to property values. There's data all over. We can pull comps to show homes with or without garages are more or less expensive. I mean, that data can be cherry-picked to support any argument in the room.
 The fact at the end of the day is that buildings in less desirable locations are cheaper and buildings that are smaller cheaper and all all the other claims are Kind of just speculation seem to be about the only facts and in building and in sales The idea that the market is is is perfect in this regard. I think is a little it's a little silly I mean just imagine
 Imagine if we just zoned the entire city multifamily and said the market is perfect. Do you think developers are just going to keep building houses on big lots? They're going to start maxing that yield out everywhere they can. In some places, that's already what's happening. That's why maybe the ordinance, I think, is better without the amendment. I think ADA can be totally accommodated. I don't think there's a claim there. The ordinance is written to accommodate it.
 I don't know that we would deny any kind of a permit for somebody that needed extra accommodation. I don't know how standing would be established for somebody that we continue with a disability that we would accommodate. I mean, that's just standard procedure, and the ordinance is written to address it.
 I also am sensitive to the claims that, any future claims that someone might make that the city ruined their deal. Because we hear this all the time. I can't tell you how many times staff gets a concept drawing from a civil engineer or a neighborhood designer and it's incomplete. And they blame the city for turning it down. It happens all the time.
 Not everybody, not even most people that submit applications do that, but it happens. It's something that happens to us all the time. We get blamed for it. I think it's really hard to prove claims like that. I do think there are claims and challenges. I would expect those, but I think they're very hard to prove. I think we have good arguments.
 I think for us to engage an independent appraiser to address some of these things in a courtroom would be very compelling. So, you know, in some ways I'm really bullish about this amendment, and I really kind of get my dander up about it, especially in light of a lot of the misleading statements that have been made by the group paying for advertising.
 So I'm not really sure where I'm going to go. I'm really interested to hear from some of the other council members that haven't spoken up about the amendment because my mind is still. Okay. Any other comments from council? Okay. We have a motion and a second to pass the amendment, correct? Correct. Or not. So Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Okay.
 Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? No. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Okay, now we have the amended ordinance before the council. Now we have the amended ordinance. All right. Who wants to start from the council on the amended ordinance? Anybody got anything before we turn it over to the public? Okay. Let's go ahead and take some public comment. Here's the rules.
 Everybody gets one turn at the mic. We have a five-minute duration. Unless by vote of the council they give you more time or ask you questions. Please don't engage anybody at the council or in the audience. Stay on topic. Now we have the amended ordinance before you, which basically removes the NC, correct, everybody? Okay. All right. Please don't have any outbursts. No laughing, yelling.
 hand clapping, stay orderly. Please silence your cell phones and please give us your name and address. Who would like to be first to talk about the amended ordinance?
 Thank you, Council. Josh Carson, 2852 East Stone Mountain Drive in Fayetteville. First of all, I do work for and represent at least one developer builder in this town. We're proud to build a lot of homes for a lot of y'all's constituents and employ a lot of y'all's constituents. We are proud of that. I will also say we do appreciate the progress of this amendment.
 I know a lot's gone on. I can't speak for all, but I do know that there is progress made by this amendment. And while I appreciate that, I still want to say there are still some concerns with the amended ordinance that I hope the council will consider. And the reason I bring those concerns is while some of the work we do is now preserved or protected by the amendment, I don't want to be hypocritical in our interest, but I
 But I do want to make sure that as close as we, I think we are getting to progress, that we not ruin that. Again, there, as I understand, there are still folks in this room that, that, that are not okay with the amended ordinance. I've spoken with a lot in the last 48 hours and ones that have involved a lot of this council and have some serious litigation concerns and desires. And that has not changed as I've learned with this amended ordinance. That's their prerogative. I'm not one to tell them differently.
 But my point is, with this amendment, it does not fix a few things. This amendment one does not fix the way that this went down.
 The toxicity of what I'm afraid is this process and how it came about, whether it be lack of transparency, whether it be miscommunication, misunderstanding. I think we can all agree at this point that whatever happened, this amendment was maybe what we thought we were going to start with. But for whatever reason, it is not what came about. And that is why this room has remained full. So for whatever reason, this process hasn't gone down in a healthy way.
 haven't been able to discuss it, the stakeholders haven't been at the table, we haven't had the meetings or the think tank groups that we discussed should probably be involved with something like this. And my fear is if the amended ordinance still moves forward, that's what I call dangerous precedent. That's what a lot of us consider dangerous precedent, is that's how the council responded in the form of just an amendment in the middle of adversarial forums, three long nights. That's where we got...
 That's how the council treated the concerns that were there is just in the format of amendment before we got the stakeholders to the place where we could still work on this and come to something when we really are that close. The amendment also I don't think will solve, as I understand now, some of these litigation threats. I don't know the merit of all of them. I don't care. I don't know who made all of them. What I do know is we've seen in the news and heard about from memos from your council six different groups that are threatening for whatever reason
 to bring action to protect their interests, which will cost taxpayer dollars to defend and potentially pay out losses for regulatory takings, statutory takings, constitutional issues. I don't know if it's true or not, but geez, I hope the council is really considering the truth and validity behind those claims, whether they're very good ones or not. And council has recommended that even the amendment as proposed, probably because of the way this has gone down, is not the best way to
 to proceed to conclusion because tomorrow there could still be litigation and problems. All because we didn't stop back up and work on the progress that we're almost there with. Last but not least, the amendment does not satisfy a missed opportunity I feel and I know some others feel to discuss incentives.
 Not once has that come up through this entire process. This ordinance was drafted in a way, and with all respect, the amendment is still drafted in a way, maybe more minimalized, but to penalize a lot of the people in this room, a lot of the businesses, the homebuyers, and what we do. Instead of penalizing all of these folks, we never stop to work on incentivizing them.
 There's lots that can be done from waiver of impact fees to expediting development plans for these alternative builders. If it's out there and you think it'll be built, we disagree. But by all means, incentivize the alternatives. Don't penalize us. And we haven't had the chance to sit down and even start discussing incentive options. So that is my fear. We do appreciate the amendment. Obviously, I think you know a lot of the feelings on the ordinance as a whole. But now that it's been amended, okay.
 I hope we don't miss the opportunity to address some of those toxic concerns and really reach that progress, which we're so close to, and alleviate a lot of the image, fix a lot of these problems. So we appreciate it. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? My name is Greg Raymer. I live at 147 Beaver Creek Lane in the beautiful city of Bonnell. Next, I'll tell you who I'm here on behalf of.
 I have the honor of serving as the president of the Mortgage Bankers Association of Arkansas, and thank you for having me here this night to speak to you. I also have the honor of representing some 74 member institutions and affiliates across our great state, many of which have brick and mortar and live right here in your city.
 Our letter of opposition was read at your last meeting, and I'm here to reiterate our opposition to this ordinance, now the amended ordinance, in its entirety, because it creates an undue burden on the rights of property owners. During the last legislative session, the Arkansas General Assembly passed Act 446, which you are now familiar with, I'm sure of.
 This act prohibits local governments from regulating residential building design elements, including the location, design, and placement of garage doors and garage structures. Though the proposed ordinance amends driveways, in most cases it would also effectively restrict a homeowner's ability to build a two-car garage onto their home.
 This is the exact kind of aesthetic design regulation Act 446 is meant to protect homeowners against. I thank you for your time and reiterate our association's opposition to this ordinance. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you. My name is Ronald B. Stinchcomb. I live at 2895 East Picasso Place. I'm here this evening to speak in opposition of the ordinance.
 But I'm also here to speak in favor of private property rights. Those private property rights are just that. They're not public property rights. They're private property rights. They were not yours to allocate or to restrict. Now, I understand differences of opinion, and not once have we said that we oppose a
 allowing these types of homes with these types of driveways or these configurations to be built in the city of Fayetteville. You can do it. You can do it today. It doesn't require an ordinance to set that in place. So we, in all of our efforts, have never restricted you in your ability to pursue that goal. However, the city is...
 seeking to restrict us in what we're doing. If you want to build these neighborhoods under the terms of this ordinance, raise the capital, go through the effort, and promote it in such a way that it can be done. There were several things that came about that are just interesting information. One of them was that this type of project, a house would cost maybe $10,000 more
 and it would sell for $100,000 more. I can tell you with all the people that are behind me, if that were the case, they would be doing so many of these you cannot imagine. But even if that were true, even if that were true, I tell you that you have abandoned affordable housing in this city. And it doesn't matter whether affordable housing is on the west side of Fayetteville or whether it's in these downtown areas. We don't have the right.
 to tell people that they have to give up those property rights, which may, in fact, increase the cost of building that home so they can't build there. We say $10,000 like it's nothing, and yet we sit down with people every day and we realize that families cannot afford to take that next step because of $10,000 or less.
 So I believe it's something that we have to, I think it's something that we have to pay attention to. The idea that this ordinance promotes safety is a mystery, an absolute mystery. If you take up the backyard and the kids are playing in the front yard and you have cars parked in the street, I don't see the safety aspect of that. We are simply not trying to restrict safety.
 what's taking place here. One other thing was said which is no one, no one parks in their garage and I haven't heard of anyone who required a wider driveway to a storage space. I'll tell you I'll go home tonight and I'll park in the garage. Got stuff packed stacked in all around it, I'll admit that, but I will park in the garage and I believe the people on our street park in the garage and that and that's something that should be considered.
 The biggest factor with this simply is that this ordinance violates the private property rights of the citizens of Fayetteville. Even a bigger part is that there's just absolutely no need for it. I request, respectfully, that you show the leadership that you displayed when you were elected. And at this point in time, stand up for not...
 the lofty concepts that that you may have had at some point in time or that you want to display but that you stand up and vote against this ordinance thank you very much thank you who else would like to address us my name is kirsten patterson and i live at 1095 east bonnie lane in
 I am not a part of the real estate agency. I am not a member of a home builders association. I have no economic input on this in any way. But what I do know is HGTV has hit the nail on the head. It's great.
 In such, it is so popular because what we see when we sit down and flip that channel over is we watch people translating their ideas into property that has value, be it interior design or exterior renovation. They are translating an idea into a property. John Galt made a statement once that says property translates people's ideas into reality.
 If you've been to Crystal Bridges and you've watched the Chihuly exhibit, it was gorgeous and it was fantastic. He does not make those by his own hands. He has people that creates his idea and transforms them into reality. I stand before you as a private citizen that loves Fayetteville, loves my home in Fayetteville, loves my property in Fayetteville.
 Love my trees, love my hill, love my house, love my neighborhood in Fayetteville. I chose it. I got to pick it. I got to paint it. I got to design it. I got to landscape it. You are taking those choices away from people when you are asking them or telling them how they are going to design the front of their house. I live in an older neighborhood. It came into development back in the 60s, post-Wilson Park development.
 Wilson Park and whatnot does not have a lot of driveways or garages. My neighborhood, it does. Do you know why? The time dictated that they needed driveways. They had more vehicles. I know many of you do not agree with that proposition in theory, and that's okay. But the time now is we still have those vehicles. We still have places where our items need to go. Even tonight, earlier when we were speaking or listening to the previous speaker,
 resolution, Mrs. Marsh, I apologize, made the statement that we need to respect that that public property, that public street is open to the public and that she addressed you as a council to respect that as public's property. Likewise, we need to flip the coin and you have a room full of private citizens. We need to respect their private property as their private property.
 It is their idea that has been translated into reality. I'm not saying do not have parameters on growth. I don't disagree with having zones. I have builders that I've seen go develop subdivisions. I'm going to use Harbor Meadow for an example. People bought there. We chose not to. We looked at there at the same time. Do you know where we chose to buy? 1095 East Bonnie Lane, not Springdale. Do you know why?
 Big garage, big hill, beautiful frontage. But you know why else we bought? My neighborhood does not look the same. My houses sit in variances. The elevations are different. The colors are different. We chose not to buy in a POA neighborhood. We chose not to buy to be similar to everybody else. My ideas can translate into reality.
 These builders behind me, when they're creating, they're not going to be silly, nilly, or willy. The market is not silly, willy, or nilly. They've got stuff at stake. They've got money at stake. They've got their livelihood at stake. But they also, I hope, are good and will desire to do what's good for their community. They are established here. They are vested here. Their families are here. Don't discredit their value.
 Don't discredit their creativity. Don't discredit what they've already built in our community. Protect our private property rights. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Thank you, Mr. Mayor, City Council. Don McNaughton again. 3689 West Bowling Green. McNaughton Real Estate and President-elect of the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors. I, too, have been elected to represent my board and my people.
 That is why one of the core fundamental things of being a realtor is to protect private property rights. I did want to touch a little bit about some of the stuff at the last meeting. I know several council members were visually upset with people that spoke, and that upsets me. Because you guys are elected officials, but you should hear what the public says, what the private citizens say. I know some of you wanted some clarification.
 on the fact that this does not, you haven't liked our wordage on social media and stuff, that this does not affect the number of garages. And that's clear. It does not. It is a violation of state law if you said it did. Act 446. It's not an architectural deal. I understand it's not an architectural deal. That too is a clear violation of state law, 446. It has been publicly stated that
 Some words tonight and some publicly that it's to get rid of garage scape and control how houses look. Those words just keep coming out, even though we know it's against the law. Since you legally can't control either one of those, you come to it by controlling the size of the driveway because that's a gray area. That effectively controls both. I guess that will require attorneys and a judge to rule over that and make that decision later.
 It is my belief and understanding that even the city's council thinks that it's a bad idea to risk this ordinance and be sued. But what does he know? He's only an attorney. He never lived on the West Coast. One of the reasons he didn't live on the West Coast is because he knew this was God's country, and he loved it to begin with and didn't move. I know this product you guys like exists. Mountain Ranch builds it. I live in Mountain Ranch, not in this type of home, manju. I have a three-car garage and a wide driveway.
 They're cute, cool homes. It is exactly what you would desire. They are $250,000 to start. And Aaron can correct me right behind me if I'm wrong. He has tried to build them cheaper. If he could build them for $180,000 and make a profit, he would do it. They would sell like wildfire, but they're not. So this ordinance effectively removes affordable housing for the working people. At the first meeting, Chamber of Commerce...
 stepped in and said, this will affect affordable housing. The firemen that were here tonight, the police, the EMTs, the nurses, we're going to price them out of living in Fayetteville. And I think that's a crime. I don't think Fayetteville should be for the rich and wealthy only. The other thing that I find is interesting is I think it's highly irregular that any city council member
 that votes for this zoning or the ordinance would have a vested interest in the outcome. If they work for a builder, and you force a specific type of home with narrow driveway, and the builder is your boss, he's the one that builds that, there isn't a lot of open land left, and the land that's open is very expensive. But if you kill the homes that are being built right now, you're going to kill the desirability for that land. That'll lower the value.
 That allows a builder to go in there and buy it much cheaper because most builders have left the city and go to other locations. So I think the point could be argued this could be as much of a land grab to cheapen the land values in some of these zoning areas. So I, as a realtor, elected official, will stand against this ordinance and protect private property rights. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Joe Rattle with Generations Bank. I spoke last time in relation to how this affects the banks and what the process was, but I wanted to read a statement prepared by the Arkansas Bankers Association. The Arkansas Bankers Association opposes the City of Fayetteville's proposed driveway and garage ordinance. Arkansas banks recognize the housing affordability challenges facing the country and how important it is that Arkansans have affordable housing options.
 Nearly one-third of American households devote more than 30% of their income to housing. According to Bill...
 SB 170 Act 446 was passed by the General Assembly in the spirit of ensuring persons from all economic segments can own a home. Experts like the Federal Reserve say affordable housing shortages are due in part to zoning and other restrictions, and the Arkansas Bankers Association opposes any ordinance adding additional prohibitions that may result in raised housing costs. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address us? My name is Mary Bassett. I live in Fayetteville, Arkansas, 4647 Clear Creek Boulevard. I own several properties in the downtown Fayetteville area. I'm not quite sure of the zoning. I didn't check into it, but I had not read this amended ordinance. I'm not aware of all the ins and outs of it, so I apologize to the commission, to the council, city council, and mayor for that issue.
 so i haven't read it but i do know that i'm sure that at least three of my properties are in the downtown um um i forget what kit just said downtown general area and um i just want to back up a little bit and say that my family bought up bought their first house in fable arkansas in 1954 and they they could have bought in downtown fayetteville they could about bought in the historic district
 But my father elected to buy 80 acres outside of Fayetteville in Washington County, but it was Fayetteville, Arkansas, but it was not in the city of Fayetteville. We didn't have sewer. We had a dirt road. We had a well. And the reason my parents bought that is for the opportunity to develop that property with their cattle business, not for development, as we say, for houses. Right.
 And it was very successful for my father. And since then, my parents have passed away. But before my dad passed away, he sold 60 of the 80 acres to a developer who is in this room tonight. And he has beautiful homes that I actually bought one because it's on my family property that I lived on since 1954. And so...
 I just want to say that with that property, with this house in 1954, the population of Fayetteville by the federal, and I've looked all the statistics up, was 17,000 people in Fayetteville in 1954. There are 86,500 in Fayetteville today by the statistics that I looked up under the population of Fayetteville today. And I think property rights for Fayetteville
 I believe we do have regulations and in 1954 the city had their first ordinance for regulations for Fayetteville. The first city council put their proposal out in 1954 for zoning regulations.
 And we have been very successful. We have a beautiful community. I'm speaking as a public member right now to tell you that I think property rights should be looked at. I think the gentleman that made the statement before me that we should...
 not limit our property rights. I am not sure I am for or against this new amended ordinance or this ordinance that's before us now. I'm definitely not for the ordinance that was proposed before this one, but I just want to say that I think we need to look at what is good for Fayetteville for the 86,000 people that live here.
 and how we vote will affect them greatly. I think tax dollars need to be looked at for the city of Fayetteville so we can support our schools, our hospitals, our libraries, everything that we love in Fayetteville. And I love Fayetteville. I have never wanted to be out of Fayetteville. And I live, like I said, I have many properties in Fayetteville.
 and I love each of them. They are investment properties, some of them, one of which, of course, I live in. So I just ask that you please look at this ordinance in its entirety because I have not, and make the appropriate judgment on it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 My name's Roger Leacy. I'm with Weikert Realtors, the Griffin Company, and I live at 1350 Fair Lane in Fayetteville for the last 10 or 15 years. I like what all these guys have said. The first guy came up, white shirt, blue tie. I love what he said. Basically, he loved the amendment, but it's still incrementalism with the original ordinance.
 incrementalism that just impinges upon a direction that the City Council is moving in and the direction of what we can build at that. I think what he didn't say that I would like to add to that is the ordinance itself does not restrict us from doing something, it requires us to do something.
 I thought that laws were made to prevent things from happening rather than making us do things, except the IRS. But the bankers come up and say, and there's already a state law that says you cannot design the house for the builder or the homeowner.
 If we allow you to design the driveway, we allow you to design how the lot is laid out, then you may force us next to have a formal living room and an informal den with a fireplace, which is a 1980s style. It's a style of home that you're putting in, a style of the lot that you're doing.
 Ron was right on the bat. Everything that you want done can be done without this ordinance being passed. We don't need to have it. It's not effective for the builders to do something like that. Right on, Ron. Good point.
 The vision of the proponents, I don't really know what the vision or the purpose of the vision or the purpose of the ordinance was for to begin with. Whether it's affordable housing, whether it's putting eight houses on an acre, whether it was trying to minimize the footprint, a concrete footprint, whether it was to do stuff. I really don't know what it was.
 that you were trying to do. If it's affordable housing, we have the ability to do that already. And there's zoning ordinances that you can input in these areas that you have identified that would make affordable housing just probably not popular. You can put in just like you said, one of the members of the board,
 Court said, one of you guys said you can use condominiums or duplexes or something along those lines to build that affordability or townhouses, townhouse living, doing it that way. Or as also mentioned, I think that the Willow Bend partnership is an example of.
 an overriding concern by the city to develop a walkable community that they want to do. That's a completely different thing than passing an ordinance and making private contractors and home buyers buy into that system.
 I really like the Willow Bend plan, and I think that it'll be a good plan to do it. And I know that the city has a stake in that, and I think that Ron brought up the fact that you can do that yourself. If you want that kind of a design on the homes and that kind of design on the neighborhood, please don't make everybody do it. Thank you. I appreciate you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, Mayor and City Council. My name is Kelly Franks. I'm the Vice President of the Secondary Market for Priority Bank in Fayetteville. And before I go into some information that my team gathered, I would like to thank you for putting in the beautiful bike trails that are in Fayetteville. I feel very lucky to live somewhere where we can enjoy that kind of healthy activity with family and friends. That's where I'm at most weekends.
 However, it's not practical or prudent to bike to work as the majority live too far from work. And while the biking trails are very safe, getting on the road and getting off of the trails is most definitely not safe. So unless my employer lives on the trail biking to work.
 That isn't practical. My job is to put homeowners in their homes and over my career here for the last 15 years I've put well over 3,000 people in their homes in northwest Arkansas. But my team did a survey and we took a sampling of over 50 home loans that we've done in the city of Fayetteville from 2018 and 2019 and this is what we discovered.
 The primary wage earner in the home drives 15.94 miles to work one way. So over 30 miles round trip. So a bikeable community for work is not realistic based on where people have to go to work to pay for their homes. I did exclude second homes and rentals.
 So with a 30 mile average distance to get to work and not to mention picking up kids, getting groceries, I oppose this ordinance because I do see the need for garages and cars in order to have a beautiful home and to be able to pay for it. My last issue about shared driveways was something that just came into my mind last night and it's not uncommon to have children playing in your driveway
 But if you have shared driveways, and I know, I understand it's the parent's responsibility to know where your children are, and of course not back out or drive out while they are playing. But in a shared space, could this not pose a danger to your children as someone with a shared space doesn't know where your children are and doesn't know that your children are out there playing?
 So I have not closed a home loan that people that are moving here or buying in Fayetteville have ever asked me about financing a home with at least not a two-car garage. And from a financing standpoint, I do think it might be a problem getting comps to support that values or at least limited comps for that. And I oppose this ordinance for all of those reasons, and thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening again. I'm Mark Marquis. This has got really cloudy in a lot of different ways to look at it. The ordinance that we're talking about right now, the revised ordinance, the other ordinance, which was the original, and I think what it does is it gives us three options, but really only two wise choices, and I think you need to think about that. The revised ordinance gives you the option
 to at least take out that portion and vote on that and give people the opportunity to your city plan it says we will create opportunities for attainable housing well somebody's opportunity and somebody else's are totally different we can talk about the houses in south fayetteville and how cool and neat they are and they are how small they are compared to some of the others because some people don't think they need that much square footage that's their choice
 We can talk about how they're setting right up against traditional housing, but they had the opportunity to choose and build what they wanted. That's their choice. We can talk about how they didn't have garages on some. Others had one car, and people moved into them, and that was their choice. We can also talk about those homes that are 600 to 2,000-plus square feet,
 that I'll bring over $200 a square foot. That takes away choice. That takes away workforce housing. That takes away people's rights. And that's not right. Those who have been able to go down and build those homes, and they're neat, we agree, but not everybody can afford them. But they had the right to do it without a garage, without a driveway, without a lot of things, and they are right.
 Neat, but that's a niche market. You can say well we built those and they've sold and maybe you have sold 510 25 but as Mary Bassett just said you've got 87,000 people living in Fayetteville today, and you're not building for workforce housing and
 You're not supplying those needs by doing that, but it does give people that option that can afford it to go there. And that's what's so great about this town is the diversity and having the options. Not being regulated, not being ruled because this is what we like and it's neat and it's the flavor or the color of the month to traditional workforce housing. So you have really just two options left today, in my opinion.
 and that is to vote for this revised ordinance, which absolutely is better than the original, or to totally abandon the original, because the original is going to take away rights of everybody, create lots of litigation, and you were elected to serve the community, not rule over it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Good evening, I'm Martha Cornwell-Hagwood and I live at 1828 North Cambridge Road in Fayetteville, Arkansas. I was born in Fayetteville and I've lived here the last 33 years of my life. My husband and I chose to move back here to live, work, and raise our family. I
 I'm a realtor and have been once for the last 28 years. So I've sold a few homes in this area, and I know a little bit about the market. And I can tell you in 28 years, I can't count probably two times that I've ever had anybody call and go, I want a one-car garage and a 10-foot-wide driveway. Okay.
 They may say, I'm a single adult or I'm a single parent, but I need a two-car garage. I have my vehicle. I have bicycles. I have basketball goals. I have a lawnmower. They need a place for this. And we don't need to restrict people's personal preferences and their rights.
 And to restrict this land is to take away our private right. To me, what we should be more concerned with is making sure that things comply with building codes than taking away property rights. And...
 I have to look, I have to put on my glasses so I can read. And talking about safety and driveways, I live in a neighborhood that has basically two-car garages. And to address an issue about trick-or-treating, I have hundreds of trick-or-treaters in my neighborhood. And not one person has been concerned because there's a two-car driveway.
 There are hundreds that come in there, and it's because it's a safe neighborhood. It has nothing to do with the size of a driveway. One of my concerns is that we keep seeing population decreasing in Washington County.
 And we need affordable homes, no matter what size driveway, we need affordable homes to sell our people. We want people to come here because this is a great city. We have fabulous bike trails. We have fabulous facilities, our library and all that. And we want to keep attracting people. I always tell people this is the best place in the world to live and I wouldn't want to live anywhere else. And we want to keep them coming here. But if you go back and you look at the demographics...
 Since 1970, Benton County has outpaced Washington County every single year, except for 2013. And they did it by decades. So we want to keep people coming in here. Let's not restrict their rights. Let's make them love this city even more. If they want to buy a lot and build a house with a one-car garage and a 10-foot-wide driveway...
 that's wonderful that is their right that is their priority if a builder wants to build them I'm happy to sell them but I think we all need to have those options and not take away each individual right in each individual property owners right and another thing falling back into where we're talking about parking and by the university if we limit driveways and garages where people gonna put their car they're gonna put them on the street and that's gonna
 safety issues, and parking concerns. So we need to make sure that we look at the whole picture. And I agree, I would like to see the whole amendment done away with, but I'd like the amendment, I like it better with the amendment than the original. So those are my concerns, and I just think that we don't need to limit it, and we don't need to limit people's rights. Thank you. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Mr. Mayor and members of the council, my name is Steve Clark. I live at 438 East Fairway Lane. I'm president of the Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce. I'm here to urge you not to adopt this ordinance because of its unintended consequences rather than its intended consequences. Some of those unintended consequences have been brought to light here this evening.
 Litigation is never a good thing for anyone. Speaking as a lawyer and having done that for a number of years, I can tell you there rarely are winners in litigation. And to poke the bear seems to me unnecessary. Secondly, I don't think anyone in proposing this ordinance thought they would be disrupting a family legacy, nor did I think that they believed that they would be creating insecurity or lack of security for the citizens of this community.
 But we've heard here tonight that at least for some, that's true. The unintended consequence of this ordinance, in my opinion and in the opinion of the chamber, deals with workforce. And workforce is shaped by affordable housing. And our region, like all the regions that are growing in the U.S., lacks enough housing for workforce and also for its vulnerable populations.
 There are lots of households that are spending an unsustainable portion of their income on housing and living, but living in substandard conditions. Members of the public consistently state how higher housing costs were affecting the way of their overall quality of life, often resulting in trade-offs about commutes or crowded housing conditions, and clearly we all know that wages have not kept abreast with rising housing costs.
 Production of new homes has also lagged behind, particularly in Fayetteville, but throughout northwest Arkansas. Every time that we add a new home, we add 1.5 people. So we're adding more people than we have houses. When we don't have houses, we don't have place for workforce to live. And so in this region, to keep up with the demand through 2040 or the next 20 years,
 We're going to have to add 2,900 homes a year. We're right now adding about 1,400 homes a year. These burdens are not confined just to the lower-income households. Many of the region's essential workforce, firefighters, police officers, nurses, for example, are beginning to experience what some members call the squeeze.
 members of the public call. They're forced to make trade-offs to pay necessities and save for the future. About 10,000 households within this workforce segment have these cost burdens that they experience regularly. Fayetteville is one of those cities where that is experienced. And if you look at that demand towards 2040, we're looking at maybe in the region 28,000 workforce homes that would have to be constructed.
 If you wonder, does it hit us personally? There are 126 officers, police officers, serving this city currently. 54 of them live in Fayetteville. 72 of them live outside Fayetteville. What I say to you, the unintended consequences really don't deal with what I think the consequences we're trying to deal with.
 In Fayetteville, between now and 2040, we're going to have to have about 25,100 new households, about 2,600 for seniors, about 5,500, 5,600 for students. And when you look at what the benefits are that this community or other communities in Northwest Arkansas offer to builders, offer to those who provide affordable housing, the answer is zero.
 And when contrasted with the regions we benchmark against, Austin, Texas, Madison, Wisconsin, Durham, North Carolina, we don't have density bonuses. We don't have other housing incentives. We don't have tax exemptions. We don't have free fee reductions or fee waivers. We don't have any of those things. And those are things that can help make affordable housing actually truly affordable.
 When you do look at the programs that are offered by the four large cities, Fayette will by far list the most. By far. But I would also tell you there's still work to be done. And finally, I would say this to you. I looked at the handbook for municipal officials, and the question was asked, may the city council refer an ordinance to the voters? The Arkansas statutes say yes.
 By two-thirds vote, the governing body within 30 days of adopting an ordinance can refer it for election. I urge you to do that. Thank you. Who else would like to address us on this?
 Hello, my name is Will Dockery. I live at 4149 West Broad Street Lane. I'm gonna be the unicorn here and talk about why I think this ordinance is a good thing. And this is because it's a safety ordinance and not an aesthetic ordinance, which has been said time and time again. It is a safety ordinance. We know that driveways are dangerous. We know this from the AAHTO policy on geometric designs of highways and streets, aka the Green Book.
 from chapter 5 page 398. We also know that driveways close together are extra dangerous. This is from the NCHRP Geometric Design of Driveways which incidentally was co-authored by JL Geddes, University of Arkansas professor emeritus in the engineering department. We also know that driveways close together with sidewalks are super extra dangerous. That's from the US Department of Transportation, Access Management in the vicinity of intersections. So what are our options when we know that we're building things that are super extra dangerous?
 We can either limit the number of driveways, which we don't want to do that. We can shrink the driveways or we can separate the driveways from the sidewalk, which would be alley access. We also know that safety ordinances are allowed under state law. Even state law, Senate Bill 170, which was turned into State Act 446 about the building standards earlier this year,
 It says in Section 2D11, a municipal policy, regulation, or regulation, or ordinance derived from the municipality's power and directly related to an established immediate public health or safety hazard, driveway standards to prevent pedestrians from being run over would be a police power of public and health safety. We also see it...
 In case law, I'm not a lawyer, but I found these pretty easily. Greenbrier Limited versus the city of Alabaster, the conclusion is a zoning decision will be upheld if it has a rational relationship. With a legitimate general for welfare concern, Regascouch versus Town of Jupiter, Florida, that the promotion of pedestrian traffic and flow is a rational, plausible, arguably legitimate purpose at zoning. Corn versus the city of Lauderdale Lakes, that the Supreme Court and the 11th Circuit have repeatedly held that traffic congestion and safety are, among other things, illegal.
 things that are rational and permissible basis for land use restrictions, and of course the groundbreaking Village of Euclid, Ohio vs. Amber Realty Company, which declared that zoning codes are a valid extension of a city's right to regulate land uses in the name of protecting public health and safety and welfare. Once again, I'm not a lawyer, but furthermore, I don't see us being classified as taking or burdensome as to be confiscatory of property as houses are still able to be constructed legally
 a test that was developed in Dallin versus the City of Kansas City, Missouri. Now, on the other hand, I do see some of the problems that the builders are talking about. The ADA, but that was amended. We also have some of the other things that are amended, but also, honestly, neighborhood conservation the way it's written right now is broken.
 And I urge you to go back over it. And this is why. Because in our historical versions of our neighborhood conservation, the multiple lots are either joined together, they're either narrow and deep, which is under 60 feet wide, and if they are, they're like 125 to 250 feet deep, which allows you to do different things that you can't do with the new neighborhood conservation.
 Or if they're narrow and shallow, like 40 by 100, which would be the under limit, the minimum limits under neighborhood conservation now, they have an alley platted behind them. So I can see why the builders are a little frustrated because in some of these places that we've platted these plots already, I don't see how they're going to even be able to be under, even with some of the amendments, be able to build to this. Yeah.
 And honestly, RSF 7, 8, and RMF 6 all have a higher ability to have more units because of ADUs. Because let's be honest, a single story, 40 by 100, there's not going to be an ADU built on that because there's not the place for it. And now I'm going to quickly give you a personal story. As a child, I grew up poor. Section 8, third-hand clothing, food bank poor.
 We had to move to California for my father's work, and I lived in a house whose lot was 40 by 100, and so it was just driveways, driveways, driveways. Walking the tenth of a mile to the bus stop, I had to cross 13 driveways, and I cannot tell you how many times I almost got run over. My children today bike half a mile to school and only cross four roads or driveways. And that's because of our driveway designs over in my area of town. So...
 When you're poor, we keep talking about the market, but when you're poor, you eat what is given to you. I hate macaroni and cheese. We ate macaroni and cheese a lot growing up, and that's because that's what's been given to you. And if all we're building is these houses that are blocked and violate septet principles, that's what poor people are going to live in, and poor people deserve good design too. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the city council. Matthew. Thank you.
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. Well, it's no surprise I'll say at first I'm going to vote for the ordinances amended tonight. I just want to, as briefly as I can, address a couple of things. First, I want to say, you know, nobody's forcing anybody to build on narrow lots or to plat narrow lots at all. It's just an option that you get to use, and that was the...
 way that this ordinance was constructed was if you make the choice to build on narrow lots, then you're going to have to make proportionally narrow driveways. And I still find that that is reasonable, very reasonable. I think the thing that's been most frustrating to me about this debate is making this an argument about forcing people to do things or about taking away property rights is a concern
 a convenient rhetoric to use to win, but it's also not accurate. It's not accurate at all. Because no one's forcing anybody to do this, even the way the ordinance is written. We've heard that our intention as co-sponsors is both to eliminate affordability and to cheapen land value.
 And I'm not sure how we can do both at the same time. So I think that speaks to the fact that in so many ways, some of the opposition here is at best based on a misreading. Two of the best comments I heard tonight were actually the two last comments. I really wanna thank both Will Dockery and Steve Clark for the comments they gave.
 and especially the numbers that we got on workforce housing from our chamber president. I've presented those numbers passionately a lot over the past few years. And one of the biggest challenges, perhaps the biggest challenge I think the region has is that we can't produce new homes, whether those are single family or excuse me, whether those are detached homes or attached homes
 regardless, we just can't produce enough of them. And that's why places are getting more expensive is because more people are moving here and they're out competing those of us who already live here. And so how do we keep up? Now, I disagree that this ordinance will have the kind of impacts on affordability that have been claimed.
 I think the only way to make stuff affordable is either to lower the finish quality or make things smaller or be able to plat a lot more lots and get more out of the land that you're buying and
 Right now, the biggest factor we have in being able to, that's keeping us from producing a sufficient number of units is a labor shortage. I mean, the last recession, if you were a plumber and you couldn't get work, you just stopped being a plumber. You didn't take a break from plumbing. You went to something else.
 and you're not coming back. We hear this from all the contractors. It's just hard to find people, let alone reliable workers, let alone skilled workers, workers that are proud of their craft. That's the biggest thing that's keeping us from maintaining current levels of affordability or even approving them. The next biggest factor is that we've got an artificial scarcity of land, which is why we created these zoning designations in the first place that allowed narrow lots.
 There's hundreds of acres of land in the city where you can only build four units an acre or lots of places even less. That's keeping us from producing the number of units that we need to produce for the number of people that are moving here. Now, I used some examples last night. I feel a little bit like they were misunderstood. You know, it's a fact that the labor and materials to produce a building downtown is,
 aren't more than the labor and materials to produce the same size building elsewhere in the community. The only thing that's more expensive is the land. But they still sell for so much more. It's not a linear relationship. It's not a one-to-one relationship. They're worth more. The margins are higher. And people are scrambling to build downtown. It's a shark tank to find property, isn't it? It is. It's highly competitive. It's extraordinarily competitive. And it's the same in all the downtowns in Northwest Arkansas. Thank goodness.
 Because it wasn't for too long, wasn't it? Didn't our downtowns die? Didn't we neglect them? And finally they're coming back? It's because of these kinds of policies. It's because of the new codes that Springdale adopted, that Rogers adopted, that Bentonville adopted, after Fayetteville adopted ours. I'm very curious to know what other cities would do if we were to pass this.
 I'm also very curious to see the legal challenges because I am bullish on it. You know, right now we've been led to believe, or the arguments we've heard tonight are that we shouldn't limit driveways at all. But you know what? We've limited them for decades. Every city in the state has. Thank goodness those limitations are grandfathered in. What is the right number?
 Because right now, we already limit the size of driveways. If you want to build a five-car garage, you can. But you can't build a 60-foot wide driveway to do it. And that's been true for decades. I don't really see this as being all that different. This is a safety ordinance. And if you're a member of the council up here with me, if you think there's anything up other than a safety ordinance, I hope that you won't vote for it. I think your vote should reflect that you think it is a safety ordinance if you vote yes. Because that is what it's about.
 I really appreciate Mr. Dockery's citations of the numerous resources that have been formally adopted and are used by every civil engineer in the industry as a standard for avoiding personal liability because they've been so well researched and studied and documented over and over again that the data is there, the safety data is there.
 the last thing i want to say is i really want to thank personally and in my role as a council member the other members of the ordinance review committee the city attorney's office and most especially all of the members of the planning commission i've heard from some people here at city hall that i work with that have expressed regrets at the way this process has proceeded and i understand the frustration
 But I want to be very clear, and this is something I'm very passionate about. They've been extraordinarily honest. They've been nothing but honest. Anyone who suggests that the Planning Commission has been dishonest, any of their members, I think is wrong. When we've had outright lies perpetuated for weeks, that's what's wrong with this process. That's what's wrong. And I think that's the part of the relationship that needs to be repaired. All of my meetings with builders have been universally productive. Thank you.
 Thank you. I appreciate that. I think the community is better for it. I can't say the same for the decisions to write the words that were chosen for a petition or for ads. It's wrong. It's an ethical violation in my opinion. Proud to vote for the ordinance. Okay. Sarah.
 Thank you. I've heard a lot of criticism about the process, so I think it's important that we actually acknowledge where this process really started. And that would have been with the formation of our 2030 City Plan, where members of this community came together and they talked about the values that they shared, and how they wanted to see our community grow and change.
 I've spent some time, I've spent a lot of time reviewing our 2030 city plan. I noted, interestingly, in all the visual preference studies and all the things that were presented, not one house with a big garage on front in a 125-page document. But this isn't about aesthetics. This is about safety. This is about septet principles. It is about the idea that everyone deserves to live in a quality neighborhood. It's...
 It helps that it aligns with our goals of protecting the integrity of our existing neighborhoods. But, you know, originally this process started as this is an ongoing process to bring our ordinances into better alignment with our long-range planning goals. Right.
 And our city set forth a really clear vision of what we wanted in our city. And we enacted a zoning code that we thought would get us there, and it didn't. And so now we're going back and we're revising this to make higher quality neighborhoods, safer neighborhoods, neighborhoods with more eyes on the street, and neighborhoods that contribute to a sense of place rather than just being another any town USA. Okay.
 you know we have a housing crisis and we need to build more people are moving here we have over 50 people a month moving to northwest arkansas and so we're going to have to build closer and when you have when you build closer to one another you have to be more considerate of your neighbors um and so we have to enact higher standards that ensure better compatibility that ensure better safety um and then there's the whole
 added safety issue of the environment. You know, the scientists, they keep issuing these dire warnings about global climate change and how urging us to make radical shifts in the ways that we fuel our community, in the transportation choices that we make, in the land use choices that we make. And I'm ready to make those shifts. And, you know, here we are fighting for design standards that will allow us to perpetuate a transportation system for the last century when we're supposed to be building for the next century.
 You know, we have active transportation goals and energy action plan goals that we're committed up here to reaching.
 And in order to do that, we have to build walkable neighborhoods. And not just neighborhoods that you can walk in, but neighborhoods that you want to walk in. This is about safety on not just a community level and a street-by-street level. This is on a global level. And what are we going to do? What are you going to do to protect the environment for your children? How are we going to build the historic neighborhoods of the future? Well, I think that we should build them to prioritize pedestrian safety.
 And so I'm absolutely going to support this issue. And I've talked to, you know, I've heard a lot of talk about affordability, but studies are showing that the largest portion of the household budget in northwest Arkansas is not going to housing. It's actually going to transportation. So if we want to make it easier for people to afford to live in northwest Arkansas, we have to use land more efficiently. We need to be building close to where people live and work, right?
 or closer to where people work and recreate. And we need to be using land more efficiently so that we don't have to raise taxes. So we need to be able to be more compact so that we're not paying for as many miles per resident as we are now. We have to be more efficient. And if you really wanna attack affordability, we need to be raising wages.
 And I hope that our president of the chamber will work harder to bring more high wage jobs into this community because we have a wage crisis in addition to our housing crisis. I hear a lot of people saying, you know, that insinuating that I have a conflict of interest because I work 12 hours a week.
 at a company that develops even though our development plan was set for the year before i came on board and and i have no impact i mean it will not affect my wages at all
 whether or not this ordinance passes. So I have no direct or indirect financial interest in this ordinance. I've heard it said because I have a degree in architecture that it's a conflict of interest, even though I ran on that. And I have not pursued licensure in the state of Arkansas, so I will have no economic benefit from whether this passes or not. But what I did do is run on the campaign issue of responsible growth.
 And I did not take money from the real estate lobby. And I feel like if...
 the citizens of my ward had wanted someone who was going to ignore the goals of our city and let developers run rampant and build whatever they wanted, then Paul Faneuf would be sitting in this seat. Tom Terminello would be sitting in this seat. But that's not who they elected. They elected people that would protect neighborhood integrity and fight for a quality Fayetteville that we can believe in and take pride in. And so that's what I'm going to do tonight. Okay. What other comments do we have on that? Sir?
 Boy, there's been so much good information that's come forward out of this. I really appreciate the efforts and the work that our council members have put into this. And it comes from a place of the best intentions. I believe that. I do. And as the ordinance started out, on the face of it, I agreed with it.
 But I also, you know, I thought, well, less paved surfaces, less runoff, all that's a good thing. Promote traditional town form. It's on the wall behind me here. Good thing. Make safer streets. Who doesn't want a safer street? Good thing. But I also ask questions. Who have you talked to about this? And it didn't jive with what I was told. We have a lot of people here that have been here for several nights in a row. They're angry about,
 They may not understand what the ordinance started out as. They may not understand the process. That's a given. That's what I learned on planning commission, is that you can go through the process the way that you're supposed to, and nobody shows up until it starts to affect them. Then they show up, and then they may be angry. But you have to take it from that point and start with it and work with the community
 And I just feel like that has been left out of this equation just a little bit. I really respect and appreciate every member on this council. And to top that off, I like them, but I don't always agree with them. And I'm unsure how I'm going to vote on this, because I just feel like there's been some things that have been left out of this. And the fact that this is what people are buying, it's not just because...
 It's the only thing that's offered to them. I think that is a misconception. People are buying these homes because they like them. It's not that they've never seen anything else. They like these homes. And they feel like they need storage for their cars and their stuff and their grill and their lawnmower and everything else that's been mentioned here.
 But one thing that I think has been kind of left out of this equation is if you look at some of these older neighborhoods that we have in Fayetteville that were built, are older, the first suburban neighborhoods that had garages on the houses, you know, Rolling Hills, even my neighborhood.
 What do people do with those garages as the house ages? And I grew up in a small house, and my family used the daylights out of that house. They squeezed every bit of use out of it. We had a one-car garage. That garage was converted into a bedroom so my aunt could live in it when she went to college.
 How many houses have you ever seen that as they age, the garage is converted into a family room or a room for a third child or something like that? It happens a lot. You close it in, you put a vent in it, you've got living space. It happens all the time. That's not being considered here. That could be a possibility, that people could actually stay in the house as longer as their families grow. You know, I do feel the...
 I really feel the pinch that people are feeling because this is what they like in their homes. This is what they see on TV. This is what they want. And I think what people are wanting has not been considered as much as maybe it should have. The process is not, it is kind of flawed on the surface, and that's just the way it is.
 People don't read the paper. They don't follow the news. They don't go to the city website. That's a given. That is just the way things are. One of our council members said, the conversation starts when the conversation starts. And I feel like the conversation started and it kind of blew up out of all proportion. And then we kind of backed into our corners there. And the conversation didn't really...
 It wasn't a productive conversation. It was an adversarial conversation. And I really regret that because I think that we all need to try, at least make the attempt to work together to promote these values that we want to have in our city. If you don't want to have these values that are on the wall behind us, you need to come to the meetings. You need to come to the meetings, and you need to tell us what we need to change on these. That's a fact. Okay.
 Because the people that come to the planning meetings, those are the people that shape what we do. So come to the meetings. I'm not going to beat that drum anymore. They're not often fun. They really aren't. You know, I know those of you who have sat here all these nights, you're not, I can tell, half of your sleep, you know, you're not enjoying this. But you're here.
 You know, and it doesn't matter if you got here six months ago or 18 months ago, you're here now. So I applaud you for that. I really do. We do want to create a sense of place in Fayetteville, and we have that now. And, you know, I don't think anybody wants to have what you see in some areas of the country where you have –
 hundreds and hundreds of acres of houses that look identical. And there's no trees in the yard, and they're all just the same thing repeated over and over again. And I think there's a way we can get to that, where we have a unique product that's created, that developers want to create that, they are only following the market. They're not setting the trends, they're following them. Bankers do the same thing.
 It's just we need to work together to try and create something that is what we want. And I don't know if we're at the point with this ordinance right now that we can do that or not. And that's just, I haven't decided how I'm going to vote on this, but I thank you for your time. Thank you, Mayor.
 So, yes, I do think that the importance of the process, that is a big, that's really affecting me personally because, you know, I'm interested in having, making sure that we engage those people that we're affecting. I think that's a very important thing and I've been involved.
 made aware that there were many meetings and many opportunities, but obviously now at the third city council meeting, we have a lot of unrest, very clear unrest. So that's, that's problem some for me because my goal at the end of the day is that I'm voicing your opinion. That's, that's what I want to do. If I go based solely on the amount of feedback that I heard that I'm going to vote against this ordinance, you know,
 And that's, to me, that's part of my responsibility. But I want you to know that I also hear from people who have flooding issues. Okay? So that's...
 My question, if I could reverse time and go back and figure out how to do it again, is I would bring it back to the builders, the developers, the people who are selling houses and say, y'all, we have a real issue. People's houses are getting flooded. We need to infill. We need to use every little piece of land we can. We want it to be safe. We want it to be affordable. We want it to have good stormwater usage. What are you going to do?
 We need you to come up with that because we have to find a solution there. This is our growing little Fayetteville. And so we would need that, you know, back and forth with you. And evidently it did happen or sometimes it happened, but it didn't happen enough because I don't feel that love happening right now in this room. Yeah.
 And so I do feel that it's flawed. And I think Mr. Lacey put it really well. I asked myself, why do we have this ordinance? There was millions of reasons that were thrown out, but I myself was also confused. For me, it meant stormwater, because that's the number one thing I hear all the time from Ward 1 people is,
 I have flooding issues. My house is getting flooded. Well, that's a safety and health concern for me. I don't want their houses to get flooded. So then what do I think? I'm like, well, this is a good ordinance because it helps to reduce impervious, it helps reduce surfaces. Well, that's not fair because maybe we need to have a conversation broader, right, to engage the people who it's going to affect. Right.
 So those are the things I'm thinking about. And I just, you know, that's where I am. I'll probably, I'm probably not gonna vote for it. I want beautiful neighborhoods, Sarah. I really do want those, the form base to work with one single, I'm about to move into one. It's what I like, but it doesn't mean that it's right for everyone. And I understand that. That's a totally, those are totally two different things. Okay.
 But I think if we can name the why better and ask for your engagement better, that's what I hope we can do in the future. We can't go backwards to do that. But that's what I would do if I could redo the process. So that's it. Okay, Sarah. Thank you. I think it's important that we acknowledge that the stakeholders are not just the builders and real estate agents. They're our citizens. They're the people who gave their time and effort to develop that plan.
 They're the people that, you know, come to our meetings and participate in our surveys and are on our Speak Up Fayetteville. And what we're hearing from tonight is an industry lobbying group. And.
 The real process of this started when we did this city plan and when we conducted all those public meetings and our citizens told us what they wanted and we developed ordinance that we thought would deliver that, but they haven't. And so we're trying to refine that and do a better job delivering what our stakeholders, the citizens of our community wanted.
 But because we have questions about process, I would like to bring Planning Commissioner Matthew Hoffman up to talk a little bit about how this process was handled. Excuse me, thank you, Mayor, Council. I'm a little under the weather, so I apologize for my voice here.
 I can address the process as far as the Planning Commission goes. I do think that it's correct to say that it started back in 2011 with the adoption of City Plan 2030. I mean, that's something that every Planning Commissioner is asked about in their interviews. It's something that we talk about at every single Planning Commission meeting, so it's very much part of what informed this. As far as whether or not relevant stakeholders were involved in this.
 THIS SPECIFIC ITEM. IT'S IMPORTANT TO POINT OUT THE CITY HAS A STANDING MEETING WITH THE HBA, HOMEBUILDERS ASSOCIATION. THIS WAS BROUGHT UP IN JUNE 26 MEETING WITH THE HBA. THAT IS BEFORE IT WENT TO PLANNING COMMISSION.
 I WAS TOLD BY MR. GARNER THAT IT WAS BROUGHT UP AT THE MEETING. I'VE ALSO SEEN AGENDAS WHERE IT WAS ON THE AGENDA AT THE MEETING. SO THAT'S TRUE. WHAT'S ALSO TRUE IS THAT THERE WAS APPARENTLY A MISCOMMUNICATION THAT HAPPENED AT THAT MEETING. AND THE BUILDERS WERE GIVEN THE IMPRESSION THAT THIS ONLY APPLIED TO DOWNTOWN.
 for that reason they chose not to show up because you know i guess they didn't think it was a big enough deal to come talk to the planning commission about it now that's unfortunate i wish that hadn't happened i certainly support you know any measure that we can do to try to make sure that doesn't happen again but
 That notwithstanding, what is true is that Sloan's amendment, which you all have passed, has now brought the ordinance back around to what that group of stakeholders thought it was in the beginning, that which they were not interested even in showing up to the planning commission to talk about.
 And so I think that's a good thing. I support that. I think that's a good idea. I'm glad that Sloan brought forward the amendment. I'm glad that you guys passed it. I think that's an appropriate way to deal with that miscommunication. As far as you know whether or not we should have held focus groups, the Planning Commission
 supports the focus group process. We've actually done that in the past on similar items. We discussed an item related to subdivision design standards last year and the process for that ordinance was that the Long Range Planning Committee recommended it to the Planning Commission. It went straight to the Planning Commission, was heard at the Planning Commission and at that Planning Commission meeting we got enough feedback from the audience to learn that we needed to do focus groups.
 So the driveway process could have, maybe should have, been the same. It went straight from long-range planning to planning commission, and I think if we had heard the kind of feedback that you're getting right here, we certainly would have brought it back to the focus groups to talk to them about it. But again, the relevant stakeholders didn't think it was necessary even to come talk to us because they thought it just applied to downtown, which it now just applies to downtown.
 So from our perspective, that's what happened at the Planning Commission level. And just one more note, I do think that it's a, just from a city perspective, a dangerous precedent to set to say that
 A board which does not have the authority to make law can somehow tie the hands of one that does. You know, whatever you think about the planning commission process, whether you think it was great or flawed or not flawed or whatever you think about it.
 The fact is that the conversation started here at the City Council, as is the process for almost every ordinance that you guys discuss. It was discussed at the Ordinance Review Committee and came forward from there. And we've gotten a lot of relevant feedback, and we've gotten some really, really fantastic changes that I think have come out of that. And I think the Planning Commission would support that as well. Does that answer your question, Council Member? Yes, thank you. Thank you.
 Mark? Well, we've heard a lot of different philosophies, and there's been pointing the fingers, and there's been calling out of miscommunication. Well, these all lead me to believe there was a problem from the beginning, and I know that Commissioner Hoffman has a sincere opinion.
 point of view, but this was not handled correctly, in my opinion, or we would not be having this discussion tonight with so much anger. Someone said that you didn't show up. Well, I want you to know that you have shown up a lot and that you were heard. I heard what you were saying. I read what you were saying. I appreciate the input. I understand that the philosophy is different with other people.
 The Congress of New Urbanism is like all over this. I get it. And they do have some good ideas, and they certainly look into the future. But there are some of us that might be like 62 years old that know we have a little bit of wisdom from the past. I'm not pointing at you, Ron Stinchcomb. He's much older than I am, but we did go to pre-school. The—
 The thing is we've got to balance it out. We've got to look at the concepts to protect the future and look at the ideas, but we also have to bring into focus the wisdom of those that have professional experience and they know the community and they are caring about the safety. No one's being reckless out there and they do care about the environment, but in this case they didn't have the opportunity to learn how this would impact those issues.
 What they did know is that it was taking away a choice. At least for them, it was taking away the choice. I think the most impactful speaker that I heard this evening was Kirsten Peterson. She has nothing to do with the industry. She is not a lobbyist. She's just a person who's interested and engaged in the community. And from her point of view, which is certainly more than an arm's length, she saw that there were flaws in the process and there were flaws.
 apparently in even the amended ordinance. I like the fact that her point of view was developed as a citizen of our community. A lot of things are said about Plan 2030, and I've said this before, it's kind of like the Bible. Everyone reads it differently.
 Everyone reads it differently and I know that we think that we have a universal understanding of what the traditional town concept is That was developed in Bedford, New Hampshire, and you know in Bedford, New Hampshire. They don't have a single Development that uses that standard. I don't know why but to me that's telling because the people didn't understand it I'm sure and it just never happened
 It's going to take a real partnership between those that have a vision of the future and those that have wisdom of experience in order for us to move forward unitedly. And so I'm voting against this. One, I feel like I'm pretty engaged in the community. I'm around here a lot.
 And I did not know this was going to come to city council until I saw it handed off to city council. I did not know that it was controversial. When I read it, I didn't really understand why we were doing this. To me, it was an aesthetic thing.
 Also, being the chairman of Water, Sewer and Solid Waste, I know we have a flooding problem. I know that we have to look at the control of stormwater runoff and permeable surfaces. I think most builders know that too, and that's evident when they come for variances in front of the city council. I applaud the professionalism of those professionals that work in that niche of the market.
 the real estate agents they know what people want the bankers i was a mortgage banker and i may be again because i kind of enjoyed it and i know the struggle that the consumer has in deciding what home to buy what fits their dream what fits their budget it's a it's a it's a big i think it's the biggest choice any family makes and then of course it has to be they have to be able to meet the restrictions of financing so that they can afford it
 I think that every real estate agent and every builder knows this, and they do build to meet the demand of the consumers that they're faced with. So although I think that there are some concepts of this that are valid and certainly should be considered, the process was flawed, and I will not support this.
 I'm a little confused about calling the process flawed. If I were to write up this ordinance all by myself, Kit, correct me if I'm wrong, would we have had any more meetings or less meetings? Well, it depends on how many people show up, obviously. But obviously the city council is a place where most of the decisions take place, although oftentimes ordinances are...
 looked at a little bit more closely if they're coming from the Planning Commission like this one did before they get here and so I think that the proof is in the pudding and if you look around at the last three meetings it seems to me that maybe things could have been handled better and
 than they were, especially because there was a miscommunication where this applied everywhere instead of just in the downtown area. And I think that's what really got people motivated.
 Is that enough of an answer? Yeah, I mean, I just feel like I could have wrote this up myself and we would have had three meetings like we had. We did have multiple meetings before this, and I would agree that they were pretty useless. We didn't have a lot of people show up. But, like, we still had four meetings. We had an ordinance review, and now we're on our third reading. So, I mean, I think the process worked, you know,
 the room has told us what they think they had three times to tell us what they think and they have definitely done that and I appreciate that I appreciate the Realtors and the home builders coming in and telling us what's there I'm gonna vote for the ordinance we do have a housing shortage
 I vote for up zones a lot. I get attacked for it. It's probably the thing I get attacked the most is that I want developers to Develop their land to maximize the utility So that they can get more profit and then also we can get more houses to do that I recognize as we get smaller and smaller lots and
 That there's consequences of that those consequences are that we have storm runoff. We're going to be looking at a rezone tonight where I'm concerned about flooding and that's going to be in the back of my mind is if we can't get the protections for people, then it makes it hard for me to up zone stuff. And so I'm really hoping that
 the builders can come to us and say, hey, these are things that we could do that would give those protections without costing as much. I've mentioned I would love to see more PZDs, so tell me what you're going to do. But I have to support protections because I also feel like I have to vote for up zones because we have such a housing crisis. So that's where I'm at. Thank you. Okay. Tracee.
 thank you mayor um i've given this topic a lot of thought uh and gone off and done a lot of research asked a lot of questions from a lot of different people to try and really tease out really what's going on here and um
 You know, I really wanted to look at this as, is this going to really reduce stormwater flooding and those kinds of things? But nothing in this measure has any options for green infrastructure or any incentives. It's just very narrowly focused. Okay.
 Of course, I like I like historic properties. I love historic properties, but I have not been sold on On this big change. This is a huge change even though it's just very narrowly focused and if I had
 been sold on or been given the data that would really show me that this really does reduce impermeable surfaces and It protects our environment a little bit more If I had seen data that really showed how this would reduce crime The most compelling argument I heard all night was from Will Dockery who actually cited cases but I did not feel that the that the the
 the folks that are sponsoring this resolution provided a compelling argument for that perspective. So, and this clearly has disrupted the real estate,
 community here. I wish the process had been done better. You know, I would just, I'm glad that there's been some discussion about how it can be done better in the future, but I do think we need to really kind of foster that community. We need to get along. I mean, that's what's been so great about Fayetteville is we have this wonderful community, and that's one of the many reasons why we love this place so much.
 So I hope that after this is over, however it turns out, that we can rebuild those relationships and start working more closely together and make sure we have a heads up when there's something very controversial that's coming down the pike. I did not hear about this issue until it came before the city council. And so I feel like I'm kind of tapped into the community, but on this one, I guess I wasn't.
 So greater transparency is really needed. We do need to address the stormwater issues. We need to plan for climate change. And I really just don't think this ordinance, as it is right now, gets to those issues. So I will not be supporting it. Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, there have been attorneys and non-attorneys giving legal issues and questions here that I think maybe I need to do a little bit of response on and also get on the record with a couple issues that I have. First, I want to assure everyone that I trust everyone up here on the city council. They only have the best intentions of Fayetteville. I don't believe any person has any ulterior or monetary reasons or motives here.
 I think we all learned about serious unintended consequences if the ordinance was passed that no planning commissioner or council member anticipated or desired.
 Now, even though the council has passed Sloan-Scroggins' proposed amendment, and I thank them for doing that, I think that will likely reduce much of the possible hundreds of thousands of dollars that our taxpayers would have to pay without that. And I've heard non-lawyers say, well, there's no issue here. Of course, I've heard a lot of lawyers threaten to sue me, and I think I really go with the lawyers a lot more than I do with the non-lawyers, thinking that there is no issue here.
 in regards to your Private Property Protection Act and the regulatory takings. So I think this amended ordinance is much better, Sloan. I appreciate you bringing it forward. However, I feel the well is poisoned. The city will be sued, I think, because there have been six lawyers threatening it, so one of them probably is going to pull the trigger.
 If any ordinance is passed, and I think I disagree with the four attorneys that told me that this is clearly a violation of the act that Senator Hester and Ballinger put through. I think that the act is very poorly drafted, internally inconsistent, and that a truly just objective analysis of the act would say, no, it's too unclear, so we're not blocked.
 However, I also pointed out that the Arkansas Supreme Court has a tendency to interpret fairly confused state statutes to invalidate city ordinances. And I think that would be the likely result. And even though I don't get to charge anything extra for going to the Supreme Court and writing up all the briefs and stuff, it does cost us money to pay for the other attorneys' briefs, and it costs a lot of my time there.
 We have the same number of attorneys in my office that we had in the late 80s, and so we're still doing all the work. Fayetteville has grown a little bit since then, and I don't mind that. One of my first jobs as city attorney is to try to keep you out of court. Sometimes we go to court, and that's fine. I defended you on the Market Mill rezoning. We won that, both ordinances, hands down, and I never warned you about not doing that. But in this particular case, I do warn you.
 I warn you that I don't think we're now looking at hundreds of thousands of dollars worth of damages, thanks to Sloan and the city council that passed that. I appreciate that. But there are other possible damages out there, other possible costs. And so I recommend that the proposed ordinance be voted down. And I actually want the ordinance that you passed without any comment about the orientation of a building on Othuro Fair –
 I think you need to reconsider that also. Now, that has much less damage because it's only people that own lots along the thoroughfare that can sue us. And so it's not like this other ordinance that has got hundreds of lots or thousands of lots. So it's got much, much less damage from a liability standpoint, but I still think it might be something you might want to take a look at. I think that the issues that have been brought by these ordinances can be reconsidered and reformed
 with substantial public input and carefully drawn so as not to affect a regulatory taking or private property protection act claim that our taxpayers and citizens would have to pay.
 I do think it's been much improved by the amended that we've passed tonight. I think the amended ordinance is not nearly as dangerous for our citizens, but I do disagree with some of the non-lawyers that felt that there were still no issues here. I think there are issues. I just do not have to defend a case which is likely at the Supreme Court level
 to be a failure, but so I do recommend that you not pass this ordinance. I think that we can go back with the development community and work on these issues and probably get a good result that won't be challenged. Thank you, Mayor. I'm glad that this is the last time I anticipate talking about this. And I wanna add some different remarks planned, but following that, I think I want to
 read one more time from another non-lawyer because I didn't expect this to also be in the Northwest Arkansas Times editorial. How can the city reasonably allow a threat of litigation to keep it from setting different standards of development within different zoning classifications? That's a basic form of regulation cities have done for years.
 Despite the new legislation. It's hard to see how one can argue a city is barred from setting different expectations based on a piece of land zoning Can Fayetteville really back down on litigation threat hardly they say if if Fayetteville and other cities want to maintain some semblance of control? over how their communities develop We've seen a hostile legislature We've seen a hostile Special interest lobbying
 that has substantial power at the state legislature. We watched the Realtors Association oppose and defeat basic minimum habitability standards for rental properties in the last legislative session. That's the kind of power we're up against and it's substantial. But we're here to represent the people of Fayetteville, the people who live in the neighborhoods that our builders are building,
 And I agree with Councilmember Petty, all of my meetings with developers and builders have been very productive. They've had some pain points at different points along the line in this ordinance and they've been able to articulate what was wrong and what would fix it. And I think we've addressed most of those. My meetings with realtors on the other hand, well,
 I've heard this ordinance compared to battering women. That was the analogy that was used in that meeting. I don't think that that's an argument in good faith, and I don't think you set a good precedence by backing down to a bully. We may lose. I can...
 I can buy that, but I think this is the right thing that our Fayetteville residents have told us throughout the years, the ones who show up to the meetings who care enough to do that. Sure, there's different ways to interpret it, but I think there's a pretty strong overarching sense of the city that we're trying to build here. We've addressed the process a lot, and I don't want to get into the details of where this came from, but I do want to think about the...
 Well, I want to think about the consequences of analyzing this process because this city is real fond of transparency. It's a big deal. I would say that transparency is a core Fayetteville value. And what we're essentially saying is that, you know, this was uncomfortable and we wish we'd had more closed-door backroom meetings. We are used to big open input sessions from staff because the mayor has a great staff
 Most of the ordinances that we look at originate with the mayor's staff who have the resources to put together white papers and call together forums that we record on the television and broadcast for anybody else to watch. That's because we love our transparency here in this town. City council members don't have the resources of a staff to call –
 a focus group or a public meeting until we get here. This is our forum to call a public meeting. And we did exercise what opportunities we have by going through ordinance review before coming to the entire council. Planning commission was an extra step, but this arrived here with the sponsorship of four council members who
 put their names on it because we believe it's a good ordinance. To insist on something different really dilutes the ability of voters to have their voices represented here. If I can't get a call or an email from Will Dockery, who lives in Ward 4, with a great idea, and bring it forward because it hasn't been through enough public input prior to the City Council, I think that does a disservice to democracy.
 So that's my process concerns. I don't want to see this go down on concerns about process, so I'm gonna stay to the ordinance for the rest of my remarks. We talked, I'm sorry, we talked a lot about aesthetics and aesthetics are going to be a side effect of this. There's no denying that, it is a piece of it. Some people will think the aesthetics are an improvement and some will think that it's bad and that's why aesthetics are poor grounds for voting on this.
 we're not going to agree on the aesthetics but the safety part here's another test that we haven't talked about we've had the uh the the trick-or-treat test but at our ward 4 meeting the other night we were looking at some different designs and it became real clear you know we have a car theft and car break-in issue and some neighborhoods on the west side of town that are not low-income neighborhoods they're not sketchy places people generally feel comfortable putting their cars out but they are right targets
 Look at a house and ask yourself if you can see a car that's parked in the driveway from inside the house. If not, it's a target. That's a safety and welfare issue. This is not a garage ordinance. It's a driveway ordinance because it's the driveways where the cars are parked that are getting broken into. I want to talk about sustainability a little bit. Ms. Patterson earlier made a comparison to Wilson Park and said that times dictate the way we build for our cars, and she's absolutely right.
 That's why this ordinance accommodates cars while putting people at the focus. When Wilson Park and Washington Willow were built, they largely predated cars, so they didn't accommodate them really much at all. They've adapted over the years. It's been a challenge. They've been successful to varying degrees. I think our parking situation earlier is an example of some of those challenges, but they've adapted. Post-war era has seen development patterns, not all of them, but...
 Quite a few that put cars as the focus and leave people as the afterthought. But we are on the precipice of a change for how we use cars on this planet. At least we better be, as the news keeps showing us. And if we're not, well, we're not going to be around a whole lot longer to worry about it. But we're building houses to last, I hope, 80 to 120 years, maybe longer.
 The average stay in a home for a new homebuyer is 11.4 years. In 11.4 years, on average, we'll be seeing a lot of people buying these houses again, and their priorities may have changed. We want to make a transit-ready city for 89,000 people and growing, and we don't do that with a development pattern that puts cars at the forefront. We need to accommodate cars because we have them, and they're going to be an important part of our lives for a long time.
 But as long as they are the focus, then we're going to have a hard time being transit ready for the post-car era that I hope will come sooner than the time to replace this housing that we're building right now. Steve Clark talked about growth, and he threw out a lot of numbers faster than I could write down, but I think he said something about building 2,900 houses per year. That's a little bigger than the fable number I've been using, so maybe that was all of northwest Arkansas, but...
 if we're competing with others and everybody's trying to build these houses for for a new population we need we better build them right and if we build them right here in fayetteville that can be a distinguishing point from the other communities around that we compete with and the last thing i want to say about this is you know we talk about neighborhood character a lot but i worry sometimes that our concern for neighborhood character
 only matters for the people that currently live there, for the current residents. We want to listen to our neighbors, but we say that all the time. We haven't gotten an opportunity to do that here. In three meetings, we've had 45 individual speakers. 40 of them at least are part of the building, real estate or banking industry. 40 out of 45 people that have come here to City Hall have a financial stake in that.
 I don't believe any of us up here have a financial stake in that, but the overwhelming majority of the people who have talked to us here in this setting do. And that's why I've looked to other settings for my feedback. Not instead of this, because I believe that all of you have a right to be heard as well, but in addition to this, because I don't believe that the message we've gotten here has been representative, but that conversation is happening.
 It's happening in emails, directly back and forth. It's happening in phone calls. It's happening on social media. And this morning, a brand new 4029 Facebook post with a story about tonight's meeting had a whole lot of comments on it, and I was surprised at how many regular folks were complimentary of this change. Not everybody. Nobody will ever be complimentary of everything.
 But tonight we can listen to every neighborhood, every neighbor around town who's ever stood here in front of us for another issue. If they were concerned about new development next to their neighborhood, it's because of uncertainty of not knowing what's going to be built in these new areas around them. This is our opportunity to show that we don't just care about neighbors who live there now, but we care about the neighborhood character for all of these people who are moving into new neighborhoods that haven't been built yet.
 We can care tonight about neighborhood character for neighborhoods that don't exist because that's really what's at stake. We're not gonna change anybody's existing garage or driveway. They are built, they are staying, but if we can't take charge of future development and care about that neighborhood character than everybody who's been here before, well, they were right to be afraid because then they've lost to the same development lobby that they're afraid of every time they show up. Okay, Sarah. Thank you.
 You know, when I look around this room, you know, lots of realtors, lots of attorneys in this room, but those are also citizens of Fayetteville. A lot of you live in Fayetteville. A lot of you are my friends and neighbors. You represent voices, not just, you're not just representative of an industry. You're representative of the community as well. And when we talk about the process,
 I was on planning commission for two terms. I was chair of planning commission. I understand this process. And what I said earlier about how, you know, it is just the way it is. People get busy. They don't follow what's happening in the city sometimes until it basically, I guess for lack of a better way to describe it, until it hits the fan. But I don't like this idea that we have two people.
 completely opposing sides here because you know I may not agree with everything the Realtors I'm a realtor I may not agree with everything that has been posted on social media and some of it does come from a point of I don't really understand what's going on but I'm against this I don't agree with all of that but but we don't we all are on all want the best for Fayetteville I believe that with all my heart
 that the people that are here representing the builders, the realtors, they're also members of the community, and they want what's best for Fayetteville. We've just got to get at it
 We are going about it in different ways, and we need to work together to come up with something, I think, that is going to work for our community. And the idea that we can just continue to build the same things in the same way is not really the way that we need to be looking at this. We need to be looking at this as we need to consider our runoff. We need to consider the number of paved services and everything. But we also need to consider what people want to buy when they're looking at buying a home.
 And I do that every day. And I'm around people all the time that I don't agree with. And I learn from them every moment of my life. I learn from someone I disagree with. And there are clients I have that I've worked with. I don't know why they want to buy what they want to buy, but my job is to try and find what they want. And I will, you know, go to the ends of the earth to do that. So...
 I just want, you know, I feel passionately about this too. Everybody on this council feels passionately about what we do here. We wouldn't be here. You know, we wouldn't go through the trials and tribulations of running for office if we didn't feel passionately about Fayetteville. So let's don't try and divide everybody. We need to get together on this and work it out.
 and if I don't vote for this, it's not because I'm backing down to a bully. It's because I don't believe in it. So I think we've learned a lot here today, and I think we can come up with something that will work. It may not be the perfect solution for everyone at this council, but I think we can come up with something that works better and works for the citizens of Fayetteville. So that's all I have to say. Thank you.
 Any other final comments from the council? Okay, I got two or three points I wanna make. First, I would like to say that I didn't work on this particular ordinance. I mean, I was not opposed, but I was not asked my advice. I know a lot of people across town thinks I was in the last meetings I've had with people as I move around town. However, I don't think that anyone,
 that has sponsored the ordinance is i think they're doing what they believe is the right thing to do and i don't really buy the argument of a conflict of interest i just don't see that i i do want to defend my staff somewhat here not now i will give andrew i will defend andrew garner sitting over here tonight because he told the planning commission that they needed to get more input from you all now
 He's taken some pretty good licks on this thing, but I want to tell you that I find that Andrew Garner is a decent, honest, hardworking staffer for this city. If he told me he told the Planning Commission that they needed to get more input, I believe him, I trust him, and I support him. Now, as far as the principle of the traditional town form, I support it. I think it is going to be the future of this city.
 I believe that it will be something that the city will develop into that will meet those goals passed in 2011. I am concerned about the process that I have seen through this and I'm really disturbed about the division that I have seen on this issue across this town and in this room tonight.
 and i hope where there is a division that there can be some sort of bridging of a better process in the future for this sort of thing does not happen i think i think another big issue that was brought up i tell you a concern of mine now is that when we talk about affordable housing
 I look at a city that has 2.6% unemployment and a 19% poverty rate. Yes, Sarah, you're right. We have some wage issues in this city, and they need to be addressed. I'll be the first one to point that out. Because I feel like when people are paid better wages, they can afford better housing. I've always stood on that. I don't make any bones about that. I will tell you a story.
 I've lived on the south end of town for 47 years. My family has lived in this area for six generations. We've been here since 1866. So we've been around the block. And in 1977, my wife and I bought a little house on the south end of town. It cost me $15,000, which was a lot of money to me. Now you can buy half a car for that.
 but we bought that little house and we made the payments on it it was an 800 square foot house and there was a day i was a fairly decent carpenter and i made it 1200 square feet we raised four kids in that house i had to borrow the money to make the down payment to get the loan so i get it on affordable housing in fact it was such a good house i still live in that house today on the south end of town and the 1200 square foot house
 I have one drive. It goes to a carport. Now, was there fancier houses I could have bought back then? No, because I couldn't afford it. I had to buy what I could afford. And that's why affordable housing is so important.
 And every time that anything disturbs the market that I have seen, it drives that housing price up, which there's gonna be X amount of people. Somebody threw out a number here one night that said for every $1,000 a house goes up, we lose the potential of 300 buyers. And I don't know if that's accurate or not, but you all would know that better than I would. So we need affordable housing. Stormwater issues are issues.
 And that needs to be addressed, and I want you all to understand this. The flooding issues will be addressed by stronger stormwater development ordinances that will be coming to this council. We're gonna be looking at those because we got to reduce the flooding. But the thing that is my biggest concern of all this is the legal issues. Now I have a city attorney that he's written at least three, maybe four memos,
 Telling us that we have some legal issues with this ordinance. He's been honest. He's been frank I've been contacted by at least four maybe five lawyers with Concerns and we're violating state law and I think that needs to be proven in court of law But as a sitting mayor, I cannot afford to put this in city in jeopardy of lawsuits now in principle I agree, but I have concerns about legal issues
 And I have to be concerned about that. Because if we spend all of our time in the court of law defending things that we passed, we could lose a lot of money. I saw with an incinerator project, I know Kit has pointed that out before. So my biggest concern in all of this is the legal concerns that the city attorney has. I have those same legal concerns. So we'll see how she rolls. All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Thank you.
 I would also like to thank the Planning Commission too for their work on this. I don't think you're bad people. I think you worked on this. You worked on it very hard, and I want to thank you, Matt, for the work that you've done on it. All right. Listen, would you please call them? Teddy? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? No. Turk? No. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? No. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? No. No.
 Mayor, there are four affirmative votes, and you may vote if you choose to. I'm not going to vote. And the ordinance has failed. Okay. Thank you all for coming. No, no, no, no, no. Okay, number three. Number three.
 on old business. Yeah, there's no motion to it. Just call the roll. I mean, you know, that's what we've always done. We could do it the other way. Okay. If you would like. Are we going to take a break? We're not? Mayor, are we breaking for five minutes?
 We're losing our quorum. So I guess we are. It's a break. All right. It's a break. It's a break. Let's go ahead and get started again. We're on item three of old business. Yeah. Okay. Okay.
 Okay, an ordinance 10 act one fourteen point one. Oh regulation of expanded polystyrene foam Single use plates bowls clamshells cups and similar products. I'll entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading mark so moved Second we have a motion second to go to the third and final reading Lisa, which please call the roll Yes
 Scroggins yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
 Okay. Mayor and Council, good evening. Staff and the City's Environmental Action Committee recommend approval of this ordinance that would prohibit the use and sale of single-use expanded polystyrene foam, commonly referred to as styrofoam products within the City of Fayetteville.
 Adoption of this ordinance would reduce litter in our community and is consistent with our waste diversion goals in the city's 2017 Solid Waste Reduction, Diversion, and Recycling Master Plan. This ordinance would improve water quality and protect our drinking water source, Beaver Lake. And because styrofoam is produced from fossil fuels, this ordinance would further the city's carbon emission reduction goals in the city's 2018 Fayetteville Energy Action Plan.
 Specifically, this ordinance would apply to all restaurants, hotels, grocery stores with delis or food bars, cafeterias, convenience stores, coffee, tea, and donut shops, caterers, and any other prepared, ready-to-go food or drink provider within the City of Fayetteville.
 It would prohibit the use of expanded polystyrene foam single-use products, including plates, bowls, clamshells, cups, and similar products from being provided from any of those previously mentioned establishments within our city. It does allow the mayor to grant a temporary exemption from this prohibition if necessitated by an emergency, a public health or safety need, or medical necessity.
 If passed by the City Council, this ordinance would go into effect on May 1st, 2020. Okay. Sarah? Nope. Any questions from the Council? Teresa, do you have comments? I do. I really commend the Sustainability Group and also the Environmental Action Committee for moving this forward. Thank you.
 Styrofoam, one study from 2016 called the real cost of styrofoam estimated that it takes 500 years for styrofoam to decompose and
 It's also estimated that 25 to 30% by volume is styrofoam in our landfill. So that's a huge amount of landfill space that's being taken up by styrofoam. It also breaks into a lot of different products. And there was a 2014 study that was done on the White River where styrofoam came in second place for the highest number of trash that was collected. Plastic was first.
 So we clearly we have a problem here And I think that this would go a very long way of at least reducing our consumption of styrofoam There'll still be a few exceptions. There'll be remnants people can still buy styrofoam products at the grocery store, but at least we can start to Encourage restaurants and other other groups to to not use styrofoam anymore Thank you. Okay any other comments from council?
 what public comment do we have on this okay seeing that i'll bring it back to the council that's the third and final reading any final comments from the council that's it yeah okay um so the final comments i want to thank theresa for all our work on this very much appreciate it peter your work on this thank you very much our little action committee their work
 I think is a really important step. There's one more study that I looked at, and I think Chris touched on all the ones that I had looked at also. But the smaller pieces of polystyrene is consumed by marine life in at least 162 marine species, including seabirds.
 They're being ingested by them. When they open them up, they find pieces of uningested styrofoam in them. So, also, this helps protect marine life. And, yes. Anyway, that being said, thank you all very much for the vote on this support. All right, Lisa, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yahoo, yes.
 March. Yes. No double voting over there. Okay, thank you all. Number four, an order to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6809 for approximately 20.71 acres located northeast of Gregg Avenue and Van Ash Drive from P1 Institutional UT Urban Thoroughfare. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading on that one. So moved.
 Sonia second we have a motion in a second to go to the third and final read Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes Yes, yes, yes, yes
 And nor does the rezoning of that property described in the rezoning petition RZN 19-6809 for approximately 20.7 acres located northeast of Gregg Avenue and Van Asch Drive from P1 Institutional to UT Urban Thoroughfare. Anything new on staff on this? No, sir. Okay. Any questions from the council or anything? Some. Okay.
 uh do we know the elevation change between the south side of this and say skull creek um full disclosure i live on sandpiper um my yard floods uh comes up to about four or five feet from from the bottom of my house um i'm concerned with the amount of flood plain in that area that if we build and push that what used to be effectively a detention pond um
 that flooding may get worse along Skull Creek. I know that in the bond, we have some money set aside to actually redo some of Skull Creek. I'm losing about two feet a year of my yard. So I just, I guess I have some questions about that and some concerns.
 Mr. Mayor, the property was in the floodplain. They did raise the site and bring it several feet of fill in the property, so they did receive a letter of map revision from FEMA. So when they developed the property, it's not considered in the floodplain. The elevation difference, I can't speak to that directly. It's fairly flat, but it does slope down from this property down to Skull Creek. I would guess probably, I don't know, eight feet or so.
 because it is built up fairly high. As they go through the development process, they would still have to go through the process of getting the floodplain development permits and things like that through the city in advance.
 they're not really right within the streamside protection area, so that probably wouldn't come into play. To our knowledge, this particular property hasn't been a flooding issue. Some of the other properties that are further upstream, as you've mentioned, may have some. But I think this property would – I'll probably let our engineers speak to it, but from our engineering staff that did look at the rezoning in general, they did not have any concerns with rezoning this. Okay.
 Okay. Is the applicant here? I'm sorry. Yes, sorry, I forgot. He's trying to hide there in the audience. I'm always trying to, you know I'm never trying to hide, Kit.
 Ryan Gill with Harrison Purchase Associates. I'm here to represent my client who's looking to purchase the property. To Andrew's point, back in February of 2008, the property was accepted by FEMA as a CLOMER F, which is a Certified Letter of Map Provision based on fill. So back in 2007, the property was filled with their retaining wall.
 brought out of the floodplain, went through the cities, and also the consecutive FEMA process to remove this out of the floodplain, Mr. Scoggin. So as part of this process, whenever we do bring this through with a water scale development, we will meet all city requirements that we need to as far as drainage. So I'll answer as best as I can any questions you all have.
 My next comments are kind of more about the area in general because I figured now is a good time to talk about it and less about that actual lot. I fought against the off-street parking on Steele. I was worried about drainage in that area. I know that we're adding an incredible amount of parking in that area. JJ's has got more parking. It will probably get more parking soon.
 Know Skull Creek when it floods it literally takes out all the fences literally down my entire subdivision so the drainage in that area is a concern I'm glad to hear that It's already been raised because I know that when you've necked down stuff it Causes flooding upstream and then and then when you add impervious surface it causes flooding downstream which downstream is to the north But in general, I hope we can start getting more
 flood plan or a parking plan in uptown because we're gonna have a lot of
 if we start taking a lot of these large lots and developing them without kind of an overall arching plan. And I don't want to be in a situation where we allow four or five developers to develop and then all of a sudden then go, oh, we got a problem, and then the next developer is the one that's, you know, kind of has to take care of all of that. And that's an undue burden for, you know, the last developer or the last couple developers. So...
 I've been concerned about that area for quite a while. I don't think it will stop me from voting for the rezone, but we need to start talking about that area.
 Okay, sure. Thank you. Um, actually this is more of a question for andrea while we're looking at this Um, you know, I'm seeing a disturbing pattern of these lots in flooding areas being filled in with red dirt And it's really just transferring the flood burden onto adjacent properties and creating issues elsewhere in the watershed Why are we allowing this and what do we need to do to stop this from happening? Especially on such a large scale. I think that
 We could address it with code changes. And we do have the floodplain administrator here, Alan Pugh. I don't know if he's in the audience at the moment. But we've been talking about some code changes in the Development Services Department to actually make it even more stringent to get floodplain permits. I'll let Mr. Pugh speak to it better than I could. Thank you. And that's one of the things I think we're going to talk to you tonight in a later item when we talk about our stormwater feasibility study is,
 It is our intent, if the council should move forward with that, to include portions of that within that study, both in Chapter 168, or flood damage prevention, and in Chapter 169, or flood damage prevention.
 physical alteration of land as well. So to answer your question, I mean in general FEMA and our requirements currently do allow the filling of floodplains. They treat floodways differently. That is something that this council would like to address. We certainly could address in code changes. There are things called no adverse impact. Those types of clauses that are out there we have looked at those. The City of Tulsa has one for example that we've looked at fairly
 There are other things, compensatory storage. If you fill in storage of the floodplain, you have to compensate that storage somewhere else. So those are certainly ideas that we could look at incorporating should this council desire. Thank you.
 We're looking at some of those things, the code changes you're looking at. We've been talking about that for a few months. I know we've been visiting with Andrew. Susan's been involved in some of that. Yeah, because I've seen this in my own neighborhood too where they filled in a lot and it definitely changed the stormwater pattern in the creek and it just shifted the flooding burden onto adjacent landowners. We've got to look at that. Yes, Teresa. Thank you, Mayor. I have a question for the applicant. Yes, ma'am.
 So could you go back again and kind of give the scenario about when FEMA realigned this or recategorized this? When was that? MS.
 So full disclosure, when I was at the Global Engineering, I was involved with this lot. I was one of the engineers that was involved. We went through the process through the city. I forget who the, Mr. P was not here at the time, but who the flood bank administrator was. We went through the city's process. We did a clomer F, which is again, raising it based on fill. Went through that process, essentially you,
 Survey the existing land, you go through all the paperwork and everything else, you bring in fill, you survey it again, you do a lot more paperwork, and then FEMA essentially removes the legal description area out of the floodplain. That's part of it. That's the short of it. And what year was that, Don? I'm sorry? What year? Yeah.
 So all the construction, I believe, was done in 2007. The document that I have, which was in y'all's packet, was that FEMA accepted it in February of 2008, so almost 12 years ago. Okay, so it's been quite a while. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Okay.
 All right, thank you. Yes, ma'am. The reason why I asked the date is because we've had a whole lot of floods since then. And I'm guessing that FEMA, if they haven't already done it, they're going to start revising a lot of their criteria for that 100-year flood. So it would be helpful to know how much you actually raised it. Any idea? Number of feet? I'm sorry, raised the elevation of the land?
 You'll catch me lying, but I want to say anywhere from five to eight feet, depending on where you are along that wall. Okay. So the east side of that black line is a retaining wall. If you were to drive by, you'll see it. It's a modular block. Landscape wall is what most people, whenever they see it, think of. That was brought in. Yep. Whoever just did the nice little cursor thing through there. So it varies in height, but anywhere from five to eight feet. Yes, ma'am.
 And was any modeling done by you all to look at the flow of the water and what velocity? Yes, ma'am. It was back then. I can't speak to that now. I'm sorry. I may have slept since then in the last 11 years. But yes, ma'am, it was. And again, we went through all the city and federal processes to raise it out of the floodplain. Yes, ma'am. Okay. Thank you. Yes, ma'am. Any other questions?
 Okay. Do we have any public comment on this reason? Can I bring it back to the council? Any final comments from the council? Thank you. I actually meant to withdraw myself, but since I've got the floor, I really remain concerned about this.
 Some of the flooding issues that we've had recently I mean all the studies that we keep looking at climate change is just gonna get worse and worse and worse I really think we need to change some of the things that we're doing here Even if the applicant did raise this five to eight feet I wish that we had a photo or something from our 2017 flood to see what really happened over there so I I'm actually gonna vote against this because I I really believe that I
 This poses a concern that we may have some flooding if we have another big storm. Thank you. Any other final comments? Sarah. What reading are we on here? What reading are we on? We're here. Oh, third and final. I can tell you what to do or try to do. I also have concerns about floodplain and I think
 Real uncomfortable. I mean, I know that this has already been filled I don't think that that is I know it's a legal way to remove something from the floodplain But I have concerns about an urban thoroughfare development pattern with you know Could potentially have a lot of parking lots a lot of roof area a lot of unpervade impervious surface area and
 I don't know, I guess I'd like to hear from some of the other people on the council what you're thinking about this. I mean, I think from a land use perspective, it works, but I don't like the idea of rewarding developers that fill in floodplain area with red dirt and put UT-style development on it with big parking lots. So I'd like to hear from other people what they're thinking. Yeah.
 I guess my question along those lines, I don't know that I have any wisdom or ideas to offer, but if it's already been filled with red dirt that's not the most pervious surface in the world to begin with, does this make it substantially worse, or is a parking lot under urban thoroughfare here essentially just –
 the same impact with different use. I'm not sure what the answer to that is. Yeah, that's where I'm at on that one. Mark. This is for Andrew. As this is going through development, they have to have engineering, right? So with the engineering aspect of it, it's already here. It is what it is, right? Not that I like that. I don't have enough information to
 develop it like or dislike I just know that it is what it is and If they have to have an engineering plan, perhaps it is we could actually improve the management of the stormwater But that be part of the plan because we have to look at stormwater runoff right now. We're not looking at it It's just red dirt
 That's a good point. Many times there may be some local drainage issues that get improved when they have to go through the grading drainage review. They would have to put in stormwater detention ponds and things like that. One thing to consider as well is the property is already zone institutional, which would allow big office buildings and parking lots. So from an impervious surface, I don't think the zoning would have a net change. I actually think encouraging a development here might actually cause some improvements like you're mentioning.
 Thank you. Okay. I think the mayor spoke well when he said we're gonna improve our drainage regulations And that's how we need to attack this problem. I don't think zoning is the proper way to do it I've never seen that used by a court to deny a rezoning Especially when it's red dirt, you know, we've all heard Our friend used to come down and lecture us on red dirt all the time and and as Kyle said it sheds water real well right now
 Okay. Sonia, I'm sorry. Yes, sir. I think maybe possibly thinking about for the stormwater plan that maybe we put something extra for places that were previous FEMA spaces. And so maybe thinking about planning, how do we protect that? Because I do think that potentially getting it developed will help, you know,
 Sloan's concerns for flooding. So I think we don't, I think we want to encourage you to do some good things there and help. And also I think it's great use of land. I've got to use that area a lot. I think there could be something more interesting there, but also taking care of the stormwater is a high, high priority in the process. So I think it's both asking for you and also just for our, our plan that we're working on for the stormwater. Yeah.
 never know when I can talk and not again whenever we do bring this through we will be meeting and working with staff to do water quality stormwater management and everything else through that process so we will be working with Andrew and his crew to provide those things I guess
 We don't get to talk about development at zoning time, but while we've got you here at the podium and I've got a microphone in front of me, I want to point out that while this may have two streets worth of street frontage, it's really got three sides worth of, all four sides worth of transportation frontage. And so I hope that y'all will consider the adjacent trail in your planning of whatever does eventually end up in this as it gets zoned.
 Sarah yes, this may be Present in the packet, but I don't have my iPad with me right now, so I couldn't sign into it So is this one of the is that does this butt up against Johnson so it has to go through okay? It has to go through Requirements for term they'll have to agree to it too. Okay. Just want to check on that thought it did but thank you Okay, he filed comments I
 All right. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you for your time.
 all right number five in order to resolve that property described rezoning petition rzn 19-6810 for approximately 0.92 acres located at 1961 North Porter Road from RA residential agricultural to CS Community Services I will entertain a motion to go to the second reading on this one Mark so moved Kyle second we have a motion in a second to go to the second reading Lisa would you please call the roll
 Eddie yes Scroggin yes yes yes yes yes yes yes and your nits reason on that property described and reason only petition RZ and 19-68 10 for approximately 0.92 acres located at 1961 North Porter Road from R.A. residential agricultural to CS community services Andrew anything
 At the agenda session, City Council Member Smith asked to see what the potential project could look like that the city's looking at in their bond. This is a copy of the real schematic sketch showing how the roundabout concept could work in relation to the trail. But I think that was the only question. This is only additional information. Again, this project is not designed, but it's just this is the schematic. And you can see the zoning area there is shown.
 kind of outlined in this purple color. Oh, it's great. All right. Is the applicant here? Good evening. I'm Tracy Hoskins. I'm here if you have any questions. Thank you. Okay. Do we have any questions for Slava? This is for staff. Okay. Can we go back to the last? So the entire property is outside of the planned roundabout?
 That's what it looks like. This isn't a survey, but that's just in concept. Throwing in from the GIS layers, it looks to be outside of the right-of-way. Do you think it would be hard for him to put anything there that would prevent us from doing the roundabout? I don't think so. I mean, it looks like we have plenty of right-of-way there. I think the site could be fully developed and without an issue. Okay, thank you. Okay. Okay.
 We don't foresee any sort of access management issues this close to that kind of intersection structure as far as left turns out or what sort of regulations do we have there that we might bump into? Yeah, we'd have to look at that at the time of development. There certainly could be some access management issues with the higher volume Porter Road. We would try to encourage the curb cuts as far to the –
 I guess that's to the south, you know, during the development review. I think it's, you know, that volume of road and the speed right there is not a real dangerous situation to our knowledge. So I don't think it's a major concern at this point. I guess just to follow up on that, I'd ask Tracy if he's got any, if he perceives any issues with with what we have here and access for, he knows his plans better than we do.
 Actually, at this time, we don't have any particular development plans for the property, but with what Andrew provided and what we've had before, we didn't recognize any access management issues. Okay. In that case, I'd like to motion to suspend the rules and go to the third reading. I'd like to put some public comment on that. Oh, we haven't done that yet. I'm sorry. Does anyone from the public like to address us on this issue? Okay. Now can I make my motion? No, you can't. I'll second that. I think I already made it. Sarah? I second the motion. All right, we have.
 Motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. And your ordinance to rezone that property is cried and rezone in petition RZN 19-68-10 for approximately 0.92 acres located at 1961 North Porter Road from RA Residential Agricultural to CS Community Services. Any final comments from the council on this?
 Okay, Lisa, would you please call the roll petty? Yes Scroggins? Yes, butch. Yes, yes Tiras yes, yes Yes Resolutions approve the addition of two full-time Positions to the police department and
 to approve a memorandum of understanding with the federal public schools school district to provide two additional school resource officers and to approve a budget adjustment chief
 Good evening, Mayor, Council. Sorry I wasn't at the agenda session, but I did watch it. I know some questions came up about this very issue. So I wanted to provide some framework for how this request came about. So since 1999, we had the Columbine Massacre. There's been 230 shooting incidents since that time. In 2018, it was the worst year for school shootings. There were 24 incidents through the grade K through 12.
 And during that time there were 114 students and teachers that were injured or killed. And then the best data that I could find this year was through July 26th, and we're on pace with 22 school shootings in the United States in our K-12 schools. The closest was in Prescott, Arkansas. I know that we had a 14-year-old in Prescott that entered the school with a gun and shot another 14-year-old in the chest.
 But if you look at the Parkland shooting that was probably the most notorious in February of 2018, where 17 people were injured and 17 people were killed. That facilitated Governor Asa Hutchinson to start his Arkansas School Safety Commission Task Force to study the epidemic of the school shootings. In March of 2018, the Fayetteville Public Schools followed suit.
 with when they assembled the superintendent's school safety commission to study their facilities student mental health and faculty training as well if you remember some of the FPS Fayetteville Public School Task Force members included superintendent John L Colbert former FPD Fayetteville Police Department Chiefs Greg Tabor and Frank Johnson
 UAPD Police Chief Steve Gahagan was on there. Arkansas Representative David Whitaker and Greg Ledding was also on that commission, along with our own Susan Norton, she was on there. And our Circuit Judge, Best Story Bryan, served on there as well.
 And so the number one recommendation that came out of the commission, both commissions, was that both were to provide appropriate number of SROs for all campuses and schools. And I think I provided a handout at the beginning of the council meeting with both of those recommendations. The school board president at that time, Justin Eichmann, also mandated that all armed presence must be school resource officers in the Fayetteville public school system. No arming of teachers and no arming of security guards was proposed.
 In addition to more SROs, the FPS committee recommended hardening of their school facilities that included surveillance systems, door locks, evacuation plans, drills, adopting the Choose Love enrichment program. I believe that was the Jesse Lewis School of Love program from the Sandy Hook incident. Also the adoption of communication systems to better connect students, parents, teachers,
 So Dr. Colbert and I met a couple of months ago, and he requested these two additional SROs that are before you tonight to begin accomplishing his safety commission's number one goal. The proposal before you tonight is for one SRO sergeant and one school resource officer. The signed agreement would have FPS covering the salaries and benefits for these officers for 178 days, and the city would cover the remaining 82 days out of the year.
 FPS would also be responsible for the startup uniform cost and also for the annual uniform cost which is approximately $600 a year. If approved, the total annual cost share to the Fayetteville Public School System would be $134,639 and the city's portion would equal $62,029.
 Dr. Colbert did indicate to me in my Chief's Advisory Council meeting that he would like to add two additional SROs in the next several years until they achieve their goal of an SRO in every school. So if you do the math on that, I think we have 16 schools, and currently we have five SROs.
 And so it'll take us a while to get there, but that's the plan of Dr. Colbert. I know there are some questions also about the training of our SROs and also what we do other than offer a uniformed and armed presence in the schools. I just kind of wanted to highlight a few of those things of what we do. So every summer, our SROs host three youth citizens police academies,
 They impact approximately 100 students per year. And so they really focus on a couple of things. They focus on team building. They also focus on leadership, physical fitness, and workforce preparedness. They also assist school officials with family in need of services petitions throughout the year. They assist students with housing and food assistance as well. And they provide active shooter training. We currently use the ALICE model, which is the Alert, Lockdown, Inform, Counter, and Evacuate model.
 We provide suicidal students with the resources that they need. We assist students with studying and obtaining their driver's license. We also assist students who are suffering from physical abuse, substance abuse with counseling services. And we inform students about social media and internet safety and also cyberbullying as well. One of my SROs, she's bilingual. She helps translate and participates in the school's ESL outreach program as well.
 And so some of the training that we receive, some of the specialized training that our SROs receive is both the basic and advanced school resource officer certifications. That's through the National Association of School Resource Officers.
 The basic and advanced CEPTED certifications, they receive that as well. Online bullying training is another one. Behavioral and health crisis intervention training. Child exploitation and child abuse training. And crisis negotiation and also I know it was asked about de-escalation training as well and they do achieve that.
 So, Council Member Marsh, I think you asked about CIT trained officers. We're currently working on that. I think the last numbers I had, I have 22 officers in the department that have been through the 40 hour class. We just found out less than about three weeks ago that the nine hour online class would suffice. So, I have one SRO that's completed the 40 hour course and by the end of this month we'll have the other four through the nine hour course and they'll be CIT certified as well.
 I think another question came up, and it may have been Councilmember Smith. He talked about what are the, I guess in northwest Arkansas, what are some of the financial arrangements and how many SROs they had. If you didn't ask it, somebody did, so I apologize about that. He talks a lot, yeah.
 Springdale currently has 19 school resource officers so they have a 10 month and a two month financial agreement for 10 months the Springdale School District pays for the SROs and for two months the city of Springdale so very similar financial agreement that's outlined with this proposal tonight.
 Rogers, I talked with the Rogers police chief, they have six and he's currently requested two. Last night he requested more officers in his budget, so he's requesting two more. They, the city of Rogers, pays 100% salary benefits. They have no partnership as far as the cost shared goes on that financial agreement.
 and in talking with the city of bentonville i talked with them they have five sros currently and the school pays 100 of the benefits and the pay whenever they're working for the school system and with that i'd be happy to answer any questions that anyone may have what questions do we have for the chief kyle well i'm i'm glad we don't have the same problems that bentonville has with uh
 partnerships They've got a mess right now, but I do have a command structure question Do our SROs are they part of the community policing division or just part of patrol? so they are actually part of our specialized units division right now and so our special events are
 and so they oversee our motor units and then they also oversee all the permitting processes for all the special events that we host here in fayetteville and so that's kind of the disconnect that we have right now because they're on site at the police department and so they have no direct oversight of supervision at the school system and so that's why we're proposing one sro sergeant that will be on site at the fayetteville public school system
 At the high school and they'll report directly to dr. Colbert and dr. Slocum. So if there's any communication issues we can fix those right away Thank you. You're welcome. Any other questions for the chief? Good. Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Seeing none bring it back to the council son
 One of the things that I was hoping for, kind of on the next police officer, was another trail officer. I kind of had an epiphany like 45 seconds ago because I didn't want to spend money here because I thought it was gonna limit the amount of trail officers I have, but the actual time that we need trail officers is when people aren't in school.
 So I'm kind of wondering what prospects there are of basically making an RSO officer a trail officer during the summer when they would actually, when we most need a trail officer. So...
 I don't know that that would really be a possibility, because I mentioned that we do the Youth Citizens Police Academies. And so there's two weeks for each academy, and then they have a week in between for preparation. So right now with the staff that I currently have, I don't think that we would be able to provide one for the summer.
 But with these additional ones, that may give us some relief to where, you know, now that we have seven, including the sergeant, maybe we could take one of those from that during the summertime and then add them to the trail system. The thing about the school resource officers that I would also like to mention
 of the 82 days out of the year that we have them in the summer, not only do they do the Youth Citizens Police Academies, but they typically try to schedule their vacations during that time of year because they don't want to vacate the schools. And that's the reason why they're not CIT trained either is because 40 hours, it takes them a week out of school. Okay. So, yeah, I mean, on another note, I really want –
 Another trail officer. I know that's probably a totally another day I've been in parks in South Fayetteville The last time I was in a park in South Fayetteville somebody took up skateboarding hit an eight-year-old in the back of the head just because he wanted to and There was people smoking and the trail officers like I literally can't arrest these people for what they're doing because I'm so busy and I
 I probably won't bring my family back to a park in South Fayetteville based on that experience. So I'm hoping that we can get some some trail officers down there for people to feel more comfortable down there because I I did So, okay. Thank you
 Thank you. If I just comment on that, our trail officer is a new program that we started at the first of the year. I think most of you met Officer Clarissa Navarro. We do have a lot of concerns about her being out there by herself without a partner on the trail system, so certainly entertain that. Yeah, I think she does an excellent job. I've talked to her several times, and every time I talk to her, I'm like, what do you need because I know that you are taking on so much. I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Okay. Sarah. Yeah, I just want to echo Sloan's concern. I walk the trails in South Fayetteville every day. Yesterday I was almost run down by a guy on a motorcycle traveling at a high rate of speed on the trail. So we need to take care of that, but
 You know, obviously we have this need at the school too, which I do plan to support. But I just want us to take a moment and acknowledge that this is the point where we're at in our country, where we have so many school shootings, that we're having to put these officers in our schools. And, you know, we're treating the symptom here, but we're not treating the root of the problem, which is that we have too many guns in the hands of people that shouldn't have them.
 And we don't have access to mental health care either. So that's a lot of it. And so I would really like, I would really encourage everyone to reach out to our higher government officials and ask for stricter gun control laws and universal health care so that people can...
 take care of their mental health care needs. But in the interim, I'm going to support this because I do believe that we have an obligation to keep our schools safe. And I'm glad that our officers are able to provide a lot of other services and value to these students. And hopefully it will inspire some of them to pursue careers in law enforcement. Okay. Sonia. Thank you. Thank you.
 So, yes, I'll also be supporting it. Definitely want secure schools. But I do want to point out, because I did look for that first, before the security, number 15.
 does talk about student access to mental health should be enhanced. So I definitely agree that that's part of the solution, but it looks like there's a big broader picture that's part of this plan that people that are watching that cannot see or packet, that is part of the plan. So I just wanted to make sure and point that out. Well, we're fixing to go into budget, and we'll show you how that's rolling. Okay.
 All right. Any other? Do we have a motion and a second to pass this? Or do we have more discussion? I'm sorry. Sarah? I move that we pass the resolution. Okay. Second. We'll motion and a second to pass the resolution. Any final comments from the council? No? No. Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Eddie. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Unch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Thank you all.
 Okay, number two, an earnest wave competitive bidding except quote in the amount of $15,500 plus taxes and pray charges to the Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the rebuild of a pump and motor for the Broyles Avenue lift station and to approve a budget adjustment. Kip.
 Whereas pump number two at the Broyles Avenue lift station was recently taken out of service and shipped to Jack Tyler Engineering to disassemble, inspect, and provide a quote for a rebuild of the pump. And whereas pursuant to Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD, formal competitive bidding is not necessary for repair of quote hidden or unknown damages. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that because of Arkansas Code Annotated 19-11-203-14DD, repair of hidden or unknown damages, the rebuild of the pump does not require formal competitive bidding, and therefore waives competitive bidding except a quote in the amount of $15,500 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering for the rebuild of the pump and motor for the Broyles Avenue lift station.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby approves a budget adjustment, a copy of which is attached to this ordinance. Mayor and members of council, I'm Aaron Watkins. I'm the Assistant Operations Manager of Water and Sewer. The Burroughs Avenue lift station, which is at Burroughs and Persimmon, it went into service in 2010, so the equipment is nearly 10 years old. It hasn't had a major overhaul or repair since that time.
 The station has two pumps, so with one pump out, it's now running with just one pump. It takes all the flow from the Owl Creek area. And as mentioned, Jack Tyler has this pump. It went in for hidden damages to see what else could be wrong. The quote to rebuild was $15,500 with freight, and getting it back would be $17,560.
 This went to Water and Sewer Committee on October 8th and was unanimously voted forward to full council with recommendation for approval. Okay, what questions do we have here? Anything? Thank you. Unanimous vote? Yep. So I'm sure it was a wonderful discussion. It was filled with debate and consternation. Okay, any public comment on this?
 No? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sloan? Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Adjournance away competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of fifteen thousand five hundred dollars plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler Engineering Incorporated for the rebuild of a pump and motor for the Broyles Avenue lift station and to approve a budget adjustment Second Please call the roll
 Scroggins yes, yes, yes Smith yes, yes Yes, yes And nor mr. Wade competitive bidding and accept a quote in the amount of fifteen thousand five hundred dollars plus applicable taxes and freight charges from Jack Tyler engineering incorporated For the rebuild of a pump and motor for the Royals Avenue lift station and to approve a budget adjustment if I'll call it some the council
 okay yes yes yes yes yes yes okay
 number three a resolution to accept and adopt the stormwater study for flood management and storm quality funding and to approve amendment number two to the professional services agreement with jacobs engineering incorporated any amount of not to exceed a hundred and fifty thousand two hundred dollars for additional services related to the development of final recommendations for the creation of a stormwater utility and to approve a budget adjustment now
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor, members of the council. I think it's kind of important that we start off with what we're not asking for tonight or what we're not bringing before you. We're not bringing before you the establishment of any stormwater utilities is what it's commonly called, but we are asking for consideration of acceptance of the feasibility portion of this study. So we kind of began this journey a little over a year ago.
 and we're at the point where we really would like to present those feasibility findings to the council, get some clear direction from you before we move forward. So what we're really asking for is again acceptance of the feasibility study and some continuation to answer some questions that were brought about by the stormwater committee. They were brought about I believe by members of this council and by members of the general public. So that would include some more stakeholder education.
 Some of the final program definition, that's the extent and levels of service, as well as that final rate analysis. Some refinement of the billing database and the billing methods. We'll talk to you a little bit more about those tonight in a short presentation.
 the development of the credit system. So we've had a lot of conversation about individuals getting credits for reducing their impact to our system. And while we've talked about that in concept, we've not drilled down into that to see exactly what that would look like. So we've also talked about the potential for a fee-in-lieu of assessment. And at the direction of our city attorney,
 some intergovernmental agreements with certain entities, those being the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville Public Schools, as well as Washington County.
 And along with that, we would begin to investigate our stormwater ordinance as a whole, and begin to look at some of the exemptions that we have in Chapter 169 today, as well as, based on our conversation tonight, look at some changes that could be potentially made to Chapter 168, our Flood Damage Prevention Code as well. So certainly willing to answer any questions you might have, but would like to turn the floor over first to Heather Dyke of Jacobs Engineering.
 They have been our consultant throughout this process, and she'll shed a little bit more light on the feasibility study and what we found. Good evening. First off, I'd like to thank you for affording me the opportunity to come back and present the funding study findings to the full council. And would also like to give you some kudos for your endurance on this very late night.
 Okay, there are four more main things I came tonight to talk to you about. The first is we got feedback that Sarah Marsh would like a little more direction on the visions, the goal of this overall program, as well as various metrics or measures for success towards progress in meeting those goals. The third would be an overview of our key findings
 And lastly, I'm going to provide a brief overview of the really good feedback we got from council and from stakeholders as part of Survey 2. You've already talked about it a fair bit tonight, but the 2050 vision is what we originally –
 adopted back at the council chartering session. And it's hard to believe it's been this long, but it was the end of July in 2018, we had chartering of the funding study and decided that the vision from the Fayetteville Vision 2020 plan was appropriate for the study as well.
 And then as far as goals, we went through, and I don't know if you'll recall, we went through and did some brainstorming of things you'd like to see coming out of this study.
 And what I've tried to do here is briefly summarize two things. The first is as part of your MS4 permit, you have a stormwater management program. And so what you'll see underlined are the goals from that program that's actually in your permit document. And then the bullets are some of the goals that you yourselves brought up during the chartering session.
 So some key things that I heard were how to pay for your future needs in a fair and equitable way, the cost, making sure that for flood management purposes you prevent home flooding. We've heard a lot of that earlier tonight as well in getting the water out.
 Being proactive and sustainable. I've also heard a lot of comments tonight from y'all about making sure that we prevent future issues. So let's look to the future and plan for it. That was one goal, have a clear long-term value-added solution. Fund and implement CIP projects in a shorter frame of time.
 water quality and this applied both to water quality and watershed maintenance and preservation. And that was the need to address erosion as well as water quality.
 And so to meet these goals, we did not as part of the funding study go through and establish milestones or key metrics. It was just a little premature at that point. However, what we did is we went back and in light of the question, there are a couple
 things that we can use to measure progress when and if this continues to go forward so for education and engagement one thing I'm sure you all are aware of is your ms4 permit has two measures that specifically address this as public involvement and public education
 And so continued permit compliance will be a metric for success. We plan on having a very stakeholder driven, sustainable credit and incentive program that will be driven by that stakeholder engagement.
 And then at the top in the near term, we've already seen the value, and I'll present some results in a couple of slides, on the use of Speak Up Fayetteville and the ways we can measure traffic and usage and get some really nice quantifiable feedback from our stakeholders. Now one thing that I've talked about at length during our other meetings are
 that there's a planned level of service, which is the services y'all would provide in exchange for this fee, in addition to what you're already doing on a day-to-day basis, as well as the extent of service. So as far as equity and fairness,
 implementing those are going to extend drainage maintenance into the older parts of town and to residential detention homes so those will be two very clear metrics of success and then under flood management when I was last here I guess gosh
 three or four months ago, y'all were still a Class 9 community which had afforded your residents only a 5% discount. And since then, you've gone to a Class 8, which gives your residents and businesses a 10% discount on their flood insurance, which I believe the ultimate end goal for long term would be to get to Class 7, which would be a 15% discount.
 Now, the next item on this page, and then there are a couple more references to it on the next page, are things such as long-term reduction in the number of customer service calls for flooding.
 And I would like to preface that by the fact that should you all decide to move forward with a fee program eventually, that won't happen initially. Meaning initially when you adopt a fee program, you typically see an uptick in calls because people realize that they're paying this fee, there are these services you're providing. So I want to put a disclaimer that that's really a long-term reduction.
 Moving on, we would want to achieve our planned levels of service, which we've articulated in the funding study that you all have. And so one thing would be meeting the goal of replacing 2.5% of the drainage system annually. So that's about 8,500 linear feet. So that's something that's really clear and measurable that we can make sure that we're achieving each year.
 Water quality, again, making sure you're complying with your permits. Long-term reduction in the number of customer service calls regarding erosion and sedimentation control. We heard a lot of concerns about that. Long-term reduction in the related number of enforcement actions.
 And then lastly for watershed maintenance and preservation, achieve our plants levels of service, which are things such as cleaning and inspecting a quarter of the drainage system each year and performing maintenance on 110 residential ponds annually.
 And so all of this is to meet sort of the overall or overreaching goal, which is to address the backlog of drainage projects and meet these goals within a 20-year time frame. And did that get at your concerns of... I guess I was looking for something a little bit more compelling to sort of sell this. You know, when we talk about like our waste reduction goals or our energy improvement goals, we have...
 We have more exciting goals to sell to our community. You know, I want to see like a 20% improvement in water quality, you know, in both runoff and, you know, in volume and sedimentation or whatever. You know, something that, you know, can we have our impaired waterways no longer impaired? I just feel like we're selling a stormwater utility on stuff that,
 really should just be routine maintenance that You know, I recognize we haven't been able to afford to do But I think that we should be more ambitious in our goals and really tie this to the quality of our water in our region I mean, I completely agree with you and
 I will caution that you want to make sure things are achievable. And I'm not saying that delisting the city streams or such is not achievable, but I do realize that many streams these days are, let's say, impaired by bacteria, if you could call it for them, and there's such a wide dispersed suite of sources, if you will, that
 that I'm hesitant to necessarily offer that up as a goal because I wanna make sure that
 while we don't want to hedge things so that we know we're going to achieve them i want them to be achievable and there's some things that sometimes i question whether they are with our current regulatory framework but that being said so is that something you'd like to see should we go forward over the next year is in some of our stakeholder involvement and such try to flesh that out a little bit yeah i i think that we need to get people excited about water quality
 And that's going to take some more ambitious goals and more Legible goals than the list that is here not I definitely think we need to do all of these things but I don't think we need to I think having a hard time articulating this because it's late, but understand
 We have to do better. And right now, you know, our current development codes allow for a 20% increase in runoff. And that's unacceptable because as our land gets more and more developed, we're just going to get more and more runoff and more and more water pollution. And water is our most valuable resource here. And I think that we need to be taking more aggressive action to mitigate the impacts of development, to remediate land.
 existing, um, problem areas and to incentivize better best practices. Um, you know, I, when I
 would impact the quality of development that developers are doing. I don't see that really included here. I think this is a great start, but I think we need to go deeper. Yep. And get- And potentially be a little more ambitious. Let's be more ambitious. This is Fayetteville. Let's set a higher standard. Yeah, and I think we've talked about that. And with our credit system, I think we can achieve a lot of that. One of the themes we heard over and over were,
 new development causing flooding and things like that. And we don't want to downplay that, but we do understand that the vast majority of our flooding problems we saw were in the older parts of town. So we're trying to determine how do we incentivize those individuals who have existing properties with vast impervious areas to retrofit those.
 So I think that would be a huge metric that we might be able to get a better handle on of how many of those properties maybe have been retrofitted and then directly relate to the water quality goals that you're talking about. Right, and I think forming some kind of a fund that could pay for some of that, not just savings on your water bill.
 But, you know, a lot of those areas are in economically depressed areas, and they are not going to have the financial capability to make big investments in hopes of saving $5 or $10 on their water bill. I feel like we need a grants program. You know, let's hit these properties with excessive amounts of impervious surface area hard, and then let's use that to –
 fund some remediation and really make a difference and not just clean out our existing infrastructure. Chris? I completely agree with Councilmember Marsh. Absolutely. That's what I found missing in here was the goal of getting off the impaired stream list and some other of these things that I think we could have another section on that that talked about the status of our streams close to the area
 And if it is bacteria, we could say something that would say this may not really affect bacteria. But if it's total sediments, suspended sediments, so I think there's a lot of room where we could demonstrate improvement through this.
 And I also agree completely with trying to think about how we go forward with development and more green development. So I found that to be a little sparse in there, but how we move forward, how we plan for climate change and high variability. So thank you. Well, and it is a flood management and water quality funding study, so point well taken. Anyone else before we move on? No.
 Teresa, do you have something else? Okay. Yeah. Okay. Most of y'all, I believe, have probably perused the report, at least at some level. So at this late hour, I'm not going to belabor this too much. So I'm just providing really a high-level overview of what's in the report. This is a summary of current versus the proposed future costs. As you can see, we're planning roughly about 3 million additional...
 spending on stormwater should this proceed and again some of this is with our analysis under the funding study as we'll get to in a little bit we're going to revisit some of those elements over the next year should Council deem appropriate and so some of these numbers are going to change
 Another item I want to bring up that was not highlighted on this slide was that we did look at other alternative funding sources to do a lot of these things, and specifically additional taxes, special assessments, impact fees, and really found that this was the most equitable, sustainable, long-term source, because as Alan alluded to, there was
 a plethora of comments in response to the survey about the developers being at fault and such. And this is not to say there's not part of the responsibility there, but a development impact fee is not going to fund replacing some of the older infrastructure, infrastructure that's in the right of way and such.
 A consistent key theme from stakeholders was the lack of knowledge of the scale of CIP needs.
 Many thought that the drainage bond in its entirety would cover these costs. And so specifically I pulled some numbers out for y'all to reference that we're estimating about $35 million would be needed over the next 20 years to meet the capital improvement needs. And if we take the 15 million out from the drainage fund, that leaves roughly about 19 million, annualized to about one million a year.
 And so just wanted to be clear that there was a substantial need above and beyond the 15 million that's in the drainage bond. And that's something that I feel strongly will need to convey to stakeholders over the next year or so so that they really understand this.
 Another item with regards to the future CIP costs and how things are allocated, we plan for this to be a standalone enterprise fund should it decide to go forward, which is one of the things to help it be more legally defensible as well as to make sure those funds are only spent towards flood management, stormwater, and water quality.
 Multiple stakeholders expressed an interest in a rate structure based on percent pervious versus total, including council members. We had the letter someone wrote in to either the Fayetteville Flyer or the Northwest Arkansas
 paper basically suggesting that we look at this and want to give credit where credit is due that as a result one of our next steps will be to go ahead and look at what's called an intensity of development rate structure and
 This is not a new concept. It's not used as much as just the total amount of impervious surface. But for example, Seattle uses it currently and their rate structure is tiered off of and I'm going to get the terminology wrong, but like a high, medium and low. And again, when I say percent imperviousness, it's taking the imperviousness that's on a parcel of property and dividing it by the parcels total area.
 Now there's still some big decisions to come over the next year or so should the city decide
 One of them that is, there's not necessarily a particularly easy or good answer. It would be how to bill such a fee. We could go ahead and do it on the existing monthly utility system. But like many utility systems, there is not an ownership attribute that is consistently populated through it. So almost anything you do.
 there would be a fair amount of database development to ensure that it's accurate and going to the right person.
 On the flip side, you could also try billing on Washington County's annual property tax system. That is very common simply because it's easier because obviously the owner, you know who the owner is, it's going to the owner. Another bonus with that is collections on property taxes are traditionally much higher than on utility bills.
 As Alan mentioned, we're going to work on a sustainable credit system that would be based on additional stakeholder input.
 the drainage criteria manual as the basis, but then layer on top some additional green infrastructure practices and public education measures. I think I mentioned before, some communities actually give various churches credit if members of the congregation attend various public education sessions.
 And then next, there was a lot of discussion from stakeholders about taxes versus fees. So I wanted to do a real quick refresher on fee for service policy considerations. So unlike a tax, it's important that all properties
 with impervious surfaces pay. And this is gonna have a learning curve that we've already seen during the funding study and that we're gonna have to continue out going out over the next year to ensure stakeholders that typically don't pay these fees, such as the school district, the university, and other big stakeholders are aware this is coming and plan accordingly.
 Others, that the overall cost of the program is reasonably related to the services being provided, that the revenues accounted for separately, hence the enterprise fund I mentioned previously. Tiered rate structure is proportional to the property's contribution.
 Again, this is not a purely a revenue raising activity. It's a regulatory activity and that's very important and hence incentives such as credits, rebates play a big, big role because as Alan mentioned, we'd love to encourage retrofitting a lot of the older properties that have no stormwater management.
 credits and rebates in particular, which gives people a larger benefit back on what can be a fairly sizable investment or ways to encourage that. Okay, next steps based on council and stakeholder feedback. First I wanted to go through some of the feedback that we got from the surveys and then we'll go through next steps.
 So our first survey, if you'll recall, we had about 166 responses. The second survey, which was open for a much shorter time period, we had about 818 responses. The bulk of them were from residents, about 15-16% were a business or an organization, 12% were rental property owners.
 and overall when they were asked to pro prioritize the services that this could fund above and beyond everybody was interested in repairing or replacing failing drainage pipes protecting homes and businesses from future flooding and safeguarding water quality and i think it says a lot about the city of fayetteville that water quality is in the top three i'm not sure that many other communities would have the same results
 Heather, could I make one comment about the survey results? I think you saw the big increase because that 818 was accomplished after we sent home the mailer. Yes. It kind of woke everybody up. Oh, they really are talking about this. So people said, you really are talking about this, and they went and filled out the survey. Another comment about the survey, we did notice that there were –
 I mean, studying the back end, we had a few repeat. Yeah, I was going to bring that up in a moment. There might be perfectly valid reasons that
 Some people decided to take it more than once. The, bang the table, the software company went back and did an analysis that I was really impressed with. Came up with some really good reasons why that might be. But there were roughly 30 some multiple, taking the survey multiple times. Okay, this is just a brief summary. First I'll start with their feedback on the actual rates.
 About 30% thought the rates were reasonable as presented. 50% to 60% found them to be unreasonable, which is not unexpected. And 11% to 18% were not sure.
 One thing that was unique is we had over 50 pages of individual comments. 484 people took the time to not only click their vote on things, but to type in what they were thinking. And so that's a lot of feedback. This is by no means
 All of it, but these were just kind of a flavor like I said earlier there was There were many comments about poor timing sort of the confusion of well. How did this relate to the drainage bond? Drainage bond that we just passed on secondly better prioritization of the Senate city spending to address needs versus wants and
 better management of infill development. And so one of the things going forward over the next year is to look at ways to equitably close maybe some of the loopholes on some of that infill development. The perception that this is a tax versus a fee for service. Noting that the cost of living in Fayetteville is getting too high, which is not news to y'all.
 Fee structure should be based on percent impervious of the property versus total. And then again, really wanting to provide ways for property owners who do a good job of proactively managing things to lower their bill.
 So the stakeholder driven next steps, and this really is stakeholder driven. We had great suggestions, great feedback. The first of which is to consider consistency revisions to the Unified Development Code. And that includes potentially addressing the exemptions for single family homes, for the duplexes, for the smaller size additions.
 assessing the use of a mitigation fee in lieu of program for those parcels that can prove that it's not feasible for them to provide onsite stormwater management. And this would result not only in a fee structure for the fee in lieu of program, but also a cookbook that compiles the existing measures that property owners could do in lieu of,
 on-site retention. And again, it's either they can do one of these practices and there'll be smaller scale practices or they can pay the fee in lieu of. And then with regard to the actual funding study and a fee program, we plan on developing a sustainable credit program, which would be a framework and that would be brought forward both to council and to the stakeholders to get your feedback on.
 We're gonna perform an alternative rate structure analysis, like I said, based on the intensity of development. And then after we do that, we'd go through and do one final rate analysis to see how that affects things. And then establishing intergovernmental agreements with some of the key entities. And of course, we'll need kids' feedback on that. My understanding in Arkansas, they're actually called interlocal agreements most of the time.
 i think i think our biggest problem there is we we really don't have much leverage but uh hopefully they will be good citizens and we can work something out and so that is all i had at this late hour but i am perfectly happy to answer more questions provide some more information i really appreciate the opportunity to have completed the funding study for y'all and really hope it provided some value thank you what questions do we have in the council sir
 Thank you. I'm really pleased to see the report. I think we're definitely moving in the right direction, you know, add a little more ambitiousness to it. I do have concerns about tying it to property taxes just because that is such an incredible burden come tax time to pay a huge chunk of money. I mean, I know it stresses me out for months trying to save up for that. So I really encourage us to break that into small pieces that lower income people can afford. Good feedback.
 I would be perfectly happy to get an answer to this in writing instead of now, but we mentioned a couple of times alternative rate structures for percent of Impervious surface. How does that look from an equity standpoint? So if you've got a small lot that is mostly house versus a huge store that has a moderate amount of green space We're not talking about those paying
 the same or somebody with a lower percent but a much higher total impervious surface, that wouldn't
 I'm going to stop talking now because I think you know my question. Yeah, I mean essentially the way things are set up now, it's really based on a one-to-one relationship. And there are a couple of things to stress on the equity side. First off, you already have an incredibly equitable draft rate structure that's in the funding study. You're one of the few communities that is offering up a customer neutral rate structure.
 which is a big deal because in many other areas where they bill a flat rate for residential and then total imperviousness for non-residential, it ends up that non-residential can end up subsidizing some of the stormwater services for residential or things like that. And so first off, we're already headed in the right direction as far as equity then, but the way
 the percent pervious rate structures work is it is usually only for larger amounts of imperviousness so for example and I can get something in writing for you with complete references and such but Seattle only bills percent imperviousness above 10,000 square feet
 So it's typically going to get at some of the larger properties. So it's not a top-to-bottom kind of rescaling. It's just a way of targeting the harder-to-measure ones. Exactly. Okay, thank you. And I'm not saying that that's necessarily like we'll look at a little bit of everything when we pick it up for the city of Fayetteville. I'm just trying to quote things that other folks have done. Okay, thank you. I just saw that a couple of times, and that wasn't real clear on the scope of that, so that helps. Thank you.
 Well, it'll be interesting how it plays out statistically, statistics geek hat right here, of how that would play out. Sarah? Yeah, I just want to echo that concern. I want to make sure that we're not disincentivizing infill or small lots and rewarding large lots. So I like that threshold. Thank you. Good point. Anything else? Okay. Okay.
 All right. Thank you. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sarah. I move we approve the resolution. Kyle. Second. We have a motion and a second to approve the resolution. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Unch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. All right, thank you all. Number four, an ordinance to rezone that property described in the zoning petition RZN 19-6833 for approximately .06 acres located at 510 West 11th Street from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Line Industrial to NC Neighborhood Conservation. Kitts?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from I-1 Heavy Commercial and Light Industrial to N.C. Neighborhood Conservation. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay. Andrew. Yes, sir. This property is located at the southeast corner of Dunn Avenue and 11th Street. It's just across the street from the National Cemetery in South Fayetteville. It's a small sliver of property. It's about 2,600 square feet. It is kind of a remnant of light industrial zoning from this area from many years past where there were some more industry in the area.
 The applicant is requesting to rezone the property to neighborhood conservation. They also own the property adjacent to the south and this would allow them to have more buildable area to do residential development. This was discussed at the Planning Commission and it was unanimously recommended in favor to pour to the council. Thank you. Okay, is the applicant here? Hello, I'm Ryan Castro and I own the lot and I'll be happy to answer any questions you might have. Okay, do we have any questions for the applicant?
 I have a question. Sure. Why'd you choose neighborhood conservation? Well, when I purchased both parcels, the realtor and the city planner at the time, Quinn, recommended that I choose that. I just was going to use it for personal use and it sounded good to me. I don't really know much about that, to be honest. But I mean, for my purposes, it would work.
 Any other questions, Congress and Council? Okay. What public comment do we have on this? Okay. Seeing none, I'll bring it back to the Council. Sarah. I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sloan. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Unch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 an ordinance rezone that property described in rezoning petition rzn 19-6833 for approximately six hundredths of an acre located at 510 west 11th street from i-1 heavy commercial line industrial to nc neighborhood conservation uh move to spin the rules and go to third and final reading second we have a motion second to go to third and final reading at least which police called roe patty
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property is described in a rezoning petition, RZN 19-6833, for approximately six hundredths of an acre, located at 510 West 11th Street, from I-1 Heavy Commercial Line Industrial, NC Neighborhood Conservation. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes.
 Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay, thank you all. Number five.
 the ordinance commend chapter 159 fee exemptions of the federal unified development code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees water and wastewater impact fees police and public safety impact fees and fire protection system impact fees kit
 Whereas presently the Unified Development Code exempts affordable housing projects from paying building permit fees, water and wastewater impact fees, police and public safety impact fees, and fire protection system impact fees,
 And whereas recently Mayor Jordan became aware that homeless shelters are not exempt from paying these fees and directed staff to prepare an amendment to the Unified Development Code to treat homeless shelters the same as affordable housing projects with respect to the payment of permit and impact fees. Now therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1.
 as the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby repeals Section 159.01b.10f.II and enacts a new section for the purpose of exempting homeless shelters from paying building permits as follows, quote, subsection double I, affordable housing and homeless shelters
 construction of single-family, non-profit, multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters, funded wholly or primarily by the federal Community Development Block Grants, non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, housing and urban development housing loans, and similar programs designed to provide affordable, owner-occupied, single-family residence to low-income individuals,
 Nonprofit multifamily supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from payment of building permit fees. Section 2, that the City Council and City of Fayetteville Archipelago hereby repeal Section 15902D6 and enact a new subsection for the purpose of exempting homeless shelters from paying water and wastewater impact fees as follows. Subsection 6, affordable housing and homeless shelter exemption.
 Construction of single-family, non-profit, multi-family, supportive housing and homeless shelters funded wholly or primarily by federal community development block grants. Non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, housing and urban development housing loans and similar programs designed to provide affordable, owner-occupied, single-family residence to low-income individuals.
 Non-profit multifamily supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from payment of impact fees pursuant to this ordinance by the impact fee administrator. Section 3. That the City Council and the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby repeal Section 15903-D4 and enact a new Section 15903-D4 for the purpose of exempting homeless shelters from paying police and public safety impact fees as follows. Subsection 4. Affordable housing and homeless shelter exemption.
 Construction of single-family, non-profit, multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters, funded wholly or primarily by federal community development block grants, non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, housing and urban development housing loans and similar programs designed to provide affordable, owner-occupied, single-family residence to low-income individuals.
 Non-profit multifamily supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from payment of impact fees pursuant to this ordinance by the Impact Fee Administrator, Section 4. At the City Council, City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Section 15904D4 and enact a new section for the purpose of exempting homeless shelters from paying fire protection system impact fees as follows. Subsection 4, Affordable Housing and Homeless Shelter Exemption.
 construction of single-family, non-profit, multi-family supportive housing and homeless shelters funded wholly or primarily by federal Community Development Block grants, non-profit service organizations such as Habitat for Humanity, housing and urban development housing loans and similar programs designed to provide affordable, owner-occupied single-family residence to low-income individuals,
 Nonprofit multifamily supportive housing and homeless shelters shall be exempted from the payment of impact fees pursuant to this ordinance by the impact fee administrator. Okay.
 Mayor and Council, this is a minor code amendment related to Chapter 159 of our Fees Chapter. We were working with a local nonprofit on a homeless shelter, and they asked if they had to pay fees, and we said yes. And we read through the code, and they technically are not exempt, although the council has exempted affordable housing. So this is really just clarifying that homeless shelters are also exempt from those impact fees. Thank you.
 And we're recommending approval of that amendment. That's something I wanted to bring. When it was brought to my attention, I thought that this would be something the council would want to do to help those that need the help the most. So...
 taking questions you guys along well whatever we do we have to make sure it can't read that two more times I'm just kidding um do we have any idea of a budget impact on on this I mean I'm for the amendment but I was just wondering if
 Well, since we've not had to do it before, we've never collected anything, and this will just ensure we will not collect anything from a homeless shelter. So I don't think it really will happen very often. Okay. So we haven't collected anything. We haven't lost anything. Okay. Thanks. Sort of kind of. Any other questions? Do we have any public comment on this? Yes.
 Hey y'all, I know it's late, but as someone who grew up super poor and had to rely on stuff like this, this is a good thing. It takes decades to get out of poverty, I know from firsthand experience. My mom hates it when I say things like that, but it's true. So these things actually are kind of like a domino effect that helps add up and makes a big difference, so thank you. Thank you, Will. Any other public comments? Okay.
 Hello everybody, I'm Rob Qualls. I wasn't planning on talking, and also don't want to delay things, but I just want to thank you and staff for finding these opportunities to help people in need. My family goes to church, to Genesis Church, with a lot of people who live in poverty and experience homelessness, sometimes for short periods of time, sometimes for long periods of time. So it really means a lot that we have leadership that is looking for opportunities to
 to help the helpers, to help those that are looking to open places, whether it's a small residential treatment facility, which we're sorely lacking, especially for women in this community, or a larger shelter. I really appreciate the concern and looking out for ways we can help and look forward to you passing this. Thank you. Thank you very much. Any other public comment? Okay, bring it back to the council. Sarah. Sarah.
 well it's a real shame that all of the people who are so concerned about affordable housing are not here to advocate on behalf of this but um even without that i i move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading smile second of motion second to go to the second reading lisa would you please call the wrong petty yes scroggins yes yes turk yes smith yes yes yes yes
 And in order to amend Chapter 159 fee exemptions of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees, water and wastewater impact fees, police and public safety impact fees, and fire protection system impact fees. Small. Moved to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. Second. Motion to second to go to third and final reading. Lisa, would you please call her up? Petty. Second.
 Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. At Norwich, amend Chapter 159, fee exemptions of the Fayetteville Unified Development Code to clarify that homeless shelters are exempt from building permit fees, water and wastewater impact fees, police and public safety impact fees, and fire protection system impact fees.
 okay any final comments from the council i would like to note one statistic i want to be sure that we remember that when you look at the homeless population about 30 percent the homeless population of veterans about 30 percent of children so two-thirds of the homeless population that we see in this city see their veteran or child and this is one of the ways that we can help relieve a little bit of that
 Need and I want to thank you all Okay, at least would you please call Eddie yes Scroggins yes, yes Yes, yes Yes, yes, yes All right number six
 An earnest way of competing being an approved contract with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation and Today's Power Inc. to provide for the interconnection of the city's solar facilities at the Wayside and Nolan wastewater treatment plants with the Ozark Electric utility grid and to provide for the ongoing maintenance of those interconnected facilities at a cost of $20,116 per year for the 20-year term of the solar project kit.
 Whereas on November 20th, 2018, the City Council approved several contracts with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation and Today's Power Incorporated that provided for the development, construction, and operation of solar power generation and energy storage facilities at the City's wastewater treatment plants. And whereas on June 21st, 2019, the Arkansas Public Service Commission approved the City's application for the solar generation, net metering, and energy storage project
 and whereas the solar facilities were completed on June 30, 2019, and were interconnected with the electric utility grid of Ozarks Electric on July 18, 2019.
 And whereas city staff recommend the approval of a contract for maintenance of interconnection facilities with Ozarks electric provide for ongoing maintenance of the overhead and underground electric distribution facilities That connect the city solar power generation and battery storage units to the Ozarks electric grid at a cost of twenty thousand one hundred and sixteen dollars per year and where a city staff also recommend that
 the approval of a contract for interconnection of customer-owned generation with ozarks electric and today's power which more specifically defines the roles and responsibilities of each party with respect to the interconnection of solar power generation and battery storage components with the ozarks electric utility grid and whereas both agreements will be in effect
 for the 20-year term of the trilateral agreement and are necessary to satisfy Arkansas Public Service Commission's requirement for interconnection of the system and to ensure that solar power generation is not interrupted by distribution system failure.
 and whereas it is neither feasible nor practical to competitively bid the maintenance contract because of the existing trilateral agreement, facilities upgrade agreement and energy management agreement with Ozarks Electric, because Ozarks Electric's position is the City's monopoly power provider in these areas, and because both the City and Ozarks Electric have ongoing responsibility to comply with the Arkansas Public Service Commission rules and orders governing this project.
 Now, therefore, be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby determines that an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical.
 And therefore, Ways requirements of formal compatibility and authorized Mayor Jordan to sign a contract for maintenance of interconnection facilities with Ozarks Electric Cooperative Corporation provide for ongoing maintenance of the city's interconnected solar power generation and battery storage components with the electrical utility grid at a cost of $20,116 per year.
 and that the City Council, Section 2, the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arkansas hereby authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign a contract for interconnection of customer-owned generation with Ozarks Electric in today's power. To further define the roles and responsibility of each party with respect to the interconnection of the city's solar power generation and battery storage components with Ozarks Electric utility grid as approved by the Arkansas Public Service Commission.
 Mayor and Council, I'm not sure there's much that's needed to be added to that. Thank you, Kit.
 for reading all of that. Both agreements do relate to the solar facilities that are at our wastewater treatment plants. The first agreement is for, with Ozarks Electric only, and that is for maintenance of all of the electrical equipment that is behind the meter that is owned by the City of Fayetteville. It is necessary for the connection of the solar array and the battery storage to the electrical grid.
 It is from preventative maintenance inspection that Ozarks Electric will provide and maintain on that equipment. The cost of that is $20,116 per year. The funding for that will be paid from the Water and Sewer Department starting in 2020.
 The second agreement is an interconnection agreement, and it is with the city, Ozarks Electric, and Today's Power, Inc. And it allows for the interconnection of the solar array and the battery storage, which is required per net metering rules from the Arkansas Public Service Commission. And that allows for the bidirectional flow of electricity to and from the wastewater plant, the solar arrays, and the battery storage facilities. With that, I'd be glad to answer any questions that you might have on either one of these
 what questions we have here we've had a couple of additional things like this come through since the first big um contract on on the whole project the first title agreement yeah is this the
 Or should we expect a few more of these along the way? As far as I'm aware, this is the end. Okay. Yes. This is an amount that I imagine doesn't have too big an impact on the overall bottom line of the project over its lifespan? Yeah, we included this $20,000 number in our return on investment calculation and it takes it to a 4.4-year return on our investment. Okay. So this was all foreseen in what we discussed previously? Yeah.
 And we obviously assume it's going to be a 20-year at least project, so for the next 15 years it's going to be a good return for our taxpayers once we have the initial stuff paid off in 4.4 years? That's correct. Any other questions? Okay. Do we have any public comment on this? Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. Sloan. Move to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Sloan. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading.
 Lisa, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to waive competitive bidding and approve contracts with Ozark Selected Cooperative Corporation and Today's Power Incorporated...
 to provide for the interconnection of the city's solar facilities at the Westside and Nolan wastewater treatment plants with the Ozarks electric utility grid and to provide for the ongoing maintenance of those interconnected facilities at a cost of $20,116 per year for the 20-year term of this solar project. Moved to suspend rules and go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to third and final reading.
 Listen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Yes.
 in order to waive competitive bidding and improve contracts with Ozark Electric Cooperative Corporation and today's Power Incorporator to provide for the interconnection of the City's solar facilities at the Westside and Nolan wastewater treatment plants with the Ozark's electric utility grid and to provide for the ongoing maintenance of those interconnected facilities at a cost of $20,116 per year for the 20-year term of the solar project.
 Do we have any final comments from the council? No. Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Munch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Okay, number seven. Okay.
 An ordinance way requires some formal competitive bidding and approved quote from Field Shop Incorporated of Little Rock, India amount of $14,390.42 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges to reconfigure and install audio systems in City Hall room 326.
 Whereas on December 15, 2015, the City Council approved a contract with the Field Shop Incorporated for an upgrade to the audiovisual equipment in the City Council Chambers and City Hall
 room 326 and an upgrade to the audio-visual broadcast equipment in the television center. And whereas the Field Shop Incorporated, which has already integrated a portion of the digital server and archive, is best qualified and positioned to continue as the City's contractor for services to include reconfiguration and installation of the audio systems. And whereas having another vendor install the audio systems would require a steep learning curve,
 of the integrated systems at a greater potential financial and quality cost to the City. It would also lead to delays in the project. Now therefore, be it ordained by the City Council, the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the city council the city of favor arcs are hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a quote from the field shop incorporated of little rock in the amount of 14 390.42 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges to reconfigure and install audio systems in city hall room 326. thank you doug bankston director of media services um
 I feel like I've been picked last in kickball or something here. So normally this is an item that would not come before you if you go through purchasing with a sole source justification. But for the entire year, we've kind of hit that vendor threshold. And so it's before you with a request for a bid waiver so that they can perform this reconfiguration in 326.
 They were the original installers of that system in 3.26 in 2016 with the budget that we had to work with. That room upstairs is kind of acoustically challenged. The front half of it where you all sit has a resonant hum above you. And where the audience sits in the rear, there's the AC heat exchanger unit that the audience has to contend with. And it's directly above the ceiling tiles.
 So, after a couple years in researching, we came across a system that we integrated into room 111 downstairs, kind of as a test. It works great for audio quality and control. It works so well that we actually came up and integrated some of it into this council chamber. You may not have noticed. But it works really well, and we would like to incorporate that into 326 so that we can
 everyone can hear clearly what everybody's saying, both in the front half and the rear half of the room, and it would clarify a lot of the audio recording that we have. So I'd be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have? Yeah, please. When I sit in on the transportation meeting on water and sewer, the mayor has a little trouble hearing in the back of the room. I don't know if that is the sound system or maybe a little age situation.
 But anyway, I think that is going to be a really good improvement. There's a lot of background noise going on in that room. You're sitting back in those chairs if you've ever been in there. Well, besides. It's a tough room.
 Mayor, I had a question. It's not necessarily related to that, but while we're talking about improvements to our rooms, 111 does not have outlets on the table. Do we have any plans to do something about that? I know my iPad doesn't hold a charge anymore, and we've had guests that want to give a presentation or use their device and aren't able to.
 That was by design with working with the facilities management and IT as well. That room is a multi-purpose room, so it allows for them to break those tables down, clear them out, and open the space up. So putting those kinds of things and cabling onto the table made it extremely difficult. Before that room was upgraded,
 There were those types of outlets connected on those tables, and it really slowed the breakdown for facilities whenever they had to reconfigure that room for open events. Well, it's a challenge in that room now, and it would be great if we could at least get some, like –
 extension cords or power strips or something because there have been several times when I've needed an outlet and I had not access to one. Rather than string it to a wall. Yeah, and cause a tripping hazard and my charger's not that long.
 Yeah, one of the improvements in there is a floor box, a very large floor box where we may be able to actually integrate through that. Yeah, I've actually had to crawl under the tables to get to the floor box before. That's not pleasant on camera. Yeah, because there are outlets there, but we can do an extension. I can't crawl anymore. Thanks. You know you really pull when you get the last item, which we always say for the best. They missed the greatest item.
 All right. Any public comment on this one? No? All right. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Oh, look at so many names. Sonja? I move that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Tiras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. And in order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a quote from the Field Shop Incorporated of Little Rock in the amount of $14,390.42 plus any applicable taxes, rate charges to reconfigure and install audio systems in City Hall Room 326. Sarah? Yes.
 Move that we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Kyle. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the third and final reading. Lisa, would you please go on the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 And harness away the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a quote from the Field Shop Incorporated of Little Rock in the amount of $14,390.42 plus any applicable taxes and freight charges to reconfigure and install audio systems in City Hall Room 326. Any final comments from the council? Okay. Lisa, would you please call the roll?
 Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Looks like I'm going to get you all out early tonight. What comments do we have that concludes our business acceptance? Some announcements. Okay.
 Some announcements. Some announcements. Okay. You all recall that it was in July when you passed the e-scooter ordinance, and we went ahead and put an application process out there, had several that applied. The first two had problems with their insurance. The next two are going to be a winner. I believe Dane told you last week it would be spin and lime. Okay.
 And it turns out that spin is on its way, and we expect to see the scooters delivered this Friday. So wanted you all to know the scooters are coming, and the first batch should be showing up on the streets Friday. Media release will go out tomorrow. They've been finalizing the agreement. And all the details, we do have a web page dedicated to it and lots of details there. Also...
 This is for all of you animal lovers. Free Cat Friday is this November 8th, Friday. Fayetteville Shelter is hosting its 8th annual Free Cat Friday. The terms are on the website.
 The deadline for the city clerk treasurer application is this Thursday, November 7th at 5 p.m. And a reminder that you all have your special meeting a week after that on the 14th for the selection of from the application pool. We have rescheduled the Gregory Park ribbon cutting
 to Saturday, November 16th, in order for more of our patrons and volunteers who've been working on that park to be able to attend. And all the details are on the website. Gregory Park, with its improvements in the Ozark Off-Road Cycling Group, and several volunteer agencies have worked on that park. Okay.
 Finally, also tomorrow we will have a media release going out about the next public input sessions that will be next week, Wednesday and Thursday with Nelson Bird Waltz of the Cultural Arts Corridor Project. So we'll have the two public meetings. The first will be Wednesday evening 6 to 8 p.m. at Theater Squared. Thanks Theater Squared for allowing us to use the facility and also thanks to the Public Library Walker Room.
 Thursday afternoon, the 14th from 1 to 3. Those will be opportunities for the public to come view the latest of the Cultural Arts Quarter project that will focus primarily on the Fay Jones Woods, the West Avenue streetscapes, and the improvements to...
 Razorback Greenway, and also to learn about the site certification, SITE, and that has to do with environmental friendly attributes of the landscaping that we're putting in with
 and i think that's all except if you all haven't seen the retail and restaurant survey it's a it it launched about two weeks ago on speak up fayetteville and it's an opportunity for you and residents to um talk or to fill in the survey about what services you would like to see pin a dot on the map and show where you would like to see retail or restaurant services and the kinds that you'd like to see
 And finally, another reminder for you all that the Joint Board of Education, this is it, Mayor, I swear. The Joint Board of Education meeting, you all have had an email from Patty Mulford in the Mayor's office. Next Wednesday, the 13th, is your Joint Board of Education meeting. Thank you.
 That's all I have. Well, Kit, you have something. Well, Mayor, I want to send out a greeting and thanks to the veterans. The city will be closed on Monday for Veterans Day. I'm wearing my flag in honor of the veterans, and I'm glad we passed the homeless shelter because veterans are one of the primary recipients, hopefully, of what you all have done. So I won't see you all Monday unless you're out marching around somewhere. Thanks for that reminder. Yep.
 All right. I don't think we have anything else, do we? No walk-ons? No tours we have to take? Well, as bad as I hate to shut the meeting down, we're adjourned.