I would like to call to order the city council meeting for November the 19th, 2024. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford. Here. Jones. Jones. Moore. Here. Whittaker. Whittaker. Berna. Here. Bunch. Here. Turk. Here. Hertzberg. Here. Mayor Jordan. Here. Mayor Jordan. Would you join me in the pledge of allegiance?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Before we get started tonight, I have a statement to make. Sunday night, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the passing of a very dear friend,
 and a former city council member nancy allen nancy was a true friend and former council member for ward 2 position 2. between 2006 and 2008 after retiring from her teaching career to jefferson elementary and serving six years on the planning commission nancy was a key advocate for neighborhoods having served as president and vice president of the federal council of neighborhoods always champion
 quality of life, progressive programs to keep our neighborhoods safe and cohesive and invite public engagement about important city projects wherever possible. Nancy was always active in city programs, including being head of the board of the Yvonne Richardson Center. Nancy worked amazingly well with all of the city council members, myself included.
 I remember Nancy's work with me on so many issues and council, one of which was changing the name of 6th Street to Martin Luther King Boulevard. Some of the other ones was support the LGBTQ rights, the welcoming plan, the neighborhood involvement plan, the Wes Gordon Award, which Wes was her father, through the Chamber of Commerce. She was an animal rights activist and a human rights activist. She will be missed by this council.
 Yes. This city and personally by me. The memorial service for Nancy will be at 2 p.m. Thursday, November the 21st, 2024 at Ward's Chapel. Let's take just a moment of time. Okay. Thank you all. Nancy was wonderful kind. I love this community. Everybody that knew her loved her. Yes. Okay. Well, on to the business at hand. First, we'll do the consent agenda.
 One approval of the October 15th 2024 City Council meeting minutes number two resolution to approve cost share agreement with Tommy flowers Davis in an amount not to exceed 11,712 dollars and fifty cents for a waterline cost share near the corner of East Rock Street and South Willow Avenue and to approve project tendency in the amount of two thousand three hundred forty two dollars and fifty cents a
 Number three, a resolution to authorize the city of federal to accept and enter into a sub-award grant agreement with the Arkansas Tri-Region Energy and Environment Innovation Coalition to um, subsidize the sub-awarded funds for EPA, utilize the sub-awarded funds for EPA grant pollution reduction grant project implementation and for other purposes.
 Number four, resolution to authorize the total expenditures in excess of $35,000 for maintenance, repair, and operation supplies and commodities across all departments citywide using cooperative accounts.
 with purchasing cooperatives for state contracts fiscal year within the approved budget. Number five, a resolution to waive competitive bidding and to authorize the Mayor to sign a software as service agreement with the Municipal Media Corporation, DBA, Recycle Coach at the cost of $52,985 for a period of three years.
 Number six, a resolution to approve an agreement between the City of Federal and Onslaught LLC, DBA, Red Box and Dumpsters of Northwest Arkansas to haul and dispose of solid materials.
 waste within the city. Number seven, a resolution to award budget, a budget adjustment in the amount of $15 million to appropriate proceeds from the 2024 city sales and use tax bonds. Number eight, a resolution to commit $20,665
 accrued interest on the American Rescue Plan Act funds to the child care assistance program to improve budget adjustment. I will entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda. Motion to accept the consent agenda is read. Second. Motion second to accept the consent agenda is read. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes.
 verna yes lunch yes kirk yes herzberg yes okay thank you all very much let's go down and finish business number one a resolution for the raising and removal of lactate and unsafe structure on property at home by razorback housing llc cl david heard located at 920 west elm street in the city of febrile artisans to approve budget adjustment in the amount of 39 000 dollars
 um this was tabled to this council meeting so billy what do you have or whoever's got it
 Mayor, I'll be taking this item tonight. Jonathan Kurth, Development Services Department. As a reminder to the City Council, what we're talking about or where it is, this is getting towards north central Fayetteville. That includes property along the west side of North Leverett Avenue, just about near its dead end at the University of Arkansas agricultural farms. It is, however, addressed off of Elm Street, which is accessed from Garland Avenue.
 Uh, this was brought to you, or this item was received as a complaint in May of 2024 with concerns about the properties condition and the house on it. Uh, staff evaluated the property, found that it was dilapidated beyond the state of repair and accordingly brought it before city council at your September seventeenth meeting.
 At that meeting, the council heard from the applicant's representative who gave assurances that they would work on demolishing the property rather than needing to have a raise and removal filed by the city with associated liens on the property.
 which the applicant duly did on September 19th, two days after the council tabled the item for two months that was issued. Work is currently underway on the property and that brings us to today. I did receive some updated images from our code enforcement group that was out there this afternoon.
 At this point not only are the structures removed but the sites are is also Substantially cleaned up and at this point it is our building officials recommendation that we table this item indefinitely I know at agenda session we
 reserved the right to recommend tabling for a certain number of months to ensure that the work is was completed but it does seem as Though it's ongoing and almost back to completely Developable state so again our recommendation is the table this item and definitely we appreciate the council's Affording us the opportunity to bring it back to you. Thank you and mayor I have Robert Rhodes here as the applicants representative or the representative of the property owner Council
 Nothing to say except thank you for your patience and I'm glad we were able to get it cleaned up, Mayor. Thank you all. I assume we have to have public comment before... We will. Okay. I just wanted to know if you all had any more questions. I am a little bit off tonight here. All right. Let's take some public comment. Everybody has one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration.
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber are allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic? It's in the chamber. Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. Okay, I'll bring it back to the council. This is a resolution. What action would the council like to take? Mayor, I'd make a motion to table this in depth. Second. Second.
 We have a motion, second to table indefinitely. Next, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Erna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number two, an ordinance to amend 161.36 urban corridor by enacting use unit 38, many storage units as conditional use for urban corridor in section B2. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading.
 I'll make a motion that we move to the third and final reading. Second. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 An ordinance to amend section 161.36 urban corridor by enacting use unit 38 mini storage units as a conditional use for urban corridor in section B2. Thank you mayor. I'll keep this brief because this is as it's on third reading that we've talked about this a couple times, but I was approached by gentlemen about the potential of leaving the use of mini storages as a conditional use permit and
 The reason being they'd already started plans. They have a property that has below-grade access, whereby it wouldn't even be seen from College Avenue. But as the rezoning sets, it would not be allowed. After reviewing it, it looked like a reasonable request, and considering the fact that we were going to push for housing on College Avenue, I thought it was a reasonable request to...
 uh to bring forward uh in regards to uh some comments uh councilmember stafford had uh last meeting i spoke with uh staff about potentially uh identifying some guidelines for the
 Planning Commission to use and their their preference is to allow staff to work with the Planning Commission after the first of the year Because that's kind of the process is let the Planning Commission identify those and then bring those to the council so they would like us to keep it as as is for now, but the the Planning Commission work on identifying parameters. So I
 Thank you. What questions does the council have? I just want to say I appreciate staff and planning, you know, willing to look at this. And I think with some extra rules and regulations or restrictions on what's allowed, I think that this is going to be fine. I think it could also serve a purpose. And opposite, I know some people think that...
 this is going to cause traffic i think it will reduce it um you know like councilmember bernard mentioned we'll have people living on the corridor now if they could go to one of these spaces that's close by them instead of you know having to go out to the edge of the city i think it could be beneficial again you know that'll depend on what restrictions we put in place but i i'm confident that planning and staff will be able to come up with some good ones
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I guess what I would, I would like to see maybe some follow-up, like maybe next year what they come up with. And so if we could have some sort of presentation. I can't, maybe somebody could clarify, do we approve some of those guidance or conditional use that the Planning Commission uses or does Council not get into those details?
 uh answer that question if that's all right yeah thank you councilmember our use conditions as as they're described in our unified development code are actually codified standards that are associated with each individual land use we have use conditions for short-term rentals we have use conditions for
 We have used conditions for any number of very unique land uses that may not fit into the standard conventions of land use development. So what we imagine our contemplate is having used conditions that are evaluated by the planning commission and they afforded the city council. And you all would ultimately see it as a unified development code ordinance amendment.
 OK, great. So the timeline would be maybe in the next six months or so, somewhere around there? I think that's probably reasonable, yes. OK, all right, great. Thank you. Jonathan, did you say circuses?
 Did I hear you correctly? Yes. Sorry, that came to mind because there was recently a circus at the Arkansas Mall, so that was on my mind. Just wanted to clarify. Did I hear that right? I think everybody's brought up some really good suggestions, and I feel very comfortable with this going to Planning Commission and having them kind of...
 to kind of work on it and then we get to see it, you know, and it's already, a lot of the work's already been hashed out by the time we get it. I do like the idea, though, of in this particular area, we, we,
 suggest a you know a vertical storage facility maybe instead of the old-school flat that you know I doubt anyone's going to buy land and put something like that on there but I think vertical and and you know with a smaller footprint I would be in favor of that so thank you anything else all right let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn speak you have a three minute duration
 Don't engage anyone in the public or any council members. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by then will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic is in the chamber. No, sir. Okay. Well, I'll bring it back to the council. This is on the third and final reading. What comments does the council have?
 Thank you, Mayor. I appreciate the additional conversation that was had around this item. I continue to root myself to the origination of the plan around the urban corridor and kind of the idealized version, I would say, to some degree that we just recently started
 spent all those years of effort to rezone and during that process there was community feedback about the types of uses that they wanted to see along the corridor and I did not see bubbled up at that time about storage and so while I think it's valid that it came from one potential applicant and understand it being pursued, I just continue to have
 of our competing strategic priorities when we think about environmental concerns that we have where we've got priorities around and thinking about this land that is in the center core of town where we put particular infrastructure in place, not thinking that this is necessarily the right opportunity for this type of development.
 opportunity to be allowed for storage. So tonight I won't be supportive of it, but I'll continue if this goes forward to listen on those conditions and very appreciative that we're trying to be more thoughtful in how we approach it. Anybody else? Okay, let's vote. Jackson. Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. No. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Hurt. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes.
 All right, thank you all. Let's go to number three. Nordic's rezoning the property inscribed in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-49 for approximately 1.04 acres located at 1893 North Ruble Road in Ward 4 from RSF 1 residential single family one unit per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. This was left on the second reading. I will entertain a motion to go to the third and final reading. So moved. Okay. Okay.
 second second go to the third and final reading Jackson would you please call the roll Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Berna yes punch yes Turk yes Hertzberg
 Yes. In ordinance to rezone the property described in the rezoning petition RZN 2024-49 for approximately 1.04 acres located at 1893 North Ruppel Road in Ward 4 from RSF 1 residential single family one unit per acre to RIU residential intermediate urban. Okay. Okay. Sean.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have no new information or updates on this item. As a reminder for Council, the item was left on its second reading. As Mayor noted a moment ago, there were concerns given that the split meeting that occurred between two weeks ago and last week and the meeting beginning at 430 that the residents that had concerns hadn't been afforded the opportunity to speak to the item.
 And with that, again, I don't have any additional information on this item, but I'm happy to take any questions. Mayor Clint Penzo was previously the applicant on this item. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak before the council? Doesn't appear to be online. OK. Well, what questions does the council have for the staff? Tracy.
 thank you mayor um a couple of weeks ago the question i think mr penzo had mentioned that they would try and have the access through the alley or or whatever and my question is um you
 it appeared to me and maybe I'm off track here but that alley that and I think you mentioned the existing alley is that private property or is that right-of-way access how does that work Jonathan is that even a possibility thank you for the question that was posed to me by one of the residents as well who I think in turn conveyed that information to y'all if you did not have an opportunity to consider that I believe what's being referenced is the
 Property West of what's being considered to be re, zones on the South side of the street does have a private driveway running along this health property line. It's described as an alley since that's how it functions. However, it is on private property. It's not public right away. So it's not a public right away.
 given a review of the existing plats that have been done on the property and the easement dedications that we have on file, there's no documentation suggesting that that private driveway is available for public use or for being connected to. I do want to couch that in acknowledgement that
 Sometimes easements are filed between property owners. That may include language that would allow that. We don't always have access to that or it's buried within a deed somewhere that we don't have the opportunity to do title research until it's a very specific
 question. Alternatively, it could be something within the covenants of the subdivision, but as a city, we don't enforce those. That would be upon the residents and the members of the POA or HOA to enforce. So it's a long-winded way of saying there's no indication that I have identified that it's a public alley or a public, a private driveway that could be used by adjacent development for connection to it.
 Thank you for answering that. I know it was long-winded, but it was thorough, and I appreciate that. Anything else? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those that are in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address this that's in the chamber on this topic tonight?
 Please come up and introduce yourself. Hi, how do you do? My name is Steve Wilkes. I live at 3984 West Starry Night View, Mr. Mayor, which is directly across the street from the proposed rezoning. I do have a number of concerns, but the primary ones that I'm concerned with have to do with a development that geographically is essentially part of our neighborhood and yet not.
 And so I would like, I'm not opposed to this being redeveloped at all. I just wanted to get myself on record as saying that I would like to see or have some assurance, some degree, that the development is complementary to our current neighborhood. Since any kind of ingress or egress that comes will affect us, it will affect me. This is directly across the street from me. The alley problem is a problem.
 As far as I know that is private property Which means the only way that I can see for this to be developed at that density is to allow a curb cut on the Starry night starry nights a residential street not a thoroughfare or feeder Street So I'm very concerned about the traffic that a dense Development would provide in other words one or two houses. We probably figure it out and
 15 residents in that small space, that's a problem for me as a landowner and a homeowner. We just built our house a couple of years ago. I hate to see it turn from a quiet residential neighborhood to a...
 more dense development that increases a lot of traffic. We already have a lot of traffic in our little neighborhood. People use it to cut through to Bridgeport and a couple other neighborhoods. So I just want to get on record with that. That's my big concern. Others will have different concerns, but those are mine. Thank you very much for your time. Thanks, Steve. Who else would like to address us? Come on up. Good evening. My name is Ted Lefkirke. I live on 4011 West Starry Night View, just where Steve lives too.
 And I have very similar concerns. I don't want to bring them up again. Obviously, a very dense development in our neighborhood would increase the traffic significantly. And I would also like to see that this development kind of fits in within our neighborhood.
 We moved into this neighborhood because we really like the way it is built, what Tracy did there, that every house is unique, that we have not this cookie-cutter neighborhood kind of feeling there, and I would like to maintain that. Secondly, Jonathan Kurth is absolutely right. Every, the alley behind our houses is private property, so each part behind my
 house and the other houses is owned by us. There is no access easement. There's only a utility easement. This is what I would like to bring up to the council and thank you Teresa for tabling this last session. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Okay Susan. No one on Zoom has their hand right. Okay. Bring it back to the council. This is on the third and final reading so
 What's y'all's thoughts? Oh, I got no thoughts. Theresa, you got thoughts. Well, I have driven by there several times. I am concerned about the topography, the density of the proposal.
 I have concerns that it's not it's not going to fit in the neighborhood There's nothing that we can that we can prescribe up here to give the other neighbors Assurances that it will fit in the neighborhood so I
 Will not be supporting this if it were less dense Then I would be Most likely in support of it, but are I use a big jump. I mean right now. It's RSF one so making a job from one unit per acre to No density cap is pretty substantial, so thank you Okay, anybody else
 i had one more thought mayor i'm sorry um the other thing is i did go by there again today and i and while it may not show up on our statistics or our value our official evaluation as just somebody that if i were living in the neighborhood
 I feel that that intersection is kind of dangerous, and having more density in there, more restrictions on our site view, I think would be a concern if I lived in that neighborhood. So that's another reason why I will not be supporting this rezoning. Thank you. Okay. Anybody else? We're about to vote. Scott. Okay.
 Jonathan, could you explain again the situation they're concerned about the rear access? Could you explain that again to me? Certainly. Allow me a moment. I'll pull up an aerial and that may assist in visualizing what I'm describing. Okay.
 all right if you can orient yourself on the property so ruple road is the main drive uh going through the middle of the aerial image there starry night view is the east west street coming off of ruple the area in black bold is what's proposed before council tonight for rezoning
 Several of the houses in this neighborhood are rear loaded, meaning that they're accessed from a driveway behind the units rather than having individual curb cuts on the street. And that includes these houses immediately to the west that you can see me indicating on the screen.
 where a alley and some of our more historic neighborhoods may be within public right-of-way meaning the public holds it and the public or the city can make improvements to it and maintain it these all sit on private property they're there you're crossing individual private properties to access between them typically for the city to have any sort of enforcement and allowing access to those they have to be dedicated within an access easement
 Which typically occurs during a platting process? In reviewing the the multitude of flats and replats that have occurred in this neighborhood We have not been able to identify any instance where an access easement has been dedicated for the full breadth of that what I'm going To call a private driveway given. It's not public alley There is a portion that is dedicated as access easement, but it's much further west of the project being considered so it doesn't actually about their property line and
 So that is why when I responded to Council Member Turk's question, it's my understanding from the deed research and the easement research we've done that that's not a publicly accessible alley. It doesn't appear to be available for this development to tie into. Does that answer your question, Council Member Brenner? So with that in mind, their access to public road will be to where?
 They have they have some degree of access right? The starting night and ruble. I say that in a broad answer more specifically, we do have access management requirements within the city of Fayetteville that say that when you have access to 2 streets, you need to access the lower volume, lower traffic 1. so our ordinances immediately are pushing them towards accessing starry night view.
 That said, and going even further into our access management ordinances, it has spacing requirements depending on what kind of development you're doing. Single family homes have to have at least 10 feet between their curb cuts if they're not shared between properties. If some sort of attached residential is being done, two, three, and four family like is allowed in the proposed RAU zoning district, there has to be at least 50 feet of curb cut separation.
 And a piece of that is why, when you see properties redeveloped with duplexes, particularly in the downtown area where land is more valuable, often they'll have that shared curb cut that feeds into a either private or public alley behind the units. So there's a, there may be a couple. Portions of our ordinance that are pushing them towards accessing starting night view and having some form of shared driveway to develop this site. And if they can't get shared access. Right away.
 that becomes problematic correct if they are not able to observe those driveway separations I described or share the driveways they would be in a position of having to prove that they have some manner of hardship to our Planning Commission and receive a variance okay anything else
 Bob or who? Go ahead, Sarah. Thank you. I'm looking at this. So just a follow-up question on that. So if we were to approve this project tonight and during those development phases, like going to those next steps to identify where the access would be, there was something that was run into, what does that look like?
 Are they able to develop no matter what with the current zone that they're proposing and will find an access for those units that will be built? Or I guess I'm curious about if we move this forward with that concern about access, what does it look like if maybe that shared area doesn't happen? And I'm sorry, this is a clarifying question. Are you asking, is there a question in there about what?
 the issue if the issue would be the same with the existing zone district and the proposed one as well just moving to the proposed i just um what were what would be the options then if they don't have the desired what was shared with us by the applicant to potentially share the alleyway it sounds like they would this is what i heard i just don't know if i heard correctly that they would at least get one access point from starry night would potentially either share that for the properties or
 Would based on our development standards would have maybe potentially additional curb cuts that would occur for those properties Based on that new zoning. Thank you for the clarification. I
 Yes, I believe that could be one of two main outcomes. It could be that the lots are developed to a wider extent, which would accommodate our driveway separation so that each lot could have its own individual driveway. An alternative to that would be that the lots may be narrower, but then they have one or two or some number of shared driveways between them. Or a driveway that feeds the rear of the property and maybe emulates that private alley similar to what you see to the west. Well...
 So the PZD, RPZD, ZDOT, the areas around this property, where do they effectively, what's the effective density on those?
 It varies. There were two planning areas originally developed with this property. The one immediately to the north, I think it was planning area five of the Oak Brook subdivision. And it had a, I believe it was a density allowance of, I think it was 16 units per acre for those units across the street. But however,
 The planning area to the west, on both the north and south side of Starry Night, had a lower density allowance. It was limited to about five units per acre, just under five units per acre, and only single family. What would you say it's built at? Not what it was allowable, but what is the actual – how big are those buildings?
 Lots that I'm looking at? It varies. The lot sizes on the north side of, the north side of Starry Night are wider than those on the south side. The ones on the south side are, give me a moment please, I can try to estimate that. It's probably about seven units per acre on the south side of the street, as opposed to about four units per acre on the north side of the street roughly.
 And was there a reason they didn't just get a zone for eight units an acre or I mean the applicant requested I've not heard them specify why if it's that they want to have more Flexibility and you know the types of units or what the lock configurations look like I mean, I think the fear I'm hearing from the neighbors is just as kind of maybe almost allowing too much flexibility and too much density and and the
 I understand their feeling. I mean, it's a really cool neighborhood and is designed in a way I'd like to see more of these neighborhoods. And I wish they would have asked for zoning that would have matched what we see down the street instead of allowing them to build to a, I don't know, almost seems like
 where they could get it really dense, way denser than it is down the street. And so I hear those concerns about the access and about the traffic and about changing the character. I initially came in thinking I was going to vote for this. I'm not so sure now.
 Thank you, Mayor. Bob, I just want to point out that you probably saw this, but there's an RSF-8 right down the street, and it would seem that that's a bit more appropriate and manageable than RAU, which has a lot of flexibility. Well, those last years were bigger than... Like, they weren't built with RSF-8s.
 And that area right there, I mean there is You know it's it's it's got a big hill on it And again if you try and make a left-hand turn out of there with the way that RuPaul kind of wraps around I've just be very concerned about that being obstructed or constrained Even more than it is right now just by the sheer topography of the area What's right where it goes from a split lane to a single lane?
 exactly I would love to hear from some of my other council members if anyone else has I believe that during our agenda session I'm sorry mayor I should have waited to get know it's knowledge I apologize and during our agenda session
 you know, there was conversation about, you know, we are seeing developments kind of stretching to our edges. And so, you know, I think that's, you know, a hard consideration as we think about potentially density going that direction. But I think, you know, it's, it's weighing, you know,
 that we have so many folks that are coming to our region. And so when we reduce the number of units that happen within Fayetteville, they go out to other areas that Fayetteville actually helps to subsidize, out to Farmington, out to Johnson, out to Elkins and Goshen, Washington.
 And so when I look at this, you know, one of the considerations I'm also thinking about is that We know that we have a lot of hurdles with infrastructure going forward particularly in our roadways and our water and sewer One of the ways that we're going to be able to make improvements to create safety is by having more taxpayer base to be able to fund that
 And so for me, I have a concern that we reduce the units knowing we need houses We're in a housing crisis knowing that we need the taxpayer base to pay for those infrastructure improvements
 And, you know, the type of zoning that we were hearing and the considerations being made, and it's true this could get zoned and go to someone else, but it sounded like there was considerations to try to take into account what's currently out there. The other thing when I look at this area is the location. It's very close to...
 RuPaul and Weddington. And so I think about, doesn't it make sense when we think about some of our growth areas that we're considering additional density? And that's just a part of what our considerations are going to have to be going forward. So for me, I'm definitely leaning towards supporting this tonight. Okay. Teresa? I think what we're hearing from the neighbors is they're not against adding more
 density there. It's just what the level of density and predictability there is. And with RAU, there's really, it's very open. There's not much predictability. So I just wanted to point out that RSF8's right down the road, and that seems a little bit more appropriate and scalable. I mean, you're going from RSF1 all the way to RAU. I mean, that is a huge
 and then the the property right next to that is rsf1 so i think that the scale is very important in the context of the topography of that piece of property all right scott i'm a little a little bit like bob i thought i walked in here thinking i was going to support this but the more i look at it the more concerned i get so jonathan i hate to keep coming back to you on this but on the
 Just a clarification if we're sharing if we if we if they don't have rear access I can't get an easement to the to the existing rear access of the property adjacent to them and they have to either get a Shared agreement or narrow the Their lots or widen their lots What's that do to the to the existing?
 I mean, what's the existing building there? How's that going to be able to accommodate that? That's a good question and I don't know the developer's intent for that building. I'm not sure if it's their desire to keep the building in place. If that building is removed, however, that opens up a discussion about whether that driveway would remain on Ruple Road.
 Some of our strongest legal authorities when it comes to access management come at the time of redevelopment or platting or subdividing properties. That's when we can work with the developer to coordinate those shared curb cuts or what they're intending to do. And that's also the time that we typically identify if they can't or assert that they're unable to meet our access management standards. So, yeah.
 short answer is I don't know what they plan on doing with that building if they do plan on subdividing the lot however That would likely result in them needing to re Reimagine or realign how that current driveway accesses the property at 1893 or the house at 1893 So if that yeah, if that goes if that building goes away, does it open up? basically, you got a blank canvas now and you can I
 That's my understanding of where we have good legal standing to go that route. I think Mr. Paynton, if you would like to weigh in on that or confirm or deny that, tends to have been our practice over many years in planning. I would agree with Jonathan on that. So is that saying we have kind of a safety valve to keep this in check?
 Basically, the Arkansas Supreme Court has said that a property owner has the right to access any street that it touches. So they got two streets, they can have two access points until we start subdividing the property. And at that point, you know, we do have some ability to say no or to put in restrictions like shared driveways. But yeah, as you subdivide the property, the more the risk is there that they could have more access points.
 This is a hard one because I guess my concerns is that when this gets subdivided, not if, that are the processes in place to make sure that the neighbors' fears are not realized, that we don't get a worst-case scenario. And generally, I like to give people the benefit of the doubt, but again, I'd feel much better about this if it was, you know, eight or 10 or 12 units an acre and not kind of, you know,
 think what Teresa Turk said about like that huge jump to residential urban it seems like a pretty big leap and and again you know it's just we do have to have density and when you need to have infill but it has to be smart and it has to be thoughtful and we can't just open up the whole city to the Wild West kind of do what you want kind of thing okay anybody else
 Okay, we're on the third and final reading. Please call the roll, Jackson. Stafford. No. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Berna. No. Bunch. No. Kirk. No. Hertzberg. No. Okay. Well, thank you all. Let's move along to new business.
 Number one an ordinance to amend ten point nine nine general penalty of the code of federal to repeal b3 and amends C working out of fines Like whereas the general penalty provision of the code of fable section ten point ninety nine needs to be amended to remove references to the closed City jail and whereas section ten point ninety nine C working out of fines needs to be amended to reflect that such voluntary public Service work will be administered by the County Sheriff now
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amend Section 10.99B, Imprisonment to Enforce Fine by Repealing Subsection 3 in its Entirety.
 Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby amend section 10.99 C Working out of fines by repealing it in its entirety and enacting a replacement see as follows See working out of fines fines imposed for violation of any section of the Code of Fayetteville may be discharged by the offender by Voluntarily working out the fine by public service administered by the Washington County Sheriff pursuant to ACA section 16 90 108 you're up not much of a
 More explanation than what Kit gave at the agenda session. Basically, this is a code cleanup. We still refer to the city jail, which hasn't been operational in quite some time. Also, the reference to the sheriff administering that volunteer work or public service work to work out fines is also a cleanup. And a question that Councilmember Moore asked at the agenda session was,
 about other options to work out, such as I think the district court works with offenders to do community service instead of payment of fines. This doesn't preclude that. Well, any questions on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members stay on topic please give us your name and address those participating uh i assume will speak last and those in the chamber will speak first who would like to address this on this topic that's in the chamber tonight have anybody susan no sir okay right back to the council this is an ordinance what action would the council like to take
 um i've moved that we suspend the rules and go to the second reading second motion second to go to the second three jackson would you please call them stafford yes jones yes moore yes verna yes lunch yes turk yes herzberg yes an ordinance to amend section 10.99 general penalty of the code of fayetteville to repeal b3 and amend c working out of fines
 move that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading second no motion second go third congress jackson would you please call rob stafford yes jones yes moore yes verna yes lunch yes turk yes herzberg yes an ordinance to amend section 10.99 general penalty of the code of fable to repeal b3 and amend c working out of fines
 final comments from the council yes sarah thank you mayor um i just wanted to say thank you to the city attorney's office and of lake for answering my question i think we should take any opportunity um to encourage individuals to have like other alternatives whenever they are faced with court fines and fees because oftentimes some of them must flow income and vulnerable community members so i appreciate that this language doesn't deter that okay anything else jackson please call the road stafford yes jones yeah
 Moore. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Yes.
 okay thank you all let's go number two a resolution authorized city attorney's office to file a public nuisance lawsuit against the owners of property located at 887 south lieutenant colonel leroy pond avenue in the city of fed like mayor uh assistant city attorney hannah hungate from our office is going to be presenting this to the council tonight okay
 Hi there, as Blake mentioned, my name is Hannah Hungate, I'm the Assistant City Attorney for the City of Fayetteville. On behalf of the Fayetteville City Attorney's Office, we are requesting authority to file a public nuisance lawsuit against Richard and Gladys Tiffany, owners of the property at 887 South Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue. Some in this community know this property as the White House, some of it know it as the Tiffany property, but at the City we've come to know this as a serious problem.
 The property owners do not live on the property but instead rent out the property, an RV, and allow others to live in the porch and in the shed. The property has been the site for several code violations and extensive criminal activity in the last few years. In 2022, the city received several complaints that the property owners were allowing illegal camping on the property. Citizens reported hazardous conditions of the makeshift campground, overpopulation, and again immense criminal activity.
 The City of Fayetteville prosecuted the owners in Fayetteville District Court for operating the legal campground and they pled guilty in August of 2023. We believe that prosecution would stop the issues on this property, but it hasn't. Things have continued to decline in the past year, culminating in a fire on the property in September. The fire department responded to a fire in the shed on the property and they were alarmed at the deplorable conditions they found inside.
 Doors were missing and replaced with bedsheets. The staircase was rotted and spongy. They found soiled bedsheets and over-occupancy. Our fire department determined that the property would be extremely dangerous, not only to the tenants inside it, but to our firefighters if another fire were to occur. The fire and the realization that prosecution hasn't quelled this nuisance has forced us to make this request.
 Between January 2022 and September 2024, the Fayetteville Police Department responded to the property 276 times. A few examples of what we're looking at. We've got stabbing, thefts, multiple drug charges, residents hitting each other with baseball bats, brass knuckles, stabbing each other with knives and screwdrivers, stolen property located on this property multiple times.
 The fire department in that same time responded over 50 times to this property, including one incident where firefighters had to keep track of weapons on the ground while they tried to also administer aid to make sure that everyone stayed safe. There was a question during agenda session about how this compares to other properties, and I do have some call report data between 2021 and 2022. The property that we're speaking about today is up top.
 There were 178 police and fire calls between 2021 and 2022. Another apartment complex with 14 units in that same time frame had nine calls. If you want to look at higher numbers, we've got another one. And I know that's hard to see. That would be Grandview Apartments. Now they had 118 during that time compared to this property's 178. But that complex had 129 units.
 We also have a few pictures of the property, some of which are in your agenda packet. You can just scroll through those. Those pictures were taken between May of last year and May of this year. We received multiple reports of methamphetamine use, distribution, and even reports of production on the property with residents of the property admitting to others and to police that they have smoked or bought methamphetamine in the backyard.
 The drug task force has witnessed a drug deal happening outside the property and had intervened. Workers renovating a nearby duplex reported becoming sick from a chemical smell coming off of the property and reported that they believed meth was being produced in the house. Trash has continued to pile up. Neighbors have reported witnessing tenants of the property relieving themselves in the yard, and human feces is washing on nearby properties, including the National Cemetery next door.
 The property has become a haven for theft with everything from stolen bicycles to scooters to carpeting for a new apartment complex unit found on the property. A scooter and the carpeting were recovered by Fayetteville police but the carpeting was now soiled with mud and feces that can no longer be used. Prosecution hasn't solved this problem. This property has become a threat to the health and safety of our community and no other avenue has worked to stop this.
 The City Attorney's Office therefore asks that the City Council authorize us to file a public nuisance lawsuit and seek all possible remedies to abate this nuisance and protect our citizens, including those staying on the property and the neighbors surrounding. I'm here to answer any questions if anybody has anything. What questions we got? Scott. Hannah, thank you for your presentation. Could you, considering the condition of the property,
 What liability does the city hold if we know the property is in disrepair to this extent? What liability does the city have if we do nothing? Blake, do you want to take that or would you like me to? So generally the city is, we do have sovereign immunity.
 So I guess you're looking at the difference between maybe legal versus if. We have firefighters that are saying if this catches fire, it is an extreme danger. And so legal versus moral, I guess, is the best answer. I don't believe we have any legal liability. Blake can correct me if I'm wrong in that. No, Hannah's correct. We do have statutory tort immunity. So even if you could consider it negligence, we would be immune from suit or damages.
 Oh sure. Thank you Mayor. I've got several questions so I might ask and just and then pause and we can kind of cover each one of those. So the pictures that were shown were 21 and 22 when there was some encampment before we passed the camping ordinance and then there was prosecution. Do those pictures still look the same on that property today or is that cleaned up and gone?
 So the pictures we actually saw were from, so the call data was from 21 and 22. The pictures you saw were from 23 and 24, with several of those actually being after the camping has been gone. The trash has still not been removed.
 They pled, the property owners pled guilty to one of the camping violations in I believe August of last year, of 23. And so that, those pictures encompass some before but also several pictures after. So I guess a clarifying question, does the property still look like that today or is the property cleaned up outside?
 Based on my understanding, the property, especially those ladder photos that I showed, still looks like that. I haven't received reports of any cleanup. Okay. It's been reported to me it's cleaned up. That's why I was asking if we had updated pictures.
 Okay. I don't think. Sorry. Okay. The other thing that I wanted to ask as a clarifying is when we prosecuted in regard to the camping, are there still individuals that are camping or does that prosecution lead to no longer having folks camping outside?
 We have received reports since then that there was camping being permitted. We have not obtained evidence that would support a further prosecution. While we don't have solid evidence of tent camping, we do have reports that people are still living on the porch, in the shed, and other entities.
 Okay, and then have there been any other requests made outside of What you had kind of gone over as far as with this being declared a public nuisance I one of the things I asked at agenda session was Do we have a clear goal of this property of what we're asking of these property owners to do because I just hadn't heard one Stated and wasn't sure what the public nuisance ended up ultimately doing the goal for for public nuisance lawsuit is
 It can be something in an extraordinary remedy that we try to pursue prosecution in the hopes that prosecution will ensure compliance and that we will get the property up to code. This has been one of the rare cases where that has not happened. The goal here is with, on behalf of the city attorney's office, and I believe with the city, like any other property, is to have a safe, habitable property that people, that
 and that is safe for the people residing there. And we have several neighbors that have reported the adverse effects of this property on them
 And so the end goal is simply abating that however the court finds is necessary. Okay, thank you. And then I just had one other clarifying question on the all possible remedies. Can you explain to me what exactly that is? Because if we're authorizing you to go forward, I'm just trying to understand what we might be authorizing, what could be all possible remedies. From there, I try to include that in every complaint so that we have every opportunity.
 The court has some abilities that we don't have. For example, an injunction preventing habitability of this property during the time that this nuisance exists, when we have rotting staircases and what our staff has determined is a fire hazard. Any kind of order like that, it would essentially be the property would become...
 somewhat within the jurisdiction of the court so that the court could make appropriate steps to get this to be a safe property. I don't know yet. No, I don't yet know what that looks like. And that's why another reason that court has become necessary.
 i'd also say that we do have our police and fire so if there are any questions that i can't answer or that you would like from we have representatives from them as well okay thank you hannah you're welcome uh scott i believe you and then sarah uh thank you i see chief uh harden uh back in the back i'd like to see i've got a question for him thank you hannah
 So, Chief, in regards to this property, y'all gained access after there was a fire in the shed and you went, they went into the property to determine if there's any damage to the actual structure itself? Yes, that's correct. Okay. And did you have any damage to the property?
 Could you, I know Hannah described it a little bit, but could you describe to us what your firemen found? And then after what they found, what direction have you given them towards any future plans
 potential incidents there, fire or whatever inside the structure. Okay, they found people, well like the, like she mentioned, the stairs were damaged. There were sleeping locations like in closets, bedrooms, or there was just sleeping locations everywhere. As you can see by the pictures, the means of egress is definitely impeded.
 Our fire marshal has worked with Mr. Tiffany a couple times. He's went in there to visit and pointed out some violations and some stuff that needed to be addressed. So that's pretty much what we've done with them thus far. Did he address those? No.
 No, I think there was a big list of stuff and I think maybe he addressed a couple items on the list, but no, he has not fixed. We are still very, very concerned with the safety of anybody that lives in that house. And would you allow your officers or your firemen to go in there? They've been ordered not to enter that structure even if it is on fire. They're supposed to stand outside and I mean it's misfortunate, but we can't send our people in to something that we know is unsafe.
 okay thank you chief i have some questions for um i believe we've got uh fpd back here hi chief scott hello how are you i have some questions about um you know we've got all these numbers of different calls and everything could you tell me a little bit about um
 How many times have you been called to this property in like the last 10 years? Yes, ma'am. So on the heels of Mr. Williams and some other council folks' questions... Ted, we can't hear you. Sorry, I'll get this paperwork lined out here. I'm sorry, is that better? Can't hear you. Is that better? Yeah. Okay. Sorry, I don't talk very loud, but I'll try to talk louder.
 so on the heels of mr williams and some council folks questions last week i tried to prepare some some information for you here let me get this lined out here well while you're looking for that you know i will be asking also um you know how many hours you think you've invested in like
 you know the past few years and kind of what the cost the man hours cost of going down there and if you could also tell us the top five things the top top five complaints that you get at this property yes ma'am absolutely so when i go to 2024 when i say the date or i'll give you a date from whenever to 2024 mr williams and and miss hunga mentioned january 22
 to 2024. That date will go to 11-11 of 2024, just for reference on all of these numbers that I give you. So first of all, the numbers, so I've got back to 2013. So 2013 to 2024, 11-11 of 2024, the police department, the federal police department has responded out to this address, 887 South Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond, and it used to be called 617 South Government, same address.
 We went out there 519 times from, shorten that up for you, from 2020 to 11-11 of 2024, 389 times. And then from January of 2022 to 11-11 of 2024, 279 times, which may conflict with Ms. Hungate's 276. That just may be the day that they stop that query. Yes, ma'am.
 And then to, so what we went out there for, the frequent five, when I glanced through this little over 10 years worth of calls for service by the police department, the majority, the top five that stood out pretty frequently were armed persons, drug calls, disturbances, thefts, and trespassings.
 So also a question that was asked last week that I started to dig into was... Excuse me, can you repeat those four? Can I hear you? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I'm sorry. So of this list of calls in that period of time that I went through in here, the ones that stood out more frequently, that I saw more frequently, were armed person calls, drug calls, disturbances, thefts, and trespassings. And so a disturbance could also...
 I'm thinking that maybe some of these things might overlap, like there could be a disturbance might end up, the stabbings that we've heard about might have been actually your call might have been a disturbance or something, or it might have been the armed person that ended in disturbance, or so there might be some overlap of things there. Yes, ma'am, absolutely. So it just, it can start out as a disturbance. Somebody can call back and say, well, what was a disturbance is now a stabbing. So they can't upgrade a call.
 So absolutely, it could be two folks arguing, too. While the officers are en route, it can turn into a stabbing or something more violent than just a verbal disturbance. It can be a physical disturbance between two parties. And so did you have any idea how much, like, maybe between, you know, in the past, I think, past few years,
 The number of calls, how many man hours might have been put in, like maybe between 2020 and 2024 or something? Yes, ma'am. And what the cost of that might be to the taxpayers? So I have it broke down from 2020 through 11-11 of 2024. And in that time period, 2020 to 11-11 of 2024, we spent 275 hours out there.
 on the police department side for a total of $13,750. So that is the average price or average cost the salary of a patrol officer, give or take $3 either way. So it's about $50. OK. OK. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. You're welcome. Absolutely. OK. Any other questions? Would you tell me again in the last year how many calls that you've had at that residence?
 Yes, sir. In 2024 to date? Yep. Yes, sir. We have responded out there from January 1st of 2024 through 11-11 of 2024. We've been out there 94 times. And the complaints are the top five that you listed? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Let me grab those for you. Yes, sir. Those were armed person calls, drug calls, and...
 disturbances, thefts, and trespassings. Thank you Mayor. I'm sorry Chief Hardin, I've got one other question for you. I thought of it after you. Excuse me Councilmember Burner, I've got Councilmember Jones has his hand raised. Go ahead. I have a question. When was the fire?
 Thank you very much. It'll take me just a moment to locate that. Wrote down all kinds of stats about it, but the date was not one of them. Mayor, I have the memo pulled up in front of me. It looks like, Chief Harden, that it was on September 15th, 2024. Yes. Approximately 1036 hours took me to get to it. So that was about...
 Less than two months ago, huh? Yes, and we have been working on that ever since. It's just taken a little bit for us to get here. Okay. And I'm sorry if I missed this part, but did you tell us what, since the fire, has anyone, is it, has it been, is it livable since then or what? What?
 unless something has changed since our last visit there, no. Okay. It is still very concerning. Okay. So, and my other question, Chief Harden, is this. If you could refresh us concerning the concerns that you had during the fire, some of the things that you found that were really concerning. And I apologize, but I missed some of that.
 Yes, well we were just talking about people and sleeping in areas that weren't designed for sleeping. The means of egress was impeded. It's just really, really cluttered. The stairs themselves are not structurally sound. There's a basement area that I believe he's not supposed to have anybody in that there are still people living in. I don't know if that's the case today.
 But there was just lots of damages that made us worried to enter the structure. Okay, and I thought I also heard someone mention something about maybe like drug activity and things of that nature, correct? That's a little bit out of my spectrum. Right, right, right. We can have Tad come back up if you'd like him to talk about that.
 That's OK. I think I, that's fine. I think that'll be OK. OK, thank you, Mayor. Anything else, DeAndre?
 That'll be all for right now. Okay. Scott. Thank you, Mayor. I neglected to ask you a while ago. My recollection is that you or your agency was the reporting party to the city attorney about the conditions. What was it that led you, what concerned obviously the condition, but
 But was there other concerns that led you to report that to the city attorney? Yes, absolutely. So I'm not an attorney, and I, of course, couldn't weigh in on tort immunity or how all of that works. But I do know that Oakland, California had tort immunity as well, and they paid out $36 million, or excuse me, $34 million when 36 people perished there.
 And they died in a similar situation in a building that had a lot of makeshift structures. The stairs were made out of pallets. They weren't structurally sound when the fire started. The people that were on the upstairs lost the means of address because where they would go was burned out from under them.
 So the fire department was aware of this and they were aware that there were problems there. They'd had countless reports that had building safety, but when they would go to check it out and try to get in there, they weren't allowed to enter the structure and they basically just did nothing about it. And then fast forward after there was a fire and all those people perished, well, there was a price to pay.
 And they came after everybody. You know, they went after Oakland. The power company ended up paying out an undisclosed amount, could be as much as $900 billion. You know, it just, it worried me greatly. And I felt like I had a responsibility to come to you and tell you that, hey, this is unsafe. And if there was a fire there and those people were in there, they would perish. Right.
 And that's just, you know, not something that I take lightly. I wanted to share that with you. I also wanted the, you know, the homeowner to know that. I wanted them to realize that the gentleman that was responsible for it in Oakland, California, spent 12 years in prison because of it. You know, I mean, it's a, this is a dangerous thing. And it's irresponsible for us to do nothing. So. Good. Anything else, Scott? Bob. Yeah, Chief Hardin.
 Is there a secondary means of egress if somebody's upstairs? I honestly haven't committed the floor plan to memory. Yeah. I couldn't tell you and I haven't personally toured it. I would encourage, I know that the City Council does tours on a regular basis. I would encourage you to go look for yourself and tour the structure if Mr. Tiffin will let you in. Yeah, I've seen the front of it. One of the pictures that we were shown.
 Showed a lot of like flammable structure like next to the front door on the porch Was that still there? I don't know the answer to that. I haven't been down there personally and evaluated it Okay, it's all coming from my fire marshal It also looked like they had the electrical box open on the outside with cords coming out of it that didn't quite decode I
 So, yeah, thank you, and thank you for bringing up the Ghost Ship Fire, and I'll talk about that a little later. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, Chief, for being here and bringing this to our attention. Are there any, you mentioned earlier that if this place caught on fire, you would not allow your firefighters to go in there and rescue people or enter the building. Are there any other structures within our city where you have a similar decree that
 I wouldn't say that we decree that almost nowhere. Only whenever we encounter situations such as this, and normally it's not people living there. This is a unique circumstance. Normally it would just be our people that there's no need for them to go into an abandoned structure. But that's not the case on this. Okay. Thank you very much. Yeah.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Chief Hardin, for further explaining the concerns around the safety and had not heard the level that you expressed tonight. So thank you for that additional information.
 When you talked earlier, you talked about building safety issues, and there was a list of those. Is that anything that we can get a glimpse into? Because, again, without going into the building, you know, obviously we trust you, but just trying to understand kind of...
 the wide range of potentially things that you had listed because you said maybe those hadn't been remedied. And then my secondary question is, I didn't know if any, like, costs had been associated with those to understand, like, what those would cost.
 and if the city has any potential avenues that we navigate with homeowners. I know we do like condemnations. I know we have Yolanda's group that helps to rehabilitate homes and things like that. So I just didn't know what avenues we potentially look at if we run into a structure that has some concerns like that. And that may be that those are not applicable, but that's what I just didn't know. On the cost, could you elaborate what you're talking about, the cost of what? Yeah.
 You may or may not have this, so with those building safety issues, I didn't know if you had like associated costs as typically are, or if you just hand that list off and haven't seen it and it just is given to the homeowner or the landlord or what have you, the property, and then they look into it further. Just not sure.
 Yeah, we don't advise as far as cost. I mean, we just go by the fire code and point out that this is a violation and that is a violation. And then it's the homeowner's responsibility to address. We don't, or the building owner's responsibility to address. We do not calculate a cost.
 Just to follow it, are you able to elaborate on, do you recall any? Because I don't see a document in the packet, unless I've missed it and I'll try to go find it, that talked about the building safety concerns. Can you give us just an idea? Nothing more than what I have in emails, but I can certainly send that to you after this. I can send you everything that I have and everything that the fire marshal has on this structure. Thank you. Anything. Thanks, Chief. Anything else? Yes.
 okay well let's take some public comment everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name address those present chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participated by zoom will speak after that
 Mr. Mayor, members of the Council, my name is Steve Zega. My residence address is 2377 North Waterway, Fayetteville, Arkansas. My business address is in Springdale. I am an attorney, and for full disclosure to the Council, I have provided Councilmember Moore on more than one recent occasion with advice, and so I think she would want you to know that as well, but not on this particular issue.
 I am here on behalf of the owners of the property across the apartment complex, across the street, across Lieutenant Colonel Leroy Pond Avenue from this property. I am being paid to be here. It is in my client's interest for you to adopt this resolution, and yes, that means it's economic interest.
 There are instances, though, where the public and private instances converge, and I am urging the Council to consider that this is one of those instances. The first thing I would point out, this is subjective as a Fayetteville resident, not so much in my capacity as an attorney, but this property is not
 advancing the ball on the solution to the problem of homelessness in Fayetteville or the problem of affordable housing in Fayetteville. That problem requires a deep dive that I know this council has attempted to do and is continuing to attempt to do.
 But on the subjective side of that, weigh what you heard tonight. In excess of 250 police calls to one address over the course of three years, that's one in every five days. 51, and I know that you heard different numbers, but I think Hannah's numbers were 51 fire department responses to that property in the same time period. That's one and a half a month.
 I would ask you as the stewards of this city's resources, is that a wise allocation of your limited first responder resources as they exist now? But more to the point, Chief Harden's point, somebody's going to die. I hope that doesn't happen, but somebody's going to die if this property is not addressed and they're going to die horribly. And I just hope that this council takes that into consideration
 when it's deciding what to do tonight. I urge you to vote for this resolution. It is in your citizens best interest and it is in your first responders best interest. Thank you very much. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 My name is Jannie Lane and while I'm not a resident of Fayetteville, Arkansas, my son and his wife are buried at the Fayetteville National Cemetery, so I do have a vested interest in what happens at the property next door.
 In the past 14 years, I have watched the deterioration of the Tiffany property. What was once an adorable older home is now a falling down dilapidated structure surrounded by a motor home that has been moved once in the last two years.
 Over the years, not only have I been harassed by people at this property, other family members visiting the graves of their loved ones have been harassed, threatened, cussed, and actually attempted to be fought with.
 In February of 2022, I filed my first complaint of concern with the City of Fayetteville. In that complaint, I asked for a fire inspection because of boarded up windows, trash completely covering the front porch, overgrown shrubs, and inoperable vehicles.
 I was informed by the city at that time that a building inspection was not warranted. And now we are here two and a half years later with an inspection has revealed to us substandard and unsafe housing.
 I agree with Steve. It's not a matter of how, but somebody's going to die in that place. There are still people living there. I went by there yesterday when I went to the cemetery. There are people going in and out of the front door. The front porch is still full of trash. There has been some improvements made, but when it's that bad on the outside, I would suggest you consider how bad it is on the inside.
 I do not have an agenda against the Tiffany's, but as the founder of an organization that deals with veterans who are forced to live in rat-infested, bug-infested apartments here in Fayetteville,
 This is just another example of substandard landlords who say they're helping the homeless or veterans and they're allowed to go ahead no matter how bad it is. And there's some really bad ones out there if you ever want to know.
 I hope the Tiffany's will be required to have a structural engineer evaluate their property and make a bestest clearance. And I would remind the city, this is not on the city of Fayetteville. This is on Richard and Gladys Tiffany. They are the owners of this property, and they have allowed this to happen. Thank you.
 Members of the Council, my name is Jacob Warlow. I live at 1125 West Hendrick Street. I am an attorney. I am not being paid to be here.
 Structural concerns are obviously something this council ought to be interested in. I think one perspective that is getting glossed over here a little bit is why are all these people at this residence? I have had a few interactions with Richard Tiffany. The first time he contacted me it was in regard to a person who was at the property we are discussing here today.
 This person had profound, a profound and acute mental health disorder. I'll say that. Her public defender was not taking the situation as seriously as Mr. Tiffany felt she ought to. Maybe wasn't sure how serious the condition really was, whether this was a real instance when the person's mental health condition was relevant to their case.
 And he asked me to come talk to this person. I did, just kind of being a friendly member of the community. I very much agreed with Richard Tiffany's assessment of this person, just, you know, as someone who was familiar with the person who was at his property. And I contacted that person's public defender and let them know this was the real deal, if you know what I mean.
 Also, after that, Richard took that person in his car and drove her to court in Rogers so that she didn't get an FDA, I guess you would say.
 Personally, I am interested in this question of the extent to which what's going on at the Tiffany property is an overflow problem. To what extent is this rooted in a lack of resources or a lack of affordable housing opportunities for homeless people in Fayetteville, Arkansas? And to the extent that is what's going on, I am at least sympathetic to the Tiffany's efforts.
 Just my perspective. Thank you. Thank you Let us Tiffany Fayetteville. I have a lot to defend here and I do not have time in three minutes to do that So I would like to I
 I would like to respond to some of the charges that have been made just now, so you know that I have a case. And I would also like to request that you allow us to really address all the charges in in some kind of order that I'm prepared to do, but I think that, you know, it's not going to happen in three minutes.
 And so I'd like to ask for your guidance on how I could actually be allowed to fairly defend what has been presented against us today.
 Point of information, Blake, are we able to suspend the rules during public comment to allow for additional kind of presentation given the nature of this resident speaking or what would be the appropriate possible avenue? I think suspending the rules to extend time for a certain amount of time. You can ask for extended time. Usually we just...
 Gladys, can I ask you how long you think you might need? We typically for applicants give ten minutes Can you give this information in ten minutes? I think it might be a little over ten minutes. Yeah. Would council members be okay with a 12-minute response? I mean ten minutes is standard for every presenter we have. I'd be willing to give ten minutes. Okay, let's try ten and Gladys will just see where you get that works for everyone else. Okay. Thank you. Thank you and thank you.
 I really like to show you pictures of the house as it is right now. Can we get those pictures up? And apparently, you know, there are a lot of people who are not familiar with
 what has happened with it very recently. And you'll notice that the trash has pretty much been removed that you saw in those first pictures. That was during the phase when the camp was in place. It was a mess, it was horrible. It needed to be cleaned up and it's taken us a long time to really get it back to the point where we can even begin to think what needs to happen to improve it.
 Right now we are just at the point where we feel like we've got the cleaning under wraps. The interior is really varied depending on the person who actually lives in the apartment. There are four apartments in this building and they have a wide variety of people in them. All of them at this point are residents who came in as homeless people and they are now housed because of this building.
 Some of them are very tidy, some of them are not so tidy, but they're all good people. Can I have the next picture please? And now this is pictures of the backyard, which this is the area that was draped with tents and structural stuff that looked so horrible. And it was horrible, but now this is, it's been cleaned already, it's gone. And can I have the next picture?
 And this is the north side of the building that was full of tents when the camp was there. It's cleaned away. And the other one. And this is the slab where that shed that burned on September 15th, that's the slab where that was, and it is gone. It's all gone. So, you know, I'm very respectful of the fire department, but he's not up to date on what has been happening with this property.
 So, and I think there's things that need to be addressed about the inspection that happened that has been very alarming, I could tell, the way that everybody was reacting, that it sounds as bad to you as it does to me. But, the
 The thing is that there are a number of inconsistencies in the fire department report that are not relevant to this building. I think there must have been confusion, uncertainty, misinterpretation of what people were seeing. One of the things that was repeated several times is the stairs were rotten.
 and the stairs were not actually rotten. The building settled during some flooding that happened because of the apartment buildings having drainage issues and the cemetery having drainage issues. We got all the water that made our basement... It's not actually a basement. The other thing that the fire chief mentioned about there being a basement that people were being allowed to... There's no basement. There's a crawl space, but nobody's living in the crawl space, I guess.
 assure you of that. The, I forgot what I was getting ready to tell you about the other part. There's a, the rotten floor is not a rotten floor, it is a settled building so the stairs are a little bit shifted. They're not level anymore.
 It's part of what makes this have to be, the building will have to be replaced at some point, but it's not an unsafe building at this point, nearly at the level that the fire chief mentioned. Another part that was part of that discussion was that for some reason, the firemen who made that inspection thought that there was bedding in the closets
 and there was no bedding in the closets. We have pictures of all the closets. And this house, you know, it's an old, beat-up farmhouse. It has very tiny closets. There's not a single closet in the house that would actually fit a mattress, even a small mattress. So what he was seeing as bedding in the closets was,
 We'd have to ask more questions of that fireman to actually say that he was correct because we have photos and there's nobody in any closets. There's nobody sleeping inappropriately. It's very, very upfront and the eight people who live there are in really good spirits. I'll just say that. I
 Now, Bob, you asked about fire extinguishers and smoke alarms. So I had some pictures and could you just kind of run through those? And this is the smoke alarms and fire detectors in the four different departments. So you can see, yes, they're all there. They have been inspected by the fire department at different times.
 they are perfectly operational. When we went to take pictures of them we found out one of the apartments theirs had been used so we got another one. So there's nothing there that that indicates some of those things that were charged by the fire department that I think
 Whatever was going on, it was an alarming day for everybody. It could very well have been a mess. The other charge about crime I'll get to in just a minute, because I think that was also one that really was a serious issue.
 But now I've been talking to several really very smart lawyers in the last couple of weeks about this to just kind of see what other people are thinking and what we can get from them about what the law is. And one of them told me that I really should start with this story, that it has even more significance to our story than what I assumed that it was for myself.
 But I want you to know that we bought that building in 2002, and we paid $86,000 for it when we moved from Newton County. And then in 2007, the Cemetery Foundation, the RNCIC, offered to let us donate it to them.
 And we're very puzzled about that, but it's taken us a long time to figure out that the cemetery really wants that property in the worst possible way. And I have some information here about that. But the key part of it is that they are willing to be unfair and untruthful in order to get it. And we have been witnessing that now for a long time. And as we have...
 learned one thing and had an attack from somewhere and realized that so much of it was tied to the cemetery foundation, we really have come to see that there's a pattern here that has affected us deeply, especially right now. Not, and I'm not saying in any way that anything that happened in that camp should have happened the way it did.
 I acknowledge and Richard acknowledges that that should have been cleaned up. We could not keep it together. We really needed further help in order to actually try to get that camp to function. But,
 The continued process of harassing us and disregarding whatever we are doing to improve things really has been part of this harassment. So in 2007 they asked us to donate the property. In 2012 they offered us $50,000 for it. It was not a solicited offer, they just offered us the $50,000.
 Which was, you know, we had paid 86,000 for it several years earlier.
 For a long time, the Cemetery Foundation webpage carried a map of our neighborhood with the adjacent properties next to it, which included ours, which is the one right next to it, as targeted for purchase. And we found this very distressing, and eventually, when public perception seemed to be difficult for them, they changed the label on that, but it's still that targeted for perception told us something important.
 And then when the homeless camp sprang up, there may have been things going on like interactions with people in the cemetery that should not have happened. But the truth was, we did not really witness nearly as much stuff going on as was reported in any way. But...
 And so that's to say that some of the complaints are valid, but many of the complaints are not. And I want to point out that I'm not sure whether you were aware, you may have been, I was not at the beginning, but at the beginning when most of the really nasty stuff was being said about us, it was really made up primarily of a small group of people who were from... Tom, we'll have to give you more time.
 I have not gotten to address the charges yet. The council will have to give you more time. But I think that was it. I'll leave it up to you all. Let's give her two more minutes to specifically address the charges. Thank you. Do you need to take a vote on it or something? No, no, no. Okay, all right.
 So the crime issue is really bad. I mean, we had no idea of some of the things that were going on there. And it was just much more difficult than we realized. And it has been very serious. It has improved. It has improved a lot. And I don't yet have like firm numbers about this. There were like 170 calls that he mentioned.
 We spoiled the call list to see for ourselves exactly what that was about. And what we found out is that out of the, and I was looking at a different time frame. I was looking at the whole time since the camp was shut down. And the camp being shut down, it ended with about, what was it?
 120 calls from the time frame I had. Of that 120 calls, 95 of them were labeled something called, this is the document here, called no report.
 So I asked Patrick Hanby of the police department what no report means and he explained that if there are two officers who go out, they don't both have to make a report. They both log their call but they don't make a report. And so of that 120, 95 of them were labeled no report.
 All of those calls are not even just on the bare face of it. They are not all crimes happening at that place. And that's a different thing than it sounds like if you just use that total number in order to address that. So then I want to jump on because there's just so many things. I still have to give you more time. I don't make the rules. I just go by what they set in place. Thank you.
 Gladys, we can't do unlimited time tonight, so how many more points do you have under crime? And I think if we give you any additional, I think my other council members probably want that to probably be it. I have eight more. Eight more that were from the charges. Can you briefly touch on them maybe within two minutes? We don't have a set time. Two minutes. Okay. Okay.
 I think we can do two more and that's probably it. Gladys, you might have to pass it to someone else to speak if there's something past that. Okay. Okay. The debris issue, you can see by the pictures that it's improved a lot.
 And the code compliance has been very helpful to us and been very directive and careful in explaining what had happened. Also working with complaints from other people who made complaints that were not necessarily accurate.
 Smell is one of those complaints that came up where code complaints came out and inspected and found that there was no issue with what was complained with at all and they called those unfounded complaints
 The property condition, I mean the building's homely. It's not a pretty building, but under Arkansas law it exceeds the minimum habitability standard by quite a bit. And that's a commentary on Arkansas habitability law more than it is on our property, but it exceeds the law. The
 The occupancy issue we are zoned RMF 24 Which means we could have six apartments on our point 28 acre property But we only have four and there's eight residents, which is perfectly legitimate in that I'd really like to talk more about the commentary on the fire department report but I'm going to skip that and really feel like it if you would I
 Please take our perspective into account when you hear more of these complaints because truthfully, there's a lot more going on here that's positive than there is negative. And the people who live in that house are beautiful, wonderful people who are just poor.
 who are desperately poor and very, very good people who take care of each other very well. They are not vandalizing themselves and anything. They are taking care of themselves very well. All right. I appreciate the extra time. Thank you very much. Who else would like to address us?
 Nicole Lynn, Ward 3. In listening to this, one thing that has not been discussed at all is kids. I mentioned before I'm a social worker. When people do nefarious things in groups, a lot of times there are children there. And I would love to know the number of times that kids were taken into DHS custody from this building, times that child abuse was investigated
 And this, if there was a structural fire, the most at risk would be if there were kids there. I understand that they're saying that there's only eight people there now and everything's cleaned up, but it's important to look at they were prosecuted and they didn't do anything, and now they're like, okay, we've got it all cleaned up now that the city is about to intervene.
 I think the fire chief had a really good point, that if there is a fire now, that this has been brought to your attention, it's going to look really bad if anybody dies because you've all been told and if you don't do anything. I understand we have a housing crisis and I'm usually up here saying housing, housing, housing.
 But this is one, when we have a staircase that is about to fall through and we have a fire hazard. And we have firefighters that will not go in there. That's the biggest thing, right? We have a kid in there, but we have firefighters that will not go in. So what kind of risk do we have for the children that are there, if they're already there, which I believe over this time period have been there.
 We may not have a legal obligation, but we have a moral obligation to do this to make sure that our city is safe. And it also sends a message to people.
 Like she said, like was said, Arkansas renters laws are terrible, but that doesn't mean that we can get away with having very unsafe areas where a fire hazard, not a fire hazard, like it is not even up to code. You heard the fire chief say there's nowhere else in Fayetteville where people live that it's this bad. So that says something.
 i understand about um unhoused people needing housing and there was discussion about that but we can't just have tent cities i think there's a risk of that coming back if this goes away i think that this was all done performative to make sure that you'll see oh look it's been cleaned up but if they were not deterred by prosecution before what is going to deter them this is a way to make this go away right now and to put a band-aid on the problem but i think that this is going to continue to be a problem and i
 Maybe they're there, but we haven't heard from any tenants speaking to this. The landlord says the tenants all love it, but I would love to hear the tenants say that. I wonder if this is just the only option that they have. And with that, that's all I have. Thank you. Thank you. No, no, no, no, no, no. We've had public comment. Who else would like to address this? Yeah, I'm Richard Tiffany, and I'm one of the owners of the property. Okay.
 talk about the the legal aspect a little bit that was only briefly mentioned um most of the trespassing calls were from me there was someone who was causing trouble they hit somebody over the head with a baseball bat that was only after six months after i had a no trespassing order with the police department they kept coming back they would flee every time they saw me coming
 They are in custody now, but they had been arrested a couple different times and released a day or two later only to come back again. Another thing was many of the police calls was an ex-boyfriend of one of the women who was seeking refuge there that she, he called
 almost every day for several months saying that she was being held as a sex slave the police would show up she would say yeah i'm fine i don't want to talk to him i don't want to have anything to do with him he's abusive and then the next day
 He would call. It's hard to tell from the police reports, but when he was making police report, calling the police, he was also texting me saying what he was doing and saying that I would be arrested for holding her captive. I have witnessed one drug deal for the place. I didn't know that that was what was happening. There was a
 Someone with Parkinson's and severe dementia related to that who was there, who got a phone call. He went out to the street and a car pulled up and he purchased a small bag of marijuana. As soon as the transaction happened, four drug enforcement officers showed up. They were the ones who arranged for the sale.
 and they arrested the purchaser, they released the person who made the sale, that he was working for the Drug Task Force. Three of those officers were in the Sheriff's Department, one was Fayetteville Police. When they arrested him, then another uniformed officer, these were all plainclothes officers, there was another uniformed officer who showed up to take him off to jail.
 So I thought that was a little bit inappropriate to have the drug class force making a sale to someone who was demented and wanted some marijuana because it helped with his pain that he had with his Parkinson's disease. So I think that the fact that there's a lot of calls doesn't... Okay, thanks.
 Hello, counsel. My name's Mike Karsas, or Edward Karsas, 13-866-FAFL. And I have a few things to say about this. And I'd like to yield the floor to Cladis Tiffany. Mom, this is beyond a prosecution. This is a persecution. And why I'm saying this is because I spent this summer
 a few days of summer, not the whole summer, a few days of summer helping the Tiffany's clean up that backyard from the campsite they had there. And we got it cleaned up. And you saw the photos of that. So the photos you saw from the attorney's office were from May of this year, the last ones, if I'm correct. And I spent the summer helping her. I spent a couple days of summer helping them clean up. When I say persecution,
 is because after I left one time to go to the dump with some materials or some things, we put it in the back of the truck to dump at the dump or put it down. The cops pulled me over. They wanted to search my car for methane. There were methane, methane, what's it called? See, I don't even know what it is. I'm sorry, by the way, I'm an attorney happily retired from that business.
 And he pulled me over, the cop pulled me over. He said that my license plate or my tag was expired. I put it on two weeks ago before that. It was not expired. He pulled me over just to pull me over to search the car because it was leaving that property. Because he pulled over. If you know that road, it goes down south, jogs to the left, and goes down further south. The cop was just sitting there waiting there.
 So watch me pull out of the driveway and go to MLK North. Stay with me. All right? And search my car for methamphetamines. I yield the floor to Gladys. No, can't do that. Number two. I'm talking. Thank you. Number two. There's too many problems with this.
 There's too many issues. There's too many things that have to happen before you find a lawsuit. Think about the fact you haven't even talked to them about the alleged stares, the alleged findings of the fire department when they were there. Haven't talked to them at all about trying to fix those problems if they exist. There's nothing to say they exist as a building code problem except for the fact that a fire department said they were a little off.
 So think about that when you think about if you're going to prosecute somebody for trying to help people. Thank you. City Council, Mayor, I'm Shelly Bonaiuto. I live at 13866 Penelope Road. I just want to speak a little bit about Gladys and Richard because I've known them for 18 years, and I have been...
 working with them at least for the last two years on a housing solutions committee. And it's because they care so deeply about what is happening in the city with homeless, it's an increasingly...
 serious problem throughout the nation because of economic stresses and rising housing prices. And Gladys and Richard were very serious about wanting to do something to help. And they were not getting any support from the city, instead they were being harassed by the city.
 Every time we talked about it, they'd say, I said, Gladys, do you want the people there? Well, of course they didn't want the people there. Of course they didn't want harassment from the city or the violations. But they kept saying, where are the people going to go? Oh.
 Whenever people are camping out on the bike trail, they're just sent off. The police come and send them off someplace else. There's no place else for them to go. They go someplace else. They're chased off from someplace else.
 There is no place for them to go. So Gladys has been working on this for, Gladys and Richard have been working on this for years. They've designed a village called Gateway Village. They've designed little structures for this Gateway Village. They have the plans in place. They don't have any support from the city. They don't have any land.
 but they have the plan for what could happen. It's happening in other cities. It's happening in North Little Rock. It's happening in Austin. It's happening around the country, that cities are actually taking responsibility for the people who cannot find any place to live because of rising housing prices and because of poverty.
 So Gladys and Richard, instead of being harassed, they should be helped. They are citizens taking responsibility for a national problem and for our citizens, not only citizens, I don't want to say only citizens, for people who are caught in a situation where they cannot find proper shelter. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Okay. Do we have anybody on Zoom?
 no one has their hand raised mayor okay bring it back now if the council wishes to bring somebody back you may okay bob um i hope my council members have some grace with me and give me a couple minutes um i'll start off with the things that aren't too important with me ended up with the thing that is um the police calls and the fire calls i mean just
 That is just above and beyond and even if you were to take away two-thirds three-quarters of them It's still outrageous and and that you don't know what's happening your property Like how the heck is that a thing is a responsibility of a landlord to know what's happening at their property I don't think this is helping anybody. It's not letting people live in squalor does not help and
 um there's a law of it this that the city council passed a couple years ago that makes it illegal for me to let my friends camp in my yard without a permit but and it was it was made for this specific property so now i want to have a friend's camp out on my five and a half acres i have to get a permit for that and and and yet it took years to get the camping off this property
 There hasn't been any voluntary going along with this. There's been headstrong battling it every step of the way, getting this property cleaned up. Drugs, violence, prostitution, inhabitability, environmental mess, that does not help anyone. Flammables near the front entrance, the electrical box rigged with cords, there's total fire hazard.
 You're asking me not to trust my firefighters and my fire chief? I trust my fire chief, and I trust my firemen, and I love my veterans, and I trust them. My dad was a veteran. You know, even the picture showed after it was cleaned up, what did I see? I saw smoke detectors that looked like they were well over five years old with LED screens that were blank. Smoke detectors had to be regularly replaced every four to five years. They expire.
 I saw two fire extinguishers. I did not see any pictures of the stairs. I did not see any more than two fire extinguishers in the whole house. You know, beautiful, wonderful people, I'm sure, but beautiful, wonderful people need a safe space to live. So those are kind of the points that don't even really matter to me. Chief Hardin brought up, you have to excuse me if I get emotional. I don't talk about it very much. Give me a second. Chief Hardin brought up the ghost ship fire.
 Oakland, California, December 2nd, 2016. That fire changed my life. 36 people, 36 Bay Area artists, young, energetic, creative people lost their lives. One of them was my friend's kid, Cash Askew. Young, creative musician, beautiful human being. The master tenant ended up in jail for 12 years. I think it should have been three times that.
 The city of Oakland paid out $34 million, even though I'm sure they felt they were immune from prosecution. That fire changed my life. It changed the life of hundreds of Bay Area artists. I lived in a large city block size building.
 artist communal warehouse space. It was beautiful. It lasted over 20 years. It was amazing the creativity that came out of that place. We've had to wipe its existence from the web after the Ghost Ship Fire doesn't exist anymore. The history of it doesn't exist anymore. 20 years of my life doesn't exist. Within two years, 90% of the artists live workspaces in the Bay Area gone. Hundreds of artists displaced.
 Hundreds of lives changed forever. But most importantly, 36 souls lost their lives. And I will not, we cannot allow this. Letting people live in a tinderbox, no, absolutely not. I will not see this again. Yeah, let's see, who's next? Sir. Okay.
 How do I frame this? I'm just struggling with it because I think that the Tiffany's believe that they're helping people. I really think that they believe that. However, I remember when I was here on council when we first started talking about the camping issue and the challenges with it, and I do not see the improvements that we had always hoped for.
 And what I, you know, someone brought up, oh, the Tiffany's have this plan for these tiny houses and they're working in other cities. I don't think other cities just let someone who has something like this going on on their property start a larger project. Basically, it could be the same thing. And, you know, people have complained, well, we're not helping them enough. But, yeah.
 They don't seem willing to, my impression is they have their ideas about how they're going to do things and that's how it's going to be, and they're not really trying to work with us because I remember when we had the camping issue, we gave them very firm structure that you need this, you need a place for people to clean themselves, you need water, you need outlets, you need just normal things.
 And they weren't willing to try to do that, or they didn't have the money to do that. But Bob said this is an outrageous number of calls, and I cannot stress that enough. Our police and fire are going down there all the time, and I do not believe, I honestly do not believe that the fire chief is lying about this, that the police department is
 that the police officers don't have anything better to do than just stop someone coming out of here with a load of trash. I don't know. I think they have other things going on. I do, and I believe that they're busy with those things.
 But when we show us pictures of here's the improvements, it's all on the outside of the house. The side yard is clean now. Here's a close-up of a smoke detector, but I don't see what's around the smoke detector. The smoke detectors look old to me. I agree with Bob. And I think I saw three smoke detectors and two fire extinguishers. I have a...
 property that is much smaller than this and I've got three smoke detectors in it one outside of every bedroom and one in the hallway and I have three fire extinguishers in there so this idea that that that you're being targeted I don't think this is going I don't think that's true we've got calls of violence there fires there which violence fires theft
 Drugs other things going on and those things I don't think are going to stop I think they're going to get they're going to continue if we agree to this and Sooner or later the violence is going to end up in somebody dying someone that will get stabbed or shot or whatever they'll die or there'll be a fire and people can't get and that just terrifies me that there will be a fire in this building and people could not save themselves and
 And our fire department can't go in and save them because it's not safe for them. What if the police go in to try to help someone and they fall through the floor and they get hurt? I mean, I just don't think we can support this any longer. And I regret that because I do believe the Tiffany's think they're helping people, but allowing people just a shell, a rotten shell of a building to basically squat in is not...
 not helping when they need wraparound services they need all the services they need all the help not just a place to to to squat but thank you very much I just that's my thank you mayor I have a unique perspective on this property because with my job as a funeral director I'm at National Cemetery quite regularly
 um i i came on his council uh in january it'll be two years and uh prior to that i had services for united states veterans that were disturbed because of uh fights and people screaming and hollering and carrying on and and disrupting the services of veterans harassing families that i had served so i knew about this property
 already. Then I come on council and then we have the issue with the camping in the backyard. I don't question the Tiffany's heart, not at all. I don't. Just because you have a heart for the underserved doesn't give you the right to basically provide conditions that human beings shouldn't be in. I mean they're squalid conditions.
 And I put myself in the situation of the neighbors. I remember when we had the camping ordinance talk, and we had multiple neighbors come begging us to do something. I put myself in their position. If this was next door to me, I would be at this council chamber every meeting until something was done because it's unacceptable, absolutely unacceptable.
 I applaud the fact that they've cleaned the outside of the building, but I think it's a reaction to what was coming because I was down there on a service a month and a half ago and the RV and everything was sitting right where it was when we had the camping ordinance discussion. So I think this was a reaction to what they knew was coming.
 I agree with fellow council members that I think that enough is enough. We have to address this. And even though we may not have on legal counsel's guidance, we may not have any legal requirements, we have moral requirements. And I can't sit here and let this go on any longer.
 this has got to stop and i think the overwhelming majority of the citizens of fayetteville would agree with us so thank you mayor i have council member jones and council member herzberg okay who's first dr dr jones is first okay uh yes mayor jordan council uh i echo the sentiment of my council members uh last year i was invited
 Over to the property by some of the by some of the members by some of the neighborhood members and I was very alarmed at what I saw and.
 I think, and this is in Ward 1, and even though there may not be a legal responsibility, we certainly have a moral responsibility. I remember receiving a phone call from a gentleman. His daughter is a student at U of A. And there was a gentleman that they believed that came from the property and had entered into
 there at his daughter's house. And that was a really, I mean, that was a big concern for me. And so I don't think that, to me, this is not about having a good heart. We have a lot of people in Fayetteville who have good hearts, but they're doing things in a way that's conducive to health and safety.
 I think that for me, this is about doing the right things. This is about being healthy. This is about being safe. But y'all, this is about common sense. This has gone on way too long. And I think that we've been, the council has been generous and we have a responsibility. This has been my award. And when I ran for council, one of my top priorities was health and safety, making it a priority. And so that's what I'm going to do tonight. I'm going to support this resolution.
 Because that is the only, I have a responsibility to make sure that our citizens are safe. And I don't believe that this has anything to, this doesn't impact the housing crisis whatsoever. I don't think that it does. And to me, this is, I think for us, we have to change.
 responsibility, due diligence. I think that we have a, these are things that as council members, I believe that we have to do
 as it relates to being good stewards of our community's resources and time and and we were elected to protect and serve our citizens and so by supporting this tonight i think it does all of that and so uh again i echo all of the sentiments that my fellow council member spoke and um as always uh health and safety will be my top priority for everyone council member hertzberg
 Thank you. I think I have a little bit of a unique perspective on this because I was the one that brought the camping ordinance forward, which I know was a little bit controversial. But when I met with the Tiffany's, I was looking for a unique solution and I thought that, you know, that something that they were doing could possibly offer that solution. Yeah.
 So through that camping ordinance, we were really looking to protect, as Council Member Jones had said, protecting health and safety of the residents. And that was our top priority within that ordinance. And
 I was frustrated through that situation because, you know, the things that we were asking for, which is just basic health and safety requirements for the residents of the property, were not being met. And, you know, as Council Member Bunch has said, we've given them multiple opportunities and asked for very basic things.
 And so I unfortunately I do believe that this is the way that this needs to go In order for this to be resolved. Thank you Thank You mayor and You know, I don't think that there's probably any dispute that this is not an ideal solution for housing for individuals, especially with incredibly high needs and
 I don't know how many folks on council or that are watching this meeting have daily and weekly and monthly contact with individuals that have incredibly high needs in our community, but whenever they are populated in an area and have, you know, unmet medicated needs around say schizophrenia, right, it can be incredibly
 cumbersome and you know scary and volatile situations just unfortunately I'm given the nature of those folks and so like so many of my council members have stated you know I definitely appreciate that the Tiffany's have tried to be a last resort place I whenever this was brought forward you know
 So to me, kind of my guiding principle whenever I'm looking at whether or not we're regulating something or looking at a lawsuit is trying to look and figure out if there are other available avenues before we take, to me, what is incredibly punitive and a very formal process
 And we might vary in our thoughts on how that has played out over time. But one of the things that I had asked City Attorney Kit Williams during the agenda session was around what ultimately would be the outcome for us to call this a public nuisance. And I didn't feel like I had totally gotten an answer that was sufficient for me to fully understand it. So bear with me. I'm not an attorney, but I started down a rabbit hole with Google.
 can sometimes be our friend, sometimes not. But one of the things I guess that really struck me, and I'm just in my early stages, so bear with me, is that we have all these generated articles that come through the law schools, and the Ohio State Law Journal has an article out that's called Public Nuisance Law When Politics Fails. And I just wanna read a couple instances, because to me it really resonated for me with what we're faced with today.
 It says at the very beginning, public nuisance lawsuits provide a vehicle for litigants to address public problems that legislatures and agencies have sidestepped. It says further on page 70, the exact meaning of public nuisance is certainly contestable. Some commentators have bemoaned public nuisance as an amorphous, undefined, perhaps undefinable doctrine.
 And then further yet, on page 41, there's a passage that says, what arguably unites the categories of public nuisance cases is that they all do the work of what a well-functioning administrative state should do. So when I sit with that, what I really do say, and that I reflected on this somewhat during the camping ordinance, is these are reflective of when organizations
 What we've put in place as regulation and the resources in our community are not meaning the needs of our residents. And so really to me, the Tiffany's are a symptom of a plague that's within our city of, you know, under resourcing these individuals with immense needs. They're not the appropriate vehicle, most likely, in the current capacity that they have in the structure of the White House.
 But my question really is what is? Because these people exist in our community, they're in my family, they're people that I love. And I know that we're going to have to solve for them. My concern with this having a camping ordinance is that that does create the punitive nature and moves people around.
 And I am concerned that when we declare this potentially a public nuisance, I don't know if we're going to ultimately solve the issue at hand. And so, you know, for that, I have concerns that, you know, it's the appropriate avenue and that we might need to explore, you know, what it looks like to continue to walk alongside this property to fix these things. Because for me today.
 The list from the fire department was news to me. I did not know about those violations until, you know, Chief Harden shared those with me. And definitely that would be something that I would want to be looking at, you know, addressing, you know, with the property owners for sure. And so that's just my concern about due process and trying to make sure while I understand, you know, there have been many things within our city, you know,
 you know that have been struggling especially you know we went through COVID we have less resources in the health care capacity and the response teams around people that have mental health and addiction and crisis needs unfortunately in our region and so the real
 that we sit with is that these are folks in our community that we're going to have to solve for. And I'm just concerned that while we are talking about this one property again, it roots back to, at the end of the day, this is kind of a plague amongst us that we really are going to have to solve for. Teresa.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'll be really brief because my other council members have expressed a lot of the same concerns that I have. I know the Tiffany's are good people and have good intentions, absolutely, 100%.
 I have no doubt about that at all. However, after the camping ordinance went through and there was the opportunity to make some improvements, I could not visually see any of those. I would buy there from time to time. I still saw the RV, I still saw all the trash, and an abundance of concerns that I had about that.
 And while it seems like they've cleaned up the place recently, it only took this kind of, I guess, really threat or movement forward by the legal staff to get them to clean that up.
 I don't know where these people are going to go. I have the same concerns. I would say that it's not the city. I would say it's our whole federal and state procedures, maybe even county, that have failed these folks. Absolutely. And it really started with Reagan, so it goes back a really long way. So, you know, this is a sad situation that we're in, but I don't believe that we can allow this to continue. Thank you.
 Mayor, sorry. I know there was a question about what is the definition of a nuisance, and in Arkansas we've got three statutes that define that, and we're relying on all three of those. In the local government code, section 14, 54, 1502, a common nuisance is defined as a common nuisance shall include any three separate district court convictions of health and safety code violations.
 or one such conviction of defense constitutes an imminent threat to the health, safety, or welfare of any citizen. Arkansas Code Annotated Section 16-105-402 says that a property or structure used for the purpose of unlawfully selling, storing, keeping, manufacturing, using, or donating a controlled substance precursor analog under the Uniform Controlled Substances Act is detrimental to the public morals and is a common nuisance.
 And section 574.109 says that any premises, building, or place used to facilitate the commission of a continuing series of three or more criminal violations of Arkansas law is declared to be detrimental to the law-abiding citizens of the state and may be subject to an injunction, a court-ordered eviction, or a cause of action for damages as provided for in this subchapter. Now, this is the first time that our office has ever asked to take this step. As far as I know, it's the first time the city has ever taken this step.
 And we certainly don't do that lightly, but those are the definitions that we're held to When we file a case in court, okay, I'd make a motion. We pass the resolution as presented second Okay, any final comments from the council. I got a few You know I hear a lot about what we're not doing But I want to talk a little bit about what we are doing in this city, and I meet with people the city's
 across this region they will ask me what is the number one issue they think in this region and i tell them homelessness also bring up the landfill but that's another story another day but i know that our city has spent 4.9 million dollars on homelessness 2.5 on homelessness in a low-income house and we're looking at some other issues tonight
 and we have spent 1.4 million dollars on non-profit organizations so it's you know we are are trying we do the pick me up room thanks to tricia turner net forward um you know and what i was seeing along the trails and i've taken my share of hits on that but our citizens begin to show me pictures of what we have along just the town branch trail
 which it looked a great deal like landfill all of it washing down in the creeks and i finally said enough we can't have that because it was a health hazard as i've said before we picked up two quart jars full of needles we had dog attacks stabbings i think we had a homicide i don't know the chief back there assistant chief can back me up on a lot of this we've spent seven hundred and fifty thousand dollars for seven hills in the last five years
 Try to keep people sheltered. I don't want anybody unsheltered, but it is it is going to take a region Working together to address this issue right now I think I would I would venture for you to get to look up what other cities are spending in the region on homeless programs and low-income housing and
 And I can assure you we're doing everything that we possibly can. Now, maybe we can do more, and I'm certainly willing to look at any of that. But I know that I think on the ARPA funds, how much did we spend on 1.6? 1.63 million, Mayor. Along with the 4.9. So we've spent $6.5 million in five years. And that's because, you know what? We care. I care.
 but you know there's two things i'm going to do in this city as mayor i'm going to keep it safe and i'm going to keep it clean and i think we owe that i was at some of the veteran services i will have to admit i saw some of the harassment that was going on but i want to keep i think bob that was very touching what you said and we have to remember that we have to take care of everybody and that means like the trails they're meant for everybody
 So that's some of the decisions of why I do what I do. But when I look in the last year, my police department has responded 94 times to a piece of property. That's eight per month. That's two a week. And that's just too much. I like the Tiffany's. I think they're trying to do what they think is right. But I think we've got to do what we think is right, too. And I think this is right. And that's...
 but it's not like we're asleep at the wheel but it's a it's a it's an issue with the city it's an issue with the region and it's a issue nationally and we need to address it anyway that's all i got to say let's vote i'm going to need a uh council member to second stafford yes jones yes moore no verna yes
 Hunch? Yes. Hurt? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go on to number three. Do you all want a break? Okay, let's go ahead and get started. All right, let's go to number three. Okay.
 a resolution to adopt 2025 annual budget and work program paul good evening mayor and council i'm going to go over the presentation for the uh for the proposed 2025 budget i'm going to get
 Just had a couple of high points. These are all slides the council seen before I'm going to hit a couple of high points So if you go to slide one, I appreciate it If we look at it and we look at the proposed 2025 budget compared to the adopted 2024 budget we can see the increases we tried to keep the increases as minimal as possible The general fund will be up as recommended to be up four million dollars. Most of that's personnel one
 Water and sewer up $6 million. That's due to salary increases and also the addition of some people that we have to try to address leaks and fixing some issues in-house rather than going out to capital.
 As you can see the sales tax bond that's been reduced about a minute and a half and that's because we don't answer we had anticipated the sales tax for 2024 to be higher than it was so That is backed off a bit all in all the Total budget is up 12 million dollars Which is five percent more than last year twenty
 $254 million is the total budget. If we look at the next slide, we can roughly see where most of that is spent. If we can look at the activities, we can see that the largest single activity in the overall budget is water and sewer. That budget is roughly $52 million. The second biggest activity here in the city is the police. That's about $29 million.
 Fire is $21 million in recycling trash collection, $17 million. Transportation and parking, $15 million. So those are the basic operating activities that compose the overall budget. We'll go to the next slide. We see where do we spend that. We can see the largest portion of the increase is in personnel services.
 Throughout the entire city we spent about thirty five point five percent of the total budget on Personnel services and that's by far the largest The largest expenditure category If you look at this particular budget when we're looking at 2024 adopted budget compared to 2025 you can see that the personnel services are up
 The debt service, as you can see, that's backed off a little less because we anticipate the sales tax being less than the increases that we had anticipated last year. Capital's down a little bit. We're backing off slightly in capital, but all in all, the increase again is roughly 5%.
 Let's look at the next slide very quickly, and that'll show you the expend by category of all funds graphically. And as you can see, personnel services are by far the largest category. But notice some of the other ones, servants and charges are 13%, just debt service about 15%. Fuels, 3%. Look at the purchase of water, it's 6% of the overall budget, and that is going up.
 We look very quickly at the general fund, which is the one fund we can .
 Which is the one fund that we can use on many many different things as long as it's public purpose if we look at it The budget for 2024 was 73 million dollars We're requesting a budget of 77 million dollars or an increase of 4 million dollars 3.2 million dollars that was in personnel services and
 $250,000 of software maintenance increases. Those are built-in increases based on our software at this point in time. Motor pulls up $225,000 and that's generally because our fleet continues to expand and the cost for new equipment continues to rise.
 The Fayetteville Public Library, we're recommending an additional $178,000 to them. They've got some capital improvements that they need to do at the front of the building, et cetera, that they do not have the funds.
 the resources due at this point in time that we feel is necessary for public safety and the ease of our citizens. So again, that is up $4 million in the general fund. That's 5% compared to last year. If we go to the next slide.
 You can see that's where you're estimating the budget. In revenue to be $74 million. The expenditure is $77 million or a shortfall of $3 million. We tried to keep this budget as lean as possible. We think it's
 It is as lean as we could, 5% increase, considering the escalation in costs going up. And we do have a salary survey and process. We feel that was a conservatively done budget. And with that, I will entertain questions. What questions do we have for Paul? Go ahead, Sarah. Thank you, Mayor. Excuse me. I'm...
 One of the things on the projection, I think for next year you said you're calling for a 5%, but we've been seeing constriction currently this year. What are the things and the factors that are going to change that we are basing that 5% growth on?
 What are the factors of change? Basically, that 5% is driven by what we consider cost escalations, because we're seeing cost escalations. When we talk about capital, we're seeing cost escalation in bids. Just like us as citizens are facing, we're seeing escalations in costs. So it's actually the inflationary costs coming forward to us that we're anticipating. Does that answer your question?
 So, I'm sorry, if we'll go back, I guess the $3 million that we're looking at dipping into our reserves, what percentage growth target is that over our year end for 24? The percentage growth in? What growth are we calling 25, the year 25 for over where we're projected to finish 24? Oh, as far as revenue? Correct. On $968,000, I believe that is...
 Roughly 1.3% increase in revenue. Okay, so 1.3% increase? 1.3% increase over what we anticipate, yes. Okay. And so I guess my question is for the increase that we're projecting for next year, I know we've seen a lot of constriction that's happened in this whole, I don't know, last six months, I guess we could say. What factors are we thinking are going to change that are going to put us at that number?
 As far as the revenue, what are we basing? Why are we expecting increases? Well, first off, remember, we pulled back in sales tax, as I said, but it's going to be the same things that are driving. We are going to drive. We're going to see inflationary...
 We're going to, beside the inflation, we're going to see some additional costs, for example, franchise fees, things of that nature. We're increasing some of the parks, anticipating some future activities in a park. We're anticipating an increase in building permits.
 9-1-1 fees we're anticipating some of the things there so it's going to be kind of the same kind of drive except we don't expect it to be as much we expect that he hit the expenditures more than it's going and hit the income coming in to us we've got to remember our income is very volatile
 Yes, Paul, absolutely. Thank you for walking through that. I just wanted to see exactly what had gone into that number, so thank you. Absolutely. We try to be conservative on the revenue side because that's the less dangerous. The risk involved if we overestimate revenue, it's a little more difficult than that.
 than if we underestimate. So we try to be as conservative as possible, but I'm very comfortable with our projections at this point in time. Hopefully we'll do a little better, but we're all gonna have to take a look at what's going forward. We don't know. There are a lot of imponderables. Got a change in administration. We got differences going all over the world. Anything else? Thank you.
 well this is a resolution oh it takes public comments hang on everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council or stay on topic please give us your name and address those present the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom after that who would like to address us on the budget that's in the room here susan
 No one on Zoom has their hand raised, Mayor. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussion would you all like to have?
 I was going to move that we pass this resolution. Can I, I was actually going to ask if we could hold it. I had a few questions come up in the last week. I've been busy. We've had the appeal and some additional things. I've had a sick child. I apologize. But I have a few questions I want to follow up on that might maybe affect amendment that I might want to bring. So if it's possible, I kind of had asked about the timeline to just make sure if we can hold it until the next meeting.
 So, Paul, will that cause a problem if we wait for two weeks? And maybe you can address Council Member Moore's questions. Well, the only problem that it does involve, and I know it's going to cause a major problem, but remember all of our directors have to be prepared to answer any questions, so they all have to be ready. We have to review all of our...
 all of our submittals and things of that nature. So it does cause some issues as far as staff is concerned. And we remember, we can make amendments after the adoption of a budget too. But yeah, it does create a little problems. But if you want to table it, certainly that's up to the discretion of the city council.
 Well, we've tried to, usually, try to accommodate everybody on the council that had some concerns or wanted more questions answered. So I would be okay with holding it for two weeks. If you could get your questions in to Paul quickly so that he has plenty of time to address them. Yeah, I don't think that would be an issue, so thank you. Okay, well, we'll hold it two weeks and let's move along.
 All right, the next order of business I have is a resolution to mayor We need a motion Motion to take all their resolution for the 25 budget so good Stafford yes Jones. Yes more yes, Erna Bunch yes
 Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Now let's move on to number four. A resolution to commit ARPA funds in the amount of $71,411 to the Seven Hills Homeless Center and to approve a budget adjustment. Steven, you have this? Yes, I do, Mayor. As you said, we have $71,411 in ARPA funds that have been returned to the city.
 We need to commit those funds formally by December 31st of this year. This item before you tonight will allocate those funds to the Seven Hills Homeless Center. And from our agenda session discussion, I understand Council Member Moore has some questions for Seven Hills. So I've brought Becky Sison, the CEO, in here to help answer anything that you might have.
 Good evening, Becky Sisson, Seven Hills, but I live in Asylum Springs, Arkansas. It's been a year since we were here until midnight talking about ARPA funding and the innovative collaborative proposal that you guys asked for us to come up with for ARPA funding, which included New Beginnings, Salvation Army, the COC, Diva, and Dudes, and Seven Hills. And Seven Hills sits as the lead agency for that innovative proposal, which has been great. The city has been extremely supportive.
 But we've really used it because we believe it's possible for people to be self-sufficient, and that's where we put our funding. We were able to use some of the funding and are still working on renovation at the shelter. That will be 64 beds in two weeks. Part of the renovation has been handicapped bathrooms, making sure the doors were wide enough and things of that nature and that people were safe.
 We also were in, made a commitment to make sure that while we were staffing it, which was the other piece, staffing and security, that we were actually hiring people who have lived experience. So we've actually employed six different people who were unsheltered at one time, gave them a job to work at our shelter, and have seen them move on to better things because we believe it's possible for people to be self-sufficient.
 One of the ways that we're able to work at the shelter and for it to be successful and to do case management is that we've trained all of our staff to be resource advocates. And so that means that anyone who comes and works for us has the ability to help with all of the basic things that someone who is unsheltered needs to move them on to the next level, to move them forward. So that's something that we've been very committed in doing.
 While ARPA has provided the funding for the shelter expansion, renovation, and the security and staffing, Seven Hills has put our money in to increase our case management. And here's what we've done with case management that's happening at the shelter.
 we started a job readiness program. Not just the six that we originally hired, but we currently have two people who came through our shelter who are now working at Seven Hills, making $11.50 an hour at 20 hours a week, and they're working with case management. And we're doing this because we believe that if we can give someone work experience, they're going to be able to go out and be successful as they move forward.
 We have entered an interesting endeavor called empowered living. But what empowered living is, is sober living. So on the Walker property, as people come through shelter, or as we see people through Salvation Army that finish an addiction program, they can actually move into sober living, and our staff is there 24-7 to assist them and make sure that they're safe. So we want to make sure we're bringing in as many partners as possible and that we're helping people move forward along the way.
 You may have seen or not, but we just started a partnership with Genesis House where they have opened Gap House that's on our property. That works with people who are in shelter. Gap is trying to fill that need with the CSU that closed. Genesis Church has been someone in our community who believes very strongly in making sure that if people have an urgent need or crisis, they have a place to stay that's safe. And so we said we want to partner with you. So let's talk about doing this. We were able to open that up a couple of weeks ago.
 My favorite is Judge Stevenson has reached out to us and we've actually provided two spaces for mental health court referrals. It's a little selfish on my part because we talk about homelessness, but really we're dealing with addiction and mental illness.
 Homelessness is sometimes just something that happens because of the mental illness and the addiction. So I believe, the staff believes, if we can get people on our sites or working with people who are struggling with mental illness, then we can potentially get them help and help them move forward. It's a process. Each person's story is completely different.
 I had the opportunity of meeting with CERT, which is a crisis intervention resource team through the Fayetteville Police Department. Had a really great conversation with them and with Sergeant Strange. And they asked us if we could actually hold a couple of beds or make spaces for CERT
 response and we agreed and that starts December the 15th because we believe that the city of Fayetteville has done a lot to help the homeless and If you ask anybody we believe that you're the number one partner with us We couldn't do what we do without you and we're very very appreciative of that So since we've opened in March at the shelter, I do want to tell you we've had 111 unique guests come through shelters not for everybody but that means that we've had people come through shelter that have given it a shot and
 The rules are pretty simple. We want you to come in. We want you to be kind. We have people that come in that are inebriated or that are high. We have rules that they cannot use drugs or drink on property. But we see people on a regular basis that come in under the influence, and our staff is trained to work with them to make sure that they're safe. Because if they can be safe in the shelter bed and wake up in the morning and get a shower, that's really the best place for them to be. 111. We have housed, since the end of March, 16 people.
 housed and they're still housed. Four of those people, oh sorry, five of those people received rental assistance. Eleven did not. The reason why they did not receive rental assistance is because we've had 32 people gain employment that still have employment.
 So we believe if we can bring people into shelter, get their life back on schedule, some sense of norm, or they're taking a shower at a normal time, they're getting a good night's sleep, that case management can then say, okay, what's your next step? And for a lot of them, it's like I would like to get a job and be housed or be on my own. And so we're there every day making sure that that happens. So 32 people having a job is really huge. We've had six people ask to enter rehab for addiction.
 That's because we're a safe environment and because we offer AA on property. People will get settled and realize that I don't have to live like this, that maybe I'm coping in ways that I shouldn't be coping and I'm doing things that aren't safe. And so they're able to go and do that. If you were to ask me what my favorite thing that we do, is our case managers at the shelter spend a lot of time working with our guests with priors. Because I really believe that if you've got priors, you've got to get your stuff taken care of so you can move forward, right? If you've got...
 you know, history with law enforcement, or if you've got things that you haven't paid for, it makes it harder for you to get a job.
 So that's probably the number one service that, and there's some people that require that service more than others that we probably all would know. But imagine how hard it is whenever you have a record and you have to go to court and you're unsheltered. And it's kind of scary to do that by yourself. So our case management goes with them, goes with the guest and helps them and talks to the judge and makes sure that we're helping them accordingly and that they're not feeling uncomfortable. Because that helps us create citizens that can be involved and help us move forward in the city of Cape Hill.
 Of the funds, there's some of the funds, and I don't know how much information that you guys have for sure, but some of the funds that need to be reallocated, and really our goal is as a lead agency to keep as much funding in the innovative proposal as possible so that we can meet the goals that we promised, the things that we promised you we would do with the funding. Whenever all of us agreed at one time that we would be able to do it, we all signed a subrecipient agreement.
 Organizations change, things change, but we want to make sure that as a lead agency that we're keeping our word to the City of Fayetteville for that funding and to Steve Dotson and to Chantel because they're great to work with and it's not hard to get reimbursement as long as you're doing things well and they're very helpful and are there anytime you need them. But one of the key pieces of that funding was bus tickets. And so the organization that was going to be working on bus tickets is not going to be working on bus tickets and they're willing to give that money back up.
 Since 2018, our organization has spent $7,000 on bus tickets. And we're not talking ORT bus tickets, we're talking about Jefferson bus lines. So if we come across somebody, like we had somebody from California, we had somebody
 who had been trying to hitchhike back to California for two years. And every time the guy tried to hitchhike back to California, he was picked up here, he was picked up in Oklahoma. I mean, it was just insane, his story. So our case management team was able to work with his family and to reach out to make sure that if we really did send him on a bus to California that he would have someone there to help him. We didn't want to exit him back into homelessness. And that bus ticket was only $127. $127.
 And he still sends us pictures of himself with his family in California. And so we believe that diversion is another way. And so that's our agreement. And that's, I'll leave it open for questions. Okay, what questions do we have? One of the areas we talked about was like regional collaboration. Is Seven Hills Apart in the northwest Arkansas continuum of care working on a regional response to homelessness? That's a great question. I'm really glad that you asked it. So we are the only day center in Fayetteville.
 We see every Salvation Army person that stayed in shelter, and we see every person that stays at New Beginnings all day long. That's 125 people a day. So we do intakes for them that go into the Homeless Management Information System. So we're the only organization doing intakes for people who are homeless and working with them for diversion, right, just because of the way the other programs are set up. So we participate. I don't believe that a regional response is to send people to Fayetteville.
 The role of the COC is to make sure that each community has its own response. And I think that our COC has some work. And we're not really functioning well. We leave over $1 million on the table every year through the COC that could be going to organizations like ourselves. We don't receive funding from the COC.
 But we participate in HMIS for now. I don't want you to ever be surprised. I do believe that having our own Washington County COC is something that we need to look at. Housing Solutions in Tulsa receives $5 million. So it's not on the weight of the city of Fayetteville. There are HUD dollars that if...
 handled properly could go out and be a response throughout all of Northwest Arkansas. And the only way the regional response is going to happen is if we get a CoC that's functioning better.
 But we do participate and provide them with the information that they need. Cold weather response is something that we work on. We are the lead agency for the cold weather response for Fayetteville. Last year, we were fortunate enough to partner with the Squire Hagen Program, Genesis Church, and Salvation Army. But we didn't have the shelter open.
 So this year we have the shelter with 64 beds and so we're able to be more efficient and we've encouraged the COC to focus on people having a response in Springdale because last year we were bringing people from Springdale back to Fayetteville and unfortunately a lot of times those people don't go back. And we really believe that it's important to keep people where their community is and not bring them into a place where they may not have community.
 Okay, so just to clarify, that was a pretty lengthy response. So no, Seven Hills is not a part of Northwest Arkansas Continuum of Care officially, and you provide information, or yes, you're a part? I just want to clarify. We are not required to be a member because we don't receive funding from them. But we provide all of the information into the Homeless Management Information System that they require. We're the agency that's housing the majority of the intakes for people who are homeless.
 And so until change happens and conversations are had, that's where we feel safe being.
 And then the other question that I had that came from the community is that it's been reported that there are somewhere close to potentially 400 chronically unhoused individuals that might potentially be trespassed from Seven Hills. So I just hope that you could talk to us because, you know, obviously as this is, you know, taking a lot of funds from Fayetteville, I just wanted to make sure that we addressed that. That's a Salvation Army number and that number is 392.
 for Salvation Army. It's their NDA list, and something that they will share with you that's out there. I ask our staff, we have like five people that, let's talk about what a bar is. So if someone comes to the day center and they're violent, brandish a weapon, threaten a staff member, threaten another guest, threaten a police officer, we'll ask them to leave. Normally, those are temporary for the day, or if someone's, you know, causing a ruckus or
 drinking alcohol or things of that nature. But that person can still come and get services because we're their place. And so someone might be trespassed and they can still come in and get clothing. If we have a lady this week that we were working with CERT with that she needed clothing and she needed a blanket and she needed a camper bag. And so we went ahead and gave that to her. We don't want people to be without service. We believe we are the front lines working on that service. But Sully Charm is a great organization, but they have their own
 regulations and guidelines as a national organization and I think that they use the NDA requirements based on that but our list it could be that big but it's not because we're seeing especially yeah, we're seeing their people that they can't they won't see and
 Okay, so just again, just five, that was what you're saying? Yeah, that's right. And then the other question that I, I think you might have touched on this earlier, but one of the things were, is this, are there any populations that you potentially don't serve or couldn't potentially serve? Kids, I mean, like we have parents and kids that come to the day center for basic needs, and we're able to help them, but in our shelter right now, we don't have that.
 don't serve children. And it's for adults, simply because it's the safest way to make sure that the kids that we can usually find or divert a family with kids. But every single person, well, probably 85% of the people that we serve struggle with mental illness or addiction. So yes, we do serve all of those people. I'm going to yield the floor in case there are other council members that have questions. But I might have a couple more followed in just a minute. That's great. Thank you. Anybody got any questions?
 So with your program once you got the ARPA funds, have you seen a drop off of need for response from PD? Yes. It's always exciting when you're at the Walker property and you see a police car drive by and you're like what are you doing here? And they're like we just haven't seen you for a while.
 That's good. Having staff on property has really eliminated calls that we were seeing on Walker. But changing our process has also helped what we're seeing at the day center. Because we, great example, had a meeting with the ORT and they were like, ever since you opened the shelter,
 Things have changed. It was the best summer that we've had in like 10 years with few complaints. People were getting on the bus, they were going to shelter, and people were getting along with each other. I think if you look at the numbers for police calls, we're down like 50 year over year, apples to apples. I mean, I know that sometimes those are hard to read through and mitigate.
 One of the things that we've asked Sergeant Strange and CERT is to kind of keep us posted because that number is going down because our staff is trained to work with conflict resolution. I think people having an option of a place to stay helps. And that's making sure that we're getting people in and out the door. Used to, you'd come to the day center and you'd put your name on a list and you might wait four or five hours to get a case manager. And so now everyone at the day center
 is a resource advocate, and they're trained to help with everything, from driver's license, Lions Club, you name it. They're all able to help with everything. Probably one of the biggest changes that we made that I, I wouldn't say that it was hard for me that I've gotten a little kickback from, is when I started, we were handing out thousands of sleeping bags and tents every year at the day center. So when people would come to the day center, we'd be like, oh, you must need a tent, you must need a sleeping bag. But worked with the staff, and when we opened shelter, we stopped handing out
 tents and sleeping bags because we have an option for overnight shelter and we're committed to making sure that the trails stay clean and we believe that people can be responsible. We can
 I believe we have two options. We can enable people to stay unsheltered or enable people or keep giving them help without any expectation. But I do believe that we can have that expectation of no trespassing, that expectation of following the law and be low barrier and sheltered and staffed and saying we care about you, we love you, we know what the end result's going to be. But it's okay for us to tell you that you can't trespass at Centennial Bank or you can't trespass at other places. Thank you.
 Okay, Assistant Chief Scott, do you actually have the hard numbers on what she's saying about the responses? Yes sir, in response to those numbers, the conversation that Ms. Sisson had with our Crisis Intervention Response Team Sergeant Cody Strange, he
 He was curious if that since they implemented these these new processes if that if our calls for response have gone down So I had an opportunity to look at that And I'll give you the dates. I go back to 2020 But what seems to be relevant is January 1st of 2023 through 11 11 of 2023 verse the same timeframe for 2024 and
 In that timeframe for 2023, there were 317 calls for service to Seven Hills on South School. And in 2024, in the same timeframe, it is at 256. So we're roughly 61 less calls, sir. Okay, thank you. You're welcome. We anticipate that'll continue to go down if we continue the processes that we have, so. Go ahead. Okay.
 I appreciate you going through the numbers of what's happened in regard to, I think you
 64 64 beds and can you tell us how much of the ARPA budget that we've provided to Seven Hills so far has been used for the renovations of the dormitory renovations of the dormitory well once we do our next reimbursement it'll be almost thirty thousand dollars and that also includes the purchases of beds that was in that as well one of the things when we started you know
 My hope would be that we don't always have to have an immediate shelter. So we wanted to make sure that the building was malleable enough. And so if we ever got to a point where we could have transitional housing, we could do that as well. It's done security for us. It's done doors and windows and things of that nature.
 And then can you walk me through on the spending that's occurred just on the other items that you talked about? Because you spoke a bit about additional housing that's on that property on Walker. I know that was permanent supportive and had people house there. Is that you've added new buildings or are we repurposing the current space? Yeah, we no longer do permanent supportive housing. That was a grant-funded program. But we do do supportive housing. And so people who are in shelter, we've got...
 four people now. One of them is a staff person of ours that was unsheltered that is working to find to save money for her own place, which she'll probably have done by January, bought herself a car. But then we have a lot of older people that we see on a regular basis. And so we've been finding that trying to find assisted living and to get through social security and disability benefits, it takes some time. And some of those older people who are 65 and up might not be
 successful in shelter with a large group of people and so we've been moving them into supportive housing with case management but we don't use the funding from ARPA for that we only use it for staffing that's at the shelter we wanted to make sure that we were very compliant and Steve and Chantel are very kind to help us with that anything that we do in supportive housing and case management is something that Seven Hills is paying for not with ARPA funding
 So thank you for walking us through where you've sent things so far. And then with the current amount that you still have of ARPA, what is the projected use for that money then? Because I honestly, I'll be honest, I thought that more money would go into the renovation of the property, so I'm quite surprised at the $30,000. Because I don't know what contractors work on that, and they're bonded and licensed.
 So that seems, I know we've talked about tiny houses, you know, can't be built for what, 80,000 to like 120,000.
 Anybody that we use has to go through a list from the city and so Les came out So we have a list of Fayetteville of city of Fayetteville approved contractors that have gone through the bid process So that's part of the compliance that we have to have with the ARPA funding And so we do that Les and his team are fabulous. They help us with that on a regular basis The largest portion of that of course has been showers and making sure that we've got handicapped accessible bathrooms and things of that nature and
 One of the things that the board agreed to do when we got this funding was not to rely on it solely. We've been going out and trying to find additional funding because whenever the funding's up for ARPA, we're still going to have a need for overnight shelter. And so we're committed to making sure that we do that. So the remaining dollars and any other dollars received would go towards bus tickets and would also go towards staffing and security that we need as we move forward into the next several months.
 So that gives us like two more months of funding for staffing. Okay. Thank you for walking us through that budget. You know, you've been into the space, and so it's hard. It's very much a salt box, so it's very simple. It wasn't a tone. But making sure that we had windows that lock and things like that and that the place is safe, you know, it's a great space to start off for an overnight shelter. Anything else? Paul. I motion we vote to pass the resolution. Okay.
 I got to take some public comment. We're not near there yet, Bob. I understand. I'd like to get there, too. All right. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic that's in the chamber?
 Nicole Lynn Ward 3 I would just like to recommend that you pass this I did an internship for a master's degree at Seven Hills they're great stewards of money they just really are prudent with it I think that they are gonna do great things they're going to make sure that as we grow that they help assist the unhoused population and this is just another no-brainer so I hope y'all pass it thank you anybody else anybody on zoom no one on zoom has her hand raised mayor
 Okay, I motion we move to pass the resolution so good Resolution any final comments from the council?
 Mayor, I would like to at least present what an amendment could potentially be. I wanted to ask the question so we'd have enough information around Seven Hills, but I also wanted to bring new information forward. I know I go back to not everyone potentially lives in the space all the time, and I find myself there every day of the week. I've gotten feedback from community members when this money came forward to just have
 that additionally with these monies that we could potentially do rental assistance. And so that's something that was worked up that's provided to you. It's not obviously going to be for a lot of households. It kind of goes back to, you know, childcare also can't impact, you know, a lot of households just because of the expense of it. One of the things we're faced with is since COVID and a lot of the ARPA and other monies have dried up, there hasn't been locally when you call like 211
 or go to local agencies, there's not been funds available for rent. One of the things after calling 211 where there's some agencies given and only one of those has current funds available, but they have limited interview slots and your landlord has to take a W-9 to get that money, which can be sometimes cumbersome. And so for that reason, I just wanted to bring forward the possibility that these, you know,
 um households um could end up housed i think it ends up being around 25 households give or take it goes back to the structure that stephen gave us previously where yolanda's group is given the funds and folks apply and are given one to three months my concern is just this there are individuals uh as much energy and effort seven hills does and i'm very appreciative in all of our organizations working to house individuals
 We have more unhoused folks than shelter spaces available. We have more folks that are on the bubble of losing housing and yet there are less resources available while we go into colder weather months. And so when this was, I was approached about this, it made sense to think about, well, we potentially could at least keep 25 housed because it's much more costly and difficult when somebody becomes unhoused to rehouse them.
 so that was why I wanted to bring that forward for consideration that we potentially keep some of these families, 25 households from burdening Seven Hills and other of our agencies out there who are going to end up having to send them into like 211 where, you know, it'll be hit and miss. I currently have someone we're assisting whose breadwinner was in a
 of the Washington County Detention Center and they were having to go around to all the different churches trying to make their rent because that was their earner that was gone and to be able to get food. And so I know it was quite difficult for them here recently. So just wanted to bring that forward because every single part is a piece of the solution. And so making sure that we have as many tools available in our area that we have responsibility over as possible.
 Okay, so you want to move the seventy one thousand dollars somewhere else To be able to allocate it and Steven nicely laid it out, but I didn't notice it's not I don't think it's in the packet I apologize you had laid it out really well And I didn't notice it didn't get in the packet, but there's the visual of how many people can get served and so it was laid out exactly in the way that Steven had proposed it to us previously and
 i can read those numbers off to you thank you stephen um so with the around seventy one thousand dollars in arpa funding um had an estimated fifteen hundred dollars a month you could expect to help around 47 people for one month or 23 people for two months or 15 people for three months
 and uh you know as you as you mentioned council member moore we ran a program like this back in 2020 it's just a matter of setting up an application process and distributing those funds that's pretty much it in a nutshell that's the same program that i've presented two other times to council so you have a motion to amend i will make a motion to amend i was just sharing information to him i i
 i saw council member moore's proposal i i disagree with it i don't think it's a a wise choice and i won't be voting for that amendment let me see if i can get a second here is there a second okay yeah i believe did i have a second on my motion to vote i believe
 second pass we were about to we were about to get that i i have it i have a motion on the floor to approve from council member stafford seconded by council member turk that's what i heard all right then okay we have a motion to second the past resolution any final comments from council
 I would like to say that I looked at what I considered Councilmember Moore's proposal and there are some things I really like about this. I think that it helps people that are already housed, prevents them from going into homelessness and that's something that really appeals to me.
 To me, I'm trying to weigh out where I think it will do the most good. And when I see that all of these New Beginnings, COC, Salvation Army, these other groups all agreed to give this funding to Seven Hills, I have to take that into consideration.
 In the end, I do believe from my perspective, I think Seven Hills is carrying a little more weight for me than the rental assistance here. Although that's a good idea, too. So, thank you. Okay, so...
 I know that Sarah had made a motion to amend, but no, she didn't get second. So now we're voting on Bob's, right? I hope so. I do too. I just wanted to explain why I was not going to support that. Thank you. Who else wants to talk? I see lights all over the place. Okay.
 thank you mayor i just want to make a really brief statement um i i do agree that you had some really great items in there but i also wanted seven hills to be able to complete everything that they had said that they were going to do and taking that money away i think would have um cobbled them hobbled them from being able to achieve what they promised to the city so that that's kind of how my perspective came down thank you
 Yeah, and I echo that in the fact that we first turned down an original proposal resolution because We wanted a collaborative effort so we have a collaborative effort now We see progress being made so we have to do what we can to support them, so I will be supporting this resolution Everybody ready You call the roll please Jackson Stafford yes Jones yes and
 Moore. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Okay, moving right along. Number five, an ordinance to approve vacation 24-21 property located at 2975 West Old Farmington Road in Ward 1. Vacate .10 acres of general utility east lake. We're
 Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA section 1454-104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes. And whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of general utility easement is not required for corporate purposes. Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of general utility easement as described in Exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Thank you.
 Section 2 a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit a to the planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit clerk section 3 this vacation approval is subject to the condition that Any damage to a relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner slash developers expense. Okay, Jonathan I
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us to Southwest Fayetteville and Ward 1. It's immediately east of Old Farmington Road's intersection with One Mile Road on the south side of Old Farmington. The property in question totals about 1.3 acres and is developed currently with a single family dwelling, which you can see at the white roof there next to the bold black outline of the easement I'm about to discuss.
 The easement in question totals about a tenth of an acre and bisects the property from north to south, running from Old Farmington Road to the south property line, and the applicant is requesting to vacate it. Here's a visual of that in both survey form and aerial form, if that assists. The applicant is not proposing currently to remove or vacate the easement that runs along the property line, excuse me, on the street-facing property line along Old Farmington Road.
 Staff has not identified any issues with this request and accordingly we are recommending in favor all the franchise utilities have submitted their consent with none of them requesting any conditions of approval, suggesting that there are not currently any facilities in that easement today. The only condition of approval we're recommending as a result is the standard one that any damage or relocation of existing facilities will be at the applicant's request.
 I'm happy to take any questions the council has. And Mayor, I believe a representative from Satterfield Land Surveying is available as the applicant for the item. Mayor Redekopff, Satterfield Land Survey, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes. Mayor Redekopff, 10 minutes.
 The better portion of it because it runs right through the center of it and we're just asking to vacate an easement that has no utilities in it and it says no use whatsoever. So what was your name? Ricky Hill. Okay. Just checking.
 Yes, sir. Dana, I apologize. Jonathan did not know that Dana was unavoidably called away, and I stepped in to take this over. I've been with this from the start, so I'm well aware of what's going on. You threw me there for just a moment. I apologize. Okay. What questions do we have for the applicant? Okay.
 Well, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Please stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those that are in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating in the Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this topic?
 nobody nobody all right gonna bring it back to the council this is an ordinance what action would the council like to take make a motion we suspend the rules go to second reading second we have a motion in the second to go to the second reading texan would you please call the roll stafford yes jones yes moore yes bernard yes hunch yes turk yes herzberg
 Yes. An ordinance to approve VAC 24-21 for property located at 2975 West Old Farmington Road in Ward 1 to vacate .10 acres of general utility. Mayor, make a motion to suspend rules, go third, final reading. Second. Motion to second, go third, and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford. Yes. Jones. Yes. Moore. Yes. Berna. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Yes.
 TURK? Yes. PERTSBURG? Yes. An ordinance to approve the AC24-21 for property located at 2975 West Old Farmington Road in Ward 1 to vacate .10 acres of general utility easement. Any final comments from the council? Sorry. Okay. All right. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore?
 Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Thank you all. Let's go to number six. An ordinance to approve vacation 2424 property located at 2716 North Floral Court,
 in Ward 2 to vacate 0.01 acres of utility easement. Blake? Whereas the City Council has the authority under ACA Section 1454.104 to vacate public grounds or portions thereof which are not required for corporate purposes, and whereas the City Council has determined that the following described portion of utility easement is not required for corporate purposes.
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, section one, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby vacates the portion of utility easement as described in exhibit B attached to the Planning Department's memo. Section two, a copy of this ordinance duly certified by the city clerk along with the map attached as exhibit A to the Planning Department's memo shall be filed in the office of the Washington County Circuit Clerk. Section three, this vacation approval is subject to the condition that any damage to or relocation of existing facilities will be at the property owner slash developer's expense.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us north toward 2. It's in northwest Fayetteville. It includes Lot 12 of the Prairie View Acres Subdivision, which is due east of Underwood Park and abuts portions of the Wilson Springs Preserve as well. The request before Council is to vacate, Mayor is correct, about one hundredth of an acre of utility easement along the east property line of this particular lot of the subdivision.
 The applicant is proposing to improve their property and the easement is currently conflicting with that.
 In reviewing the easement and the consent forms from our franchise utilities, no issues have been identified, including no conditions for approval from any of those utilities. And accordingly, staff is recommending in favor of this vacation request with but one standard condition that the damage relocation of any existing facilities will be at the property owner's expense. And I'm happy to take questions. And Mayor Seth Carter is the applicant on this item.
 okay would you like to speak for the council have 10 minutes okay that was quick that was fabulous all right all right what questions does the council have for the applicant or staff okay let's take some public comment i know they're excited to speak on this 0.18 or 0.09
 uh one turn y'all have one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council members staying on topic please give us your name and address those participating in the chamber will be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that who would like to speak on this particular browsing topic we have before us
 Oh, none? All right, dude, nobody on Zoom. Imagine that. All right, this is an ordinance. Move that we suspend the rolls and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and second to go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 yes an ordinance to approve the AC 24-24 for property located at 2716 North floral court in Ward 2 to vacate point oh one acres of utilities man if that we suspend their walls and go to the third reading second motion second for the third and final read that's please call Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Verna yes
 bunch yes perk yes hertzburg yes an ordinance to approve vac 24-24 for property located at 2716 north floral court in ward 2 to vacate 0.01 acres of utility easement any final comments from the council okay jackson which police call her up stafford yes jones yes moore yes verna yes
 Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Hertzberg. Yes. Okay, let's go to number seven.
 an ordinance to rezone the property described rezoning petition rzn 2024-47 for approximately 1.60 acres located at 653 north genevieve avenue in ward 4 from r.a residential agricultural to r m f6 residential multifamily six units per acre subject to a bill of assurance play
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo, from RA, Residential Agricultural, to RMF 6, Residential Multifamily, 6 units per acre, subject to the attached bill of assurance, Exhibit C.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Johnson. Johnson.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request takes us further into West Fayetteville and to Ward 4. To orient you a little bit more specifically, we're about 2,000 feet southwest of Weddington Drive's intersection with North 54th Avenue. Dialing it in even a little bit more closely, this property is just over an acre and a half of land on the west side of Genevieve Avenue, which is a largely unimproved public street, which I'll touch on a little bit later in the presentation.
 The property is currently developed with a two-family dwelling, a duplex, that was built in the 1970s from what county records indicate. The request is to rezone the property from its existing RA, Residential Agricultural Zoning District, to RMF6, Residential Multifamily Six Units Per Acre.
 When evaluating this request from a land use compatibility standpoint, staff's findings were mixed. We do recognize that this is a largely single-family area of Fayetteville. However, it is worth noting that there are instances of attached residential both immediately in close proximity, two lots to the north specifically, and the wider area as you consider portions of 54th Avenue, Michael Cole and Brooke, to the northeast and northwest respectively.
 And also in considering the property itself, this is a non-conforming lot. The RA zoning district does allow duplexes by right. However, it does require two acres of land to do so, which this property falls below that threshold. The RMF6 zoning district is the smallest increment of density, increased density, that would allow it to come into conformance, which was a factor in staff's consideration. From a land use plan standpoint, staff's findings were similarly mixed.
 This is designated as a residential neighborhood area in our future land use map, which suggests that it could be appropriate for a diversity of residential housing types, depending on the context. In this particular area, again, not only is it largely single family in nature, but it does not have a significant number of attributes that would contribute to infill development. It is near the fire station on Ruple. It does have close proximity to water, sewer,
 City Park, Harmony Point Park specifically is to the west, and the Owl Creek Trail is nearby as well.
 Looking a little bit further into our long-range plans, this is our growth concept map from City Plan 2040, which does indicate that there is a tier center, one of those nodes we anticipate development to the northwest at Double Springs and Weddington. While it is just over half a mile as the Crow flies, because of the Owl Creek repairing corridor through there, it's not necessarily a direct route and does require a bit of a circuitous drive to get there.
 Other issues that staff identified when considering this request is that it will reduce the tree preservation requirements from 25 to 20 percent going from the R.S. or the R.A. zoning district to R.M.F. six. As I noted before, this rezoning request would bring the property into conformance. The lot size of under two acres does not comply with the zoning requirements of the R.A. zoning district today. Okay.
 And as I alluded at the top of the presentation, I did want to touch on the existing street condition because Genevieve is a story of two different streets, if you will. Looking at it from the south where there's a recently completed subdivision, the street is built to our larger city standards, including width, curb, gutter, green space and sidewalk. Looking at it from the north along the frontage of this property, it is in effect a country road with portions of it remaining largely gravel that you can see there.
 Otherwise, I did want to touch on public comment, which staff has received on this item. This has been in opposition. There are concerns that if the property were to be redeveloped, especially on this unimproved street, that it could create issues for the neighborhood in general.
 uh this item was heard twice by our planning commission first on october 14th where the planning commission tabled the request some of their feedback at the time revolved around the standards or the the current condition of genevieve and accordingly when the applicant returned to the october 28th planning commission meeting a bill of assurance was offered the single item that's included in that is that genevieve will be brought up to minimum fire code requirements prior to any certificate of occupancy being issued
 for a prospective new development of this property. So that is included in your packet, I believe immediately after exhibit B.
 Staff is recommending approval on the balance of issues. The Planning Commission did ultimately forward the request to City Council. It was split vote of 7 to 1. There was comment made that the Bill of Assurance did offer that assurance that it was intended to. Also felt that development to the South would be complimentary of any redevelopment that could happen on this property.
 Concerns, however, included the lack of general connectivity as you leave the subdivisions from the Southwest and move into this area of the county or of the city that was previously developed in the county. There's also an assertion that this is a sprawl location, and that rezoning for multifamily development may not be appropriate. And also a comment was made with concern about proximity to out Creek to the north, although this property is self is not within any flood planes.
 And with that, I'm available for any questions that the council has. And Mayor Will Kellstrom is here as the representative for the applicant. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? Good evening, Council. Will Kellstrom here on behalf of the applicant.
 So this item had a bit of a roundabout path to get to y'all. We brought it to the Planning Commission, at which point there were some concerns voiced largely about the condition of Genevieve. When we brought it back, we offered a bill of assurance saying that we would bring Genevieve up to fire code for this development before any certificate of occupancy would be issued.
 If that road is upgraded to fire code, being that it is a road within the city, it would be required to be paved. So there will be a paved road there. Genevieve will be upgraded. It just won't be quite as wide as the street to the south of it. And so there were...
 A couple comments from Planning Commission about this being potentially sprawled. There were also some comments from the Planning Commission that this is close to a Tier 3 center. So there was kind of a mixed review on that. But overall, it is close to existing development. And for that reason, it does have access to water and sewer. And other than that, it was ultimately, after all of that, approved 7-1 by the Planning Commission. So I'm here if you guys have any questions. Thank you.
 What questions does council have for the applicant or the staff? Tracy. Mayor, if I may, as a brief point of clarification, if you did not hear Mr. Penney's and Rita, the bill of assurance was written into the ordinance. So if council wants to accept that, it's already included. You don't need to amend the ordinance as written. Thank you. Okay. Thank you.
 thank you mayor i have a couple of questions um i'm kind of looking on the google map and is that a detention pond just south of this property that's correct yes it's associated with the subdivision immediately to the south and south west of that
 Is there enough capacity that this property, if it were developed at RMF 6, could use that? Or do you have any idea? I couldn't say that with any degree of competence or any degree of confidence or competence, for that matter. I don't have that information. I'm sorry. Most of our detention ponds are designed for the areas that they're serving. It could be retro or...
 reworked as we sometimes see that done when additional phases or properties are brought online. Thank you. My second question is I noticed it's a two inch sewer line. Does that have enough capacity or is that going to have to be upgraded for this new development if it's approved?
 We did not get any comment to that effect when we were doing rezonings. As you all have noticed lately, we are reviewing our bottler who handles our sewer system, and they've been including, or our engineering division has been including in instances when capacity issues have been identified. So one wouldn't answer no issues that we've identified. Okay. Thank you. Any other questions? Yeah. John, so this would...
 Allow up to eight units on the property is that we're looking at approximately yes, yeah Anything else all right? Let's take some public comment Everybody gets one turn to speak you have a three minute duration don't engage anyone the public or any council member is
 Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating by Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this particular topic that's in the chamber? Benny? Susan? No, sir. Okay. Bringing back to the council, this is an ordinance, so... All right, I move to suspend rules and go to second reads. Second. Second.
 all right we have a motion to second to the second reading jackson would you please call bro stafford yes jones yes moore yes verna yes punch yes kirk yes herzberg
 Yes. In ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-47 for approximately 1.6 acres located at 653 North Genevieve Avenue in Ward 4 from RA residential agricultural to RMF 6 residential multi-family six units per acre subject to a bill of assurance. All right, I'm going to make a motion to suspend the rule and go to the third and final reading. Second. I have a motion and second to go to the third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford?
 Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Verna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-47 for approximately 1.6 acres located at 653 North Genevieve Avenue in Ward 4 from RA Residential Agricultural to RMF 6 Residential Multifamily 6 units per acre subject to a bill of assurance.
 any final comments from the council yes uh clarification on question so i'm looking i'm looking at the the map the google maps in the the neighborhood to the east that's rs4 or at sundance between sunbaths and genevieve uh yes correct i'm sorry yes the neighborhood to the east was developed under rs of four zoning the neighborhood to the south was developed under rsfa
 I'm just looking at the lot and maybe I'm not seeing the exact lot because they seem to be similar lots and even the RS4 has one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, almost ten homes on it in a similar space. So can you pull up the lot itself again? Sorry. Sorry, allow me one moment here. The aerial image, what you're looking for, Council Member? Yeah, yeah, with the lot borders.
 Oh, I see. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes. Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Herk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. Okay. Oh, joy. We have another page. Let's start at number eight.
 an ordinance resolved the property inscribing rezoning petition rzn 2024-50 for approximately 1.41 acres located at 16 south happy hollow road in ward one from rsf four residential single family four units break to rsf 18 residential single family 18 years break
 like be it ordained by the city council of the city of fable arkansas section one that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map exhibit a and the legal description exhibit b both attached to the planning department's agenda memo from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsf18 residential single family 18 units per acre section 2 that the city council of the city of fable arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the city of fable to reflect the zoning change provided in section one
 Okay, Jonathan. Thank you mayor. This request takes us to southeast Fayetteville in Ward 1 and includes about 1.41 acres Accessed from Happy Hollow about 500 feet north of Happy Hollow's intersection with Huntsville That is developed with a single-family home, which county records indicate was built in 1946 Less apparent on the property is that a good portion of it is within floodplain which I will touch on a little bit later in the presentation and
 As Mayor and Mr. Pennington noted, the request is to rezone the property from its existing RSF4 residential single family four units per acre zoning designation to, it is RSF18, I apologize it looks like the map there reads RMF18, but RSF18 residential single family 18 units per acre is the request. I believe that's a relic of one of the early requests from the applicant before they revised it and it went to the Planning Commission.
 uh when considering the compatibility of this request with the surrounding area staff does find it to be so this is a largely single family area although attached residential can be found nearby on fifth street sequoia court and several portions of the area southwest of huntsville and happy holler road ultimately despite those attached residential developments already existing
 The RSF zoning district is itself a single-family district while it does allow denser levels of that type of development.
 Excuse me additionally factoring in the staff's consideration is that there are a number of properties in this area that have much higher entitlements than they are built under. And stuff that certainly took that into consideration as well and finds this request to be compatible with both those potential zoning entitlements as well as the existing land use in the area.
 uh from a land use plan standpoint staff does find this to be consistent with the residential neighborhood designation the future land use map the number of infill attributes ranging between six and seven support additional increment of density or additional entitlement from the property and additionally our growth concept map designates the intersection of huntsville and happy hollow road to the south as a tier center
 Other considerations staff took when considering the request are that the tree preservation requirements will reduce with this request from 25% under RSF4 to 20% under RSF18.
 Also, the floodplain and hydric soils as a consideration that came up at agenda session. We noted that for some reason was not included on that future land use map, so I appreciate that question being brought up by Councilmember Turk. It does include a fairly significant amount of the property of the approximately 1.41 acres being requested tonight. About one acre of that is within a 100-year floodplain as designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
 Another question that was, or item that was identified in reviewing the request is that our engineering group did identify that there is a sewer capacity question further south from here. The property in question at the very top of the screen feeds immediately south along Happy Hollow all the way through the city's facilities, our fleet facilities, our recycling and trash facilities to the main trunk line that feeds east to our east side treatment plant.
 Given the size of this property, ultimately it was not felt to be a concern. The bigger concern is how this property would actually connect to the Suron Happy Hollow, which is a development detail that has not been confirmed to this point that we've been made aware of.
 Another question that was brought up at agenda session is a matter of topography on this property. It is relatively level, all things considered. The topography ranges from about 2.5% to 3% across the site, and that's all sloping southward following that floodplain you saw a couple slides previously.
 Finally, I wanted to touch on public comments. Since I believe when I spoke to you at agenda session, I shared that we had not received any comment. I believe the council received some directly from a nearby resident who is opposed to this request. They felt it was disingenuous that staff had represented this request as compatible. Ultimately, that remains our finding. We do feel like between the existing entitlements in the area and the existing land uses in the area, we find the request to be complimentary in that regard.
 accordingly with all those items and consideration staff is recommending in favor of the request the Planning Commission forwarded it City Council by unanimous vote they did not have much in the way of commentary on it finding it to be generally compatible as well with that I'm happy to take any questions that the council has and mayor Caroline Fox is the applicant for the applicants representative for this item would the applicant like speak for the council 10 minutes
 looks like they're not present we're not there okay well what questions does the council have for the staff
 i don't have any questions i know we do have neighbors here to speak on this public comment and i have received multiple comments if you all have and i'd be glad to forward those um a lot of times i'll read comments and think that they're going to everybody and not realizing they're just coming to me and deandre i'm sure that happens with all of us when we read our our constituents but i get it i've heard from multiple people on the block
 I will save the rest of my comments for after public comment. Okay. Well, if we don't have any questions, we'll get right to that. Everybody gets one turn to speak as you know by now. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Those participating by Zoom will speak after that. You all probably can
 You'll leave here and be able to tell everybody in town and quote that. Yes? My name is Don Thompson, 685 South Happy Hollow Road, which is directly across Happy Hollow Road from the property that we're discussing. For the campus of the neighborhood, it's pretty much a consensus that it's 100% that we would really like to retain it as an RISF4.
 because of a few pertinent situations, and some of them being traffic and also the floodplain. I'd like to mention that my family bought, my parents bought the land that my house built on plus from Happy Hollow Road all the way up generally to 4th Street in 1954. So I have been able to witness a lot of things.
 from from the results of weather and what have you and I would like to mention that that is a floodplain that does flood and I've seen water run across the Front yards across the street from me now and also on my side of the street There's a big culvert under the sidewalk. It does not carry the water it it
 And there are heavy rain situations why it runs down the road. It's never come up in my yard, but if they go in there and bring in 100 loads of red dirt, which probably would happen in order to get that area that they want to build on up to above the floodplain or where they can at least build on it, that water's got to go somewhere.
 And, but anyway, the fact that traffic backs up and when they put the new traffic light in down there at Happy Hollow Road and Huntsville Road, the configuration should have included Happy Hollow Road because in the busy times, that traffic backs up to where I can't get out of my driveway.
 And I have, in fact, when they completed the cliffs, I put a backup, a paved backup area in my front yard so I could back into it and then go out forward because of the traffic that's already there. If they go in there and build as many homes as they're talking about doing, that's going to put a whole lot more traffic on that intersection that is not needed.
 And the access to that property, my driveway is between that access to that property and Huntsville Road. And so anyway, my two main concerns, of course, is the floodplain and the water situation. All right. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Who else would like to address this? I'm not as eloquent as Don. I brought some notes.
 My name is Jeff Alveen. I live at 698 Happy Hollow Road, which directly borders the property in question here. I bought that house over eight years ago. It is my understanding that the proposed development at 610 South Happy Hollow would include possibly up to 24 new single-family residences being built on what I believe is a 1.41-acre parcel, as it is.
 I have a few concerns about the number of units being proposed as this would directly affect my property and that of my neighbors. I believe that currently there are somewhere around 35 single-family homes on Happy Hollow. The street already has an influx of traffic to and from the Cliffs Apartments and Cliffs 2 apartment complexes.
 at the north end of the street, and we are concerned what a 50% increase in housing and houses would add to that traffic. The intersection at Happy Hollow and Huntsville Road already sees its fair share of accidents and backed-up traffic, and we aren't sure it can handle what another 20 houses would add to it.
 Adding to that concern, how are they going to build 20 single family homes that will require parking for, at minimum, 40 vehicles on that size of a parcel? We already deal with flooding on Happy Hollow and very much so in my backyard which directly borders this new property. I have a tool shed out back where I park a motorcycle and I've measured water up to 18 inches high.
 So very concerned about how development, especially of that scale, will exacerbate that issue for us and our neighbors. As adding that many structures will inevitably affect the ground's ability to absorb water. I understand Fayetteville's need for housing, and we are not opposed to reasonable development.
 But to us, the request for up to 24 residences on that parcel is wholly unreasonable, and if approved, would show a lack of concern for current property owners and their homes. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Who else wants to address this? Good evening. I'm Kim Johnson, and I live at 1798 East Huntsville Road, and we're catacorner across next to Don Thompson, who spoke first.
 And I just want to say that I agree with and echo everything that's been said about not only the floodplain issues and the concerns there and would hope and trust that as any construction would go into this property that engineers are taking a good, careful look at how the runoff is going to be managed on that property because of the surrounding areas.
 In addition, I want to maybe amplify some of the concerns about the layout of the intersection there at Happy Hollow as it joins into Huntsville Road and goes further down toward the traffic light. Coming to our property from other parts of town,
 The way that the street curves, there is a blind spot that creates all kinds of issues, especially in those high traffic time periods of the day, the day part being early morning rush and evening, not to mention other special events that happen down at the university, also at the baseball field, some of the other kinds of heavy traffic,
 kind of situations that we have. The Cliffs Apartments, just that traffic in the morning, it's impossible to get out of your driveway. I'm very fortunate that I'm a shop owner, so I don't open my shop until 10, but I watch that traffic stack up and it stacks up past the speed cushions down Happy Hollow Road. So I'm just amplifying what's been said before. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hi, I'm Clem Johnson. That was my wife. Another thing that kind of concerns me is, besides the traffic problems, which is huge, I can't get out of that driveway until 9 in the morning just because of the rush hour traffic. And the flood panes are a big deal. If you put 18 units to 24 units, and you consider all the concrete and the roofs, where's the water going to go? It's going to come down our house.
 and Jeff is going to get the worst of it, and then the church right on the corner, Pastor Paul, he's going to get flooded too. It's just, it's not a little problem. It's going to be a big problem.
 Happy Hollow has a drainage ditch on the east side, and that is very inadequate to carry the water, but there's no curb. And then on the west side, there's a curb, but the curb has a sidewalk that butts up to it. So really, where is everybody going to park? If you put 18 units and they're two bedroom units, that's a car per bedroom. It's going to have to have 36 cars.
 Where are they going to park? I haven't seen any kind of a site layout as to where 18 to 24 buildings will be and where the parking will be. But if you look, they're going to have to remove one house. And it's kind of an odd-shaped parcel of land. And it doesn't really show an adequate driveway for that much traffic. Imagine 18 cars trying to come out at 7.30 in the morning to go to work in one single driveway.
 I just can't see that working. Anyway, I agree with everybody else in what they said those problems will be. And really, 18 to 24 units is too many right there in that one area. The whole area is single-family houses with nice yards. That can't be built in this site. I'm sorry. Hope you guys will vote against it. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 I'm Susanna Brennan. I live at 528 Happy Hollow Road. I have the same concerns. I'm a little bit different part of the street. I live five houses to the north. We have water main breaks, as you all probably remember because we've been here before with these issues, about three times a year.
 And it's changing now. It used to be further up north. Now it's further south towards this development. And I understand that the city has a lot of...
 with issues with water and sewer and keeping things up to date. But we're really concerned. We do not need more houses using more sewer and more water on that street. Our houses, our front yards are continually flooded.
 And the traffic, the trucks that are going up and down Happy Hollow, because of a new development about a block, several blocks north of this one, are rattling practically. The house shakes when they come by.
 There's been so much construction on Happy Hollow Road. And finally, I don't believe it is compatible with the neighborhood. We are single-family homes, except for a couple of developments that have been approved here. And...
 In fact, they've been for sale for about three months now. Not one of them has sold. So we really would rather keep it a quieter neighborhood with fewer water and sewer issues. Thank you. Thank you. Nobody's on Zoom. Okay. I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 Well, what discussion would we like to have? Bob? Yeah. So if you know my wife and I, you know we are not NIMBYs, we are YIMBYs. Before my time on council, both my wife and I came here and spoke up on many projects in our neighborhood. A big apartment right up the street on Huntsville Road at the end of Sherman, which is our street, we came and spoke in favor of. I forget how many houses there. Jonathan, can you actually pull up a map of the area?
 Did you ask me that? The project literally in our backyard at Huntsville, literally in our backyard, we came and spoke in favor of a multifamily development. The middle of Fifth Street townhomes we came and spoke in favor of. The corner of Fifth Street and Happy Hollow Road where they built, they were supposed to build three, they built four and chopped down all the trees, we came and spoke in favor of. We are, nobody can accuse me of being a neighbor.
 but this project is not compatible and so if we look at the the lot here um you can see sherman over to the left that's my street uh right there thank you uh yeah up middle of the street on the on the west side uh can you move your cursor there
 Yeah, not that house, but the one north of it is my house. Down on Huntsville Road, you can see those multifamily houses to the west there. We came and spoke in favor of those. The big construction lot at the end of Sherman, there's more big apartments coming in. We came and spoke in favor of those.
 My neighbors are probably like, you spoke in favor of those? I'm going to get in some trouble here. But the townhouse is on 5th Street, in the middle of 5th Street, we spoke in favor for. And at 5th and Happy Hollow, we spoke in favor for. Those fit, I felt like. I wish they kept their promises at Happy Hollow on 5th, they did not. When you look at Happy Hollow between Huntsville Road and 5th Street, I think I counted...
 16 houses. You're looking at more than doubling that block. This would not happen in any other ward of this city. Ward 1 is where we shove all our growth with little concern, I believe. We take the brunt of growth and the brunt of density. And we're usually good with it. We're good about it and we support it.
 But it has to fit. This does not fit. This is all single-family housing. So if you imagine Loxley Street, where I grew up for a short time when I went to Butterfield, in Rolling Hills neighborhood. And Jonathan, do you mind zooming up there? I'm going to send you on a journey across Fayetteville, because I feel that's a similar neighborhood when I grew up. Single-family houses, RS4s.
 This would not even be considered there. There is no way that this council would consider that. Yeah, Rolling Hills, you could zoom in there. So imagine if Loxley on one side had an empty lot. That's all our, you would not put 18 units an acre there. And I'm asking you not to put 18 units an acre in a single family neighborhood in South Fayetteville.
 I, like I said, we take our fair share of growth and we're willing to do so, but it has to be right. Now the one I really want to go to is 2558 West Valley Drive off of Weddington. So I was elected just about exactly a year ago, close to it. I was elected on the 14th of November. It's the 19th of November on February 6th. 2558, can you put your cursor over 2558?
 This is one of the first votes I, you know, one of the early rezonings I voted on. And I joined my council members in voting no on this. Jonathan, can you bring up the floodplain overlay on that? Now, this property, everybody here on the council, and I think it was unanimous, said we cannot build on this. And they were literally going from maybe two houses to three houses. Or maybe it was three to four. But it was just like one or two extra houses.
 One or two extra units on that lot and it's not as much in the floodplain as this lot is that we're talking about tonight and I was convinced to vote no on that, even though we have all those cement pads to the.
 you know where the apartments used to be to the west that we could have easily torn out and put a bit of attention upon in taking care of any flood issues, you know I went along with my council members, I voted no on that. I'm asking you to vote no on this tonight with me for those same concerns. And I haven't even had a chance to contact the neighbors on Ray Street because I know they get flooding too so Ray is one block east of Happy Hollow.
 The flooding is already happening there. It's not a 100-year flood plain. You get a lot of flooding down there, don't you? Yeah, it's not adequate and we already have more development going up the street to the north on Happy Hollow up the side of Mount Sequoia there. A lot of development going in there that's going to add to the runoff, add to the drainage. Adding this much density, this much housing in this spot,
 is just going to make a bad situation way worse. And again, I vote for property, I vote for development in my neighborhood all the time. I vote for density in my neighborhood all the time. But as I changed my mind tonight on Ripple Road, because I feel things have to be correct and right, and so I voted against it, and I'm asking the council to vote against this tonight.
 And I think I've gone over all my main points on it. You know, I didn't mention the Happy Hollow intersection, which is already a mess and difficult. People already cut over on Fifth Street to Sherman, my street, to not have to deal with the Happy Hollow intersection. A lot, most of our traffic down Sherman is cut over from Happy Hollow. And that's all we got. Okay, Sarah.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have a question for staff. With our drainage criteria with this project, can you talk us through ‑‑ there was some talk of dirt, like hundreds of loads of possible dirt coming here and the possibility of building up on this property.
 development standards today and what would be regulated. Can you walk us through what it would be like with these concerns about water that might be discharged from this property, please?
 Certainly, I think taking it piece by piece the drainage criteria manual is certainly the first stopping point and taking it at its highest level. Our standards require post development. Stormwater impacts to be the same as pre development. So it can't necessarily require people to fix existing problems, but there should not be aggravated or created problems.
 So that's one point. I think the other piece that's not in the drainage criteria manual, but is adopted within our Unified Development Code are our floodplain standards and of one of which one in particular comes to mind as you describe the residents comment, which is if you are going to add fill into floodplain you have to compensate
 that water that's displaced on your own property it's called compensatory storage the idea is that if you start filling in floodplain on a site you have to figure out where that water can go also on your site you can't necessarily push it off on neighbor to your side and neighbor downstream so in discussing this property in particular our engineering our city engineer very clearly said like this this will have to submit a flood study prior to any development being approved so
 for what it's not worth hopefully that answers your question yes it does thank you jonathan um and and i understand the concerns that are being expressed by councilmember stafford i mean i live on a hill and have to worry um close to the va have to worry about taking on water sometimes have had to put in french drains it's an issue definitely that's across our city and i know we're talking about um
 addressing what the stormwater fund, especially as we go forward, your stormwater fee. I want to address, because that's in Ward 2 that you brought up, just to kind of add some additional color to that. Those residences that are on Valley in that area and with the purchase of West End, those have actually taken on water into their homes. There's been swift water rescue that's happened in West End, and I don't want to minimize
 what's being experienced down in ward one. But I do want to at least, there are people I know that were displaced out of their homes in that area and have been waiting for the city, again, to just add that to the conversation, have been waiting for the city to come forward as they've been patient for several years about some additional improvements that were coming to that area. So I think that that probably was the timing of that. There was still some pause that was happening on the next steps as there was a pause and what would happen with some of that.
 But I think that that was in the midst of that conversation. So there's a little complexity to that situation. So I just at least wanted a level set on that. And again, I'm not minimizing the concern by any means. And we have a lot of work, obviously, to do on infrastructure going forward. Jonathan, can you pull up the flood map again? I'm sorry. Let Teresa. Oh, look. OK. Go ahead. Can you pull up the presentation with the flood map of the neighborhood?
 Not Valley Drive, but Happy Hollow? Yeah. So this is all the way, the whole city block from Happy Hollow to 5th. It floods over on Ray Street as well. I don't know why that's not in the official flood map, but this is the whole city block that floods regularly. We're already taking on more development. We're happy to do it.
 This project, if you look at it where this lot is, it's 80% in the flood zone, easily. I think I'm being conservative there. And again, the density does not fit this street. I've spoken in favor of large development a block away, and I'm willing to do that. This does not fit here. Good. Tracy.
 I'll be brief. I have serious concerns about the flood plain right there. I mean, it's huge, it's vast, and while I know our drainage code tries to compensate for situations like this, I don't think it's adequate. I also believe that they will bring in a lot of red dirt. There's no doubt about that because they're going to have to build that up.
 And it's not compatible with the neighborhood. So I'm not going to be supportive of this. I think it's always a bad idea to build in a floodplain, especially when you have so much floodplain in one area and so much density that's proposed. So...
 We have to really be contextual about this. Yes, we need more housing, but we don't need more housing everywhere. We've got to really be smart about that with our environment and the context of our neighborhood, too. Thank you. Mayor, I'll make a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay. I have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Yes.
 Yes. Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-50 for approximately 1.41 acres located at 610 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre.
 motion to spend real school third poverty second Stafford yes Jones yes more yes Verna yes lunch yes Kirk yes Hertzberg
 Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-50 for approximately 1.41 acres located at 610 South Happy Hollow Road in Ward 1 from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to RSF 18 residential single family 18 units per acre. Any final comments from the council? Next, please call the roll. Stafford? No. Jones? No. Moore? Yes. Berna? No.
 Bunch? No. Turk? No. Hertzberg? No. Okay, let's move along to number nine. An ordinance to rezone the property describing rezoning petition RZN 2024-51 for approximately 4.49 acres
 located southeast of the intersection of West Martin Luther King jr. Boulevard and South smoke house trail in Ward one from our PZD Residential planning zoning district to see s community services what beautiful?
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RPZD Residential Plan Zoning District to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, John, thank you, Mayor. This item can be found in Southwest Fayetteville in Ward one prior to 2018. The property did have a residential agricultural zoning designation, which appears to have been assigned to the property when it was originally folded into Fayetteville decades ago.
 In June of 2018, however, the overall property, which includes about 30 acres, was rezoned to a mix of urban thoroughfare adjacent to Martin Luther King, which is just off screen to the north of the aerial you see here, with a belt of CS, community services, running east-west through the site before segueing into an area of RA residential agricultural to remain on the areas of steepest topography on the property.
 It remains undeveloped today, and this aerial is faithful to what's on the ground. The PZD that was approved in 2023, after that 2018...
 rezoning to UTC yes and RA chose a selected a smaller piece of the property totaling just about 4.5 acres to allow it to be developed with a rate or at a density of about 10 units per acre in cabin style development with a orientation towards outdoor activities in the proximity to Kessler Park
 It is by all indications that development, however, was not able to come to fruition, and so the applicant is proposing to rezone it to CS community services from its current RPCD residential plan zoning district designation.
 From a compatibility standpoint, staff does find it to be so, for many of the similar reasons that we supported the request in 2018. While this property standing alone appears unusual, set off from any street nearby, it is ultimately a part of larger properties that do connect to Martin Luther King, a very major corridor in the city and in close proximity to Ruple and MLK, an intersection that the city anticipates seeing much higher intensity and density.
 From an adopted planning standpoint or adopted land use plan standpoint, staff finds a request to CES Community Services to be complimentary of the city neighborhood designation on the property, which is intended to promote both residential and non-residential uses.
 Again, the infill attributes for the property may be a little bit less representative of what is actually the case, given it gets credit for those attributes because it's proximity to them. And this property, again, is set back from MLK, so it only accounts for four or five items here.
 does stand out for its proximity to that intersection of RUPAL and MLK that I mentioned before in the growth concept map and its anticipation of that being a more major center of development in the future.
 Some final items to touch on. This will give a little bit of whiplash on tree preservation. It was 25% when it was RA and then went to 25% for CS and then went for 25% for the PZD. And now under CS, if approved, would return it to a 20% tree preservation requirement.
 And the second item on there, the sewer, it's worth noting that that is called out specifically because again, this property is not adjacent to any public street. The nearest sewer is offsite at the intersection of Ruple and MLK.
 was developed or is to be developed as a part of the larger whole property. It was a reasonable expectation that it would tie into either the sewer that you see in the red circle here at Ruple and MLK or the sanitary sewer connection to the northeast. So the commentary about sewer is not so much about capacity, it's that it doesn't have immediate access to it today.
 with those findings in mind staff is recommending approval when the planning commission heard the request they forwarded the city council unanimously also recommending approval they have limited comment to offer finding that the request is compatible and mayor i have jason young down as the representative for this item and i've come up to the mic if you're going to yell at me back there
 Sorry, you'll have to get away with it. But I'm Gavin Smith. Jason works with me and I'm here to represent the project and I can answer any of your questions. Okay. Do we have any questions for the staff or the fellow? I have a question. I'm sorry. Did you go? Okay. So...
 I think we learned a couple of months ago that if you're more than 300 feet away from a sewer line, that you can actually put in septic tanks. So I'm wondering how far away are you from that connection if residents were built under CS?
 that's a good question and i may have to lean on mr pennington since that is a statutory item that we learned about so this property mr pennington is a part of a larger hole or or the that appears that the deed still has it as a part of a larger hole that is within 200 feet of sewer uh is it
 Safe assumptions to say then that their expectation would be that week they could be required to connect or that Sanitary would be an option for them. Yes I think if it's not a separate legal lot then it would be considered part of the larger property And held to that same standard. Thank you for clarifying that Yeah, yes
 Have the, I mean this property is, looks like it's easily 200 feet away or more from any people they would have to notify, kind of, there's no, did they have to notify the people on Hoodall Lane or Smokehouse Trail, the
 I don't immediately have that information on me. The applicant may recall specifically who was notified. I can look that up, but it may take me a few moments. Do you have an idea if you had to notify? Yeah, we didn't across there. We had to notify the city of Fayetteville that owns the property right there, and then the trust that owns the corner, some of the people across the road. We had really extensive neighborhood meetings with people when we developed the PDZD in the first place.
 But but haven't heard anything about the rezone. Okay, and they were generally supportive of the original PZD ready. No, I think They they have special concerns just for smokehouse because of The bike park and stuff there Frank sharp lives along that road and he has like some very specific opinions about things and I would say that we we had
 we talked it through and they were like uh it's okay but nobody came out to support us or anything like that was Frank and his neighbors notified about this I don't know if he was necessarily notified about it I think he would probably know about it um but we don't you know like you said the 200 we're not actually within 200 feet of his property so yeah and Councilmember Stafford I can add it looks like
 discounting the city of Fayetteville notification there were eight addresses or individuals that received well looks like eight addresses that received letters as a part of this. Were any of those on Hoodow Lane? No it did not extend that far west. Yeah okay. And this property also doesn't have access to Smokehouse or Hoodow for what that's worth. It won't have access to those? They would have to acquire intervening properties to do so. Okay.
 And if I can talk about the sewer just a little bit. We met with Corey Granderson this week, and we've been working on the sewer constantly since the very beginning of the PZD. We have an agreement with the Jiffy Trip project next door that we will provide the sewer and they will expand the easement. Originally, this project fell apart because we didn't have 16 inches of easement to fit the sewer in.
 So we now have an agreement to get that easement from them, build the sewer, and we've met preliminarily, had a technical meeting with Corey Granderson, the engineer for water and sewer, and got his, I don't wanna quote him as saying he approved it because he has to review it technically, but he said it looked good to him and we should go ahead and put it in. So we're working on that and are gonna submit that this week. It would, I think that if that fell apart,
 It's possible to do septic, but there would be severe limitations on that. You can only do one unit per acre, and you have to exclude a buffer around any waterways. It's 100 feet, and so whenever you actually delineate that on there, you just got like three or four little triangles because there are some kind of riffles coming off the mountain there. Tracy?
 So I would ask Blake again to clarify what the applicant just said that septic would be allowed on there if he's not They're not able to get an easement in there. So I'm not sure if there's a lot split pending But I think if this is part of the larger tract of land that's within 200 within 200 less than 300 feet of the sewer line I would think that we would be able to require the connection and
 I mean if there's no easement between those two places and there's no way to get an easement then we're not within 200 feet of it We're you know zero feet away. That's the position where we're at so I mean we don't want to do septic Nobody's talking about doing septic. We're trying our best to get the sewer together But I would say that the zoning and the septic rules which go through the state health unit and not through the city Would be the same
 no matter what the zoning, even if it was RAA or any of the zoning characteristics that suit the septic approval would be the same pathway. It's just the number of units. This may be something we need to take a closer look at. Well, do you want to table it or after I get public comment? Yeah, well I don't mean table, I mean leave it on this reading. It's a little late for me too. Well, let's see if we can get some public comment.
 everybody gets one turn to speak as you know we have a three minute duration don't engage anyone in the public or any council member stay on topic please give us your name and address those present in the chamber be allowed to speak first and those participating by zoom will speak after that is there anyone in the chamber wants to speak on this no
 you know anybody all right well i'll bring back to y'all i assume you all are wanting to leave this on the first reading then or whatever yes could we leave it on the first reading would that be okay with everybody i thought that's what i said okay thank you tracy getting like my father i repeat myself um okay we'll just leave it right there then let's go on to number 10.
 an ordinance to rezone the property describing rezoning petition rzn 2024-52 for approximately 0.50 anchors located at 2406 north old wire road in ward 3 from cpzd commercial plant zoning district to nsg neighborhood services blake
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to NSG Neighborhood Service General. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. Jonathan. Jonathan.
 Thank you, Mayor. This request is in East Fayetteville in Ward 3. It includes about half an acre of land at the northeast of the intersection of Township Street and Old Wire Road. It is currently developed with an animal clinic that is located in a former single-family house.
 In 2016, about eight years ago, the property's rezoning was approved to a PZD, a planned zoning district, to convert the house, or what was a house at the time, into the Gully Park Animal Clinic that continues to be used for today. The request is to rezone it from that CPZ, the Commercial Planned Zoning District, to NSG, Neighborhood Services General.
 Staff does find the request to be compatible. The Neighborhood Services General Zoning District allows mid-scale residential and non-residential uses that staff finds to be compatible with the surrounding area, specifically or particularly at a major intersection for this part of town. Additionally, the Neighborhood Services General Zoning District allows a number of services and diversity of housing options that are generally lacking in this portion of Fayetteville.
 From a land use plan standpoint, staff finds that the NSG zone district is consistent with our residential neighborhood zoning or land use map designation, which, despite its name, does acknowledge that it is often appropriate to have non-residential uses along major transportation corridors and at major transportation intersections.
 uh with the infill attributes uh contributing to this property and uh it's its location uh to a growth nearby uh tier center and the growth concept map staff finds it to be consistent with our other adopted land use plans some other items i wanted to touch on this request will reduce the true preservation requirements generally from 25 percent to 20 percent
 Although and this is a segue into the next item as well The PZD because of its age doesn't specifically cite 25% as the pre-preservation requirement there are several elements of this PZD because of how old it is that it is a
 Completely out of sync with a lot of our current development codes, which i'll hit on right here. Many of these requirements are also they include that the development could go to the planning commission to ask for height variance, which is very much not been the case in Fayetteville for a number of years. You have to go to our board of adjustment.
 a zoning variance. There's also a requirement that the project or the property owners receive a requirement for a certificate of zoning compliance prior to operating. That's not something staff has issued in almost a decade at this point. Additionally, there's some very prescriptive requirements such as how the clinic can handle deceased animals, which is not something we typically incorporate into our zoning code. It is incredibly prescriptive. It talks about exactly how many employees they can have, how many veterinarians.
 At this point, the clinic has been in operation for almost 10 years. We feel like given the location that it's very appropriate for them to be able to operate more openly under an existing zoning district that we didn't have at the time as a tool for this type of business.
 With that aside, I did want to touch on the question of sewer. There is an identified downstream sewer capacity issue. In discussing this with our engineering group, however, the concern is less because there's not currently a proposal to redevelop the property, at least to any significant degree. The clinic intends to continue operating. They would just like to be able to do so under much more flexible standards.
 If they were to expand or increase their potential contributions to our sanitary collection system, they would maybe be subject to some sort of improvements.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request and the Planning Commission forwarded it to City Council unanimously by a vote finding it to be compatible. I'm happy to take any questions the Council has. Mayor Chris Stretz is here as the applicant's representative. Excuse me. Thank you. Mayor Stretz No problem. It's a tough last name.
 Hello, my name is Chris Drats. I'm actually a Fayetteville resident and I'm here to represent Dr. Wallace and go to Park Pets Clinic in rezoning efforts. I'm here to answer any questions that you may have. What questions do we have for the council? I mean, yeah, for the staff or the council? Okay, let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three-minute duration. Don't engage anyone.
 From the public or any council members stay on topic, please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first, and those participating on Zoom will speak after that. Who would like to address us on this in the chamber? No one's on Zoom. Okay. I'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. I have a motion to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to second and go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Jones.
 Jones Moore yes Verna yes Bunch yes Turk yes Hertzberg yes in ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-52 for approximately 0.5 acres located at 2406 North Old Wire Road and Ward 3 from CPZD commercial plan zoning district NSG neighborhood services General
 Mayor, move the spin rules, go to third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to third and final reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Moore? Yes. Whitaker? Oh, excuse me. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 Yes. An ordinance to rezone the property described in rezoning petition RZN 2024-52 for approximately 0.5 acres located at 2406 North Old Wire Road in Ward 3 from CPZD Commercial Plan Zoning District to NSG Neighborhood Services General. Any final comments from the council? Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 herzberg yes all right let's go to number 11. in order to annex that property described in the annexation petition annexation 24-001 submitted by flintlock ltd
 for a property located on North Ruppel Road and West Salem Road, northwest of Ward 4, containing approximately 7.90 acres of plate. Whereas Flintlock LTD Company has properly secured the Washington County judge's authorization to annex 7.9 acres located on North Ruppel Road and West Salem Road, northwest of Ward 4, into the city of Fayetteville,
 Now therefore be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby confirms the annexation to the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas of about 7.9 acres as described in Exhibit B and the map shown on Exhibit A, both attached to the Planning Department's Agenda Memo.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby zones the newly annexed property RA residential agricultural. Section 3, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amends the official map and zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to recognize this annexation. Section 4, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby assigns the 7.9 acres to Ward 4 of the City of Fayetteville.
 Hey, Jonathan. Thank you, Mayor. If it's not already on the Council's radar, I did want to draw your attention to the fact that both C-11 and C-12 are bound together geographically. So naturally we'll be taking the conversation about the annexation first because as a city we don't have any zoning authority outside of our incorporated city limits. And since this portion of the property in the next item is outside the city limits, it needs to be deliberated whether it should be annexed prior to the conversation about zoning.
 With that in mind, this property is in northwest Fayetteville. It's just outside of Ward 4. It includes almost 8 acres of land on the east side of Rupert Road, just one lot south of Salem. It is an undeveloped property. You can see it in the northwestern most corner of the city.
 And no, uh, hydric soils, FEMA designated floodplains or protective streams have been identified on the property. This request is to annex this land into the city of Fayetteville and to incorporate it. This is, I believe, the first annexation the City has or the City Council has considered at least in 2024. So I think it bears going over some of the unique considerations that planning makes within City Plan 2040 where several guiding principles are laid out.
 The first of those is a question of boundaries and whether the annexation meets our statutory allowances for expanding our boundaries and incorporating land. We're not allowed to create islands. Most particularly, we should strive to make a more efficient boundary with our city for serving our residents and providing services.
 And with that in mind, this property or this area of the city as it is today is unfortunately one of the least efficient boundaries you can find along the periphery of our city. The areas you see in Taupe, maybe, or Beige, is within the city of Fayetteville. It is connected by a tangent point in the northwest corner of one portion of it and the southeast corner of the other. Staff finds that annexing this approximately eight acres of land that you see,
 Listed as a subject property here will ultimately improve that will address some of the issues that we find elsewhere in the city where our right-of-way is split between County right-of-way and city right-of-way and Be able to provide better services to our city as as a whole
 The second item that staff considered as a part of the sanitation is whether they're environmentally sensitive areas This is not necessarily because we want to avoid them As often it is just as often is not a tacit acknowledgement that the city of Fayetteville has higher standards than are often provided for in development in the county and
 now with that in mind and as i noted there are no areas of hydric soil there's no fema designated floodplains and there are no protected streams on this portion of the or on this item tonight however it does bear mentioning that there is a slight slope going to the west and northwest towards a off-site protected stream so development in this area could have negative impacts on that stream if it were to be developed without some of the higher standards that we have adopted within the city of fayetteville
 A third item to consider is not just if our boundaries are facilitating better service and more efficient use of our city resources, but how the property will be served by the resources and services that we have today. And this falls in the two buckets, our emergency and our public services.
 When requesting information from our police and fire departments on this item, the police did not express any concerns about serving this additional area. The fire department provided only their limited comment about service times, which this property is pretty close to the outside edge of our fire department's response time goal.
 They strive to reach properties in the city of Fayetteville within six minutes for a typical fire engine, like a pumper truck, and eight minutes for the larger vehicles, a ladder truck. This property is approximately eight minutes from the fire station just southwest of Ruple and Weddington.
 On the infrastructure and utility sides of things, this property is within 1,000-2,000 feet of a couple options for sanitary sewer. This includes to the southeast and south and some existing subdivisions. Additionally, there is a sanitary sewer line being installed with the Magnolia Place subdivision to the southwest.
 There have not been identified capacity issues. At this point, if the land was annexed, it would be a matter of evaluating feasibility and how to reach those connection points.
 On the water side of things, it's a little bit simpler and a little bit more complicated. There is existing water running along Rupert Road today. We do serve several areas of the county with our water distribution system. However, the lines in this area may not be of adequate capacity for higher levels of development, both in terms of intensity and density.
 Additionally, portions of Fayetteville to the south are within what we call the pressure reduction zone or area, which is in response to some infrastructure concerns in preceding decades and how this could be impacted by the pressure levels that we maintain as a city. As a result, my understanding is the applicant has been coordinating with the utility department about what alternatives look like to connect our water system to serve this property.
 Finally, the last item, which I foreshadowed earlier in the presentation about administration. Ultimately, there's a question of whether the burdens of administering this property outweigh the benefits of it. And staff finds that on the balance of all these issues, the annexation of this land into the city of Fayetteville is a net benefit. It is very likely that it will be developed. Those of you who had the opportunity to visit the property saw that there is quite a bit of development in this area, very widely developed.
 Types of land uses, um, there are large estate lots in close proximity. There's also many storage in close proximity and, uh, assigning a fail land use regimen to the property, uh, is appropriate and our estimation.
 With that in mind, staff is recommending approval of this annexation. The Planning Commission forwarded it to the City Council recommending approval. However, it was a split vote of 7 to 2. Those who spoke in favor of it found it to be appropriate and generally that those guiding principles did direct many commissioners to support this as well.
 Conversely, there were at least two commissioners who had concern about the property's location and that it may be too peripheral in their estimation for it to be included in the City of Fayetteville. With that, I'm available for any questions that the Council has. And may we have a few members of the applicant team here tonight? I believe Allison Quinlan or Will Kelster may be leading off for the applicant team. I'd kind of like to speak for the Council.
 thank you council and thank you uh those of you who braved some wild weather for one of our wettest tours that i think we've given um we've got a couple slides that we can pull those up that we we sent late in the afternoon to jonathan
 Generally, we're going to be hearing a PZD up next, so this annexation is really partially about swapping. We've got RSF 4 across the full current city of Fayetteville property. There is a section to the southeast that is much more heavily treed with some larger native species and also has a steeper slope.
 um it is developable relative to the rest of the land around there that is currently neighborhoods that is currently rsf4 but it is a higher value for preservation
 So part of our intention with the annexation is to take this eight acres in kind of that northern section that is currently labeled phase two, which is relatively flat, has almost no existing really high quality tree coverage. We've got one really nice oak that's planned in, but that eight acres would then be sort of swapped for preservation area that is currently RSF4, but higher value.
 The overall plan that we'll be seeing kind of covers that. As we touched on the annexation question itself, this does clean up a boundary. It's challenging to improve Ruple Road currently the way that the city owns opposite halves that don't overlap.
 It makes improvement of that street relatively challenging. And so we think this does clean up a boundary and create a little bit less of a tangential island there. Sewer line, water line coordination with the city department has been relatively intense for this level of a PZD. That was two things that we really wanted to ensure. We had a good answer that both of those were both feasible and positive to the overall city system.
 So, it confirms that sewer works with no capacity issues tying into the south and that water would, water line, existing water line would be improved by the developer in order to provide water fire flows to the site without connecting to the pressure reduction area. So, we'd be bringing a new water line staying out of the pressure reduction area because we're up above that in elevation.
 I think we've got a couple of slides to talking about, you know, we got a lot of complimentary comments and planning commission about overall design layout and approach, some concerns about periphery. And so we've got a couple of slides that are in one of the, I think we sent the master plan, but I think there's also a annexation specific set of images.
 images that will show a little bit one of the real important things about this site specifically is that it is directly adjacent to a tier center that is shown in our future land use maps. There's a tier three center that is identified on the property directly to the south of this one adjacent to this.
 And there are a number of tier two and tier one centers within several minutes of travel away from this location. And so the large sort of direction and hope with this is that we are able to develop the site at more or less the density that is currently allowed under RSF4 but with significant improved pattern, walkability, attainability, and much better conservation. And so the annexation piece I know we need to vote on first but we also wanted to provide
 on the PZD to be able to talk that through reasonably for annexation. So we're located right on that north, thank you very much Jonathan, sorry to make that challenging on you, the northwest corner of the mayor's box, we're right on that corner and so we kind of as we zoom into kind of what those tier centers mean, we've got three levels of tier centers.
 And there is a tier center that's kind of third level, which is intended to be more local services, local amenities and businesses that is identified, I think on the next slide. So, you know, kind of here's where we are, that little yellow is that tier three center. And so we zoom in a little bit more
 and can see on the next slide how that functions. So that blue property just to the south of our pink up there on the left, purple is the mayor's box, pink is this property in question. We've got that tier three center directly adjacent to us that really likely can't be built out with the density residential,
 development that's around it. There really aren't enough rooftops to start to develop some amenities to make this a little bit more amenity rich neighborhood that is a little bit less driving heavy. But we also have great connectivity to a tier two center just three minutes off of here at Mount Comfort.
 as well as really large, you know, Tier 2 and then another Tier 1 center directly to the east at the interchange. So there is really good connectivity to quite a bit of surfaces. One of the things that's also sort of lightly underlaid on this is the sensitive environmental areas.
 kind of map that this shows a little bit more clearly. One of the things to note here is a lot of these tier centers, especially kind of our cluster at the interchange, are all on relatively sensitive currently undeveloped land. And this is a really rare site for us to be able to bring, you know, we try not to bring stuff at the edge, but this is a really rare flat.
 not currently treed, not sensitive environmental area. It does have a protected stream that anybody who came on the tour saw is more of a ditch currently. It is intended for streamside protection and restoration. So there's a lot of improvement to be made, but it is a really rare, very developable parcel within the city of Fayetteville. And so it will be developed under one pattern or another. And we hope something a little bit better than traditional RSF4. We're here for any questions you might have, although I know it's late.
 What questions does the council have for the applicant or staff? I noticed that, you know, these are labeled conservation areas. And so what does that mean? Does that mean always or always and forever? Or until somebody decides to build something?
 So the way that this item that is currently being voted on will work is that eight acres will come in as RAs. So if this item is approved, the PCD is not approved. That eight acres will be residential agriculture, which is a minimum lot size of one acre, which is more or less what it can be developed as now in the county, except with Fayetteville protections and codes.
 So, you know, we're voting first on the annexation. The goal which we'll show in the PZD language is we've got three planning areas. So we've got one planning area that's single family cottages only. We've got one that allows us to do townhouses, which in the city of Fayetteville are considered multifamily, even if they're on their own lot, sold to a single family.
 considered single family by federal underwriting standards. So we've got our kind of multifamily townhouse that's only interior, and then we have a conservation district that we wrote into the PZD. And so anything that is labeled as conservation, and we'll show exactly what that is,
 it's 16 acres of land so we we would be bringing in 8.1 acres of ra land so we're swapping that for 16.2 acres we're doubling that protected area and it's a written in conservation zone the intention with
 development process, right, because we bring through the land use policy and then we later will bring through full development approvals. So the intention then is that we would work to see if it's something that is appealing to Parks Board to take on as a public park. If not, then we would work to be working on a conservation easement as part of the development process. And so it is via land use protected unless you guys choose to rezone it and then there's a goal that there would be a further level of conservation protection later. Okay. Thank you.
 anything else and and again you said basically you'd be doubling the protected area that's right great thank you and moving it to a much more sensitive part of the property the the part that is currently most developable is what's in the county that's under annexation consideration anything else all right thank you um let's take some public comment there thank you
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a three minute duration. Don't engage anyone in the public or any council member. Stay on topic. Please give us your name and address. Those present in the chamber will be allowed to speak first. Participating by Zoom will speak after that. Is there anyone like to address us in the chamber? OK. Anybody on Zoom? No, sir. OK. All right, what discussion would the council like to have?
 Okay, fellow council members only Sarah and I brave the rainstorm yesterday and And so I appreciate everybody that came out and there were two Sarah's to start with I want to yeah you showed up So we had a really good tour I really appreciated all the answers to the questions lots of details that were discussed and So
 You know usually I'm the one that is really Not for development, but I think this is a good project I think they've been really sensitive to the landscape and thoughtful about that and And while it may be sort of on the corner of town half of it still within the mayor's box So it's it's right there on the edge the area
 I don't know, Jonathan, could you pull up where the stream is? Maybe the topography a little bit? I just want to point out a few things to my fellow council members that my opinion or I observed yesterday. JONATHAN STRAINER- And if it's helpful, Council Member Cherk, I may just pull up my next presentation, which gets into that in a little bit. KATHLEEN CHERKER- Oh, right. That's right. We're still on the annex. I'm sorry. JONATHAN STRAINER- And that's not me being passive aggressive. I'm sorry. KATHLEEN CHERKER- Yeah, it's really hard to separate them.
 So, you know, we kind of, we started out walking on the proposed annex property. I really only saw like maybe one significant tree. Most of the other stuff was, you know, not really that new trees or not significant or even some of the invasive species that we don't like. So I really didn't see any concern there. It is pretty flat, but...
 That stream is on the left side of that, and it is really fully full of sediment. It really looks like a braided ditch. It doesn't look very significant. And the part of that, too, on the left is a ditch that kind of runs north. So that's not on the annex property. So I'm glad it's a protected stream, but it needs a lot of work, I guess is what I'm saying.
 um so i did think it was a um i do think that this would be great to annex into the city and i do like the project uh sarah thank you mayor um
 And thank you for the tour. And honestly, it's a beautiful area. You know, I think many of us during the agenda session and our planning commission talked about being a bit squeamish about it being kind of at the outskirts. But I think we also have to recognize all the pressures that are out in that area. And so especially seeing it on the map is one thing, but to be out there and to really see how it's planned.
 playing out and intermingling between the city, how we regulate one way and the county differently, really makes it be a hodgepodge development pattern out there. And so there's a lot of benefit. The other thing, going back to what was stated earlier by Allie, in regard to the possibility that this could have street improvement on Ruple, is that we don't have that continuous stretch. And so there's an opportunity. One of the things, there's a
 county patch that's on there that has the the barn event center and I got to be a part of some fun planning commission meetings in the county when they were talking about that there were a lot of expressed concerns by the local neighbors fearful of the safety concerns that would happen and so you know with us having this annexed into that portion it's concrete can uh
 Contributing to that continuity that we have the possibility of those improvements that can happen to that just makes that area safer And then it also, you know again just can't reiterate enough that this becomes under fatal Regulations because we know it will be developed eventually Any mayor I look forward to Voting for this because I think it gives us three things it gives us density and
 It gives us conservation of green space, and it gives us a quality project. So I think even though, again, it is on the edge, I think it's a really good project, so I look forward to supporting it. Okay. I just want to throw a couple things out here. When I was on the city council, that particular area out there was 12 minutes for a fire truck to get out there.
 I want everybody to keep this in mind as you begin to move on out. A fire truck has got to get to a fire in four minutes. Otherwise, they go from the offense to the defense. In six minutes, another house can be on fire. In eight minutes, it starts getting kind of serious. So this is okay. I can support this, but I'll tell you,
 You really need to start looking at this emergency services because eight minutes is a haul for a fire truck. I just want you all to realize that there was many a development. There was good developments that I voted against on this council because it had like a 10 to 12 minute response. Now, it's not that bad yet, but you all just need to keep that in your head when you start to develop these areas out here, okay? Anyway,
 Yes, Bob. Yeah, I do like this. I like how, you know, Jonathan, you're mentioning how we're not supposed to do box zoning. And right now that upper left corner almost looks like that. It's just touching by a hair. And this is actually gonna remediate that by making a full connection. I like that we're doubling the protected area. And there is a, the Wheeler Fire Department
 Station 18-3 is off of Salem Road there. Would they, if there was something going on, would they respond?
 with I can't see if the fire chiefs here now yeah I wish he was here because he could explain this better we do have automatic response agreements with several areas of the county where it's whoever gets there first that typically refers to structure fires or there's more dangerous situation yeah not to be a medical response so that that allays my fears as far as that goes I'm having them there
 And then a question, Teresa was mentioning the condition of the stream. Will there be some, I think it's for the applicant, will there be some stream side restoration or stream restoration? I'm saying that's good enough. Okay, great. Okay, I think it looks like a great project and it's within that mayor's box so we'll be kind of working from the outside in, I guess.
 Yes, yeah, I had some concerns. I'm glad Councilmember Stafford brought up the Wheeler Fire Department because, you know, I'm driving over there and I just passed that on the way, so I thought, well, I wonder how the emergency services would be here. That is like a one-truck situation.
 or one pickup truck thing there though it's not not a very big fire department but um you know there are a lot of things i like about this project i like the the sensitivity to conservation uh the focus on density in the right areas of the property and and like i said you know conserving parts of it and it seems like a quality project also which scott brought up um
 I do have concerns about the emergency response because I think that's a fair fair thing to be concerned about and we do pride ourselves in trying to
 have EMS and fire be, you know, at a scene as quickly as possible. One thing I want to ask, and it kind of, it really does not deal with annexation, it deals with the next item, and I just wanted to ask, it says on the plans of 55 plus age in place or something like that, is that part of the PCD? I don't recall
 I don't believe I saw it in the PCD. If it was, that's not something that the city would enforce. That is more typically an item that's incorporated into covenants within a subdivision. I just saw it on the bottom of one of the pages, and I thought, I wonder if that's something like...
 So once it's a PCD, it could be 55 plus, it could be whatever, right? That's correct. And the applicant could speak to a much greater degree, but they touched on it on the tour. The intent was to create a mixed age community where I think a portion on one side of RuPaul would be intended for 55 plus and the other side would be open to multiple ages so that people could age through the property if they didn't want to move out of that geography. Okay. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Okay. This is on the...
 I'd make a motion to suspend rules go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion to the second. We'll go to the second reading. Jackson, would you please call the roll? Stafford? Yes. Jones? Moore? Yes. Ferna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Burke? Yes. Hertzberg? Yes.
 ordinance to annex that property described in annexation petition a and x24 dash oh one submitted by Flintlock LTD company for property located on North Ripple Road and West Salem Road northwest of Ward 4 containing approximately seven point nine acres Mary make motion spin rules go third finally second we have motion second to go to third and finally Jackson would you please call the robert stafford yes more yes Erna yes lunch yes
 TURK? Yes. HERTSBERG? Yes. An ordinance to annex that property described in annexation petition ANX24-01 submitted by Flintlock LTD Company for property located on North Ruppel Road and West Salem Road northwest of Ward 4 containing approximately 7.9 acres. Any final comments from the council? Jackson, please call the roll. Stafford? Yes. Moore? Yes. Berna? Yes. Bunch? Yes. TURK?
 Yes. Okay, thank you all. Let's move to number 12, an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled PZD 2024-005 for approximately 44.0 acres located on North Rupert Road and West Salem Road in Ward 4.
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby approves PZD 2024-05 as described in Exhibits A, B, and C attached to the Planning Division's agenda memo which allows the development of 27.8 acres of mixed residential units along with 13.2 acres of natural areas and open space. Section 2, that the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas is hereby amended to reflect the zoning criteria change provided in Section 1 above.
 John Thank You mayor and an acknowledgement of the discussion that's already occurred. I will try to be brief in my comments And expand on anything as the council would like
 This item, this PZD specifically includes the 7.9 acres from the previous item in addition to approximately 36 further acres to the west of Ruppel Road and to the west of the annexation you just considered and additional land immediately south of that to the east of Ruppel Road as well.
 The property is currently undeveloped with no identified areas of floodplain or hillside overlay district. However, there's a portion of streamside or a protected stream that I'll touch on later that we've already discussed in brief. The property that is within the City of Fayetteville today is currently zoned RSF4, residential single-family four units breaker with the area outside the city that was just approved in the last item zoned RA, residential agricultural.
 The PZD request for this property is to rezone it to three different planning areas. One is 13.6 acres, which runs along the periphery of the site and is intended to be developed with single family and two family homes. Planning area B, which is about 14.2 acres, which represents the core of each discrete part of the property and is intended for development with additional housing diversity or different types of housing, including townhomes potentially.
 Finally, Planning Area C, which represents the largest of the planning areas and approximately 37% of the overall acreage of the property, is intended to be an open space zoning mix of stormwater parks, untouched land, and improved ways of conveying stormwater through the property.
 When considering the compatibility of this request, staff finds it to be so. The existing RSF4 zoning district, while it is a reflection of a lot of the development that has occurred in this area, does not represent the more compact and connected development that the city has come to prioritize as a part of our long-range planning documents. We find that the generally residential areas,
 nature of the proposal and the generally residential neighborhood of the area are compatible with each other the Additional sensitivity that I described with those planning areas That puts the larger Lots near the exterior of the site and your existing large lot residential areas in the county further speaks to the compatibility being offered by this proposal and
 Additionally, it is worth noting that roughly the entitlement that exists today for about 160 units is roughly what would be allowed into this PZD. We're talking ultimately about more efficient use of land and preservation of additional open space.
 From a land use long-range planning standpoint, staff does find this request to be consistent with our residential neighborhood area designation, the future land use map. It does provide an opportunity for multiple different housing types. We also find it to be particularly complementary of our city plan 2040 goal to create compact neighborhoods. This neighborhood seeks to do exactly that, use that land as effectively as possible, and minimize the liabilities of infrastructure that the city can be exposed to with larger lots.
 development. That said, the number of infill attributes are what you would expect in this part of the city. Staff acknowledges that there are mixed findings in that regard, but ultimately the other determinations when it comes to our long-range plans carry the day. So additional items to touch on in brief. Tree preservation remains the same with this request. RSF4 and RA both require 25%. The PZD also requires 25%.
 When it comes to natural features, those who are on the tour saw them in person. Those who did not, there's the aforementioned protected stream that Council Member Turk touched on that is in a ditch on the west side of Ruple for much of its passage through this property before cutting southwestward and moving on to the adjacent property.
 The other portion that's notable is there are two gullies or draws on the southeast corner of the property, which is also intended to be preserved. I apologize for the resolution on this, but it tells the story of those gullies. They do drop off to a fair degree going south and southeasterly.
 uh when it comes to infrastructure i touched on that before i think we're assured we have evaluated that at this point there will be some requirements to upgrade water and connect elsewhere outside of the pressure reduction zone sewer is available nearby and the annexation uh previously approved in this project uh combined will allow a further realization of the ruple road connection and the completion of the mayor's box
 Which to that point brings up a tension that has been experienced by our planning commissioners and city council members for years. And that's is the mayor's box meant to be the outline for development in the city? I've heard a lot of anxiety over the years of people.
 uh being concerned that we shouldn't be building a road and then not building on the other side of that road if we've invested that much money in infrastructure generally as a city we've acknowledged that it's appropriate to build both on both sides of that road since we are putting that cost as public taxpayers this is seen on south ruble road in particular and even south immediately this property with the magnolia place subdivision which helped bring that mayor's box into further realization
 Finally, regarding public comment, we've received a mix of feedback from the public
 Some have been opposed and they have concerns that the development of this neighborhood may not reflect a large lot residential style patterns that you see in parts of this area of Fayetteville and the county. Conversely, there are a number of people who recognize that developing under the design as proposed is a much more responsible way to curate our infrastructure into future decades.
 With all these considerations in mind, staff is recommending approval of the request. The Planning Commission ultimately denied it, and you are hearing it tonight on appeal. It was a very close vote, a 4 to 5, and I don't think even that accurately reflects the anxieties that the Commission was tackling as a part of the discussion.
 There was a significant amount of angst about whether this is qualified as sprawl or infill. And frankly, I don't think staff finds it to be either in this instance. I think sprawling would have it further outside the city, further outside the mayor's box, not adjacent to any existing infrastructure. Conversely, it's certainly not any conventional form of infill. I don't think I can say that to the council and maintain my integrity in doing so. That said, I think it's important to acknowledge that this development
 is proposing a more effective pattern of use of the property than would be allowed otherwise and i'm happy to take any questions the council has and mayor the development team remains the same as the last item thank you okay would you have someone like speak for the council
 Good evening Council will kill from here on behalf of the applicant. Similar to Jonathan, I'm going to try to condense some of my comments tonight in light of some of the previous comments. So, I want to hit on a couple of big issues. The 1st of which being that.
 This is a much better plan than what you currently have under the current zoning and touch on a little bit why we are asking for a PCD. So again, the properties that are already in the city are 37 acres of RSF4 and the newly annexed property that you just annexed tonight is zoned RA by default.
 Under RSF 4 and RA, we can develop 156 units with 25% tree preservation. It would not allow a mix of housing. It would not give any incentive for creative design. It would not give any incentive to preserve sensitive areas. In fact, it would actually incentivize someone to come in and bulldoze all of it and build a pretty uncreative, unimaginative building.
 development that doesn't really respect what's there from a natural environment standpoint. In comparison, what we're proposing is 161 units, which is 3.7 units per acre overall.
 16.2 acres of green space, which is almost 40% of all the land involved in a mix of housing types with a large number of the housing of the units to be built to be marketed to 55 plus in response to Councilwoman bunches question earlier essentially.
 The 55 plus units will be units that are more suited to and more attractive to 55 plus adults, which essentially means less bedrooms. They're attached, smaller yards, really just downsizing and smaller maintenance. But Allie is going to touch on that a little bit more in a second.
 And lastly with the PZD, what it allows us to do is cluster all this development tighter together so that we're able to conserve those areas. As for the comments about fire response, essentially what we're left with here is a choice of do we want an RSF4 development, like I described a second ago, with an eight-minute response time, or the development that we have proposed today with an eight-minute response time.
 So why are we asking for a PZD? Essentially, we are putting in, or the developer is putting in, more effort for a better product and, in fact, at less profit to the developer. We're trying to deliver a better product here. That's why we're asking for a PZD instead of going with the...
 Existing zoning we've hired a landscape architect. We've designed all of this up front so we can show you guys what you're getting in advance. We've incorporated creative design, clustered the housing together. Um, we've annexed property so that we can leave. Topography largely intact streams and trees.
 so that we can take the development that is less suited for development and conserve it and take the land that is more suited for development and use it to be developed as housing this is not a national developer coming in to bulldoze the whole thing and shove in a can development in short we are asking for a PZD so that we can give a better product not more product and lovely slideshow
 We split our slides into annexation, where are we, PZD, what is it? So Jonathan's being very patient with us sending him two slides just. So this is going to be called Foxtail Meadows and we've got I think the master plan is probably in here first. We'll try to run through this quick. I know it's late for everybody.
 So half of this is 55 plus is the intention. Part of that is that reduces our overall car trips by splitting about half of it into a demographic that has significantly fewer car trips. It also makes a lot of use of all that extra amenity space, being able to provide a level of amenity to homeowners that are very underserved housing-wise generally.
 So you guys have seen this one kind of restarting. Here's where we are again kind of building out towards better connectivity to kind of tier centers that are planned and are really within this is really development of future land use plan almost verbatim of what was what is shown here 20 plan city plan 2040.
 And this is we got a really warm reception of the project at planning commission. I think we all were relatively anxious about that vote there at the end. But I think didn't do probably enough explaining about some of the proximity.
 PZD language that is almost verbatim to the PZD that the City Council approved in April just down the road on Rupel across from Holt Elementary. So the intention is really similar product type, really similar mixed units, smaller unit sizes, many of them are one story so they are adaptable to an age and place or to a younger buyer. With architectural design standards is one of the big benefits that comes in with the PZD is that it's not something that is currently under the RSF4 designation.
 And then it also gives us an opportunity to address flooding and stormwater. We'll show some photos of that stream. So we've got images of the plan that you were seeing in a PZD and part of the benefit of the PZD. This is designed architectural products that you were seeing in the master plan of homes that have already been designed. They are relatively smaller, which brings their price points down just by nature being a smaller product. Although again, it's a quality product with an architectural design standard.
 In I think our next slide we kind of run through that it is a really challenging product type for a lot of people to find. That we've got a lot of, especially as our younger, you know, graduating young professionals start to have kids, parents try to move here locally or try to move out of larger houses into smaller houses and really struggle to find something that's appropriate.
 We did get a lot of opposition primarily from neighbors in the county at planning commission. We stayed and talked with them quite a bit and made a couple of minor changes that kit felt were appropriate within the purview of the pzd, things that could have been changed once the zoning was done, adding a landscape buffer in and reducing some homes, pulling back a little bit at the entrance.
 And so relatively minor changes, but that did really respond to and kind of address the concerns of several neighbors who were in opposition and then express some support. The neighbors who were really unconvinced by those changes preferred that it would be developed as large homes on large lots. So again, kind of we are proposing more or less the same number of units.
 And this is sort of a side by side comparison of numbers of units in zoning type. And so we're taking that eight acres of protected currently RA, we're turning that into 16 acres of green space, and then we're getting about the same number of units that we can in a different pattern. So it's all the numbers specifically to that.
 The offsite water was one of the other concerns that we heard a lot about from neighbors. Yeah, the photos next are great. Jonathan, thank you. Neighbors that weren't concerned about small houses, their biggest concern was flooding. Right kind of in this northeast corner off of our site, there is quite a bit of stormwater that flows from that neighborhood across the newly annexed section in this sort of roadside
 It silted in the stream. The protected stream is shown to the left, and we'd probably gotten an inch of water in the last hour before that. It is dry generally because it has silted in almost completely. And so those neighbors adjacent to us are really struggling with stormwater backup because of the stream and the undersized channel of the stream. And so a pipe underneath that section,
 intersection at Ruple is intended to be upsized to improve stormwater flows combined with the stream side, we would expect significantly
 significant improvement to stormwater issues that those neighbors are having. It's got really clear and obvious reasons it's backing up and that are pretty easy to address. And then the neighborhood is also designed to maintain green spaces that are low impact development to channel offsite water from Dogwood Canyon that's relatively high volume across the site to the stream and then offsite. So we've got some offsite stormwater that we did hear about that already was part of the plan that we'd worked through with engineering generally, that the layout itself is addressing.
 So hopefully some of those issues that we've seen will be improved. I think that's probably all of our – we're really – you guys have heard a lot about our conservation goals here, so I think we'll leave it at that if you guys have any questions. What questions do we have the staff or the admin? Okay. Thank you.
 Mayor may I ask the applicant a question? I'm sorry Ms. Quinlan. I did want to circle back to the slide that you have the site plan changes noted here and for Mr. Pennington's benefit in case he did not hear from Mr. Williams. It's my understanding that this was not forwarded by the Planning Commission but are you proposing this as an amendment to the PZD tonight? So Kitt's opinion was that the
 Strict language of the PZD would have allowed us to make that change right right We're making land use decisions on the PZD language There can be minor tweaks as we go into full development review and so his opinion was we shortened some of the lots to add a buffer and That we pulled some lots back from the front entrance and did a rearrange, but it didn't change the overall planning areas. I
 and so it's you know it is not really I think a formal change to the PCD was his opinion it was within the normal amount of things that we'd be allowed to do within development thank you full design thank you let's take some public comment if I gets one turn speaking after three minute duration don't engage anyone public or any council members stay on top please give us your name and address those president chamber will be allowed to speak first
 Participating by zone will speak after that who would like to address this in the chamber. Okay, no one is on Move that we suspend their roles and go to the second reading Motion second to go to the second read Jackson, which please call the roll Stafford. Yes more. Yes, Berna Yes Bunch yes hurt. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes, I
 an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled pzd 2024-05 for approximately 44 acres located on north ruble road and west salem road in ward four move that we suspend the rules and go to the third reading second we have a motion second go to third and final rate jackson would you please call the roll stafford yes moore yes verna yes lunch yes kirk yes
 Hertzberg yes an ordinance to approve a residential plan zoning district entitled pzd 2024-05 for approximately 44 acres located on north ruble road and west salem road in ward 4. any final comments from the council bob nope okay i just had you lied on yeah i was ready to keep rolling
 Jackson was please call the roll Stafford yes more and Berna yes, but yes, Kirk. Yes, Hertzberg. Yes Okay, that concludes our business family now. We got the friendship thing tomorrow We I'm sorry. I'm not a friend giving
 Well, that's not our event, Mayor. That's at the Yvonne Richardson Center. It is, but it is being sponsored. We don't have anything to do with it. Well, no, I'm just saying it's being put on by someone who's leasing, who's using the Yvonne Richardson Center. Oh, I see. I see. I see. Okay. Well, we're adjourned.