Okay, I want to call the City Council meeting of December the 1st, 2020 to order. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Here. Scroggins? Present. Fudge? Here. Kirk? Here. Kirk? Smith? Here. Gutierrez? Here. Marsh? Here. Pinion? Here. Mayor Jordan?
 Thank you, Karen. Would everybody join me in the pledge of allegiance? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I want to welcome everyone. In light of the current health concerns, Beverly City Hall is closed to the public and this meeting is being held virtually. I'm Mayor Lionel Jordan and I'm president of the council chambers.
 Chambers with a handful of essential support staff. Ken Williams, City Attorney. Kara Paxson, City Clerk-Treasurer. Susan Norton, Chief of Staff. Keith Maceo, IT Director. Assistant Police Chief Jamie Fields. Assistant Fire Chief Tom Good. Finance Director Paul Becker. And two representatives from Federal's IT Department. City Council Members, City Staff, and the public are participating online or by phone.
 Other than those of us you see before you, the voices you may hear during the course of this meeting are all being recorded for public record and piped into the council chambers. Participation remains of utmost importance for the city of Fedbo, and we have provided many ways to participate in our view of tonight's meeting, including contacting city council members, city clerk's office, or city staff prior to the meeting,
 Viewing through federal's government channel online or the city's YouTube channel. Joining the Zoom conference by phone, smartphone, tablet, or computer. Staff can view when you have joined the meeting and when you have raised your virtual hand. We ask that you refrain from raising your virtual hand until the public comment portion of the item on which you wish to comment.
 I will provide a longer than usual period of time for you to raise your virtual hand so as to ensure time to be recognized. Federal residents will be allowed to speak first. When recognized, please state your name and address for the record. Public comment shall be allowed for all members of the audience who have signed up prior to the beginning of the agenda item they may wish to address being open for public comment.
 Each speaker has one turn to speak. Each speaker is allowed five minutes to be broken into segments of three and two minutes, which staff will monitor. Amendments may receive public comments only if approved by the city council by unanimous consent or majority vote.
 If public comment is allowed for an amendment, speakers will only be allowed to speak for three minutes. The City Council may allow both a speaker additional time and an unsigned-up person to speak by unanimous consent or majority vote. Now let us get started tonight.
 The first item that we have tonight under presentations is the monthly financial report from Paul Becker. Paul? I'll take this math down briefly so you can hear me. This report will be for the month of October. That's the 10th month of our fiscal year, so we're –
 We're five, six of the way through the fiscal period. When we look at the general fund, as I reported to you last time, we were very strong for the sales in September. We were 8% over last year.
 When we look at total revenue, we're up almost 3% at this point in time compared to budget. Sales tax itself is up almost 5% compared to the budget at this point in time. Franchise days are a little soft, they're softening a bit, but we're right around on budget there. License and the permits,
 are down. That's basically because of alcohol permitting, liquor licenses, et cetera. Building permits started softening a bit in October, as Garner has told you before.
 it's going to depend whether a couple of large complexes are permitted this year if they are we'll meet budget if not we'll be a little under budget but but building permits are holding pretty strong through October although weakening a bit
 When we look at the turn back, the turn back is down. We look at fines. Again, fines are primarily from the courts, and they're down by about 23%. But all in all, we're doing very well. And I certainly am very satisfied in where we are right now with the general fund. We look at the street fund. The street fund is up roughly 4%. And that's basically because
 when we had the last legislative session, they passed a special tax on wholesale fuel.
 We didn't know at that point in time that that was going to be passed. Therefore, we didn't budget anything. So we're up about $300,000 because of that. In that particular category, that's the wholesale gas tax. So we're up between three and four percent as far as the street fund is concerned on revenue this year. So it's holding its own. Parking revenue is 62 percent of budget.
 It has picked up a bit in August and September, but it's still substantially below budget at this point in time. HMR taxes as I look at them, because they fund the HMR taxes used for parks development,
 They're down about 30% compared to last year. And I know Sonia asked a question at the agenda session in how are they doing compared to prior year? Are they picking up at all? I said they were probably kind of holding their own. Well, actually, when I went and analyzed that they are a bit, actually for the month of
 we were down 21.7 percent, which is a substantial amount. But we have to remember back when we looked at this in April, May, June and those periods, they were down over 30 percent. So frankly, they were up more than I would have expected had I predicted this last month.
 In addition to that, if we go on over to the enterprise funds, the water and sewer fund is up just about 1% in total. Water sales are up competitively.
 compared to last year. But remember, we're not collecting penalties, we're not assessing penalties. And so that's down about $200,000 compared to the prior year, which puts the whole revenue down by 1%. Also, I'll call your attention, we are building additional receivables as we are not cutting off people for non-payment due to financial circumstances. But water and sewer is essentially holding its own at this point in time.
 Trash and recycling is down about 2%. Residential is up and commercial is down. So due to the economic times, commercial is backing off, especially pull charges, things of that nature. They're backing off cutting their expenses a bit at this point in time. However, we're holding our own when we look at it compared to the expense budget. Remember when we did budget trash and recycling, we had...
 forecasted a deficit for the period based on the implementation of the new plan and the new rates done. As far as the airport is concerned, flights were down
 September that probably associated well it is associated with the with the sports venues which were up last year certainly compared to this year's the sale of jet fuel is about 65 percent of budget so it's about two-thirds of the budget at this point in time. App gas is down but not quite as much and total fuel sales therefore is down about 21 percent at this point in time so
 That's where we are at revenue at this point in time. What I will say, and I will report to the council, I think as far as budgetary conditions are concerned, I think we're doing as well as could be expected at this point in time, we're holding our own. We're watching everything very closely, but all possible we're holding expenditure, especially things such as travel.
 et cetera, that we haven't been doing. So we're trying to hold the expenditures down as much as possible. The revenue is holding its own as reported in most of the funds, the biggest stresses on parking and airport, also stress on HMR, but HMR we were able to do that by pulling back in our capital expansion next year. And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions. What questions do we have Paul on finances?
 I have a brief question. Paul, you highlighted two of the funds that are, two or three of the funds that are more impacted than some of the other funds, and also heard you lay out a number of actions and practices that are being implemented to try and be responsive to where revenue is. Are we
 are we already taking or beginning to take more extreme measures and some of the more impacted fund back to funds besides delaying capital projects? Well, we have not taken extreme measures at this point in time, Matthew. One thing we have done, for example, in the parking fund, we had an individual who is employed there who transferred internally to take another position in the city, we're not gonna fill that.
 We'll look at the filling up positions going forward. If we get much worse or it continues much longer, we'll have to look at other measures there. As far as airport, we're trying to cut expenditures back as much as possible. We're not taking any extreme measures at this point in time, but we're doing everything possible to get the expenditures in line with the revenue. I hope that answers your question. Yes, it does. Thank you, Paul. We'll have questions to add.
 Okay. Thanks, Paul. Next order of business tonight is the consent agenda. Number one, approval of the November 17, 2020, City Council meeting minutes. Number two, a resolution to approve an amendment to the lease agreement with the GFAR, let's see, LLC, DBA, graduate federal by retroactively reducing the number of lease parking spaces in the Meadow Street
 municipal parking deck for the period from april the 1st 2020 to june 30th 2020 and to extend the lease agreement for one additional seven-year term through 2033. number three a resolution to approve a memorandum of agreement with the southwestern electric power company to provide at its own cost all materials and labor needed to move
 the overhead electrical service to underground service along West Avenue to satisfy any and all the damages the city suffered to electrical equipment City Hall and its police station from faulty transformer voltage surges. Number four, a resolution to express the intention of the City Council of the City of Federal to work with the Arkansas Department of Transportation to complete
 improvements to the I-49 and Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard interchange. Number five.
 Five, a resolution to approve amendment number one to the contract with McClellan Consulting Engineers Incorporated in the amount of $18,725 to provide additional design services associated with the West Center Street and North Harmon Avenue intersection project. This is the 2019 Street Improvements Bond Project. Number six, a resolution to approve Federal Police Department policies 33.1 training
 41.3.5 grooming and uniform requirements, and 46.1.2 critical incidents. Number seven, a resolution to accept a quote in the amount of $22,536.50 plus applicable taxes and freight charges
 from Electric Motor Center for the repair of an influent pump at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Number eight, a resolution to award bid number 20-81 is to authorize contract with Palladino Painting Company, LLC, in the amount of $107,575 for construction related to the removal and replacement of various secondary materials.
 containment liner systems at the Nolan Water Resource Recovery Facility. Number nine, a resolution to approve a land sale agreement between the City of Fayetteville and Dustin and Ryan Youngblood Davis to acquire about .72 acres of land located near Fire Tower Road County Road 4343 for the construction of a new
 Benson Mountain water supply tank in exchange for a payment of $23,000 plus closing costs, the conveyance of a city-owned 0.06 acre parcel and other consideration. Number 10.
 A resolution to award bid number 20-83 and to authorize contract with Crosswind Heavy Contractors Incorporated any amount of $4,380,859.87 for the construction of the Sane Street Extension Project to approve a project contingency any amount of $438,086 and to approve a budget adjustment. This is 2019 Street Improvement Bond Project.
 And number 11, resolution to approve supplemental agreement number two to the contract with Burns & McDonnell Engineering Company, incorporated in an amount not to exceed $294,086 for construction management services associated with the St. Street Extension project. Now we'll entertain a motion to accept the consent agenda as read. So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second to accept the consent agenda as read.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Henning? Yes. All right.
 Okay. Under unfinished business number one, a resolution to approve amendment number two to the Professional Engineering Services Agreement with Olson Incorporated pursuant to RFQ 19-01 in the amount of $154,900 for the remaining architectural services related to the replacement parking deck for the Cultural Arts Corridor Project and to approve a budget adjustment
 This is 2019 Cultural Arts Corridor Bond Project. Council tonight as we talked about this at the agenda session, I would like to table this for two weeks until we work out the contract that we're going to be talking about next. So if you would give me the latitude of working tabling this for two weeks, we would probably bring it back to the next city council meeting along with the contract. I move to table for two weeks. Second. Motion seconded, table for two weeks.
 Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay. Next order of business.
 New business number one in order to approve a contract with the bank of federal Greg House, Federal Depot, LLC, and possibly Ted Bell to purchase about one half acre at the Depot bank lot for $350,000 to approve a lease to own.
 arrangement with Greg House for the two-acre lot on the north end of the Civic Plaza to agree to convey to Greg House the ownership of about 14,000 square feet of the bottom floor of the city's public parking deck and other items and to pass an emergency clause. I got to read it. Yeah, you got to read it.
 Whereas city staff and Greg House have long negotiated terms and conditions for this land purchase and lease to own agreement, which have been properly placed within the contract included within this agenda item. And where city staff and Mayor Jordan recommend approval of this contract, as long as the Bank of Fayetteville, Greg House, Fayetteville Depot LLC, and if desired by Greg House, Ted Belden,
 Approve and sign this contract no later than December 15, 2020. Whereas this contract includes the purchase of a valuable building site on West Street, the lease of a valuable building site in the future Civic Plaza along Dixon Street, the protection through conservation easement of the historic Depot building, and other terms and conditions which make competitive bidding for these payments, conveyances, and agreements not reasonable or practical.
 And we're asked to get the multi-story public parking deck constructed and operational so the city plaza can be constructed within the bond revenue time limits. All parties to this contract must have approved and signed this contract by December 15, 2020, and this ordinance should be immediately effective. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the complexity of this contract shown above and the requirement of the deck location near the Walton Arts Center renders normal competitive bidding not reasonable or practical and therefore waives competitive bidding and approves a contract included with the agenda item and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign this contract and all documents necessary to carry out the terms and conditions of the contract.
 Section 2, an emergency clause that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines that the need to get the city's public parking deck under construction as soon as possible to avoid potential problems with bond revenue spending requirements and to expedite the beneficial construction of the Civic Plaza
 for the peace health and safety of our residents the city council declares an emergency exists and determines that this ordinance shall be effective immediately upon his passage and approval okay i know that uh wade and the chief stashers norton have a presentation to
 to give and also i think mr house and mr belden would like to make comments as well and i'm going to give them all 10 not each 10 minutes but 10 minutes 10 minutes total to do that and then we're going to turn it over to the city attorney
 all right so thank you mayor and i see the clock is sitting right at 5 52 almost all right um so tonight i'm i'm happy to introduce this topic back to you all it's been a long time coming and we've done a whole lot of research um and i have worked on some designs that we've been able to share with you in the public over the last several months and i want to preface wade's comments um with my own that remind you all i think
 that the essence of this project turned from building replacement parking into a really incredible opportunity for a shared placemaking redevelopment of some downtown that could become an anchor for our 50-acre cultural arts corridor on the north end. On the south end, as you know, and the southwest is the new public...
 Library at the very south end is the University of Arkansas School of Art. This entire area deserves that bookend of potential
 project that can unlock more economic development for that area. So we set about to do that and sought the advice of several experts and did our own research to make sure that the elements that we brought forward to you, we could ensure that this project would be a model for future public-private partnerships in Fayetteville. And we set about with our partners, Greg House and Ted Belden, to do that.
 And we rely, of course, on KIT to make sure that the contractual provisions protect the city in the event that we have any kind of issues moving forward. But I think we've dived into it deep enough that we really do have a very sound project to bring to you tonight. And I'd like to ask Wade to remind us how we got where we are again, since it's been several months since we've talked about it. And then we'll introduce Greg and Ted. Thank you. Sure. Thank you, Mayor, Council, Mayor.
 Susan, I'm going to attempt to share my screen here if possible. Hopefully that transferred. I'm going to try to break down what Kit just read in the ordinance into layman terms. I'm going to start with in January of this year, council approved the mayor to sign a letter of intent with Sage Partners LLC for the purchase of 0.6 acres for parking deck,
 and a conveyance of 0.2 acres on the north side of the plaza. Also in January, council approved an engineering services contract with Olson Engineering for the design of the replacement parking deck. In May, council was presented concept designs and contract terms individually. In June, a schematic design drawings of the deck and updated contract terms were presented in an agenda session presentation.
 So I'd like to share some of the more recent drawings we have as we work through design development. What we have here is the looking north along the colonnade. This bottom image is looking from the southwest and overall image of the deck and our Segas here. And this would be the transit hub plaza.
 Here's some more overall images of the deck looking southeast along this is West Avenue here. This bottom image is a street view from the shared access off of Dixon Street. This is a view of the Transit Hub Plaza from the trail and this is a view looking through the Transit Hub Plaza looking from the south back towards the Arcegas building.
 This is the what we call a common space that connects the deck and Arcega's. You can see on the left here would be the Arcega's building and on the right here would be a future retail space. This is just another view you can see these large concrete columns are part of the deck structure.
 So these are the floor plans of the deck itself, and this shows the 14,000 square foot retail space that Kit referenced. This is that connecting common space to our SEGAs. This is our 2,000 square foot PD substation. You can see the three lanes of either exit and or entry off onto West Avenue.
 And I'm going to flip through these. This is the actual blow-up of our PD substation. West Avenue would be here. This would be underneath the colonnade with storage where they'll have their bikes. Of course, there's a lobby for the public to come in. And the second, basically the second floor of the deck, third, fourth, fifth,
 and then the sixth floor, which would show a potential future additional parking spaces that the developer might want to include. I'm going to go back to the beginning. So for tonight's item, as far as the contract goes, you'll find that this contract includes many of the individual council members requested terms, as well as the City Attorney, Coate Williams, additional terms.
 that he put in that would best serve the city's interest. Some of those terms include a conservation easement for the historic portion of the train depot, seven years protection of the Arcegas building with no build over, enhancement to the Arcegas building, option to purchase the trail plaza section for the trail, rail, and future mobility hub, and verbiage for the time frame for that for seven years.
 Lease the purchase agreement on the North Plaza space, which allows the city to maintain ownership of the property for four years after the completion of the deck and start of the plaza. Like I said, the deck liner will include 2,000 square foot PD substation owned by the city. We have 300 spaces that includes 290 replacement parking spaces and potential 31 more spaces by the developer.
 A verbiage to address timeframe for the sixth and seventh floor completion of 10 years. The Civic Plaza building was designed to be acceptable by the city. And then transit hub bus stops at Dixon and West Heaven. And Wade, I think with that, if you're finished, let's move ahead to Greg. And we'll have time for questions if we can just get through the Greg and Ted presentation. Absolutely. Thank you.
 About three minutes. Greg, we can't hear you. Where's Greg? All right, go for it, Ted. Well, Greg should jump up there any minute, hopefully. That's about all he's got left, Ted. Yeah, okay. I got about two minutes, it looks like. Well, if he can follow me, then I'll lead first.
 Greg invited me to be involved in the project this spring. And like Greg, I'm very excited to be involved in it. I love Fayetteville a lot like Greg loves Fayetteville. I own other properties around this site, including the Dixon, which has a 260 space parking deck.
 and the Inn at Cornell Hall and also the UARK Bowl. Those properties hopefully will help us attract some other people to our city with this other site. I was really excited to be a part of the meeting with the Urban Land Institute today.
 That was really a very informative meeting that we all had at that time back in February. And this truly is a project that will be a catalyst for future development. Greg and I anticipate that over $50 million of new dollars will come into our city with these new projects, which will certainly generate lots of more property taxes and sales tax for the city and county.
 My last little comment that I wanted to make has to do with, with all the money that the city is investing in this new cultural arts corridor, is that we want to make sure that the city and what other other entities are involved in the programming of those elements.
 the civic Plaza doesn't just need to be there, grow grass. And I think y'all know that, but we need to start planning soon on what kind of elements will be in that civic Plaza. So with that, I'll see if Greg's got any comments. If he's able to- I'm afraid we don't really have more than about 30 seconds for Greg. This point in time, I'm going to turn it over to the city attorney. Go ahead. Okay.
 I want to thank Ted for his comments and Greg for his work. I did submit this contract to the city council and also to Greg and Ted's attorney. I have received some comments back from their attorney. Some of the comments I'll probably try to incorporate within the contract.
 So my first statement to you all tonight is that this contract is not ready to be approved tonight. I want to get it in an even better form. And also, I would very much like to have both Greg and Ted, as well as the bank, sign the contract before I present it to you in two weeks.
 Normally, that's what we do. We don't present a contract unless it's been signed and accepted by the person we're trying to contract with. I felt like we needed to get moving on this and that I felt like I could write a fair contract to both sides on what had been negotiated by Wade and Greg through many months.
 So that's what I presented. However, I'm certainly going to listen to the comments and consider the comments that were made by Mr. Bramlett on behalf of Mr. House and Mr. Belden, and we'll be getting back to them, and hopefully we can have a signed contract for the City Council in two weeks, and that's about all I have, Mayor. Okay, so...
 i guess we turned it over the council what questions the council have for the staff or city attorney okay well we don't have any questions from the council let's take some public comment then um all right everybody has one turn to speak you have five minutes broken into segments of three and and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or city or a city council member please stay on the topic
 which is the contract. Please, no rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us on this? I don't see anybody, Mayor. Okay, let's come back to the council.
 So, well, y'all, I think the city attorney's already said that he would like to wait two weeks on this contract. Yes, this is really a very, very important decision for the city council to make. It needs to get out into the public as much as possible so that any feedback the public wants to give the city council, they have the opportunity to do that. This is a $10 million thing, Mayor, so I surely think it needs to wait until December 15th for a final decision. Sure. Thank you.
 What discussion do we have among the council? I have a comment. Okay. I don't think the public is aware that we're speaking about this tonight. I don't think there's been a lot of publicity, and this is a very important topic. It's a lot of money. It's going to change Dixon Street forever. And so I do hope that we'll wait two weeks so that the word can get out that
 by the Dem Gazette and the Fayetteville Flyer and other avenues so that people are aware of this and can participate in the discussion. Okay. Any other comments or discussion on this? Looks like we're going to leave it right here. Okay. We'll leave it right here then. Let's go on to number two. A resolution to express the intent of the city council to study and develop ordinances to regulate and promote trail economic development
 the city of federal. Mary I believe you have this one. I do. Hi good evening everyone.
 I'd like to just say that staff has reviewed the comments from the agenda session and we've met with council members to review the report. And what I'd like to do tonight is just recommend that this item is tabled for two weeks until the first meeting in January in order to make the requested revisions and provide some additional information that's been requested by council. Okay. Any discussion on that?
 Well, I need a motion to table. Until the first meeting in January. Yeah. I move that we table this item until the first week in January. Second.
 We have a motion to second the table until the first meeting in January, and also the contract. I guess I should have clarified that a little better. So we have a motion to second the table for two weeks. Chair, would you please call the roll? CHRISTIE WOODARD- Eddie? EDDIE CONWAY- Was the motion for the first meeting in January or for two weeks from now? CHRISTIE WOODARD- It was for the first meeting in January. EDDIE CONWAY- First meeting in January. CHRISTIE WOODARD- No. CHRISTIE WOODARD- Froggen? FRED FLETCHER- Yes.
 Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? No. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? No. Kenyon? I'm having trouble unmuting. There we go. Yes. Okay, the motion table passed. Okay. We'll revisit this again the 1st of January. Okay, let's move along to number three.
 An ordinance to weigh the requirements for submitting an approved contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Federal Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. Kit. Whereas providing quality recreational opportunities to the youth and citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated.
 And whereas the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated and the City of Fayetteville have had a close working relationship for many years, and this relationship allows for continuity of services vital to the official provision of recreational opportunities. And whereas were it not for the services offered by the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated, the City of Fayetteville would be required to assume the duty of providing staff, programming, promotion, and development for youth recreational services.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances, make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreational services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. Okay. Connie, do you have this?
 I do. Good evening, Mayor and City Council. This is an annual contract that we've had with the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club since 1967, so for the past 53 years. This contract is to provide public recreation services for youth and citizens of Fayetteville. Our 2021 budget includes the $225,000 for this contract.
 This is the same funding amount that we've had for the past five years. Each year, I meet with the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club director to determine if the needs of the citizens of Fayetteville are being met in the most efficient manner with a working agreement.
 This helps both the Boys and Girls Club and the City of Fayetteville Parks and Recreation to avoid duplication or competition of programs between our agencies. It is the intent of both of us to work together for the common good of the citizens by not providing public funding for multiple competing program offerings.
 Some of the changes in the contract this year includes the indoor, the Theta Boys and Girls Club is having indoor pickleball. They basically do indoor programs as well as summer camps. Parks and Recreation, we do outdoor, except we do have some indoor events. We do outdoor events.
 At the Yvonne Richardson Community Center, we have indoor pickleball and outdoor pickleball that were added to our list this year. The Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club facility is designated as an emergency shelter. The club also provides transportation for summer YRCC programs and for special running or cycling events.
 I'm also requesting a waiver, a competitive bids to secure continuation of these services provided, and the fact the club has effectively served our citizens for the past 53 years. Tonight we have Eric Schultz, the Executive Director of the Fayetteville Boys and Girls Club, who has a few comments for you and will answer any questions that you might have. Okay, go ahead. Eric? Can you hear me?
 Okay, I'll go ahead and speak. On behalf of our board of directors, our staff, and most importantly, the children and families we serve, we'd like to thank you for your ongoing support. We believe that the partnership, as Connie had mentioned, with Parks and Recreation continues to be strong and is a benefit to the citizens of Fayetteville.
 As Connie mentioned, our organization has been serving the Fayetteville community since 1941. We believe it's an integral part of the fabric of our community. It has meant a lot to me, as that is where I went every day as a child, and now I have served as the director for 18 years. Just a little bit about this past year. As you know, it's been a challenging year for everyone.
 I am so proud of our staff and their efforts as many of them has served as frontline workers so that we could provide summer programs, after school care, recreation offerings, sports, and even a small day camp in the fall for virtual learners. We provided a place for children to go whose parents had to return to work and this included many essential workers.
 It has been tough on us financially as our participation, specifically in after school program, has dropped. This is a national trend with boys and girls clubs and youth serving centers. After school program participation has dropped. And this has created a budget deficit, an expected budget deficit for us in 2020 and 2021.
 We typically operate on a zero-based budget, so we do anticipate a deficit this year. One of the challenges that we have, while we have reduced attendance in our programs, costs are more than you would think. The reason is that we have to work differently during the pandemic. We have to put kids into cohort groups, and this requires us to have more staff.
 We're going to do our best to keep our reliance on the city to a minimum while providing a great value to the community. As a board of directors and as a staff, we are hopeful for 2021 and what is ahead. And I'm here to answer any questions you guys might have. Okay. What questions do we have from city council on this? Okay. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration from in segments of three and two minutes. Okay.
 Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. The federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address us? Okay. We'll bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What discussions or wishes the council do we have? Mayor, I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Okay.
 Petty. Yes. Scroggin. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turf. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreational services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. I move the motion to second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Second.
 Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turf? Yes. Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Fayetteville Youth Center Incorporated in the amount of $225,000 to provide public recreation services for the youth and citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. Okay, what final comments do we have from the council on this? All right, Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk?
 Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much.
 Number four, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve a contract between the city of federal Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $109,080 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of federal for 2021. Kip.
 Whereas, ensuring the availability of quality recreational opportunities to the senior citizens of our community is of mutual interest to the City of Fayetteville and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas, which has provided these services to seniors in Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas since 1972.
 And whereas the Area Agency on Aging is very qualified and uniquely able to provide the continuity of services vital to the official provision of recreational opportunities to the senior citizens of Fayetteville. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby finds the above circumstances make competitive bidding not feasible or practical, and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $109,080 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. Okay. Connie, do you have this one?
 Yes, I do. This is an annual contract that the city has had for the past 49 years to provide financial support for senior citizens at the Walker Park Senior Activity and Wellness Center and the Hillcrest Towers. This $109,080 was included in our 2021 budget, which is the same amount as we had in 2020.
 This agreement is similar to the contract in 2020 with an update of the performance measures by the Center's directors.
 The Walker Park Senior Center's building is designated as an emergency shelter for the city due to its location and facility availability to assist in housing citizens. In addition, I am requesting a waiver of competitive bids in order to secure continuation of their services and the fact that the Area Agency on Aging has served our citizens throughout the years very well.
 Chase Gibson, who is the Walker Park Senior Center Director, has a few comments to share with us this evening. All right, everybody keep an eye on Tony. When you all start, everybody has 10 minutes when you all do your presentations. All right. Okay. So, Chase, are you available? I see you are here, but I don't see Chase. There he comes. Yes.
 All right can you hear me now? Yes. Okay, I felt like I was on a commercial there. So yes thanks Mayor and City Council. So as I think Eric alluded to when he was speaking as well, this is my third year at the Senior Center and we as most businesses have had a challenging year. But I'm proud of the fact that we closed to the public on March 17th. The services we maintained at that point were our home delivered meals,
 our essential taxi services. And then we switched from a congregate lunch to a curbside drive-through lunch. And so we continue to serve people every single day. We haven't been closed a single day this year. And due to measures we've taken, to my knowledge only two of the clients that we serve have even had COVID through this nine month period. So...
 We were on pace coming into February to have a banner year. As you know, the city funding relates mostly to our congregate and social recreational services that we provide there in the center. And we were on pace for about a 20% increase. Our year is a July 1st to June 30th year.
 Prior to being shut down in March, we were on pace for about a 20% increase in our social, recreational, and our congregate meals. So we were having a great year. I feel like we continue to have a great year. We continue to serve seniors and try to meet them where they are and continue.
 especially in these times over the last nine months, obviously it's been especially difficult on seniors and homebound seniors. So we continue to try to meet their needs and we'll continue to do that in the months ahead and whatever capacity best suits them. So, and I'm willing to take any questions if anybody has any. Okay, what questions do we have from the council on this? Okay.
 thank you all let's take some public comment then everybody has one turn to speak have a five minute duration broken into three and two segments don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member please stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to speak to the council angela belford all right go ahead
 Hi, this is Angela Belford. I'm the executive director at the Fayetteville Housing Authority, and I would just like to support this resolution simply because it's an opportunity to publicly state how important the Fayetteville Senior Center is to not only the community, but especially those of our residents that live in public housing. I'm not sure exactly how all of our Hillcrest Towers residents would be able to travel to their homes.
 Dr. Dr's appointments, the shuttle service that the Senior Center runs is phenomenal. The Meals on Wheels, how they've handled COVID, they've been very responsive to the needs that we've all had and love working with the Senior Center. So I wanted to take an opportunity to say thanks for all that you guys do and look forward to many more years of success. Thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the discussion or wishes of the council? I'm going to suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? For reporting purposes, I show that Council Member Gutierrez was the mover and Council Member Marsh was the seconder. Is that correct? That'll work.
 Okay. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to sway the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $109,080 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. You got that, Kara? All right.
 We have a motion and a second to go to third and finally. Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and the Area Agency on Aging of Northwest Arkansas in the amount of $109,080 to provide public recreation services for the senior citizens of Fayetteville for 2021. Any final comments from the council? All right, Kara would you please call the vote? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes.
 Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 Okay, thank you. Awe, number five, an ordinance to waive the requirements for competitive bidding and to approve a contract for Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in federal in 2021. Kip.
 Whereas the Board of Directors of Seven Hills has operated a daytime facility to serve numerous homeless and needy Fayetteville residents for over 18 years, relying upon the support of several local churches, charities, and charitable persons, as well as some government support for veterans, etc.,
 And whereas the Fayetteville City Council has approved a funding request for the 2021 fiscal year to maintain the operations of the Seven Hills Day Center, and although funding for the center by donors has improved, a shortfall still exists that jeopardizes its ability to continue to offer vital services to Fayetteville's homeless residents. And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate its Walker Family Residential Community Transitional Housing Facility,
 Currently housed citizens might become homeless again and have to live on the streets or in the woods. And whereas if Seven Hills could no longer operate as a daytime facility, the large number of homeless residents who depend upon this facility for showers and washing, hot food and a warm place to stay during the day, as well as access to a telephone and other job assistance services, could not find such comparable services elsewhere.
 And whereas the facilities and services provided by Seven Hills are required to be continued and should continue to be supported by the city in order to prevent our homeless and needy residents from suffering undue hardship and deprivation. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a contract between the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas and Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy Fayetteville residents and authorizes Mayor Jordan to sign this contract.
 Okay, Paul. Essentially, this is the same contract as we have had last year at the same funding level. We all know the situation with the homeless in Fayetteville. This is a request to continue to help fund the Seven Hills Homeless Shelter to keep open daycare and run the Walker facility. And with that, I'll be happy to take any questions.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Paul? Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak, five-minute duration, broken into three and two segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address the council? Okay, very good then.
 i'm going to bring it back to the council this is an ordinance it's on the first reading um what discussion and what wishes of the council do we have i do have a question mayor sure we we have anyone from seven hills present
 I don't know. I'm sorry, Kyle. I did not ask anyone from Seven Hills to attend, but I'll be happy to try to answer your question if I can. That's right. I was just gonna ask if they request funds like this from any other cities and what they have received from our neighbors in Northwest Arkansas. I do not believe they have received funds from other cities.
 Yolanda may be able to answer the question. Yolanda are you on the call? Yes I am and at this point I'm not aware of any funding that's been provided by any other municipality to assist Seven Hills. I think that is unfortunate but I am glad that Fayetteville is here to step up and help keep this essential operation running. So I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Second. I have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 An ordinance to weigh the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fayetteville in 2021. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Motion second to go to the third and final reading. Karen would you please call the roll? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turk? Yes.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Yteras? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to waive the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approve a contract with Seven Hills Homeless Center in the amount of $113,400 for services to homeless and needy residents in Fayetteville in 2021. What final comments do we have in the council?
 okay paul let me ask you a question how long have we been uh providing funds seven hills you remember what was your thinking from the top of my headline all i believe we got involved in 2017. at that point in time at the if you will remember uh lionel i were approached and talked to them and and there was consideration of having to close the shelter
 And this was approximately December. It was in the winter period. We felt very strongly and came to the council, and certainly with the council's overwhelming support, recommended that we help assist Seven Hills to continue to keep that day center open so the homeless wouldn't be on the streets, homeless.
 especially during the winter periods of time. From that point in time, we discussed and talked to Seven Hills about them attempting to get private funding and they didn't get some private funding to help
 However, they've been strapped ever since. We have left it in there that part of the terms of the contract is they do look for outside funding and do in fact receive outside funding. However, do need the assistance to keep
 the facility at the same level and as an editorial comment, but we all know that's something we certainly need more than ever at this point in time. So I believe it was 2017, Lionel. So, Kyle, in answer to your question, this was something that the council did about, I guess three years ago and I really, you know,
 I really appreciate the council stepping up at that time because we were in a situation where Seven Hills could actually be closing the doors. But the council stepped in and provided the funding to keep it going. And I know there's council members. I know Mackie was on that council. Sarah Marsh, Mark Kenyon. Who else was there?
 Well, Mayor, that was one of my first votes. Yeah. And so I just really want to thank the council for stepping up and doing it at that time. It was important then and it's important now that we keep it going. So just my thanks and all of that. So, Ann, Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Thank you all very much. All right, number six, an ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding into approved cost-share agreement with Mike Parker for construction of the sewer line along a portion of North Shady Lane and a portion of property north of West Holly Street.
 with a refund any amount not to exceed forty thousand eight hundred and eighty five dollars and nineteen cents to be paid by the city of federal for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough portionality of the impact of the development to approve a project contingency in the amount of eight thousand one hundred and seventy seven dollars and four cents again
 Whereas Mike Parker has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing an eight-inch sewer main along a portion of North Shady Lane between North Vandiver Avenue and North Woolsey Avenue and across a portion of undeveloped property north of West Holly Street, a distance of approximately 548 feet, so that the area north of West Holly Street can be developed.
 And whereas constructing this segment of eight-inch sewer main will allow development of this property, will extend sewer service to an area in the core of the city that has never been served before, and will provide ample future capacity, which the city recognizes will be necessary for the area that is served by the sewer main. And whereas the city proposes to enter into this agreement with Mike Parker to refund an amount of up to $40,000,
 $885.19, which represents the estimated cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact. Now, therefore, it being ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation exists...
 in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical, and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with Mike Parker for the construction of a sewer line along a portion of North Shady Lane and a portion of property north of West Holly Street with a refund in an amount not to exceed $40,885.19.
 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $8,177.04. Okay Tim I believe you have this. Thank you Mayor. I was going to
 share my screen as kids said Mike Parker has requested that the city share in the cost of constructing this eight inch main it does run along a portion of North Shady between North Vandiver and North Woolsey
 to serve a portion of undeveloped property north of West Holly Street. It's total distance of 548 feet. The city's portion of this cost share includes extending the main north long north shady approximately 202 feet, which represents 37% of the cost of the total project.
 The developer secured three bids with the low bid including engineering totaling $110,500.50. The city's 37% portion is $40,885.19 plus a 20% contingency in the amount of $8,177.04.
 in the event that there's some unknown circumstances for a total not to exceed amount of $49,062.23. This item was presented to the Water and Sewer Solid Waste Committee on November 10th and received a 4-0 approval to forward it to the council with a recommendation for approval. Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing account within the water and sewer fund.
 And the applicant's representative, Blake Jorgensen, is present if he has a statement or wants to answer any questions. Thank you. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Yeah. Okay.
 Okay, Blake, you have 10 minutes. Yes, sir. I'll take less than maybe 30 seconds. I don't have much to add. This is a great opportunity to work with the city, and this is what partnerships are all about. I'm glad that we have this one and another one on the agenda, and we look forward to working with the city, and we hope that you all approve this. And if you have any questions, I'm here to answer them. So thanks a lot, and have a good night. Okay. What questions do we have in the council?
 All right. Let's take some public comment then. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes duration. Welcome in the segments of two, three, and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak. First, who would like to address us? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance on the first reading. What discussion or wishes does council have?
 Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second. Chair, would you please call the roll? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kinnion? Yes.
 an ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with mike parker for construction of a sewer line along a portion of north shady lane and a portion of property north of west holly street with the refund in the amount not to exceed forty thousand eight hundred and eighty five dollars and nineteen cents to be paid by the city of favor for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality the impact of the development
 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,177.04. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second. Okay we'll give that one to Kyle. All right we have the motion second to go to the third and final reading. Chair would you please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kirk. Yes. Smith. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to waive competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with Mike Parker for construction of a sewer line along a portion of North Shady Lane and a portion of property north of West Holly Street,
 with a refund in the amount not to exceed $40,883.19 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements and exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $8,177.04. What final comments do we have in the council on this one? Okay, Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes.
 Turf? Yes. Mim? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Let's go to number seven. In order to sway formal competitive bidding and to approve a contract, approve a cost share agreement with NWA LD LLC for the upsizing of a planned sewer system.
 Creek crossing associated with Crystal Springs subdivision phase four with a refund in the amount of not to exceed 26,670 dollars to be paid by the city of federal for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough portionality of the impact of the development and to approve the project tendency in the amount of five thousand three hundred and thirty four dollars kit
 Whereas Roush Coleman Homes is developing the Crystal Springs 4 subdivision, which will require the installation of an 8-inch sewer main and a creek crossing to service the development. And whereas the Utilities Department recommends upsizing to a 12-inch diameter sewer main for the city's Wastewater Collection System Master Plan.
 And whereas section 51.113 of the Fable Code provides that, quote, the city shall pay the excess material cost of facilities of a size larger than required to service subdivisions when such excess size is specified and required by the water and wastewater director for the general benefit of the sewerage system, unquote.
 And whereas the city proposes to enter into a cost share agreement with NWALD LLC to refund an amount of up to $26,670, which represents the estimated cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville Arkansas hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore weighs the requirements of formal competitive bidding and improves a cost share agreement with NWALD LLC for the upsizing of a planned Seward Creek crossing with a refund in an amount not to exceed $26,670 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for
 for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality impact of the development and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $5,334. Okay, Tim. Thank you, Mayor.
 As Kit said, Roush Coleman Homes is developing the phase four of Crystal Springs subdivision. This development does require an 8-inch sewer main to cross Claver Creek and it would be in the best interest of the city to upsize this to a 12-inch sewer main to allow for future development.
 The city would benefit from this cost as it will provide an extension of this 12-inch grid, and the construction will be less expensive and less disruptive if performed by the developer's contractor during the construction of the subdivision. NWALD LLC is the contractor doing the sewer line work for Roush Coleman.
 This cost share would pay for the upsizing of the planned sewer creek crossing associated with development. It would allow ample capacity for future development to drain through this same crossing to avoid the need for multiple creek crosses. This crossing will be below grade, not aerial, meaning it will be underneath the creek.
 The cost is $26,670 plus a 20% contingency of $5,334 in the event of unknown circumstances for a total of $32,004. Funds are available in the water sewer impact fee cost sharing account within the water and sewer fund. And this item was presented to the water, sewer and salt and waste committee on November 10th. Received a 4-0 approval to forward it to the council with a recommendation for approval.
 be happy to answer any questions what questions do we have in the council okay everybody gets one turn to speak five minute duration broken into segments of three minutes and two don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents speak first who would like to address the council
 All right, let's bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we have a motion to second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Mars. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. An ordinance to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with NWALD LLC for the upsizing of a planned Seward Creek crossing associated with the Crystal Springs subdivision phase four with a refund in the amount not to exceed $26,670 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development
 and to approve a project contingency in the amount of, looks like it's $5,334. Well, I've been back there and they've already got the holes dug, so I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Yes.
 Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost-share agreement with NWALD LLC for the upsizing of a planned Sewer Creek crossing associated with Crystal Springs Subdivision Phase 4,
 with a refund in the amount not to exceed $26,670 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development, and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $5,334. Okay, what final comments do we have in the Council? All right. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. All right. Thank you all. Number eight, an ordinance to waive form competitive bidding and to approve a cost share agreement with the 23rd West 5th Street QOZB LLC for the extension of a sewer line near the corner of South Block Avenue and West 5th Street.
 with a refund in the amount of not to exceed $16,898 to be paid by the city of federal for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough portionality of the impact of development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,379.60. Kidd. For as 23 West 5th Street QOZB LLC
 It is developing a lot along an alley that lies south of 5th Street and east of Block Street, and a sewer line needs to be extended approximately 108 feet to facilitate this development. Whereas staff recommends a further extension of the sewer line beyond the property frontage, which will facilitate future development in the area.
 And whereas the city council of the city proposes to enter into an agreement with 23 West 5th Street QOZB LLC to refund an amount of up to $16,898, which represents the estimated cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the development's impact. Now, therefore, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby determines an exceptional situation that exists in which competitive bidding is deemed not feasible or practical and therefore waives the requirements of formal competitive bidding and approves a cost-share agreement with 23 West 5th Street QOZB LLC,
 for the extension of a sewer line with a refund in the amount not to exceed $16,898 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and further approves a project contingency in the amount of $3,379.60. Okay Tim do you have this one too? Yes sir I do thank you.
 So the developer, which I'll call QOZB, is developing a lot along that alley that lies south of Fifth Street and east of Block Street. The sewer line needs to be extended to facilitate this development.
 The developer requires 108 feet of avian sewer to reach the project site. The city's portion of the cost share would be the extension of 45 linear feet beyond the property frontage downstream and offside of the development, which will facilitate future development in the area. This represents 41.7% of the total sewer project and is the basis for the cost share percentage rationale.
 The city would benefit from this proposed cost share as it would provide an extension of this eight-inch sewer line, and the construction will be less expensive and less disruptive if performed by the developer's contractor during the construction of the remaining sewer line.
 The cost is not to exceed $16,898 with a 20% contingency in the amount of $3,379.60 in the event of unknown circumstances for a total cost of $20,277.60.
 Funds are available in the water impact fee cost sharing account within the water and sewer fund. This item was presented to the Water, Sewer, and Solid Waste Committee on November 10th. Received a 4-0 approval to report it to the City Council with a recommendation for approval. And Mr. Jorgensen does represent this applicant as well if he wants to speak or answer any questions. Thank you. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak for the council? You have 10 minutes. Okay.
 Can you hear me? Yeah. Yes, sir, Mayor. I have nothing else to add. It's similar to the previous request and hopefully you guys understand the situation. We really look forward to collaborating with the city on this project and if you've got any questions, I can certainly answer them. Thanks a lot. What questions do we have from the council? Mr. Mayor, I have a question. I want to make sure that we've got the name of your client correct.
 Is it only QOZB LLC or is it 23W 5th Street QOZB LLC? It is 23rd. I'm going to look it up real quick. 23rd? Yes, sir. It includes that portion. That's the name of your client is 23rd West 5th Street QOZB LLC. Yes, that's correct. Okay, thank you. Okay, I like that name.
 What questions do we have for council? Okay. Let's take some public comments. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into three and two segments. Three minutes, two-minute segments. Don't engage anyone from the public or any council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence to speak first. Who would like to address the council? All right. All right.
 I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kerr, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Herg? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes.
 In order to waive formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 23W 5th Street QOZB LLC for the extension of a sewer line near the corner of South Block Avenue and West 5th Street with a refund in the amount not to exceed $16,898 to be paid by the City of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development
 And to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,379.60. Okay. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Fudge. Yes. Turk. Yes. Smith. Yes. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. An ordinance to weigh formal competitive bidding and approve a cost share agreement with 23W 5th Street QOZB LLC.
 That just rolls off the tongue. For the extension of a sewer line near the corner of South Block Avenue and West 5th Street with a refund in the amount not to exceed $16,898 to be paid by the city of Fayetteville for the cost of improvements that exceed the rough proportionality of the impact of the development and to approve a project contingency in the amount of $3,379.60. Yes.
 This is almost one time like I'd like to have an extra reading to get you to get to read that again. So anyway, what final comments do we have in the council? All right. Carol, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kirk? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Yes. Okay. Okay.
 Number nine, an ordinance to amend 50.40 rates for services of the federal city code to change the commercial cart size from 95 gallon to 96 gallon and to enact a lease fee for those carts. Kit. Whereas the city has been selling 95 gallon carts to commercial customers, which cannot be repaired due to the design issue.
 And when a customer cart is damaged, even minimally, the customer is forced to purchase another commercial cart. And whereas staff recommends utilizing the same 96-gallon cart that is used for residential collection, which will give the Recycling and Trash Collection Division the ability to replace or repair the parts that are most often damaged.
 And whereas the staff recommends assessing a lease fee of two dollars per month to cover the cost of repair and replacement during the life cycle of the cart, which will prevent customers from having to pay a higher cost upfront to purchase new carts, will help customers and the city manage the repair, removal, and disposal of damaged carts, and will maintain a consistent cost structure and maintenance system for all commercial containers.
 Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby repeal Subsection D, Commercial Service, of Section 50.40, Rates for Service, and enact a new Section 50.40, Subsection D, as follows. Subsection D, Commercial Service. Trash shall be collected from commercial customers, as shown below. Subsection 1, the monthly commercial rate shall be...
 Commercial user fee schedule, commercial container size, rate per pickup, 96-gallon cart, $19.83. Two cubic yards, $47.50. Four cubic yards, $88.45. Six cubic yards, $115. Eight cubic yards, $144. Subsection 2. Commercial 96-gallon cart shall be picked up once per week, Monday through Thursday.
 Larger commercial containers shall be serviced a minimum of once per week and a maximum of six times per week.
 Monday through Saturday, except authorized holidays for city employees and unavoidable inclement weather. Subsection 3, the rate for providing extra collection of any 96-gallon cart shall be twice the monthly collection rate based on the number of collections per week as established by Section 50.40, Subsection B-1.
 The rate for providing extra collection for any of any commercial front load dumpster shall be one half the monthly per cubic yard rate for each dumpster size. The rate for providing cardboard and paper recycling service shall be 25 percent of the equivalent commercial container trash service except that recycling and trash collection division may waive that fee for all 96 gallon cart customers.
 Subsection five, container rental fee is a flat fee per month. Container rental or dumpster lease fee schedule, container size and monthly rate, 96-gallon cart, $2. Two yards, $13.53. A four-yard container, $15.47. A six-yard container, $18. And an eight-yard container, $21.25.
 Okay, Peter, I believe you have this one. Sir, good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a relatively minor change to the ordinance that we manage for commercial trash rates, and it helps us with some operational efficiency improvements at the Recycling and Trash Collections Division.
 Currently, our small commercial trash account customers use a 95-gallon gray trash cart. You've probably seen it out in front of businesses on their designated trash collection day. And we service those carts with the same sidearm trash collection truck that we use for residential trash collection.
 That 95 gallon gray cart is more rigid than the 96 gallon green residential cart. That's the largest residential cart size that we have. And the gray cart that the commercial customers use, unlike the green cart that the residential customers use, cannot be repaired when it's damaged, when there's damage to the lid or the wheels or the dump bar. So in order to standardize our inventory and to try to utilize carts that we can repair,
 We're recommending that we discontinue issuing those gray 95 gallon carts to our commercial customers and we begin issuing them the green 96 gallon carts that would also match the residential carts that we currently use.
 There would be no change to the monthly rate for those commercial customers for that additional gallon of trash service that they're receiving. The only change is that instead of the commercial cart customers buying that 95 gallon cart from the city at the beginning of their service and subsequently if it's damaged, needs to be replaced. Instead of them buying that, they would begin leasing those 96 gallon carts from the city at a cost of $2 per month.
 The change would not impact our current customers. It would only impact our new customers or existing customers when they're seeking a replacement cart going forward. This item was presented at the last Water Sewer Committee meeting on November 10th. It received a 4-0 vote of recommendation from the committee. You can see the highlights and markup that Kit read from in your packet. We also did get that recommendation.
 That document changed per Councilmember Smith's comments and suggestions at the agenda session due to some of the unit inconsistencies so that we don't have any confusion created by any of our geometry teacher constituents going forward. And with that, I'd be glad to answer any questions that you all might have. What questions do we have for Peter on this from the Council? Okay, let's take some public comment.
 everybody has one turn to speak you have five minute duration broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first who would like to address us okay and we'll bring it back to the council this is an ordinance that's on the first reading what's the wishes the council i mean if we suspend the rules and go to the second reading
 All right, we have a motion and a second to go to the second brief care, which please call the row. Eddie yes. Yes. Yes, yes, yes. Yes, yes.
 In order to amend section 50.40, rates for service of the Fayetteville City Code to change the commercial cart size from 95 gallons to 96 gallons and to enact a lease fee for those carts. We'll suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Caravage, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Second.
 Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inion? Yes. In order to amend section 50.40 rates for service of the Fayetteville City Code to change the commercial cart size from 95 gallons to 96 gallons and to enact a lease fee for those carts. What final comments do we have in the council? Chair, would you please call the roll?
 Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all very much. Number 10, an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed in the zoning petition RZN 20-016 located at
 1011 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 1.3 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to CS community services. Yes.
 It ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 Residential Single Family, 4 units per acre, to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Gar. Good evening, Mayor and Council. This is a request that is very similar to one that you recently approved. It is located between Parnell Drive and Best Way Street on the west side of Hollywood Avenue south of MLK Boulevard.
 As you can see, the surrounding zoning is largely more intense than the existing RSF4. The parcel that you approved is immediately across the street. It also has trail access. This is an area that is rapidly redeveloping primarily for university-related housing. The adopted plans designated as an urban center area.
 And it means that intense and dense development patterns are appropriate that have existing infrastructure with which this area does has a high infield score. No issues were identified, no public comment. It's an alignment with our future land use map. Planning Commission staff do recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions.
 Mayor Don Watson is the applicant. Okay. Would the applicant like to speak to the council? Don, go ahead. Hello, Don Watson, 116 North Fletcher Avenue in Fayetteville. Appreciate your consideration of our ordinance for resuming. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the council? Mr. Watson, I have a question.
 I have spoken to someone who lives in this area, who's lived there for a while. I'm not sure if they're one of your tenants.
 but they're very concerned about just a notification and getting ample time to, if they need to make, you know, time and plans to move. So I just wonder if, uh, if you could just consider that as you're, as you're moving this forward, I feel like, um, it isn't a very intense area of, of, of redevelopment and, uh,
 an infill so I do see how that's going to move forward but I just request that you have a good clear communication with your current people there. I don't know if I can actually do that or not Kit but I did anyways. No thanks. Okay anything else? I was contacted by one of my tenants and I
 spoke with them and told them that we had no plans to move forward with any kind of development. We're kind of old and out of the business, and our intentions are merely to position the property for future long-term development. Thank you, sir. What are the questions we have in the council? All right. Let's take some public comment then. Okay.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes, broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents can speak first. Who would like to speak before the council? Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. It's on the first reading. What's wishes to the council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading.
 Do we have a second? Second. Okay we have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen would you please call the roll. Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. I'm working. Kenyon. Yes.
 Okay, that passed. In order to rezone that property, it's cried a rezoning petition, RZM 20-016, located at 1011 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 1.3 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre to CS community services. Move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final rating. Second. Okay, we've got a motion and a second to go to the third and final rating. Chair, would you please call the roll? Eddie? Yes. Second.
 Scroggins? Yes. Hutch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Terrace? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-016 located at 1011 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately 1.3 acres from RSF 4 residential single family 4 units per acre to CS community services.
 Okay, any final comments from the council? Okay. Caravans, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay.
 number 11 an ordinance to rezone that property described rezoning petition rzn 20-019 located at 907 south hollywood avenue for approximately 0.3 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to cs community services kit
 Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of the property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo from RSF-4 residential single-family four units per acre to CS Community Services. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1.
 Okay, Garth. Yes, Mayor. This application is just a block north of the previous application. And my presentations is a bit like a broken record. So I'll go fast. It's across the street from fire station number six and there's industrial zoning to the north and C2 to the west and RSF4 to the south.
 Again, it's designated urban center area. Intense development is appropriate and anticipated high infill score. Well served with city service services consistent with our land use map and planning commission staff recommend approval. Be happy to answer any questions. The applicant is also Don Watson. If you have questions for him. Okay.
 Does it have to say anything to the council? Okay. What questions do we have from the city council for the applicant on the staff? Okay. Let's take a little public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five minute duration. Broken in segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residence for speak first.
 who would like to address the council. Okay, I'm going to write back to the council. This is an ordinance on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? Can we suspend the rules and go to the second reading? Second. Okay, we've got a motion and a second. We'll go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Penny? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes.
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to rezone that property described in rezoning petition RZN 20-019 located at 907 South Hollywood Avenue for approximately a third of an acre from RSF4 residential single family for units per acre to CS community services. And so. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Vanden? Yes. In order to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-019 located at 907 South Hollywood Avenue.
 or approximately three-tenths of an acre from rsf4 residential single family four units breaker to cs community services okay any final comments from the council i do have a question question for kit
 do i understand this right that if if uh we wanted to have a way to make a minimum notification for renters once their property gets rezone like that um you know to have time and notification to make another plan is that something at the city level we can do well i'll need to think about that a little bit i mean you could potentially put something like that in your unified development code
 And that would be for any rezoning. And that's the way it really would need to be handled rather than zoning by zoning. So only certain people that want to have their land rezoned have to do it and others don't have to do it. So I think if you want to try to put some sort of notification requirement in, then that's something that will need to go into the Unified Development Code and be adopted. And then we can enforce that. Okay. Thank you. Okay. Anything else? Yes.
 Okay, care which please go row Eddie. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Thank you all. Number 12.
 An ordinance to rezone that property, describe and rezone the petition RZN 20-014, located southeast of I-49 in Weddington Drive for approximately 112.85 acres from RSF 4 residential single family, four units per acre, RMF 24 residential multifamily, 24 units per acre, RO residential office, and C2 thoroughfare commercial to UT, urban thoroughfare, and CS community services. Kip.
 BEING ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORAL, ARKANSAS SECTION 1, THAT THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF FAVORAL, ARKANSAS, HEREBY CHANGES HIS OWN CLASSIFICATION PROPERTY SHOWN ON THE MAP, EXHIBIT A, AND THE LEGAL DESCRIPTION, EXHIBIT B, BOTH ATTACHED TO THE PLANNING DEPARTMENT'S AGENDA MEMO FROM RSF 4 RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY 4 UNITS PER ACRE, RMF 24 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY 24 UNITS PER ACRE, RO RESIDENTIAL OFFICE, AND C2 THERMFARE COMMERCIAL
 to UT Urban Thoroughfare and CS Community Services. Section 2 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville are considered by a man's official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay. All right. Garner. Yes, Mayor and Council. This is perhaps one of the most visible parcels of undeveloped ground
 in the city of Fayetteville and I think everyone is pretty much familiar with it. It is located south of Weddington and east of the interstate. The request is to rezone a portion of the site from RSF 4 to UT Urban Thoroughfare.
 and the remainder of the site from RSF4 to community services. As you can see, the adjacent parcels council rezoned to urban thoroughfare earlier, which is a portion of it is occupied presently by a fitness center. A portion of the parcel was rezoned P1 to allow a church.
 The area in the land use plan, recognizing its importance at a major intersection is designated a combination of urban center and city neighborhood and natural. The natural area is a very small portion of the site at the far south end where the topography gets a little steeper and there's more of a wooded area.
 One change that is under construction is that R DOT is rebuilding this intersection, as you know, and it will eliminate the dual intersection with Weddington and make it work better, more convenient, and certainly more safer with eliminating one of the lights.
 As I mentioned, it's designated for our intense development in our adopted plans, a combination of urban center, city, neighborhood, that's all natural area. The infield score ranges from three to four, but you remember the infield score with the utilities, when you have a large parcel of...
 it gets beyond the 300 foot level, which reduces that infield score to three, four portions that are beyond that distance. Master Plan also shows a number of Master Street Plan connections and trail connections. Issues that were discussed by the Planning Commission and they did recommend approval on a split vote was the,
 designated natural area infrastructure improvements. Should there be connections? Should that be worked out before it's more intense zoning is approved? There was some public comment. We have written comments both in support of the rezoning as well as an opposition.
 With that, I'd be happy to answer any questions. Planning Commissioner, as I mentioned, recommended approval and staff recommends approval. The applicant is Paula Maranoni. And I think Ms. Maranoni is requesting to do a presentation. Well, the applicant has 10 minutes. Here's Paula.
 Okay. There you go. There you go. Yes, thank you. This is our family's farm, the Maranoni Farm. We've owned it for over 70 years. And...
 We're pretty excited about how things have unfolded in the last, really, just over a year with the Centennial Park, the other side of the highway, which most of it used to be ours. It's a 228-acre designated cycle park. And then the Markham Hill development, which we're real excited about also, 144 acres,
 And then the new City Trails Park, 62 acres. That park joins us on our east-west property line on the south side of the property, which is about 3,000 feet, is my guesstimation, which is over half a mile.
 We need the zoning on this property to be able to justify putting in the streets, which we have had Kraft and Tull engineer for us as per the city's master street plan and to be able to have something in place so that when people come, they're ready to go. And this is in line with what the city has asked for.
 In the development guidelines of the 2040 plan, there are six guidelines and this meets five of them. We will make appropriate infill and revitalization our highest priority. We will discourage suburban sprawl. We will make traditional town form the standard. We will grow a livable transportation network and we will assemble an enduring green network.
 This is an opportunity that is just unbelievable for Fayetteville and the fact that it's so highly visible. I talked about, I wrote a three-page statement, which is
 if you haven't had a chance to look at it yet maybe you will because it's interesting too and it tells some of the history and how much effort we have put in to positioning this property. I mean not just sitting and waiting for people but I've traveled the country going out and talking to people. When I go to Houston or something I'll ask people who is the best
 developer here? What is the best development? And I'll get on the phone right then and there, call them and go sit down with them. Like within two hours, we're having a meeting. And so it's a lot of possibilities that are just waiting for Fayetteville. And interestingly enough, our East property line
 that Garner showed you the images a little bit ago, that used to be the city's edge. It was the city limits. And I remember a long, long, long, long time ago when they increased the city limits past us. And I'm like, wait a minute, you mean we're in the city now?
 And so now you could call that development like downtown, you call it downtown or the square, uptown, out by the mall. You could call ours midtown because the west city limit now is over five miles west of us.
 And the east city limit is over five miles east of us. So we're about in the middle of town now. So this is infill. It is long overdue infill. It is not sprawl. With the streets, we'll be making about a $4 million commitment of the streets and the land and such, right?
 The zoning follows the parcel because the streets may change. So if you said, okay, bring it up to this street, this street may go to the left a little bit or to the right or whatever. And then we'd always be coming back, getting the zoning changed. So that's why we did that. It's two different ownerships.
 And there is a step down by the Lauren Circle neighbors. To the east of us, there's a 25-acre field that the Heckathorns own. And so our property really, if you saw the package that I submitted,
 The aerial photographs show how our property is just, it just beautifully presents itself to the highway and to Northwest Arkansas and to I-49 as a major north-south artery in the country. And so we need that zoning here. People have mentioned the traffic and
 I would have to challenge anyone to come up with a piece of property in the city or anywhere in Northwest Arkansas that can move people faster than that property. And I'll tell you why. When Cross Church went in, I thought, oh my gosh, how are they ever going to get a thousand people out of there? And so on their opening Sunday, I went up to the top of our driveway with binoculars and
 Does anybody doubt that? With binoculars. And I sat there and watched them. Okay. 30 minutes in between services, 1,000 people in, 1,000 people out. Next service, 1,000 people out, 1,000 people in. And there it went. And I mean, I was impressed. I was blown away because that access road is two lanes to a dedicated stoplight.
 And so even just the way it is now without any improvements, that property can move traffic better than any place. And so I want to quote Steve Clark.
 wrote a really nice letter and he's helped us so much over the years as a number of you all have and Mayor Jordan, we appreciate you. Steve Clark said in his letter, I quote, it is time to allow the landowners to develop their property, just pure and simple.
 And we appreciate your support. We're grateful. And we're ready to turn this into something incredible. We want to get with the city and all the bike people and plan some great connections up to the top of the hill and make this an area where people want to live, work, shop and play and to be a life enhancing experience and one that people will be.
 that be a waiting list waiting to get in there. So I can answer any questions you might have. Thank you. Okay. What questions do we have for the staff or the applicant from the council? I have a question for Governor Mayer. I think the traffic is going to be the biggest concern that we hear in public comment tonight and I,
 And the uncertainty of sort of our development sequence, how we do zoning and then we do the development, and that's where all the engineering happens. As I'm sitting here looking at our master street plan, I also noticed that there's substantial strip of right-of-way that's unbuilt on the east property line. And I'm curious how that kind of thing will play into those later phases as they get to the...
 the more detailed traffic planning parts. Are you, uh, Councilmember Sins, are you talking about the east edge? Uh, yeah, it's an ex- looks like an extension of Lonnie past Berry, uh, that lines up there with Porter Road, and then there's a gap, but then there's another section there, uh, between the, this property and the Hecathorne field, uh, Ms. Marignone was talking about. Um, unlike some other proposals, um,
 This particular parcel of ground has, as the applicant mentioned, has excellent access to arterial streets in the inner state. I view those proposed connections in the 24-year master plan and as well as the right of way on that east edge,
 as desirable for convenience, but I don't think they would be major entrance and exit points for people using this site. And I don't think that's the intent.
 It's they're more illustrated in the 2040 plan to connect the existing neighborhood to the future neighborhood. So people that can walk or or access the development, the more intense development to the West without giving on Weddington. But whether or not those are built, that's going to depend on a lot of things, as you know.
 Okay, I guess that's what I was getting at. Funding, yeah, they won't happen by themselves. Some of them require additional right of way. So I think there are more on the master plan to illustrate the desirability of connectivity. And it may end up that a future council will say that connectivity will be pedestrian or bicycle connectivity too.
 And on the there's one major connectivity feature here that's missing and that would be where Persimmon west of the highway has a future planned overpass. I think that's a critical connection for folks on the west side to be able to cross that big divide without having to interact with on ramps and off ramps and interstate traffic and that is not drawn in in our long-range plans.
 um is that something that as the development uh an engineering part happens that that could be um included as a as an additional connection like a major connection that would direct traffic away from um from the neighborhoods on the east side or is that because it's not in our plan now would that be kind of off the table they overpass over the interstate
 uh or connection how to connect to the west uh is actively being discussed right now okay thank you uh and uh there there's an effort to try to figure out whether the uh underpass can be improved or whether uh it would be more efficient to actually span the interstate with a street an overpass
 But we need the trail connection. That's a major trail up to Centennial Park, connecting the University and the city with Centennial Park. So that's an active ongoing exploration right now. I have a follow-up question for Garner, if you're finished, Kyle.
 So Garner, to the east, I'm looking at the image 51 of 54. There's a dotted blue line that goes from the west to the east and it travels toward Cleveland to hook up with Cleveland.
 But there's no right-of-way there. So as far as I know, and I just want to make sure I understand this, in order to have that road or that access be built to the east side where most of the neighbors are, where you have Lawrence Circle, you have a lot of neighborhoods right in there,
 that would there would only be two options right there would be eminent domain or the landowner would have to sell their property for access there and I believe that's right by the temple shalom is that are those accurate statements I believe you're correct that the the right away would have to be acquired okay thank you what are the questions
 Okay, let's take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Name and address and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address us first? Angela Belford. Okay, go ahead. Angela Belford.
 This is Angela Belford. Can you hear me okay? Yep. Okay. I'm the Executive Director of Fayetteville Housing Authority, and we also have our nonprofit FHA Development. We have taken over operations of the property across the street from this on West End Avenue. So a couple of questions that I have regarding this.
 um, obviously I've lived in West Fayetteville. This is a, it's fantastic that we're developing this area. I'm concerned about the flooding implications of, um, because the, there's the stream that runs under the Weddington right there, um, often backs up and this is a pretty significant flood, uh, way on our side of Weddington. And my other question is, um,
 What is going to be the pedestrian access from the north to the south? Because last year, just before we took over this property, you know, there was someone that was killed in a car accident trying to cross the road. And so I understand that this is a state highway, but I'm curious what other mechanisms that the city might consider to be able to at least alert people.
 drivers that there's someone trying to cross if there was a way that we could just have like the flashing signs that say someone is crossing even if there wasn't the overhead where we could stop the light if there was some way we could bring attention to the fact that somebody is trying to cross the road because the bus stop is right across the street in front of this property and
 Otherwise, you're going to be standing and feeling like a little kid looking in a beautiful facility on the other side with shopping and no ability to access that development. So I hope as the...
 As this is further developed, that those considerations are taken into account and that I know that the city is working on some flooding in that area and just very curious what the implications are for this. Thanks. Who has that one?
 i were you wanting garner to answer that question yeah garner do you have any comment on the flight yes um certainly uh this this scale development uh would be subject to all our storm water retention and water quality requirements which would be applied at the large scale uh or subdivision level depending on what the use is so yeah
 It won't be exempted from those requirements, but those will be applied at a later stage. This is the rezoning request, which is the request for the land use entitlement under Fayetteville's process. The development standards are applied at the next stage. With regard to the pedestrian crossing, I believe the intersection improvement
 I'm sorry, I'm getting some static. Are you all hearing me? Yes, we're hearing you. Okay. I think the intersection improvement improves that. It makes a single point for the crossing. And also, due to the city's participation, the project will add pedestrian bicycle facilities wider than the...
 Arkansas Department of Transportation normally provides across the interstate. I'm not sure. I don't want to put Chris on the spot, but he could probably describe the pedestrian signalization at that intersection if he's still with us. I'm not sure. Are you here, Chris? I am here. Okay. Okay.
 So yeah, the signal will be the off ramp and the frontage road will be consolidated. So we'll have a single signal and that will have full pedestrian heads on
 with regard to there are a lot of answers I think embedded in that question but with regard to transit we have talked to Razorback Transit about the way they serve that area and they're kind of waiting to see how the interchange all comes together before they make any decisions about any changes to their bus
 bus stops. And I think the other part of that is, you know, as that area develops, if there are demands for pedestrian crossings, we can work with R DOT to create some safer pedestrian crossings using pedestrian hybrid beacons or flashing lights or those types of things. But that's a little ways out in the future. It just needs to be something to be considered as projects come through. Okay. Who else would like to address this?
 Lisa Orton. Okay, go ahead. Lisa, can you unmute? I was talking away, giving my speech. I'm Lisa Orton, and I live at 1663 West Tulsa Road in Fayetteville.
 I believe the degree of rezone requested for the Maranoni property is not appropriate beside the natural area on its south boundary and beside the low density residential neighborhoods and Temple Shalom on its east boundary. Please do not approve this.
 this rezoning request. I believe something more compatible in this historic area would be much more appropriate, possibly a PZD that is more specifically defined. I think the neighborhoods would feel more comfortable with that.
 I received a text from Toby, the co-president at Temple Shalom. And like you said, if an exit is right there extending Cleveland, it goes right by their property. She said that they are opposed to this rezoning and to any increased traffic, that this increases the risk of anti-Semitic vandalism.
 Concerning the Maranoni property, I think there are some philosophies that influence these types of rezoning decisions that the city has to make. And one of those is the philosophies about RSF4 zoning. Historically in some areas of the U.S., RSF4 zoning was used to prevent integration and to support discrimination.
 But today in Fayetteville and elsewhere, people of all races and ethnicities live in RSF4 and lower density neighborhoods. And to say otherwise is stereotyping entire people groups. RSF4 zoning does not mean rich white people any longer. RSF4 zoning is not a bad word any longer.
 Many in Fayetteville take pride in calling our city diverse. This doesn't mean only racially or culturally, but also in our neighborhood types. Some people of all races and ethnicities enjoy living in high density neighborhoods near commercial hubs. And some people of all races and ethnicities enjoy living in low density neighborhoods where there are more trees and there's more tranquility.
 I've lived in both types and in everything in between over the past 30 years in Maryland and here. If we up zone neighborhoods that do not want to be up zoned and we send more traffic through neighborhoods that do not want it, then we are not allowing for this diversity and actually trying to eliminate it.
 I believe there needs to be more respect for current residents in neighborhoods and what they want for themselves. If a developer buys in a neighborhood or owns in a neighborhood, that developer knows the existing neighborhood density, no matter the current zoning. I don't believe that a single developer should have higher priority than the current residents in the neighborhood on how that neighborhood proceeds.
 The other philosophies that I think is affecting these types of zoning decisions are the different views about Fayetteville and what Fayetteville would look like in the future. And this is just me, it seems to me.
 Am I almost out of time? Okay, I'm going on. Okay, great. So, I mean, this is me, of course. I believe there are different visions for Fayetteville among residents here and that they are in conflict. One is,
 an infield mixed use crowded city, and the other is an historic artsy wooded university town where neighborhoods are valued, some low density, some mixed use, some high density, depending on what those specific neighborhoods want for themselves. And the first vision is developer centered. The second vision is neighborhood or resident centered. The first vision just deforest parts of the city in order to develop.
 The second vision values and preserves its urban forests. The first vision keeps wanting to grow, grow, grow. The second vision wants to grow reasonably, making sure the environment, trees, and neighborhoods do not suffer because of it. So I ask again, please respect the existing neighborhoods and the natural areas surrounding the Maranoni property, and please do not approve this particular rezoning request on the Maranoni property. Thank you.
 Thank you. Who else would like to address us? Stanley Rest. Okay, go ahead. Go ahead. Just a second, Stanley. The technology needs to catch up with you, and we don't have anybody other than Stanley. Okay. Okay. Stanley, you can unmute. Okay, I will unmute it and I will begin again.
 This is Stanley Rest. The address is 955 East Peel Street in Fayetteville. I am the immediate past president of Temple Shalom.
 and I'd like to just underscore the excellent presentation of Lisa, is that if, in particular, if Cleveland were extended straight, it would be really next to our parking lot. The noise would be much increased, and I think it would really affect our attempts to control our parking. We're interested, you know, we like the residential neighborhood area,
 and we're not opposed to the entire development, but I think when we were allowed to build there, we really felt that this would be a semi-secluded place for the temple. And so I think extending Cleveland right where we would go would really change the environment around our temple. So I'm opposed to several aspects of the development. Thank you very much. Okay, thank you.
 Go ahead one more. Ed Baker. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. First, I have a couple of questions. One is, I live, Ed Baker 2131 Lawrence Circle. We live right on the back of the circle. So we're the eastern edge of this. My first question is, how close is this going to be to the back of my house? Number one. Number two. Number three.
 Is there a consideration of Maple being an outlet? Maple runs right to the south of our circle at the bottom of the hill at the bottom of Markham, where if I'm not mistaken, that city-owned property now at the end of Maple that used to be university-owned, I may be mistaken on that. Those are my two questions. My statement is...
 We're opposed to the development just mere fact that when we bought here kind of the same thing. We bought, one of the reasons we bought here is back this is wooded. It's nice environment behind our house. Again, how close is this development going to be? What's going to be back there? You know, how's that going to impact our, you know, our quality of life here where we're at?
 A lot of this is unanswered. Our biggest concern is the 20-something acres. That's the community services, which is, I think, what butts up against us, if I'm not mistaken. But anyway, if somebody could kind of answer those questions. And again, as everything is right now, we're opposed to this. Garner, do you have a response to those questions? I'm looking at the...
 I think the issue is the distance from the houses on Lauren Circle and Maple. Is that correct? There's a loop there and the house is back. We live on the back of Lauren Circle. I'm trying to figure out what this development is going to be to the back of my house. I'm looking at it right now. The boundary line appears to be your property boundary line and the community services district would.
 uh, proposes on to your property line. Um, I believe your your houses back onto that parcel that community services parcel. That's what I was afraid of. I would rather see Mrs. Marinoni's horses, which come up to my back fence and I like looking at those. I don't want to see a building right back there. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Good. There are no other comments. Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council.
 What's the council want to do? What discussion do we have? I have a comment. We received a lot of letters today. So I'm surprised that there's only four people that are really speaking, but we had a large agenda tonight. It's during the holidays and this is the first reading.
 I hope that we don't advance this tonight. I hope we hold it right here because this is an exceptionally large piece of property that we're discussing with very, very few, if any, details on how it's going to be developed. And I'd really like to give other people an opportunity to be notified about this potential rezoning and be able to share some of their experiences or their opinions.
 Thank you. Okay. Council Member Tartt, did you have any particular notification in mind or simply just holding it and letting the reporting bring attention to it?
 Well, I don't know if there's the requirement. I guess that's the first question. Is it 250 feet? Were residents on Lawrence Circle and some of the other in the Temple and the other neighborhoods on Berry and Ora notified of this, Garner? Yes. The ordinance requires notification of the Planning Commission's hearing. So that notification was made.
 Okay, so they were clear that the Planning Commission was going to hear it, but there was no requirement for a second notification that it passed the Planning Commission and is now at the City Council. Is that correct? The ordinance doesn't provide for that.
 Okay, thank you for clarifying that. Well, I think I would hope that, again, that the newspaper outlets and Fayetteville Flyer would be able to advertise this a bit more because I don't believe that word has really gotten out. Or if it got out, it was at the last minute because we received a lot of letters today.
 And it is during the holidays. We do have COVID. We're all of those things that are make public input very challenging right now. And and from what I've heard, there's quite a bit of concern about this rezoning the impacts to the neighborhood with traffic with flooding as as we mentioned. And so I think it needs to have a lot of consideration and I would I would hope that we would leave it on the first reading tonight.
 I wholeheartedly agree with Teresa on that. I do support some form of development here, but this is a big old piece of land to carry forward with such a dramatic change and not a better plan. I think you know this is a prime candidate for a PZD and I know that that comes with additional complications and costs, but there's just there's a lot of connectivity concerns on all sides of this.
 I think Mr. Maranoni said it well, that this is a highly, highly visible entrance to the community from North and South. And so I just think it deserves to be treated right. And I hope that given its scale, there's some flexibility to pursue that approach. Some more detailed plans and commitments on the street connections.
 I also want to see a PZD on this. I'm fearful. What if a car lot wants to go in here or what if the thing that behind harps wants to be here and then that's it without taking any contextual cues from the areas around it. So I'm not sure if I would vote on it as is, but I definitely want a PCD. Okay. Okay.
 Well, from what I'm hearing from the council, that we need to let this at least sit two weeks and then bring it back, unless anyone is just totally in disagreement. If there's not anyone opposed to that, then we will plan on holding this for two weeks and bringing it back to the council on the 15th. All right. Let's move on to 13. Anybody got anything else on that? All right. Let's go on to 13.
 an ordinance to rezone that property inscribed rezoning petition rzn 20-018 located at 310 325 north fletcher avenue for approximately 0.92 acres from rsf4 residential single family four units per acre to rsfa residential single family eight units breaker kit bid ordained by the city council of the city of fayetteville arkansas section one
 The City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby changes the zone classification of property shown on the map, Exhibit A, and the legal description, Exhibit B, both attached to the Planning Department's agenda memo. From RSF 4, residential single-family, 4 units per acre, to RSF 8, residential single-family, 8 units per acre. Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby amends the official zoning map of the City of Fayetteville to reflect the zoning change provided in Section 1. Okay, Garmin.
 Yes, Mayor. This four lot rezoning request or three lots is located at Dixon and Fletcher. As the council is fully aware, this is a request to rezone from one single family district to another single family district. The uses are identical.
 The setbacks are different, the lot sizes are different. The RSF8 allows smaller lots, 5,000 square foot and 50 foot frontage. And that is the major difference. It is surrounded by RSF4 catty corners, REM 24 all the way to downtown. Adopted plan is designated as a residential neighborhood area
 and city plan 2040. Infill score is medium, I would say, five to seven. There are varying land uses surrounding this parcel. Immediately across Fletcher, there's one single family house on the corner, and then adjacent to that, there are three duplexes that were built in
 Historically, I'm not sure we couldn't find any conditional use permit. So we think they must've been built when that wasn't allowed use. There was substantial public concern and comments, drainage and the character of the neighborhood were discussed extensively at Planning Commission. Planning Commission did recommend approval and staff recommends approval. I'd be happy to answer any questions.
 Ali Quinlan is representing the applicant and she has requested to do an electronic presentation which I think takes uh council's approval. She can just do that. She can just do that? Okay. Yeah. If she's the applicant, she has 10 minutes to present anything she kind of wants I guess. So Ali go ahead. All right I'm set up as a panelist. I'm trying to figure out screen sharing on this. Okay.
 There we go. Okay. Thank you guys for giving us a couple minutes to discuss. We wanted to do a quick presentation. We had a lot of questions come up at the Commission that we thought this might be a helpful way to answer. And we have had the chance to speak with a couple neighbors one-on-one and hoped that we could help answer some additional questions with a quick presentation.
 So the development team on this is going to be familiar to many of you. We mostly work in downtown Fayetteville. We've done a number of recent and last few years infill projects, both small single family homes as well as on light commercial. We as a city should be proud of our forward-looking growth policies. The city is repeatedly committed to making traditional town form and appropriate infill priorities.
 However, even with significant effort given to policies to promote appropriate infill, we're neither keeping up with the number of new units required to match our population growth, nor an appreciable number of those units located in proximity to the jobs and services of downtown.
 Not only is our new housing growth not located where we need it due to our current prevalence of sprawl format zoning districts like RSF4, which Ms. Orton rightly acknowledged was born from the desire to racially and economically segregate our city, that housing often isn't in a format that matches our demographics or our historical neighborhood patterns. Around half of our housing units are currently single-family homes, and those are predominantly three and four-bedroom houses on large lots.
 This mismatch makes our housing more expensive than many Fayettevilleans can afford as we're forced to pay for much more house and lot than we often need. We have one of the smallest average household sizes in the state and 37% of our households are a single person.
 A recent Walton Family Foundation housing report has provided specific guidance on steps that we need to be taking in our region to meet the immediate needs of households who are unable to find housing that they can afford. The report notes that 80,000 new households are expected to move into Northwest Arkansas in the next 20 years, and at least half of our new units will need to be for workforce housing.
 In order to provide that affordable housing, we as a city need to be providing new homes in the total purchase price of $150,000 to $360,000. As you can see, especially in this neighborhood, current sales prices of homes are well over that total purchase price that would provide our much needed workforce housing.
 We have some averages here of neighborhood recent sales and some of those are skewed as we're noting because we have several tear downs that are included that are really being sold for lot value. And I wanted to share some quick diagrams, not as a development proposal, but just as an explanation of how rezoning property out of RSF4 impacts the availability of attainable housing in the city.
 Rezoning from RSF 4 to RSF 8 on this property specifically adds two total housing units. Critically, though, it allows us to shift to smaller units on their own lots that can be financed at a lower total purchase price that meets both our demographic needs of small households and our workforce housing need for a lower total purchase price.
 because of the small footprints and the ability to do a rear shared driveway on this site specifically, likely in impervious material. This proposal is also likely to match or even lower the current impervious area on the site because of large driveways and large footprints of these existing homes.
 And in addition to retaining a large landscape buffer in the rear of the lots, with our required street improvements along Fletcher, we'll likely be providing a tree swale and protected sidewalk. So we'd expect this project to improve the current stormwater situation on site, which was a primary question for neighbors, especially those downhill who have experienced flooding in the past.
 And not to go too deep in the math, but if you'll indulge me for a minute in explaining how the target workforce housing total purchase prices can be achieved. Sale price of development is usually determined by the residual land value, the land that the cost of land is selling for downtown. This project, just as an example, requires a little over 12,000 square feet of development to make the land cost work.
 So that square footage can be broken up into four 2,000 square foot homes and four 1,200 square foot ADUs by right under RSF4. The units have to be sold together, though. So the total purchase price is totally in line with sales prices in the neighborhood currently, but it's really out of reach for most residents.
 With an RSF 8 zoning, we aren't doubling the density, as we can now provide five homes with ADUs or 10 townhouses, but we're critically able to cut up that 12,000 square feet of development into more usable, useful pieces. 10-12 hundred square foot townhouses, just as an example, again, not a development proposal, but just showing how that zoning impacts purchase price, which could then each be sold within our workforce housing total goal purchase prices.
 As Gardner noted, the surrounding land use is very diverse. Within kind of our immediate proximity, 63% of the units are in a multifamily format. They're in a variety of architectural styles.
 37% of our adjacent units are single family homes, but they're on really widely ranging lot sizes. One of the immediate homes is on a 36,000 square foot lot. One of the immediate homes is on an 8,700 square foot lot, smaller than the current RSF4 allows. We also have a small eight flex.
 kind of diagonal that's very cute. So we think the pattern fits the context of the surrounding neighborhood well. It's a very mixed area, single family homes are in the minority and the architecture of the neighborhood is also very diverse. We're confident that under the new zoning classification, this lot could be provided with a contextually appropriate housing, as well as again, retaining that large landscape buffer in the rear.
 The zoning is appropriate for the site, it's appropriate for the needs of the city's housing demand, and it's also very in line with current similar rezonings that have occurred recently with a similar proximity to downtown. Indeed, the change that we're requesting is much less intensive than any of the recent rezonings that have been unanimously approved in the core of town.
 Our requested rezoning to RSF 8 is to a zone that is specifically designed by the city to match the historical pattern of this neighborhood. So we hope that you will agree that it's an appropriate and helpful rezoning, and we're here to answer any questions you might have. Okay, what questions do we have for the applicant or the staff from the city council? Okay, let's take some public comment there.
 All right, everybody gets one turn to speak. You have a five-minute duration broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address. The federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address this first? Justin Minkle. Okay, go ahead. I'm Justin Minkle. My wife, Karen, and I have lived at 633 Crescent for the past...
 Can you tell what's going on, Josh? It just muted me again. Can you hear me now? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So I'm Justin Minkle. My wife, Karen, and I have lived at 633 Crescent for the past 15 years, along with our children, Ariana and Aiden, once they came along. Our backyard borders the lots being considered for the potential rezoning.
 I've lived in Fayetteville since third grade. Our population has more than doubled in that time, yet we've managed to keep so much of what's remarkable about our town intact during that long period of rapid growth. And I know that's thanks in large part to all of you on city council, to city staff and Mayor Jordan. So I first just wanted to say thank you.
 I'm opposed to this rezoning like pretty much every neighbor I know because it's so extreme and I think we can find a balance between increasing density and preserving what makes our neighborhood such a wonderful place to live. You know I don't see zoning as this dry set of regulations. I see it as a commitment the city makes to people who are making the huge decision of where to make their home often for decades. You know we chose our home not just because of the physical house or the yard but because of the feel of the neighborhood. It's a
 It's quiet, it's peaceful, and we love all the little wild patches of woods all over Mount Sequoia. We also appreciate that it's really mixed in terms of home prices. You have duplexes and tiny homes right next to multi-story half a million dollar houses. Then right now there are two houses on the property, and those could be doubled to four under the current zoning. I know the developer wants to quadruple that number from two to eight.
 And one rationale we keep hearing for the rezoning is that it will increase affordability and diversity. And maybe it's because for the last 20 years I've taught kids living in poverty with families that make $12,000 sometimes, but I really don't see houses that cost $300,000, $350,000 as really meeting that goal of increasing affordability or diversity, especially given that the neighborhood does have a huge range in terms of home prices. And I think if you just walk around, it's really at odds with that graphic of these homes going for $400,000, $700,000.
 I understand why the rezoning would be good for the developer. There's an obvious incentive in terms of increased profit, but I don't see how it's good for our neighborhood or for Fayetteville, and neither do my neighbors. During the planning commission meeting, seven people called in, six of those were strongly opposed to the rezoning, and the seventh turned out to be the developer involved with the project.
 I've heard three main concerns. You know, the first one is right now there are five beautiful old gnarled trees back there, along with the wooded corridor where deer pass through. And to make that kind of graphic we saw work with those little yellow boxes, that wooded area would have to be paved for a long driveway. And we don't want to see these little wooded spaces that keep disappearing be bulldozed in order to cram in eight houses where there are currently two.
 And the second is the concern about drainage and runoff. Our basement has flooded three times, even with a sump pump and a lot of work to divert the water flow. And the third concern is traffic. You know, eight children live on Summit, 15 or 20 kids like my daughter regularly walk or jog along it, and there are no sidewalks on Summit. Flintlock said in their petition that there would be no significant change in traffic, but we don't see how that can be true because you'd be going from three houses on that block of Fletcher currently to nine.
 And the last thing I would say is that any change this extreme, I believe, needs to be approached in partnership with the families who have chosen this neighborhood as our home, rather than something done to us, which is the way this process has felt to most of us, I think, for the last couple of months.
 So I want to thank all of you for your time putting in all these late nights for listening and for considering our concerns as you cast your vote tonight. And I last just wanted to especially thank all the city council members who made the time to write back to my email a couple weeks back. I know all of you are incredibly busy with your own professions and families. We're in the middle of a pandemic and wherever you stand on this issue and however you ultimately vote, I deeply appreciate your responsiveness and your professionalism. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Case Minor.
 Okay, go ahead. Good evening, can you hear me? Yes. My name is Case Minor. We are at 16, actually across the street from Justin Minkle. I'm speaking on behalf of myself and my wife, Robin Goforth. The first issue I wanna talk about is the character of the area. I have to agree with Justin that this notion that we're gonna be keeping in line with what's there now is just not accurate.
 you know, setting a precedent for doubling the housing density of the area, make no mistake, will drastically change the character of this neighborhood. We're sandwiched pretty much between the Horse Historic District and Sequoia Mountain. It is a natural area. And, you know, if we set the precedent that we're going to be doubling the housing density, we're going to be wiping out a lot of that natural area.
 Also to reiterate a few issues that were brought up during the City Planning Commission, I don't feel like the Planning Commission really addressed our issues at all when they voted, say, one member to pass this on up to the council. So I want to reiterate a couple of those. Hopefully we'll get a little more consideration from the city council.
 Agreed on the parking and traffic issue with Justin as well. You know, this idea that this is not going to alter what is already a fairly heavy trafficked area in any way is laughable. We've had numerous accidents in this neighborhood due to heavy traffic. Highway 45 that comes into this area is one lane coming and one lane going. It's not a major artery.
 were a major commute route to the college and to downtown to the square. And so this is just going to add to those issues. I would also like to hear the council address the issue of the storm runoff
 Justin mentioned that his basements flooded three times ours is flooded at least five or six times and this is after we waterproofed it with waterproof membrane around it and I dug a French drain across part of my property to tie it into an old drainage ditch underneath the street that the city has not done anything with for years as far as I can tell and again these these issues are real I don't see how the
 The infrastructure of this area can be added upon by doubling the housing without addressing these issues. First, it's simply going to make these issues worse. Um, at the very least, it's going to make these issues harder to deal with coming up and fix. So I really, really appreciate the opportunity to address the council this evening and make our issues known. I would love to hear some, um,
 discussion on these issues and we really do appreciate the council's leadership in this especially during these very trying times. I'm an RN at Washington Regional and we're in unprecedented times. I think the city and Mayor Jordan you guys have shown excellent leadership through this and we are deeply appreciated regardless of what the council says. Thank you. I'll sign off now. Thank you. Who else would like to address? Natalie Undenair.
 Hi, can everybody hear me? Yes. My name is Natalie Underneer and I'm at 365 North Fletcher. I am actually located, I am the one other house on the other side of the duplexes directly across the street from this property. I spend my day looking at this property as I am a university employee that has been sent to work from home.
 Um, affordable housing is what actually drove us to this area. Um, so I do completely understand a house that supports the working wages. $300,000 houses do not support that. But I have other items that I would like to discuss with you all. First, this area, this block of Fletcher is a no parking block of Fletcher.
 There is a curb on the east side and no curb on the west side, as most of the houses on this side do not have real driveways. They have pull-up parking to their front doors. So the road itself...
 We already have several issues in which we have people park on the road and to get around them, it causes dangerous traffic situations. The traffic itself, we are used as a main connection point between Dixon and
 and 45. I would also like to discuss the safety of the pedestrians as there is a sidewalk on one side of this road but not the other. With the way that traffic and the traffic speeds in this area are moving along, it is very dangerous for people on my side of the road to make it safely to the sidewalk.
 Therefore, it makes it harder for us to utilize those beautiful parks that you guys have listed in this. One thing that I would like to bring up...
 in its entirety is the fact that adding the amount of houses in that area will number one get rid of trees in the hilltop historic area and cause more water runoff as the roofs themselves will add more non-porous surfaces to the mix.
 Just above on Mount Sequoia, this property is a 7,048 square foot home that roughly has 15,000 square feet of hard surfaces, causing the water runoff to to the ground.
 be a major issue. The trenching that has been done through what looks to be the city's right of way between the properties is not enough as there are sinkholes that are forming. The way that the water runs across the street
 has started to gouge and transform a old stream bed into a fast-moving creek at times um
 There does seem to be a city drainage manhole back there behind our property, but I would venture to say that no one has checked on it in years. I would like to say thank you for your time and I greatly appreciate everything that the City Council is doing and please do not move forward with this rezoning. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address us?
 Is that all we got? All right, I'm going to bring it back to the council. What discussions do we have? Wishes of the council? Okay, what discussions do we have in the council? Okay, what do you all want to do? I think that we should hold it here for the same reason as the other ones. Just today I got several emails on this, but otherwise I don't think people are paying much attention. Okay, anybody else?
 I'm very much in support of the rezoning request, but I agree that we need to hold it and just make sure that the community is aware. So I would support leaving it on the first reading. Okay. Could I make one request? It seems like there are quite a bit of drainage issues up there. And so if there is any additional information that the city could provide, that would be very helpful. Flooding.
 any kind of manhole or other kind of information that would maybe shed some more light on the drainage issues that we've been hearing from the neighbors. I think that would be helpful. And I'm also in support of holding it right here too. Okay, we'll get you that information, Teresa. Thank you. And what else? Anybody else? And I think also there was something mentioned about sinkholes. So I want to...
 double check on that as well. Right. I think it's important that we remember that this is a land use rezoning request and that these other issues will be addressed later on in the development process. Anything else? So I guess we will just hold it right here for two weeks and if you need any other information you can email us or call us or whatever.
 All right, let's move on to number 14. An ordinance to amend 33.341 purpose and 33.342 powers and duties of Article 22 Arts Council of the Federal Code. Kit. Be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas. Section 1.
 If the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend Section 33.341, Purpose of the Fayetteville Code by repealing all current language and enacting a replacement Section 33.341 as follows. Section 33.341, Purpose of Section A.
 Fayetteville Arts Council shall be an advisory body to the city council and administration dedicated to fostering growth and development of individuals, organizations, and projects that drive the cultural and creative economies of Fayetteville. Subsection B, the Fayetteville Arts Council shall advise the city on marketing, cultural planning, workforce development, arts education, and allocation of resources for the arts. The Arts Council shall examine and advocate
 for diversity equality equity and inclusion in this work subsection c for purpose for the purpose of this document public art shall be defined as works of art in any media purchased with public funds or that come into the public domain by any method irrespective of its location or intended audience section 2.
 The City Council and the City of Fayetteville Arts Council are hereby amend Section 33.342, Powers and Duties of the Fayetteville Code by repealing all current language and enacting the replacement Section 33.342 as follows. Section 33.342, Powers and Duties. The Fayetteville Arts Council shall be specifically responsible for, but not limited to, the following. Subsection A, review all City investments in public art.
 and donations of public art accepted by the city. If the project is valued at more than $5,000, the Arch Council shall provide a written action recommendation to the city within 30 days. Subsection B, assist the city in using public art to enhance the built environment. This includes but is not limited to the city council and all city departments, committees, and advisory boards. Subsection C,
 Advise the planning of capital improvement projects undertaken by the city when they're where there is potential for public art to be incorporated into the final design of the project. This may include streets, trails, structures and infrastructure improvements. Subsection D, identify, develop and promote projects.
 Opportunities and programs that support artistic and technical education and workforce development in the creative sector, using guidance from all aligning efforts of the Workforce Development Plan and the Fayetteville First Economic Vitality Plan. Subsection E, advocate for the quality of life and culture, a supportive environment in Fayetteville as a destination and home for creatives.
 And subsection F, identify grants and other sources of funding for the support of the arts programs and activities and the procurement of public art. Provide support to the city administration in the application process. Okay. Sarah, you have this one.
 Yes, thank you. I'm bringing this forward on behalf of the Fayetteville Arts Council. They've been working on this ordinance change for about a year now. And they started out by doing research on peer cities and also aspirational cities that we thought had very effective public arts programs. And we incorporated language from those.
 model ordinances into this one. But really, you know, the original charter of the Arts Council was very limited in scope. And the committee, which is...
 full of working artists in our community is just basically trying to find a way to empower the Arts Council to take action towards building a healthy local arts economy and ecosystem. And they're just looking to provide advice and recommendations on areas that they have specialized expertise. So I'll be happy to answer any questions. Okay. Do we have any questions for Sarah on this?
 I have a question. So Sarah, I'm looking at the powers and duties. Number two, assist the city in using public art to enhance the built environment. This includes but is not limited to the city council and all city departments, committees, and advisory boards. Could you clarify what that means exactly? I'm just a bit confused.
 Sure. I think part of it is going to be if, let's say, the Parks Department wanted to incorporate public art into the parks, they could come to the Arts Council for guidance and recommendation of assistance and support for doing such things.
 Likewise, if the city council is looking to purchase public art or receive a large piece of public art, the arts council would be there to assist with that as well. But, you know, we have several of our committees.
 They launched things like the Keep America Beautiful group does the public utility boxes. And there's been a lot of concern in the creative community that previously those were not paid jobs. And so part of one of the things that the Arts Council wants to do is to look for funding opportunities to help supplement those. And so basically the Arts Council is just there to be a support group
 and advisory board for any municipal entity that is looking to incorporate public art.
 Okay, thank you. I have one follow-up question. So how would the process work? Like your example with the Parks Department, would that be an... I'm just trying to figure out the nuances of that, if the parks would be required to come to you all, or just trying to follow through on this a little bit more.
 for art. But, you know, why would they not come and seek the advice of experts in the field and supportive guidance in incorporating public art? So it's really just empowering them to be there as a resource and provide guidance wherever they could be useful. Okay, thank you so much. What other questions do we have? Okay, let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak with a five-minute duration, broken into segments of three minutes and two minutes. Don't engage anyone in public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will be allowed to speak first. Who would like to address the council? All right. Seeing none, I will bring it back to the council. This is an ordinance. What is the wishes of the council?
 I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Okay, we've got a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Yes. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Terrence. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Yes.
 An ordinance to amend section 33.341 purpose and section 33.342 powers and duties of article 22 arts council of the fable code. Mayor just as soon as you closed the public comment the arts council chair hand raised Bob Stafford just as soon as it was a cross pollination I just wanted you to know that.
 Well, I mean, we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Yeah. I think we're kind of on our way here. Second. We have a second. We have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes.
 Yes. Farrs? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. An ordinance to amend Section 33.341, Purpose, and Section 33.342, Powers and Duties of Article 22, Arts Council, Payable Code. What final comments do we have in the council? Did we say that Bob wanted to speak again or speak? No.
 Yes, and according to your rules, he can only speak if the city council, by unanimous consent or majority vote, allows him to speak now. Is that because he missed public speaking? Yes, because public speaking was closed before he was there to try to get on. But you do have something in your rules that say that the city council can still allow a person like that to speak. It requires unanimous consent, or if there's any objection, a majority vote.
 Okay, I'd like to move to let Bob speak. Second that. Well, is anybody opposed to that? Go ahead, Bob. That's unanimous consent. We'll call it unanimous consent. That's all right, everybody. Go ahead, Bob. Hi, can you hear me?
 yeah we can hear you okay uh bob stafford uh fayetteville ward one uh and chair of the fayetteville arts council um i'm sorry i missed a public comment i i've been paying attention to this whole meeting and it's been so long i really got to give it to you guys for being able to uh stay attentive during all this um this is nothing i think it's at 11 o'clock
 I'm sure you guys will be here till then. But really, I just wanted to say thank you to Sarah Marsh for sponsoring this. And thank you to the whole of the Arts Council, the other members. We've been working on this for pretty much two years. We've taken it very seriously. We looked at over a dozen other projects.
 uh cities what they've done um a lot of sister cities uh and um we you know it it we put a lot of effort into it we tried to come up with a simple a document that made sense that was a lot clearer than what we had before and uh i'm just happy it's here and just wanted to thank everybody that worked on it and i'll let you guys get to work
 Thank you. All right. Thank you, Bob. Thank you for all your hard work. Thank you. All right. Any final comments from the council?
 I do want to thank Councilmember Marsh for all her work and leadership to bring a Councilmember to that committee and help lead the creative economy in a good direction as we look to bring the Cultural Arts Corridor online. And I think that this is going to be a really important committee as we start to see that come to fruition. So thank you, Councilmember Marsh.
 I'd like to second that, Sarah. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. And I really just want to thank the committee. They formed subcommittees and had a lot of special meetings. We used to have a big issue with the Arts Council not being engaged, but our current group of members has worked very, very hard and had many special meetings to work on not only this issue, but grant funding rubric. And as well as launch some opportunities for artists in the community. And I look forward to seeing what that committee does next.
 once next year when there's a new council member on it. So thank you. Yes, I would certainly agree with those comments there. You've done a wonderful job on the arts council. I mean, you really have, as far as representing city council in cities. Thank you for your work. Thank you. Any other final comments? Okay, Cambridge, please call the roll. Eddie? Yes. Scroggin? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Turr?
 Yes. Smith? Yes. Harris? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Number 15, an ordinance to enact Article 31, Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Federal Code.
 Whereas the city has had increased public interest in supporting low and moderate income residents with the challenges of housing affordability and low wages,
 And whereas the Northwest Arkansas continuum of care of which the city of Fayetteville is a member has made a commitment of ending homelessness in Fayetteville by 2025. And whereas Fayetteville has been supporting low and moderate income residents as a community development block grant entitlement city for more than 40 years,
 And whereas 24 CFR section 91.105 was amended in 2015 to encourage greater citizen participation in the development of the CDBG plans and reports and expanding the committee to include diverse representatives of the community will be a great benefit to the residents of Fayetteville, particularly the low to moderate income residents who benefit the most from CDBG funds.
 And whereas the City of Fayetteville's CDBG grant ranking committee is currently comprised of only city staff members. And whereas the City of Fayetteville has a longstanding tradition of transparency and community involvement via resident advisory boards. Now, therefore, it be ordained by the City Council and the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1.
 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, hereby enacts Article 31, Community Development Assistance Programs Advisory Board, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, and Commissions and Authorities, as shown below. Section 33.430, Purpose.
 The purpose of the Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board is to A. Promote community involvement in the prioritization of community development initiatives. Improve community awareness of community development and public assistance programs provided by the City of Fayetteville. Advise the Community Resources Division and the City Council on the proposed use of Community Development Block Grant and other grant funds. Section 33.431, Composition Membership. Subsection A.
 The Community Development Assistance Programs Advisory Board shall consist of seven voting members as follows. One, six voting members appointed by the City Council as follows. A, one member involved in housing services.
 B, one member involved in homelessness services. C, one member involved with community food systems. D, one member representing local small business. And E, local two members shall be residents at large. In subsection two, one voting member shall be a staff member appointed by the mayor.
 Subsection B, appointments should be made with the consideration of appropriate demographic representation of the residents of Fayetteville and to encourage the participation of low and moderate income residents served by the relevant programs. Subsection C, the members appointed by the City Council shall serve for a term of three years ending on December 31st. Appointments shall be staggered.
 Subsection D, additional non-voting staff members or organizational advisors may be designated by the mayor or invited by the committee to assist the board in the conduct of its business. Section 33.432, officers. At the first regularly scheduled meeting of each calendar year, the board shall elect from its members a chairperson and vice chairperson who shall each serve until the end of that calendar year.
 the board may elect such additional officers as it deems necessary for the proper performance of its duties subsection 33.433 powers and duties of section a
 The Community Development and Assistance Programs Advisory Board shall 1. Make recommendations to the Mayor and City Council regarding the priorities of the City's efforts to serve low- and moderate-income residents. 2. Participate in the development of the Community Development Block Grant's five-year plans or intermediate amendments for adoption by the City Council.
 Three, provide a venue for housing and urban development mandated public hearings and to review comments received during the HUD mandated public comment periods. Four, receive consolidated annual performance and evaluation reports. Five, analyze requests for funds in relation to the needs of the community on the amount of funds available and make recommendations to the mayor and city council as to which programs should be funded and at which levels in any given year.
 Six, promote public awareness of funding opportunities and their processes through proactive community outreach efforts. Seven, identify additional revenue sources including, but not limited to, state and federal grants, nonprofit grants, or community partnerships.
 Subsection B, the board may adopt such rules of order and procedure as are necessary to carry out its duties. Subsection C, board members with direct or indirect financial interest in any eligible agency shall recuse themselves from discussion and voting on subgrant awards for which their agency has applied. Section 33.434, meetings. Meetings shall be held at least monthly. Subsection D, board members with direct or indirect financial interest in any eligible agency
 Additional meetings shall be held as needed to review and make recommendations on applications to meet U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development regulations regarding required schedules for timely distribution of funds and to comply with mandatory timelines for public review and comment on proposed plans. Subsection B, the Board shall review its meeting schedule and public comment rules at the first meeting each calendar year to minimize barriers for participation by low-income residents.
 Subsection C, meetings shall be open to the public and records shall be kept in accordance with state and federal law. Subsection D, inability or failure of the board to meet shall not prevent the mayor or staff from taking action in response to emergency funding opportunities available from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development or other sources. Thank you.
 Section 2 that the City Council, City of Fayetteville Arkansas determines that this ordinance shall take effect on February 28th, 2021 to allow city staff time to amend the Community Block Grant Citizen Participation Plan and receive approval from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and request that the City Clerk-Treasurer and the Nominating Committee take appropriate steps to advertise...
 open positions, interview applicants, and make appointments for Community Development Assistance Program Advisory Board terms beginning on April 1st of 2021. Okay. Kyle, I believe this was yours. Yes, Mayor. Thank you. And thank you, Kit. I always enjoy writing that into the whereas section so that you can do most of the explaining for me. No more continuance, I'll please. I didn't name the organization. Sorry. Okay.
 This is another one that came from some review of peer cities, the closest of which being Fort Smith. I think most of what Kit read explains the primary intent here, and that's to allow our community to be more involved in the disbursement of Community Development Block Grant funds. And then also to bring better visibility to the assistance programs that our city offers from CDBG and other sources.
 We occasionally hear that organizations that want to access or apply for those funds have a hard time getting a handle on the process. And so hopefully this sets them up with a regular recurring and frequent interaction where they can keep up with that better and have more of an opportunity to get involved. The membership was a little bit different.
 I think I outlined based on the eligible uses for CDBG money , but you will see that the powers and duties include other things beyond that because just this year we saw other assistance programs from the endeavor grant for rental assistance. So as opportunities like that come up I would like for the group to be involved in seeking those opportunities out and making the most of them.
 The other really main feature of this advisory committee that may be different from the others is the intentional inclusion of students
 I do want to thank the board members who may benefit from these services. I did receive some questions from members of the public about why we didn't specifically include people experiencing homelessness. One of the reasons that is not a reserved spot in membership is the goal of eliminating homelessness so that there would be no one eligible in our community to serve that role.
 people who are the sort of the next in line closest to that experience. Those are the direct service providers. The expertise, not only for, for meeting the needs, but their operational needs as an organization to, to facilitate assistance with that said, if there are any questions, I would be happy to happy to answer your questions. Okay. What questions we have to call on this. Okay. Let's take some public comment then.
 Everybody gets one turn to speak. You have five minutes. Broken into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Please stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address, and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address the council? Angela Belford. Go ahead. Angela Belford.
 Hello, everyone. Lucky for me, the topics I wanted to talk about are all stacked up in one meeting. I quite possibly am going to burst with pride that there is a city, a Fayetteville resolution that includes the Northwest Arkansas continuum of care goal to end homelessness. I'm going to share that far and wide with our national partners because the fact that our council knows what that goal is
 and is committed to that goal is inspiring and really does provide wind in our sails as we do this work.
 Many of you may not know what an important role the City of Fayetteville plays in the COC. Yolanda Fields brings an incredible amount of expertise when it comes to HUD. We call her kind of the HUD whisperer. She understands the regulations inside and out, and she serves as a very active member of the COC. And for that, we are very grateful. And Kit, if you ever, once you say continuum of care, you can say COC after that.
 We think that when you look at how CDBG is currently allocated, that we would love to see us consider a more progressive use of CDBG that would match the leadership that City of Fayetteville has provided and the commitment that they have to homelessness.
 You may remember just a short time ago, just two short years ago, this council had instructed the Fayetteville Housing Authority to apply for CDBG public facilities grants. The following year, that budget was reduced to zero. Our board has had a lot of discussion about that decision and how that impacted some of the plans that we had.
 And so we would, we love the idea of the diverse membership of the committee. We love the idea that you are asking for people that are service providers and, you know,
 Also want to keep in mind that if we look forward to how Congress is considering the economic recovery for after this pandemic, infrastructure is a major portion. And there are a number of allies that we have in Congress that are talking about housing as infrastructure. And it could be that CDBG is a major opportunity to fund housing, especially housing development.
 And so by putting this committee in place at this time in our nation's history, I think is going to look like you guys had a crystal ball and were able to look forward and be ready for exactly what is needed and to have that advisory council in place so that we can receive that public input and maximize those funding opportunities as the nation recovers from the pandemic. Okay.
 Speaking of recovering from the pandemic, also want to commend the city of Fayetteville on the rental assistance program. The housing authority, we are not designed for emergency rental assistance, and city of Fayetteville was able to very quickly mobilize that funding and to be able to respond to a number of people's needs with emergency rental assistance that prevented a lot of people from losing their housing. So in addition to your commitment to ending homelessness,
 we applaud the commitment of the staff to be able to quickly take advantage of that and also listen to comment and be able to invest money into the food systems. So thanks so much. You guys keep up the great work. Thank you. All right. Who else likes to address us? Sarah Moore. Go ahead.
 Hi, Sarah Moore, Fayetteville, Arkansas. I just wanted to thank Kyle for bringing this forward. And I appreciate the thoughtfulness of looking to see what other areas of the country we're doing. Obviously, kind of to some of what Angela spoke about earlier, I mean, we've seen ourselves, and we obviously have been addressing homelessness and have goals with the continuum of care to end homelessness. But the pandemic has really stretched homelessness.
 um all of us in the community that have been trying to be a safety net for our vulnerable community members and um i really applaud the uh bringing together much like the continuum of care with all the providers come together bringing together a lot of smart minds and a monthly meeting um board that can be looking at uh different ways to potentially um address uh
 things that come up as far as having to recover, economic recovery coming out of the pandemic, and anything else that maybe we don't have a crystal ball to forecast in the future that could come up that could be a contributing factor to not being able to house individuals or them to not make ends meet that we could be addressing. A lot of these
 Federal grants are very interesting and there are very smart minds throughout our community that can be very creative with some of these things with like Homeland Security and some of these other grants. And so I really think that this set of individuals would have the opportunity to really get creative and look for additional monies to work to solve this. So I'm very supportive of this and I really hope we'll put this in place. Thank you.
 Who else would like to address this? Kathleen Everett. Okay. Go ahead. Hello. My name is Kathleen Everett. I'm the director of real estate investors of Northwest Arkansas. And I just wanted to say that this is very exciting to see positive action being
 on creating steps for more affordable housing. I would recommend, I wasn't able to hear the whole or remember the whole list of the people who are going to be appointed to the board, but I would recommend that you consider including small,
 builders, small investors and small developers. We're the stakeholders who are working directly with the individuals who are using, looking for and need more affordable and low-income housing. It's our vision to
 to work towards more public private projects and ventures. And it sounds like this is a marvelous, very exciting step in moving towards that direction. So I didn't really plan on speaking, but I appreciate all your efforts and look forward to maybe working together more in the future. So thanks so much. Okay, thank you. Who else would like to address this?
 Okay, I'm going to bring it back to the council. All right, this is an ordinance. We're on the first reading. What's the wishes of the council? I move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. All right, we got a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Chair, would you please call the roll? Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith?
 Kateris? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In ordinance to enact article 31, Community Development and Assistant Programs Advisory Board in chapter 33, Departments, Boards, and Commissions and Authorities of the Fayetteville Code. Okay. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. I pin. We have a motion and second to go to third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the roll?
 Petty? Yes. Froggen? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Kerr? Yes. Smith? Yes. Torres? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Inman? Yes. An ordinance to enact Article 31, Community Development and Assistant Programs Advisory Board, in Chapter 33, Departments, Boards, Commissions, and Authorities of the Fayetteville Code. File comments from the Township.
 Just want to say thanks to Kyle for his leadership on this. I think this is a great, great direction that we're going in to help assist CDBG. So thank you, Kyle. What are the final comments do we have? I, too, want to thank Kyle for bringing this forward. I think this is an important step for us. So thank you very much for doing that.
 Thank you. And I just say that it should be a point of pride for our community that we have as many people who are committed to tackling our homelessness and poverty issues as we do. And the fact that they want to get involved and help lead means that it is a problem that we can tackle. We can get this done. So look, this is an opportunity to nurture and support that grassroots leadership. And I thank you all for your support on this.
 Yeah, thank you. And thank you for bringing it forward. All right, Kara, please call the roll. Petty? Yes. Scroggins? Yes. Fudge? Yes. Turf? Yes. Smith? Yes. Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Okay, thank you all very much. Now number 16.
 An ordinance to amend 118.01, applicability of chapter 118, business registry and license, chapter 151, definitions, chapter 161, zoning regulations, 162.01, establishment listing of chapter 162, use unions in chapter 163, use conditions of unified development code to classify the types of short-term rentals and create regulations to permit and inspect the rentals kit.
 Whereas in July of 2019, the City Council adopted Resolution 172-19, requesting the study and development of an ordinance for short-term rentals for their consideration. And whereas it is estimated that there are approximately 500 to 600 short-term rentals in Fayetteville, and whereas the Fayetteville City Code does not have specific rules for short-term rentals, and they have been treated as hotel, motels in the zoning code,
 which prevents them from legally operating in any residential single family zoning district. Now therefore it be ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas section 1 that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas hereby amend section 118.01 applicability of chapter 118 business registry and licenses
 Chapter 151, Definitions. Chapter 161, Zoning Regulations. Section 162.01, Establishment Listing of Chapter 162, Use Units. And Chapter 163, Use Conditions of the Unified Development Code.
 By adopting the changes as shown on Exhibit 1 attached here to, made a part hereof, classifying the top types of short-term rentals, and creating regulations to permit and inspect short-term rentals in the City of Fayetteville.
 And I think that Garner probably has something. Right. We're starting with Garner. Garner, you and Mary, is that correct? That is correct. Mayor and council, those of us on the staff side that have been working on this are very pleased to bring you this draft for your consideration. I might tell you a little bit about the process that we used to put the ordinance together. And then Mary has a presentation about the substance of the ordinance.
 Kip mentioned there are presently five to 600 operating in Fayetteville. If they're not zoned for hotel, motel, they're technically illegal if they're renting less than a week. State law was also passed recently saying that if all rentals less than 30 days are subject to MR taxes. So this facilitates collection of that important tax.
 There are benefits to having short-term rentals. They're certainly important in terms of economic development. People who come here spend money here. They produce sales tax. They provide choice for our visitors. Some visitors would prefer staying in neighborhoods rather than in hotel motels. And probably most importantly, they also provide income for owners and operators.
 There are also problems associated with short-term rentals. They can turn into party houses. We've had some recent examples of that. The police chief has informed us about it since COVID, particularly the ones that don't have residents staying there. They're sometimes over occupied and they create parking problems in neighborhoods. So, um,
 When council authorized researching the issue and developing a draft ordinance, we posted an advertisement for public input on our Speak Up page, and we got lots of informal input. Lots of letters were written on the Speak Up page from many different perspectives. We also thought that the information
 issue was so complicated that we really needed a focus group that had continuity to it in addition to the public input. So we invited a focus group of short-term rental owners and operators, hotel, motel owners, neighborhood interests and at large participant. Council member Bunch also served on this focus group. The focus group met a total of three times
 and then we had a public meeting, well attended, mostly asked short-term rental owners overflow attendance. The, to summarize the public input in the focus group concerns and how they're addressed in this ordinance, there was unanimous recommendation from the focus group that there is a need for an ordinance. They believe that,
 These uses are here to stay and to stick our heads in the sand and kind of pretend they're legal, but they're not quite legal, wasn't forward leaning and we actually need an ordinance and we need rules for the road for this use in our neighborhoods.
 The hotel motel owners are very interested in leveling the playing field and the ordinance tries to do that. It sets up a business license, safety inspections, and a method to make sure they pay the same taxes the hotel motel users do. There was concern about neighborhood compatibility and the ordinance addresses that through occupancy cap.
 And the ordinance addresses that also through, if you don't live in the short-term rental in the future, if you can't establish a grandfather short-term rental the first six months, you would need to get a conditional use permit from our planning commission that can then make sure they're compatible.
 There was also concern from the housing community about type twos, what we're calling where people don't live in the short-term rentals, absorb too much of our permanent housing. So the ordinance proposes a cap. We did use a consultant for an initial draft, but most of the work was done by our staff. The Planning Commission had two public hearings.
 and they made recommendations for changes. They improved the ordinance. Their recommendations are included in this draft ordinance. So staff and planning commission are together on the ordinance that Mary is going to present. So with that, I'll turn it over to Mary to talk about the substance of the ordinance.
 Thank you, Garner. Good evening, everyone. Thanks for sticking with us here. I know it's been a long one. I'm going to share my screen, if you don't mind, and walk you through...
 Like Garner said, the substance of the ordinance. I think Garner gave an excellent introduction here. You know, a short-term rental is generally the leasing of a furnished residential dwelling on a short-term basis, generally less than 30 days. Again, in pre-COVID, it was estimated that there were about 500 to 600 STR units in the city limits. And like Garner said, we don't have specific rules governing STRs at this time. Okay.
 So the general standards that we've established are pretty straightforward, you know, and I can go through each of them here. In regard to residency, a permanent resident does not have to live in the STR dwelling. Short-term rentals may be permitted in all zoning districts where residential uses are allowed by right. Short-term rentals may be permitted in all zoning districts where hotel motel uses are permitted by right and shall not count towards rentals.
 the type two short term rental density cap, which we will get to shortly in the presentation. Occupancy, we've considered a maximum of two people per bedroom, plus two people with a maximum of eight people regardless of the number of bedrooms. No parties or special events would be allowed in STRs by right, and parking would be limited by the underlying zoning district.
 the short-term rental unit. So the type of unit that we're considering short-term has to be any structure that's established as a permanent residential dwelling. And this can include ADUs, but it does not include recreational vehicles like trailers or either pull behind trailers or any other kind of tent or thing that you could think of that could be considered
 short that people have used the past a short-term rentals. And so it has to be a permanent residential dwelling. There, there can be exceptions to the short-term rental standards that I've kind of gone over here. Except proposals that would exceed our citywide density maximum, which I'll again go over shortly. But these can be granted by the Planning Commission with a conditional use permit and through that process.
 So I think it's really important to highlight the types of short-term rentals that we're talking about here. So a type one is a full-time residence. The occupants or owner rent the primary residence as a short-term rental. And then to secure a business license, a copy of the homestead tax credit or long-term lease agreement for the subject property would be required.
 Again, ADUs can be considered short-term rentals and type 1 rentals. And type 1 rentals are not subject to the density limitations that I'll be discussing later. So basically, a type 1 rental is an owner-owned or occupied home that kind of has some oversight from the owner, as opposed to a type 2 rental. So this is a short-term rental that does not qualify as a type 1 rental.
 and the property owner does not live on premises. So this would be a full-time short-term rental with no intention of having any permanent resident at any time. These types of uses require a conditional use permit, and hotel, motel, and existing licensed bed and breakfast entities would not be considered short-term rentals subject to the type 2 requirements.
 A conditional use permit for a type two could not permit the following. Individual two-family, three-family, or four-family buildings that are not part of a multifamily complex could not have more than one type two. And more than two dwelling units as type two rentals within a multifamily dwelling complex would not be allowed. So type two rentals are going to be your multiple unit or complex.
 owners would have multiple units that are purely short-term rentals. And these types of units require, when they secure a business license, that a designated agent who lives within the city and can be at the property within an hour is noted and provided to the city. So we want to make sure that we have contact access for type 2s. You've got about 10 seconds to wrap it up.
 Yes, sir. Thank you. I'm gonna go through the density cap here quickly, but it didn't see limitations only apply to type twos and. Mary, staff has 10 minutes to give your presentation 10 minutes is up. And the council can give you more time if they wish to. So what's the wishes of the council? I'd be happy to give Mary more time.
 Another three minutes. Let's do that. Okay. Thank you. All right. Very good. All right. Mary, you have another? Well, if the council, anybody disagree with that? Okay. Mary, you have three more minutes. Okay. So the density cap only applies to...
 Sorry about that. Only applies to type twos. It's a two percent density cap on all of the dwelling units in the city limits. And the total dwelling units are determined from either the current Census Bureau or American Community Survey numbers, whichever is higher. Type two short term rentals in commercial and mixed use zoning districts where hotel motels are permitted by right do not count towards a citywide density cap.
 Short-term rentals may be permitted in all zoning districts where hotel and motel uses are permitted by right and shall not – oh, sorry.
 addresses concerns with housing availability. So even pre-COVID, we hadn't really met that density cap, and we probably won't for some time, but it moves with the census data. So it will increase as the population increases. And then the last point I want to go over is just the grace period. We've provided a six-month grace period for all the short terminals in the city to come into compliance.
 So they would have six months after the enactment of the ordinance. They would have to come in, they would have to be get a business license and pay the business license fee, and they would have to have a life safety inspection of the unit. Each unit would be required to have a business license.
 The life safety is just, you know, ingress, egress and making sure, you know, that it's a safe unit for people to occupy. To qualify for this, you know, grace period, we will have to have satisfactory proof of prior operation as a short-term rental. And this could include backdated advertising or, you know, anything that staff considers necessary.
 applicable proof that it's been used as a short-term rental. And we have complete discretion in determining what type of proof is submitted. But this gives people a chance to come into the process, and it gives us a chance to answer any questions that people might have and help them familiarize themselves with this new process.
 Any type twos that come in under this grace period would technically be considered a conditional use and subject to, you know, future should they want to make changes or, you know, go for exceptions, they would be subject to planning commission review as a conditional use. But they would not have to go through the process if they got their business license in the six month grace period. And with that, I will answer any questions that you have.
 Okay, what questions do we have for Garner or Mary on the short-term rental ordinance from the city council? Yeah, I have one here. So to qualify for the type 2, they have to have proof that they've been renting it, that they've been breaking the law in the past, basically. Yes. Okay, and we're going to give them a six-month grace period.
 Yes. But someone who is considering doing this with their house cannot apply during that six months?
 They can't. Yeah. I mean, if you wanted to get if you're in that six month period, if you wanted to say you had a type two or you were anticipating doing a type two, you could apply for conditional use permit if you haven't previously been operating. So it's a way to bring people into compliance. But it's not to say that in that six month period, if you wanted to initiate a type two use that you could not submit an application to planning commission and go through the conditional use permit process. Yes.
 Okay. The thinking there, Councilmember Bunch, was that given the number of rental units that are presently operating, to request that they all go through a conditional use permit when we have no evidence of any complaints or would flood the Planning Commission.
 So we think and we found this typical of startups for virtually every short-term rental we looked at. There's a period for asking the existing short-term rentals to meet the city requirements, which in our case is a business license and a safety inspection.
 Okay. So, so if I, okay, I don't have that screening for me right now, but let's say I own. Okay. When we're talking about the number of units in a, it was two, three, and four. I forgot what the language said that will duplexes, triplexes, you know, four plexes that were not part of a complex. What does that mean exactly? I can plug that language.
 So basically, it means that you could not, if you have a type 2 and you apply for a conditional use permit, you could not, a conditional use permit could not be granted to permit the following, which would include, you know, if you have a multifamily, what we're trying to avoid here is an apartment complex renting out.
 30 of their units as short-term rentals during large events. So it would limit a multifamily complex, the amount of multifamily units a multifamily complex could have.
 So, for example, a multifamily dwelling complex could only have two dwellings that could be considered type 2 rentals. So you could not get a conditional use permit for a third dwelling within a multifamily complex. Okay, so let's say I have four duplexes that are all right together. Is that considered a complex or what? Right.
 Well, so it says individual two-family, three-family, and four-family buildings, which are not part of a complex, cannot have more than one type two rental unit per building complex. So I would take that to mean that if you had a duplex, you could only have one short-term rental. Yes. In each building. Okay. And if I may add to that, this also goes towards leveling the playing field.
 These are not zoned commercially like hotels and motels. How do you prevent an apartment complex through this process becoming a hotel motel? This provision is trying to address that issue. Okay.
 Well, I know someone who has four duplexes who rents them out by the month, furnished, but would possibly like the option to rent them out maybe for less than a month. And, you know, this reads almost as if you cannot do that. So it's, and they're not looking to run a hotel. They're just maybe looking to maybe rent out a couple of units there. So they could have one unit, one unit in each duplex. Yes. Okay. And would they have to go to the hotel?
 Would they have to give a conditional use for that? If they live in one of the units, like the adjacent unit, they would not have to. But if it's, you know, if it is a, if it, Garner, correct me if I'm wrong, but I believe if it was a duplex and the owner lived adjacent, they would not be considered a type two. But if they say they rented the adjacent unit long term and then the other unit was a short term, then it would be considered a type two.
 The way the ordinance is written, if they can show that they can get the homestead exemption, they would be type one. Okay. That's not what I was asking, but okay. All right. Thank you. Sorry, Sarah.
 That's okay. I just want to follow up on that and see how, I mean, I understand how that limitation works with when the complex is owned by one entity, but what about when we're talking about condo buildings and you have multiple owners? Who gets first dibs? Is it first come first serve, or if you've got six different owners that each want to have their their unit that they maybe bought to come up here for game days and they want to rent it as a type two other times,
 Who decides who gets to have the short-term rental and who doesn't? The ordinance presently, Council Member Marsh, says that you can only have two for the complex, but they could request the Planning Commission to grant more. The Planning Commission is authorized to review the ordinance and grant exceptions.
 Okay, so if I own a condo in a building and so let's say two other owners have theirs. They've gotten their business license to do this. So then the burden would be on me as the person wanting the third unit in the complex to go to the city or to the planning commission and have have that special variance. That would be my interpretation of the ordinance. Yes.
 Okay. And then what happens, say the other two people with the, the licenses, maybe they aren't using them. Is there any, is there like any sort of expiration or, or anything that you could file that says, well, Hey, they're not using their license. Can I take that from them? What is the process? There, there is, uh, as you know, the business license, uh, is renewed every year.
 So if they would allow that to lapse, it would then not be considered a currently operating short-term rental.
 Well, that would be if they allow the license to lapse, but even if they're paying their licensing fee, they may not actually be using it as a rental. That's true. Didn't we ask, wasn't there one of our incarnations where we said that you had to have it rented at least once a year or something like that? You had to have proof that you had actually used it as an STR to keep the permit and to keep your ability. I mean, I'm...
 I recall that somewhere, Mary, but I'm not sure where. Yes, we discussed that. And I think it's a good option to renew your business license. So if you let your license lapse or you have to renew your business license every year anyway, if you couldn't prove that you had rented it for a certain amount of time as a short-term rental in the past year, then you could not renew your business license as a short-term rental. We had discussed that. It's not part of the ordinance now, but we had discussed it.
 I think, you know, maybe something like that might help with, you know, what Sarah was talking about, where, you know, people come in and buy up all the, or, you know, buy up the ability to have short-term rentals, but then maybe they're not using their property as short-term rentals. But then that only applies if it's in certain parts of town, like if it's in the downtown area, which allows hotels and motels anyway to,
 this would not apply to them if they were in that type of zoning. Okay. How often does the Planning Commission review conditional use permits? It's very common conditional use permits. If you look at the zoning district, each district has use by right, and then a list of uses are allowed by conditional uses.
 So it would be the this would be a type two would be a use that would be allowed by conditional use going forward. So what would what would be like if someone was wanting to do this and they had to get a conditional use? What would be the cost for the conditional use permit? I believe the application fee is twenty five dollars there. It is a.
 And then there's a notification requirement, 200 foot surrounding property owners, which is probably the biggest requirement or the most difficult requirement to me is a notification. The time frame in Fayetteville is 30 to 45 days. So it's a quick review.
 So I have a question. I'm a little just a little bit slightly concerned about the limit of two units in a housing complex in a multi housing complex. And was there any discussion about a ratio
 Because, you know, if you've got two units and there's only eight total, but if you've got a big apartment complex that's got 50 in it and you've only got two out of 50, I mean, that changes things quite a bit. So I did not participate in any of the focus groups, and I just wondered if that issue was discussed at all and how you all came to just the two limit. Yeah.
 I believe earlier drafts, I can go pull them up. I think we did have a percentage occupancy, but there were substantial concerns that apartment complexes needed to operate as apartment complexes and hotel motels needed to operate as hotel motels, which have completely different safety and access and egress rates
 They're more expensive to operate. They're more extensive to secure, but that's certainly something the council could take a look at. Do you want to go back to a percentage of the complex?
 You know, I guess the other thing would be, you know, I'm not familiar enough with how large of complexes we have here. So I don't know how that would kind of shake out in terms of the data. But I think it would be interesting to investigate and see what proportionality that would end up with, because I'm.
 I realize I think it is important to limit the number there. And those are points well taken, but I could see some challenges. We'll go back and take a look at that and see what we had earlier proposed.
 Okay, thank you, Garner. My second comment that you and I have talked about quite a bit, but is not within the ordinance, and which I don't know where we'll end up with this tonight, but I have several people that I know who
 that have short-term rentals that are adjacent to their primary residence. They're not connected. I mean, they're separate lots or they're a couple of houses down the street.
 But those function right now as a short-term rental type one rather than a type two, because there's a great deal of oversight by those owners. And right now, the way things are written, they would all be thrown into a type two, which I don't think is sort of a reasonable designation, because they are functioning much more like type ones. And so I would ask...
 prior to making any formal amendment, that you all reconsider how to handle those because I feel like there's a great deal of oversight and the neighbors, if there are any problems, the neighbors would certainly complain to the owner and it would be resolved quickly.
 So I'd ask that you go back and look at that if possible, how we can find a medium area there. Thanks for the heads up this morning on that issue. Of course, if you presently are operating a type two, you can get it's treated as a type one. If you go ahead and get your business license during the grace period.
 Right, right. I realize that, but I know that there will, and I, and I realize there might be some reasons to only designate them as type ones. Um, you know, cause I don't think that we would really like a developer to come in here and scoop up all of the, uh, the rental property. Um, so I think there are some considerations that we need to make. Um, and I, and in, in, in, in, in, in,
 The note I sent to you, I capped it at three and gave it a radius around there. But I'm open to ideas to make sure that we're able to achieve that proper balance. It could become a loophole, I think. But we'll certainly take a look at it. Okay. Thank you. I appreciate it. Other questions we have in the council? I have actually some issues with the item that...
 Councilmember Turk just brought up, you know, I feel like one of my primary reasons for supporting this type of ordinance is the importance of preserving long-term rentals. And it's not about the supervision of, you know, someone living in the neighborhood that's renting it. To me it's more about just having especially the smaller units available as long-term units.
 So I would really like to see the classification of type one and type two stand. I think it's good how it is. However, I do have some concerns about, I noticed that it says that these have to be permanent residential dwellings. And I wonder how this would apply to something like the Airstream trailers that we have used as Airbnbs along our trail corridor and the opportunity to expand programs like that, because those are not permanent.
 permanent residential dwellings, but they serve a niche market for Airbnb. What are your thoughts on that and how will those be handled? I think that we have an exception allowance in the ordinance. And so essentially with something like that, if you had an Airstream Park or Yurts or whatever it is that people are doing for these different kinds of niche markets,
 you could apply for an exception and a conditional use permit to planning commission, and they could approve that at planning commission. So while you couldn't go for a straight type 2 and a conditional use permit, you could apply for an exception and get that approved through planning commission.
 And you could do that within a six month grace period too. So if you were operating, you know, like the Airstreams that are operating now, they can go through the, you know, apply for an exception now, or as soon as the ordinance is enacted and not have to wait. So there wouldn't be any penalty for them to go through the process immediately.
 But is there room for more of those types of units to come online, or would they be limited by this ordinance and the requirement that they be permanent residential dwellings? Well, I mean, I think that there's, you know, once you set a precedent of granting an exemption to those types of uses, that's...
 I don't see any reason why you couldn't or different businesses or owners could continue to apply for exceptions. I don't think there's anything limiting uses, you know, exceptions for different kinds of uses. It's a pretty general exception standard in the ordinance now. Then what would the criteria be for approving such exemptions and how would that has that been established?
 So right now it's just a planning commission process. Garner, I don't know if you want to add anything. I'm not as familiar with the exemption process when it goes through planning commission, if you want to clarify there. What criteria would they be considering or allowed to consider? I think the one example is,
 that there is an Airstream operating as a short-term rental right now, and we've been contacted about that. I believe that did go through an exception process to the Planning Commission in order for it to be legal since we
 So the ordinance generally has language about compatibility, neighborhood fitting into the neighborhood, not causing traffic and other problems like that. I think the, I don't know if there are any specific regulations that would give you a foothold to say this one meets
 the requirements, but there are general recommendations in the ordinance that the Planning Commission uses to make sure that the conditional use permits fit into the neighborhood. They can also add conditions, is conditional use permit.
 I think on the airstreams, you know, I know lots of places have airstreams you can rent and little travel trailer homes you can rent, but they're usually on a, they're usually on water and sewer or septic connections, and if you're just traveling in a trailer, you have a hose that you run out into a drain for your sewer connection. I think that would be something I would
 You know, if it's going to be a permanently in place and used as a, you know, short term rental, I would think that it would need to have some sort of connection there, I guess. I don't know.
 And I guess my thoughts are, you know, if you're say a retired couple and you travel in your RV nine months of the year and three months it's parked in your backyard, why would you not be able to rent that out as an ADU? And right now it doesn't seem like that would be a possibility without jumping through some regulatory hurdles without clearly defined what the criteria would be for allowing such things. Yeah.
 So while I think there's a lot of good things in this ordinance and it's headed in the right direction, I don't think it's quite there yet. But I like a lot of the things that we're trying to do. I just don't think we're quite there yet.
 I do, um, I do like the idea of letting people use, you know, maybe their little, their travel trailer or something like that. And there's one in my neighborhood where the people have a pad and electric and water hookups for it and they're gone most of the time. And then when they come back, um, it's a family member that stays in it part of the time and they just hook it up and it's, it's just there. But, um.
 I don't know if they got a permit for that. It's been there a long time. They've been using it for a long time. But I think, you know, sometimes I've, you know, there are places where people might use something like a, that is a sort of maybe built as a garden shed, like you would buy at Lowe's and try and turn that into a cottage of sorts. And I don't know how I feel about that. I don't feel like that's appropriate.
 quite the same as a travel trailer. I mean, I think for me, it has to be safe and sanitary and making sure that we're, you know, that they're not peeing in the yard. I've got neighbors that they've always got touring bands staying in their backyard. And it's not that I mind that they're there, I mind that they're peeing next to the creek. So it's, you know, making sure that the infrastructure is in place, I think makes a big difference.
 Certainly beginning to get late in the evening. But anyway. Do we want to bring this back in two weeks? Or what do we want to do with this? I don't think we're ready to. Do we get public comment on it? I don't remember what we've done, honestly. We can, but...
 I sent the city council a very late memo, which most of you probably haven't read, about one particular issue here. I think this is a good, very good start of this ordinance. I agree with Council Member Marsh on that. It needs a lot of polishing still. There's problems with definitions and stuff that have interpreted in ways that I don't think that the drafters realize. So they need to be changed and tightened up.
 so that we make sure that we can control this. I also think that we need to make sure that when someone has one of these units and it's causing problems in the neighborhood, there is a way to bring it back to the Planning Commission to determine whether or not the conditional use that was granted by the ordinance initially
 has been violated, it's not compatible, it's causing problems and violence and things like that, that might make it much more difficult to do if we don't have some actual requirements that they comply with the normal things for conditional use. So I think there's some more wording that needs to go in here. But by and large, I think it's a very good start. Always when you have a very complicated system like that, there's going to be issues back and forth.
 and i think that garner and mary have done a very good job trying to get to the right uh descriptions of some of those but finally it's going to be the city council decide exactly what you wanted to have but i do agree leaving it here is probably a good idea and i think you might see some proposals coming out before the next meeting that might be some suggesting some changes to this to make it even better okay
 If we don't have any more questions, I think I have three people that would like to speak before the council. Then I would like to, you know, I'm going to go ahead. We've got four. Well. Okay. Well, I'm going to open it up for some comment then. So everybody batten down the hatches. All right.
 i'm going to give everybody one turn to speak to have five minute duration from in segments of three and two uh don't engage anyone from the public or any city council members stay on the topic no rude behavior please give us your name and address and federal residents first now
 Let me, those of you that want to make public comment, everybody gets five minutes. Now, if you ask a lot of questions and the staff answers the questions and you use up your five minutes, you've used up your five minutes.
 because once we hit the five minute mark your time is up and i want that everybody to understand that that we're not going to just keep asking question after question after question and keeping it going for a long period of time every person that makes public comments gets five minutes so i will keep you on track on that all right um who would like to be first please give us your name and address federal residence park haney okay
 Thank you, Mayor Jordan, and I appreciate that it's a late evening. I'm ready to get to bed, too. I've written out my comments, and I'll read them as quickly as I can. Sure. My name is Mark Haney. Thank you all for your hard work and the opportunity to speak tonight. Although I am currently a resident of Bentonville, I was a resident of Fayetteville from 2010 to 2016, and during that time had the opportunity to begin my real estate journey by renting out-
 I'm sorry. You gotta wait. We let the federal residents speak first. Yes, sir. Okay. Charles Goins, are you a Fayetteville resident? Yes, yes I am. Thank you. Can everybody hear me well? Yes.
 Okay, fantastic. Sorry, I'm talking on headphones. You can cut off a little bit there. Thank you to the whole council for your late nights and everything like this. This is very awesome of you all to spend your time doing things for our community like this. And I just want to say on behalf of, as being a type one rental, uh,
 uh going through the whole process um you know i i feel like it's a little bit out of um a little bit extra work and a little bit a lot of hoops to jump through for us to um have to go through the process of um acquiring a business license and going through an inspection um you know taxes are already remitted and already paying you know these taxes and uh
 House has already been affected by insurance companies and whole policies on that and everything. I feel like that's just going to cause people who are,
 like my wife and family and I who are essentially just bringing our house on the weekend to make a little bit of extra money. I feel like it's going to push some of those people to not continue to rent out their house and push more people back to hotels, whereas a Fayetteville resident could be making this money that we're going to be spending locally. But I just want to get my two cents on
 the view as a, I guess what would be considered a type one renter. Yield my time. Okay, thank you. Alex Rainey. Go ahead. Hey, good evening. Can everybody hear me? Yes. Hey, Alex Rainey. I'm on Balboa Street here in Southeast Fayetteville. Like Charles said, thank you guys for spending your time on this issue. I do agree that some kind of guidelines need to exist.
 for Airbnb or short-term rentals. But what we have laid out here tonight seems like too much regulation. You know, I'll say, of course, you know, we do want it to be safe and sanitary. But like was mentioned in the public comment meeting back on September 30th, I think 2019, Airbnb in and of itself is self-regulating with a pretty rigorous review process.
 wherein the hosts strive for five-star ratings from the guests. And in order to do that, they need to provide a safe and sanitary space. So, you know, all that said, you know, I'd be interested to see how we could simplify, you know, this proposal. Sure.
 And, you know, since it's late, you know, I might recommend we move this one to the top of the agenda in the next council meeting so we can spend a little bit more time on it and not feel rushed like it seems like we were tonight. But thank you for your time. You're very welcome. So I just wanted to explain right quick, Mayor, what we've got. When you read this item, we no longer took additional signups. Okay. But we have people signed up.
 Oh, actually, I got you. Okay, next we have Logan Humphrey. Go ahead. Hey there. Hey, can you hear me? Yes. Good, good. Hey, guys, members of the council, Mayor Jordan, thanks. I know that this is going to go to a second reading, so I'll keep some of my comments here brief. So my name is Logan Humphrey, and I live on 122 West Meadows Street in Fayetteville.
 I've got a business address at 1722 North College, and I'm here today representing the Arkansas Short-Term Rental Alliance. So we're a nonprofit advocacy group advocating for responsible renting and fair regulations for short-term rentals in Arkansas. So I've got a local short-term rental management company named Coho B&B Properties, and I started the company back in 2018 here in Fayetteville with just one property.
 You know, it was my primary residence, the property that I lived at, and since then we've grown to a large amount of type two residential and commercial short-term rental properties here in Fayetteville and across northwest Arkansas. But primarily I'm here to represent around the hundred members or so that we have within the Arkansas Short-Term Rental Alliance.
 And what we are advocating for is responsible renting from hosts to professionalize the industry along with fair regulation. So we do have some problems with this ordinance. I've been involved with Garner Stoll. I've been in the focus groups. I've been contributing to this ordinance and helping to get it drafted because it's a huge belief of us that we need to have short-term rentals legalized, bring people out to the
 be able to host. But one of the things that I wanted to bring up today was short-term rentals or executive fully furnished, all utilities included properties have been a wide, they've been widely used in real estate for many years. There's many places that have
 advertised it on sites like Airbnb. Vrbo came around around 10 years ago as well. These are advertising sites that have allowed hosts, homeowners and property owners to be able to rent out their property, advertise it. And since it's become popularized, I sympathize and we at Astra sympathize with the self-regulating nature of these short-term rental properties. If a house is unsafe, then it's going to be
 rated accordingly, but we also understand that there needs to be some ordinances that's passed. So we are in favor of an ordinance being passed by the city to legalize properties. And we'll go over this a little bit more in depth in the next meeting, but I encourage people to reach out so we can talk about this a little bit more. Extending this, not rushing to pass an ordinance is a big deal to be able to get community members involved.
 I know there's a lot of people that are wanting to speak tonight. It's late. We all want to go home and go to bed. But you know some of the main problems that we see with this ordinance is some things that have been talked about already. You know multi-family housing limitations, certain amounts that can be in certain properties but not. But there's also a main problem that we have and that's with the eight-person occupancy cap and this is something that we take really seriously
 I've been advocating since the beginning for a two-person per bedroom plus two. That's pretty fair when it comes to what a majority of houses advertise for. So say you've got a five-bedroom house, that means that you can sleep two people per bedroom. That's 10. And say you have one room that has a bunk bed or maybe a pull-out couch that's an additional two people. So that would put it at 12 people.
 However, the way this ordinance reads right now is it makes it to where that five-bedroom house can only advertise eight. Now, this is a pragmatic problem and not just a problem with overly regulating five-bedroom houses, so to speak. Pragmatically, on Airbnb and other sites, it says five-bedroom house, but then it'll say eight-people cab, but it'll say five beds. And so people will ask, hey, what's going on here? Why five?
 why can you only host eight people when you have five beds? And so having this arbitrary number at eight also impacts more than, it actually hurts more than it helps. So for instance, one of the things that I want to talk about is the main two concerns that were brought up were parties and parking. So a majority of parties that occur are from falsified reservations. It's not from
 like an occupancy cap. So for instance- You have 20 seconds. Okay, great, thank you. So for instance, someone will say, hey, it's just me and two friends and then they show up with 30 people. I think that having some regulation framework for hosts to rent responsibly, so police are called and have to shut down a party, then that's something that's included, not necessarily just an eight person cap. Time's up. Thank you. All right, who else would like to address this? Greg Brown. Go ahead.
 Go ahead. Greg, are you there? Yes, ma'am. I am here. Can you hear me now? Yes. All right. My name is Greg Brown. I'm a Fayetteville resident. I'm also general counsel to the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors, and I'm here tonight in that capacity. Thank you, Mayor Jordan and ladies and gentlemen of the council, for allowing me to address this issue. When this ordinance was first heard in February, you heard...
 Lots of concerns from lots of people. And a lot of those people were members of the Board of Realtors. And we still have those concerns. I will state that it appears that from this reading, a lot of those concerns have been addressed. It's clear that a lot of thought has been put into this proposed legislation, and we appreciate that.
 That being said, there are a few other concerns, and I'm going to restrict myself to dealing with legal concerns. I'm sure you'll hear a lot about financial concerns and humanitarian concerns from people who are more qualified than me to discuss those things. There are serious constitutional concerns involved whenever we're dealing with property rights.
 The Arkansas Constitution states that the right of property is before and higher than any constitutional sanction, which indicates pretty clearly that it is the most sacred protected right by the Arkansas Constitution. And for that reason, I think we have to tread very, very lightly when dealing with property issues. It's also incredibly important to note that that's there because it gives us some guidance on
 And some insight as to what Arkansas courts might do if confronted with litigation concerning an ordinance such as this one.
 The state of Texas has also a very similar language. And recently, in 2017, the city of Austin passed an ordinance, which is actually very, very similar to this one, which led to litigation in a case called Zatari versus the city of Austin. And I would encourage the council members to take a look at that. It's available on the Internet because there's some great discussion of the constitutional concerns.
 But in that case, the Court of Appeals in Texas found that the proposed legislation or the legislation which was passed was in fact constitutional. Primarily, there are three concerns. That is a takings clause or inverse condemnation clause.
 But also one thing that really hasn't been discussed a lot tonight is freedom of assembly, because there is this limit of eight people. And in fact, in Section 163.18, there's a concern that there's a limit of two people per bedroom. And I don't think anybody who's proposing this legislation actually intends to limit that.
 bedrooms to two people whereas a husband wife and child couldn't stay in the same room but that's that's how the legislation currently reads and so I would agree with Kate Williams that the language here needs some polishing and
 Many of the members of the Board of Realtors also function as property managers and have contracts with clients, which are approved by the Arkansas Real Estate Commission or the Arkansas Board of Realtors. And there's a concern there because the statute or excuse me, the legislation being proposed requires property managers to be within one hour of the contract.
 of the unit and we have members from other parts of Northwest Arkansas here who have contractual rights to manage properties in Fayetteville, but yet may not be able to get there within an hour. And so I would encourage the council to take a look at that section as well. And I'll limit my comments to that for tonight. And thank you so much for your time. Thank you. Who else would like to address this? Patty Kimmer. Okay, go ahead. Hi, can you hear?
 Yes. I just want to voice my support for the short-term rentals in Fayetteville. I live in Little Rock, but bought a house in Fayetteville last year. It was going to be my second home, close to my daughter and my mom, but because of family reasons, it had to be turned into a part-time short-term rental. And this unfortunate turn of events has turned out to be wonderful for me,
 because I now have a homey place to stay when I come there. And when I'm not, it's in a short-term rental kept in tip-top shape and hosted by my management team, which takes care of everything. Having a place to stay in a local home, in a residential area, really gets a feel for Fayetteville when you're staying there.
 I've met my neighbors, discovered the Greenway, sampled the excellent restaurants in Fayetteville, and also enjoyed the Roots Festival. Staying in my house as a short-term rental, I've fallen in love with Fayetteville all over again. So I think having my home be a short-term rental has been a win-win situation for me as well as Fayetteville. Thank you. Thank you. Don McNaughton. Go ahead.
 Yep, can you hear me? Yep. Thank you guys for hearing our public comment tonight. So Don McNaughton, 3689 West Bowling Green, Fayetteville resident, president of the Northwest Arkansas Board of Realtors. We believe this is again an overreach of private property rights the way it's written. I see some challenges with that. I will name a few of them tonight. A
 When you talk about that they physically have to be present in one hour, we feel like that's unreasonable. I don't know what happens if they're taking a nap, if they're out to dinner, or if they have a baby, or maybe they have COVID or the flu. And I think of being available 24 hours a day, I guess people can't sleep. They're not allowed to go to sleep when they're doing that.
 and I think making them respond if you want an untrained civilian to respond to on short notice to confront bad behaving tenants, I see that as a potential situation. I think that the local law enforcement should be called whenever there's a situation like that and a wild party. I think that should be addressed. The apartment complexes are typically rented out and occupied
 So I know that they can't just turn it into a hotel for the weekend for a big event. So I understand trying to level the playing field, but I just don't think that's really an issue that's happening right now. I do believe it would limit people from even trying to open an Airstream trailer because it's illegal the way it's written. I believe the eight person cap with a I don't know what you do with a four bedroom home. It's a two story house with a living room and a den that could certainly hold more than eight people.
 So I don't think that's a realistic rule. I also don't believe that the one unit per multi family dwelling, that doesn't seem fair. If you own a duplex or fourplex, you can't make those short term rentals, all of them together. I think the purpose of leveling the playing field is too strict. I don't understand the special events not permitted, so a couple can't come visit our city on their anniversary.
 Five girls can't visit Fayetteville for a girls weekend to celebrate a birthday. And I think the density cap is unfair. The market will determine the density needed. As you know, as March of this year, Airbnbs stalled with COVID. Some owners did turn their Airbnb into long-term rentals instantly.
 I would be curious to know the numbers of, I know we have five to 600 before COVID. I would be curious to know what it is now. I know some people did stop. And I don't think that proving you rent it one or two times is enough. I could rent it to my cousin four times a year and keep the permit away from others. So those are some of my thoughts. I guess, thank you for letting us talk. We'll see you in a couple of weeks. Hey, thank you. Who else would like to address this? Pablo Pagliani. Okay, go ahead. Okay. Thank you.
 Can you guys hear me? Yeah. Okay. So my name is Pablo Pagliani. I'm a Fayetteville resident. I actually contemplated whether I should even say something today, wondering if what I would say would actually be taken into account. I figured if I didn't, though, I'd be the only one to blame for not stepping up whenever I had the chance.
 I do have to say that I'm kind of disappointed in the timing of this proposed ordinance, specifically due to, you know, the COVID and the pandemic that we're in, the time of year. So here I am, and I hope that what I say will matter to those making the decision today. I'm here to ask you to please put a pause on this ordinance. I think we need to slow this ruling down so that people like myself are given a fair opportunity to express their insights on the issues.
 and have our voices heard and taken into account. Me personally, as a personal anecdote, I've put my blood, sweat, and tears into my Airbnb, as I'm sure others have in this area.
 I know there's a lot more like me here locally in Fayetteville who have done the same. This means more to us than just a side hustle to just make a little bit more money, a little bit more profit. For many of us like myself and my wife, it's a matter of our livelihood. We are extremely proud of what the work we've done and we put into it and to achieve and now we're finally seeing the fruits of our labor. So we made a choice to do short-term rentals. We also have long-term rentals.
 But it's provided a source of income while allowing us to have full control of our property, unlike our long-term rentals. Airbnb, which is an STR platform and other platforms, are based off a checks and balance system where it behooves the property owners to really care about the homes and be held accountable on how to take care and treat these homes properly.
 and the neighborhoods they surround. If an Airbnb is not kept in top-notch condition, both internally and externally, it will receive poor guest reviews and be removed from the platform. A short-term rental success lives and dies based on these reviews.
 This has allowed us the ability to keep tabs on our property, which in turn has given us an opportunity to better this little community that it sits in. In fact, other neighbors with long-term rentals in the same community, which is an affordable housing community, have joined in and have started to actually improve and remodel their duplexes as well. It's actually helped in creating a sense of community and pride where people want to enhance the environment in which they live.
 And so I'm very proud of this, as you can tell. And in my case, this was possible due to our decision to do a short-term rental. Now that we have put countless hours, it seems like everything's getting flipped on its head. We love having our duplex where both sides are continually rented to people with different needs. And as a resting place to see and experience NWA in our beautiful town of Fayetteville.
 We love the opportunity that we've had where we can rent both sides. Sometimes we love our little duplex that can provide something economical for people which might otherwise not be able to stay here in Fayetteville.
 What I'm also very proud of, and I know I'm running out of time, but we're also very proud that we've been able to provide jobs to a single mother. This has literally been her sole source of income the past few months. COVID has really affected jobs, as you guys already know. And we love that we have been able to help this lady provide for her little family. So please take all this into account that this year has been amazing.
 We've all been affected due to the pandemic. Some of us have struggled financially and this would set us back even more as this gets tabled until we have all had an input on how this ordinance is written and discuss some very needed changes. In my case, I just can't see how my standalone duplex could ever be considered or turned into a hotel typology. And with that, I'm done. So thank you. Thank you. Melanie Chambers. Go ahead. Hello.
 Hello. Can you hear me? Yes. My name is Melanie Chambers. I'm an executive broker at Remax Associates. I live, play, and work in Fayetteville. I have owned Airbnbs VRBO since 2008 and as I'm speaking for myself and as a real estate professional that has sold numerous properties in Fayetteville for Airbnbs
 This extreme ordinance will severely hinder the sale of properties and also my customers of keeping their Airbnbs. They do not want to jump through a lot of loopholes to get what they need to do their Airbnb. Some of them just rent their bedrooms for extra income and again this puts a major hindrance on them. I know some of them have mentioned if a lot of this is passed.
 they will just go ahead and sell their properties and buy somewhere else. And hence, that will hurt the sale of properties in Fayetteville if we can't advertise them for being used as Airbnb to bring in extra income. It'll also hurt Fayetteville as far as that will shut down a lot of Airbnbs. They will go elsewhere to other towns that offer Airbnbs and visit those restaurants and those boutiques and spend their money in Bentonville or Springdale or wherever else.
 You know, we have enough regulations on our own as far as keeping the property sanitary and clean, and we strive to keep our five-star ratings that we don't need any more regulations. The caps, as far as some of our properties, we have five and six bedrooms with the maximum of eight. I find it's ridiculous. We have...
 plenty of space for those parties and for y'all to tell a property owner what they can and can't do with their properties as far as special occasions. I can't imagine trying to explain to people that are booking with us, sorry, you can't have your get together here. You can't have your baby shower here because the city of Fayetteville won't allow it.
 You know, we're kind of already known as not really being business friendly and we don't need any help. So I'm just really concerned of how this is written. I'm not for sure how this has come about anyway. Again, we have been doing Airbnbs and VRBOs since 2008. We took a lot of our long-term properties and turned them into short-term to kind of get rid of the problems that we were having with our long-terms.
 And again, we have never had the police called. We've never had wild parties thrown at our properties. We've never, ever had any complaints. So I don't know what all brought this on. I think, you know, a lot, if you start passing a lot of this, you know, you're going to keep people from buying investment property in Fayetteville to use as an Airbnb. They're going to buy elsewhere and we're going to all lose on this.
 So telling people how they can run their properties, how many people they can have in it, requiring us to do spreadsheets of how many people that are in the properties, who we book to, our guest rates, and for it to be available anytime the city request is very overreaching on your part. I cannot stress this enough to please revisit this.
 or not supported at all, I don't even know, it will kill the short-term rentals. They will go somewhere else. They will sell their properties and go to different towns if you'll pass and keep this ordinance the way it's written. It's already hard enough to sell Fayetteville, again, because we're not really known as being business friendly and do not contribute by passing this ordinance or rewrite or get rid of a lot of that. Again, we take great pride in running our Airbnbs.
 We thrive for our five stars and I cannot stress enough, we have enough regulations. Do not pass this ordinance the way it is. Thank you. Thank you. Who else? Fernando Guevara. Go ahead. Can everybody hear me? Yes. Okay, perfect. My name is Fernando Guevara. I live in Fayetteville most of the time.
 I wanted to bring my perspective from the perspective of an owner operator of both long-term rentals and short-term rentals in Fayetteville. I own and operate about 20 doors in Fayetteville. A few are short-term rentals and most are long-term rentals. And you think that as a short-term rental operator, hearing about caps in the amount of short-term rentals in the city is,
 would be something positive, at least for my business. But I'm having a hard time understanding why we need the caps in the number of short-term rentals. I think trying to regular the short-term rentals, the number of short-term rentals is like trying to set, trying to set a cap on the number of short-term rentals is like trying to set a cap on the number of Ubers, for example, operating in a certain city.
 I find it completely unnecessary. We don't really, there's really no need to do that because the market will regulate itself, like other people said, with reviews. And also operating short-term rentals is not an easy task. I mean, it requires a lot of work. It takes coordinating cleaners,
 communicating with guests, a big amount of communication with guests. So it's actually not an easy thing to do. So I don't know if the council realizes the fluidity of the short term rental business in Fayetteville. For every two short term rentals and might open up, there might be another one going out of business or out of the listing.
 I also wanted to say that a short-term rental is generally good for the neighborhood or the street that it's located at. I can tell you that, and this relates to the fluidity, I switch some of my short-term rentals and my long-term rentals all the time. As a matter of fact, I just switch a duplex every...
 from a short-term rental to a long-term rental. And when it was a short-term rental, I used to stop at that duplex maybe twice a week. I used to have a gardener there for the yard. I had a cleaning person. I had people working there. And I used to stop there every, you know, a few times a week, making sure that everything was looking fine. Since I switched it to a long-term rental, I just realized today, I stopped by today, that I hadn't been there in a month.
 So the property was much better taken care of when it was a short-term rental and it was much better for the neighborhood and the street when it was a short-term rental than a long-term rental. Finally, I'd like to say that if the issues are parties or the issues are concerns with noise, why not just focus on the bad apples? Why making everybody suffer with unnecessary burden
 And instead of just focusing on the people that are repeat offenders, if there is a short-term rental in the city that has repeat complaints about noise or parties, why not just focus on those people? I mean, say they have a couple of complaints a year, then looking at a fine or revoking their business license. But I find it unnecessary to make everybody suffer because of a few bad apples. There's also things that you can do such as
 You know, noise sensors in there's there's devices that can test noise in each place and they will alert you in case there's any parties or loud music going on. So that might be something to consider instead of just making everybody go through all these unnecessary burdens. And that's that's my input for tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Kathleen Everett. Go ahead.
 All right. My name is Kathleen Everett and I live on Adobe Street in Fayetteville. I'm the director of a group of real estate investors here in Northwest Arkansas. And our members own both long and short term rentals in Fayetteville. And first of all, let me say that I applaud and support your effort to make short term rentals legal in the community. And
 And, frankly, I don't see that we have a problem with short-term rentals. Garner Stoll mentioned that there has not been complaints. I just don't understand the need and...
 Perhaps if we needed a business registry, that might make sense. But I see no need for conditional use permits because of what other people have said about maintaining short term rentals. City inspections, the same thing. Short term rentals are better maintained than most of the housing in Northwest Arkansas.
 I myself live across the street from a short-term rental duplex has two units in it that are both short-term rentals and it's actually improved the neighborhood we've had neighbors on two sides that have painted their property and and upgraded the landscaping um
 And it's just been a very positive effect. Have had no issues with parking, no issues with major noise or parties. And...
 Let's see, limiting the short-term rentals to one unit per multifamily doesn't make sense to me. I mean, short-term rental and long-term renters have different requirements and desires, not always compatible with people. Okay.
 And then as far as the permanent structure, I think it would be more fun to do a short-term rental in a houseboat. Or I know one person who has a treehouse. I mean, Fayetteville is supposed to be known for being funky and unique and fun. And I just think limiting that permanent structure takes away the fun.
 What we're requesting is that you table this ordinance, get more input, and particularly input from small investors who will be most affected by these regulations. We're working.
 We're asking that you remember that this just seems like an overreach for me. So let's take a look at this and see if we can get rid of a lot of these regulations that may or may not have a problem. And that's my input. Thanks for your time and good work.
 I do want to say to everybody that's about to speak that this is not going to be passed tonight. This is going to be held for at least two weeks. So it's not like this is the last night you're going to get to speak. So I want that clear to everybody. All right. Who's next? Lisa Pagliani. Okay. Go ahead. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Okay, so thank you for your time. I would like to echo actually several who've already spoken here. I definitely agree with a lot of things that have been said this evening from the public. I know, as you said, this is already gonna be tabled at least for two weeks. I think it probably should be tabled even longer. I think there is definitely a lot of work that still needs to go into this. And I agree that I think it's overreaching and overbearing.
 There's a lot that's in here that is unnecessary. And I definitely think it should be put on hold to the short-term rental community. Like small investors like myself can play a larger role in shaping the regulations that will greatly and significantly impact us. Many of us short-term rental owners, along with our employees or independent contractors, depend on our short-term properties to provide a significant portion of our income, if not all of it.
 If there is any time to be extremely mindful and thoughtful about passing regulations that will impact income of local Fayetteville residents, it's right now in 2020 and 2021. During a worldwide pandemic that has already hurt many of us significantly financially. My duplex can make double if not triple what I can make as a long-term rental and I depend on it as a short-term rental today.
 I've strategically and financially invested in this property accordingly to lose the ability to use this property, even just one side of it and only use, you know, not be able to use both sides of it as an Airbnb would not only negatively impact my family, but my Airbnb cleaner. The person who manages the out the property, the yard and other other other maintenance within the duplex, it would impact all of us.
 Running a duplex as an Airbnb creates efficiency in managing the property from a cleaning and maintenance perspective. It only takes my cleaner maybe two hours or three hours to clean as a small little duplex. And so it's a lot more efficient if I have a double checkout that she can clean both and she's right there. She doesn't have to spend time driving across Bayville to a different Airbnb. And so that makes it a lot more efficient for all of us to work.
 One more quick call out I would like to make is regarding the inspections. A couple high level thoughts would be one, I do think this potentially opens the door for long term rental inspections. It doesn't actually make sense why you want to inspect a short term rental, but you're not going to inspect a long term rental, like as if they're completely different, right? People are still living in there as rentals. I don't think we want to open that door to long term rentals, and as many people have said,
 Air Airbnbs or short term rentals live and die based on guest reviews. If your house is not safe or your property is not safe, you're going to be shut down. People are going to give you poor reviews and you're not going to last long at all. And number two, you know, something to think about with inspections is how this impacts maybe even older homes that don't meet all of the new and modern codes.
 How are those going to be handled during inspection? So I think it's important to think of all of these repercussions. It's also noteworthy to reiterate that guest reviews will swiftly manage and weed out poorly managed and maintained properties.
 And for all of the reasons I've mentioned, which are far from being comprehensive, but I think it's very important to review this ordinance again. I don't think it can pass in its current form. I think there's a serious risk and I think there's serious repercussions to pushing the ordinance through as is, whereas minimal impact to maintain status quo until further review. So that's what I have, thank you. Okay, let me explain this again. This is an ordinance
 This is the first reading of the ordinance. Then we're going to go two weeks. I can assure you the council is going to go two weeks, and we're going to go to the second reading of the ordinance. And then this ordinance can go another two weeks, and then we would have a third reading, which would put it,
 Later on. And with possible several revisions in between. And there's going to be obviously revisions in between. So I don't think anybody's trying to push anything through tonight. So this is going to be, we have just begun the process of,
 Keep in mind, this is an ordinance. It's not about tabling it for two weeks. The natural course of an ordinance is that you read it the first, then you have a second reading, and then you have a third reading. So this thing could go on into January. Could. It's possible. Okay. Who's next? Taylor Rayburn. Okay. Go ahead. Everyone hear me? Barely. I'm contemplating tabling this until next time so I can go to bed. Okay.
 Taylor Rayburn, my wife Erica and I own Stay in WA in Fayetteville, address 2061 North Bridgeton Court. We own and operate four Airbnbs. Those are that we personally own and we manage over 40. We've been doing this since 2017 and we have hosted over 2,000 guest reservations.
 um every point that was made tonight is is spot on in regards to um our stances we were really in favor of an ordinance but a reasonable ordinance uh and the overreaching on some of the um the density caps and you know i i think
 LEFT IS A FREE MARKET. IT IS TRULY A SELF-REGULATING MARKET AND IF YOU ACTUALLY LOOK AT THE DATA WHICH WE HAVE ACCESS TO SOFTWARE THAT SHOWS US THE DATA, THIS YEAR IS A GREAT EXAMPLE OF WHEN WE STARTED THIS CONVERSATION BACK IN MIDDLE END OF LAST YEAR VERSUS NOW THE CITY OF FAYEVILLE IS DOWN SEVERAL HUNDRED ACTIVE LISTINGS.
 because of several factors, the biggest being COVID, but also that goes going back to self-regulation. If people aren't making money, then they revert to other things like long-term rental or they sell their property. So I think putting regulation on the amount of properties that you can own and,
 per multifamily dwelling, it just doesn't make a lot of sense because it removes the flexibility, a very large key flexibility aspect of owning real estate in Northwest Arkansas. But besides all those points, because again, all those were pretty much touched on, I know we're going to have another meeting. I really want to talk through what we do and what we provide as a service to our guests. We're not a hotel. We're not a motel.
 We're not a long-term rental. The people that come to us and stay with us a lot of times are just business travelers or coming to see the community. But a good chunk of the time we have
 families that come in that do not, you know, staying in traditional lodging, a traditional hotel, just doesn't make a lot of sense for them. They're a family coming to celebrate. Last week, we actually hosted a family that they were celebrating their grandparents, what would have been a 50th wedding anniversary. And their grandmother just died of COVID three months ago.
 and their grandfather is not doing well and doesn't have too long. So it was really the last hurrah for that whole family. Just so you know, that family had 10 people in their group staying in one of our properties. So this ordinance could potentially impact that family from having that last hurrah with their grandfather.
 We host adoptions all the time. Typically, when an adoptive family comes in, they're looking to adopt. They have to actually be in the city, be here to go through the legal process, to go to the hospital between 10 and 14 days. Bringing a newborn baby to an unknown environment like a hotel is not it's not suitable and not customary for them. So they need something as an alternative as we're short term rentals come in.
 to play. I think it was Don McNaughton that mentioned the special events aspect. I think that's just kind of an arbitrary part that could be taken out.
 Last one, we had last year a little girl that stayed at one of our properties on block that was coming up to see her first Razorback game. She is six years old. Since then, since she was born, she has a heart condition, a congenital heart condition. Her life expectancy is 12. And since she was born, she's had either 11 or 12 open heart surgeries, and she came in to see her first Razorback.
 hog football game. And we went all out, we bought her pom poms, a little Razorback cheerleader outfit, tons of memorabilia. So I just want you guys to know when you're passing these ordinances and putting these rules and restrictions, the majority of people that you're affecting are not large investors, large conglomerates, large development companies that are coming in to buy up, buy up properties, and you know, make the most profit possible. It's,
 local Fayetteville residents, just like my wife and I, we have three children. We've been here for almost 10 years now. And we represent over 25 owners that are a majority all Fayetteville natives that they're doing this as a second home or an investment property. And it's just a way to host people.
 in a different niche market other than just, you know, hosting a long-term rental and, you know, going year by year doing that. So that's my point. I really just wanted to bring the human aspect into it because I think that that is missed sometimes. 15 seconds to finish up. That's all I got. Okay, thank you. Karen McAllister. Go ahead. Hi, this is Max McAllister, Karen's. I'm right here, too. Karen's hostess.
 We live at about 50 days out of the year, 50, 60 days out of the year. We live at 515 North Park Avenue. My family and I are from Fayetteville, and I'm going to retire there probably the next year. And so in the meantime, we've found some property that we liked, and we bought it, and we were going to rent it out. We've ended up doing short-term rentals with it.
 So, you know, I don't understand how this could be possibly in competition with hotels. It's just not the same thing unless you're going to buy an expensive multi-room suite in a hotel, which you're not going to find too many of those around. Yeah.
 And it's hard to get rid of, if you have a problem, or it's hard to get rid of one if it's a long-term rental until the next moving season when you think you can maybe get rid of that person and find somebody else in the time, in the slow season of finding renters. And so as you drive down the street, usually you can tell which houses have long-term renters and which don't. The ones with short-term rentals,
 Usually they have enough money to keep up their home, the lawn mowed, picked up, painted, everything else, property maintained a lot better. If you have long-term renters, your margins are a lot thinner, so you can't reinvest like we do into the home, which we plan on living on fairly shortly. It's easy to get rid of a problem if it's a short-term renter, but...
 And I have my particular house, I have a six person cap, but if they have a couple of guests and kids, they can easily go over 10. And that's kind of, you know, that's just an opportunity for a neighbor to complain, you know, arbitrarily, you know, they're not feeling happy that day. So outside, you know, I have a camera on the parking area. So I know when there's a party and I,
 make a text or a phone call. I have a noise sensor. It tells me if somebody's getting a little too loud. It emails me and lets me know that. These are normal things that people do when they have these places because they don't want to upset the neighbors. I can't, I have to be a lot more tolerant of people, obnoxious people, if I have a long-term renter. And unfortunately, that's, I've learned that the hard way. So the folks I've had are 99%,
 great people that have rented. I've noticed that. And that's all I have to say. Thank you. So Mr. Haney, you've been waiting patiently. Go ahead. Thank you so much for indulging Bentonvillian, who is a proud ex-Fayettevillian and still happy to own property there that serves both short-term guests and long-term residents.
 I had my whole story written out, but for the sake of brevity and also introducing possibly a small amount of dialogue here at the very end, I'd mostly echo what other property owners have mentioned already. If I am permitted to ask a question, it would just be to ask what was the reasoning behind the eight-person occupancy limit, regardless of the home size. It seems...
 counterproductive on the surface to, to if we are allowing larger homes, but insisting that they'd be marketed as smaller homes. I'm but, but I recognize that I might've missed something there. We have the, the party, the,
 the party exclusion as an additional requirement that I don't necessarily disagree with. But if any council members will indulge me in a little dialogue, could anyone explain what the thinking was behind that person occupancy limit? Mr. Haney, you have five minutes. Now, staff can answer your question, but it's going to eat into your five minutes of time. Would you like to answer Mr. Haney's question about why we chose eight minutes?
 Mayor, it's real simple. We have occupancy requirements for long-term rental. They're less than half of eight. The issue there was to try to address over-occupancy, where there are so many people staying there with lots of cars. We understand the two-per-bedroom plus two.
 that Mr. Humphrey said is kind of an industry standard and that's certainly an option that council can consider. But it really was trying to relate the occupancy that we allow in short-term rentals somewhat to what we allow on long-term rentals, which is very, very restrictive.
 Thank you, Frank, sir. You got a little over two minutes. I appreciate it. Thank you. And no, that makes sense in terms of consistency with city policy. I guess in that case, I would also mention as a long-term property owner that that is one policy that has never quite made sense to me, particularly in a town with many college students. And it's also a policy where...
 as I understand it and as I've experienced, is not enforced unless there are complaints from a neighbor, in which case one time in five years of owning and renting property, sometimes with more than three unrelated members, we've received a letter once but
 Yeah, I guess it's just raises other questions about why that policy exists. But that's not the point of the time. I thank you for answering the question anyhow and would only echo what others have said. So I will yield my remaining minute and a half and thank you all for considering all of our input and a very late night. Thank you. Thank you. Who else would like to address? That's all, Mayor. Okay. Well, I'm going to bring this back to the council.
 I suppose we're going to be leaving this for a couple of weeks unless there's any objections from the council. I don't hear any, Mayor. Mayor, can I suggest that we take a month that we bring this back up in January after the first of the year? If that's possible, because it seems like we're going to have a lot of public input.
 And there might be a lot of things that need to be maybe considered a little bit more with this. Well, we've got it already.
 It's already there. You all are going to have to make some kind of motion and second to table it until the first of the year because right now we have an ordinance which is on the table. It'll be heard in two weeks unless there's a motion to table it longer. Yes, longer. I'm okay with making a motion for that table.
 I think we do need to look at the legality of this, but I also believe that we need this, even though we didn't have any neighborhoods speak. That's definitely a voice that's missing that I think would be very upset to find out that their neighbor can allow 12 people.
 on a regular returning basis in a neighborhood. So I think that the neighborhoods need to know about this. They kind of lose their mind when we talk about adding a duplex that might add like four people, but now we're talking about adding possibly 12 new people on a regular basis. I think that they need to come to the table and going for a little bit longer make that happen.
 So, Sloan, you think that you would suggest tabling it for the first meeting in January versus letting it go through the normal process of coming back in two weeks and then maybe again in two weeks, which would be the first meeting in January? Yeah, I'm fine with that. It seems like Council Member Turk was also interested in that as well. Okay. Okay.
 I would support waiting until January for the next discussion. Okay. I just want to make sure who made the motion, who made the second. I'll just make it formally. I move that we hold this item until the first city council meeting in January. Second. Okay. Motion to table until the first meeting in January. All right. Do we need any discussion on it?
 Okay, let's go ahead. I would just like to pipe in since I'll no longer be here in January. You know, I think that it's really important to remember that
 One of the primary objectives of this is to preserve housing affordability and options in rentals. And, you know, I heard a lot of the public comment talking about how they're making so much more money off of short term rentals than they do long term rentals. And the economic case does support that. And that's why we need the regulation to balance that out and make sure that we still have
 long-term rentals available and that not all of our housing stock is bought up by out-of-town investors looking to turn a profit on short-term rentals, but that the people who want to actually live here have the opportunity to live here. I think that's really important.
 But I also agree with the issues with the occupancy regulations. I think about, you know, if you want to have a family reunion, you know, I've got like six brothers and sisters. Does that mean only one of my parents can come? And I think that that's arbitrary and we actually need to look at the capacity of each family.
 of each unit. I like the idea of tying it to bedrooms, but then also I do think we need to have limits on automobiles because it's one thing when you've got a family of 10 people and, you know, six of them are minors, but it's another, when you've got,
 10 adults and all of them bringing their automobiles and creating issues that way. So I do think we have to look at that. But ultimately, I think it's moving in a good direction. But let's just keep the priority of preserving housing units for people who actually live here to the greatest extent possible. So thank you. Since I also won't be here in January, I think what Councilmember Marsh just said is
 Really, honestly, the comments we heard tonight made that case that if we're going to serve our purpose in preserving the public interest and pursuing our affordable housing goals, that incentivizing taking more of them off the market is counterproductive to that.
 Just to identify some trends in the comments there, this was repeatedly called an overreach. And so I was wondering, Garner or Mary, remind us, what is the current state of regulation for short-term rentals in Fayetteville? They are illegal less than renting by the week or longer. So all the daily rentals are illegal. Okay.
 And the state law also requires HMR taxes to be collected. And this provides a vehicle for doing that. So I know it's late and I don't want to extend the hearing, but the goal here was not to make it difficult. In fact, we really, really were trying to,
 DO THE MINIMAL REGULATIONS IN ORDER TO GET PEOPLE IN THE DOOR, MAKE SURE THEY PAY THEIR TAXES, AND MAKE SURE THAT IT'S SAFE. AND THEY'RE NOT INSPECTED TO PRESENT BILLING CODE. MANY OF THESE ARE BUILT IN DIFFERENT ERAS. THEY JUST, THE ORDINANCE REALLY ASKS FOR A MINIMAL INGRESS AND EGRESS SAFETY INSPECTION.
 I think it I think the lot of valid points are made tonight but I really would like for folks to kind of back up a little bit and look at we we try to err on minimal minimal regulations almost to a fault compared to ordinances we find in other communities.
 Thank you for clarifying that because what I heard was a lot of calls to not pass this at all. And I want to make it real clear that if something doesn't pass here, the status quo is that all the people who spoke tonight talking about their history and short term rentals are currently in violation of our zoning code. And what is the fine for operating one of those under our current situation?
 Well, we haven't. It's a zoning violation. And fortunately, those are complaint driven and this would still be a complaint driven sort of situation. And we haven't had to prosecute too many, but we have in the past had to prosecute for over occupancy because of the adverse effects that can have on the neighborhood with too many cars there and just too many people around. And the neighbors were complaining and so.
 I know the city prosecutor worked a long time to try to resolve that. He had to bring people in with a prosecutor's subpoena to require them to testify. And eventually, in that particular case, we actually, the fine resulted in first $2,000 with $1,000 extra suspended, and then finally $3,000 because the landlord didn't go, you know, didn't do the right thing initially anyway.
 So there was a $3,000 fine, but keep in mind, and this is a long-term rental, not a short-term rental, the landlord still made probably plenty of extra money by having too many people in there, more money than we find him. So it is, our fines are very small allowed, and then, of course, it's up to the judge. And so generally...
 That's not the best way to enforce this. And I have, you know, I think there's other ways to enforce this. And I'm going to have some suggestions for some alternatives on what we could look at. I think we can do this legally and just wait to be seen.
 Well, I appreciate that too, because what I want to do is implore the folks who are going to be back in January to keep in mind the reality of what they're asking for. And to attempt to focus their comments in a way that helps the council find a regulation that's reasonable, as opposed to an unknown judge determined fine for doing what they've been doing all this time.
 And I think the last comment that I want to respond to is the assertion that this might somehow open the door to long-term rental habitability inspections. And while I think the state of Arkansas currently has made clear that that's not an option,
 Oh, if we could, because that is a public safety issue. And providing this minimal inspection here on this for people who are out of town, we ought to be able to provide at least that for our permanent residents. Currently, folks who receive housing assistance through HUD funding, get their rentals inspected
 and folks who pay their own way do not and that's something that needs to change so when you all see this again in january i hope the comments will be a little more tuned to a reasonable outcome and i look forward to seeing what y'all come up with
 You know, I appreciate, you know, the council members that are not going to be with us again in January. And, you know, I kind of regret that, that you're not going to be part of this process or not in the same way. You can always call in as a member of the public. But, but, you know, so I really appreciate Kyle's and Sarah's comments and what, you know, Kit
 asserted that he's going to come up with some simple solutions there. I think we need to try and keep this as simple as possible if we're going to do this, but I don't even like the implication that we're going to start slapping fines on people because they're breaking a zoning ordinance.
 You know, because there are a lot of people that are doing this and I see you raising your eyebrows like whatever, you know, but it's.
 It seems like it should be okay. It seems like people should be able to do whatever they want to, as long as they're not, you know, befouling the neighborhood and creating a problem. And it seems like they should be able to do this. And most people don't think about the zoning that their house is in, and that it's not exactly legal. So I'm not too keen on threatening people or, you know,
 or even the implication that we've got your names now and we know what you're doing, because there's a lot of people out there that we found out in this focus group that did not even know they were breaking the law, that had one unit, they bought a house 30, 40 years ago, they lived in it, they moved somewhere else, they still had this house, they turned it into an Airbnb. I mean, it was not...
 So we have a lot of people that fit into that category that are smaller owners, and they probably just don't even have any clue that they're doing anything that could even be considered wrong. And the neighbors have not even complained about them. Nobody has a problem with them. So I don't want to go into that realm there. That's like...
 And you're right, I was raising my eyebrows because I was nodding along with you. That's an excellent point. And I sincerely hope that that's not the way this ends up either. I hope that it becomes a productive conversation where everybody's moving towards a goal that avoids that. But the comments tonight did not all sound like they were going to approach that to the end goal. And we only, we didn't have a whole lot of people from neighborhoods.
 One of the people that spoke at our focus group was, I think it was focus group, it could have been our city council meeting the first time we talked about this, was Will Dockery. And he said there are several Airbnbs on his street, and I believe he had no problem with them. He didn't.
 see that there was an issue with him and he's someone that you know is always very active and engaged in the city and and he'll I'm sure he'll be watching and let me know if I've got that wrong because it's been a long time since we saw some of these uh went to some of these meetings and it's kind of passed through hand several hands at the city uh the first person that started with it's no longer with the city and you know that sort of thing so it's kind of but it but we have
 Okay, well what we have right now is a motion and a second to table to the first of the year. So, at this time, Karen, would you please call the roll? Petty. Petty. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Bunch. Yes. Turd. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Inion. Yes. Yes.
 Okay, table it is for the first meeting of January. Right. Okay, let's move right along to number 17. An ordinance to clarify the COVID-19 safety protections and improvements may be required before renewing a certificate of public convenience and necessity and to approve an emergency clause.
 Whereas in order to protect the health and safety of Fayetteville citizens and visitors, new coronavirus safety measures such as requiring face masks, limited occupancy, social distancing, and regular disinfection of vehicles and equipment should be required to renew a certificate of public convenience and necessity. Now, therefore, it be it ordained by the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, Section 1,
 At the City Council of the City of Fayetteville, Arkansas, I hereby amend Section 117.89, the license fees of the Fayetteville Code, by changing its title to License Fees and Renewals, and by placing all current language within a new subsection A, Annual License Fees, and by enacting a new subsection B as follows.
 Quote subsection B, renewal of existing certificates. Any certificate of public convenience and necessity may be renewed only if it's in full compliance with all current terms and conditions and parentheses during the coronavirus pandemic emergency on parentheses with all coronavirus safety precautions, such as mask wearing for all customers while riding in a carriage.
 Occupancy limitations of a single household family unit per carriage. Proper social distancing rules for customers awaiting service. Disinfecting the carriage after each use. And other pandemic emergency regulations supported or recommended by the City Board of Health, the State Department of Health, or other infectious disease authority.
 Section 2, that the City Council of the City of Fayetteville-Arks are hereby determines that to protect the health and safety of Fayetteville citizens, residents, and visitors during this increasing pandemic emergency, additional coronavirus safety measures for persons riding in carriages using city streets need to become effective immediately, and therefore the City Council declares an emergency exists
 such that this ordinance and its regulations to protect the health and safety of our citizens, residents, and visitors must and shall be effective immediately upon its passage and approval of this ordinance. Mayor, as you remember, I wrote this ordinance because you and Susan came down and said, what are we going to do? We've got somebody wanting to get those carriage rides going again.
 And I would not sign off on the carriage rides because I felt like, you know, it wasn't exactly the same. And I appreciate that, and I think that was the right thing to do. But looking at the code, I felt like we should have it clearly in the code.
 that we can require these emergency coronavirus safety precautions in order for someone to continue with their certificate of convenience and necessity. And that's exactly what I tried to do in drafting this particular code.
 amendment to give us that authority so apart from that or you want to say anything else answer any questions from the City Council if you have any about this the numbers it was going up the way they were going across the state and
 i wanted to be sure that we were going to do carriage rides that they were done safely and if they weren't going to be done safely i wouldn't i'll be honest with you i wasn't going to sign off on it so kit said well we have the safety regulations in there for the carriage rides and they will have to make sure they're safe so i'm more comfortable with that i think you did the right thing i don't know if the city council has any questions themselves about this anybody got any questions
 Everybody tired? I bet you all thought I was kidding when I told Bob Stafford to say he said 11, but here we are. Okay. If we don't have any questions, I'll take some public comment. Everybody gets one turn to speak.
 Five minute duration, cut into segments of three and two minutes. Don't engage anyone from the public or any city council member. Stay on the topic. No rude behavior. Please give us your name and address and federal residents will speak first. Who would like to address this from the public? Nobody. All right. Well, that's easy enough. I'm going to bring it back to the council. What's the wishes of the council? Move we suspend the rules and go to the second reading. Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second to go to the second reading. Kara, would you please call the roll? Petty. Petty. Scroggins. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Kerr. Yes. Smith. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes.
 An ordinance to clarify that coronavirus safety protections and improvements may be required before renewing a certificate of public convenience and necessity and to approve an emergency clause. I move we suspend the rules and go to the third and final reading. Second. May we have a motion and a second to go to the third and final reading. Karen, would you please call the vote? Petty. Froggen. Yes. Bunch. Yes. Turr. Yes. Menn. Yes. Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. In order to clarify that coronavirus safety protections and improvements may be required before renewing a certificate of public convenience and necessity and to approve an emergency plan. Final comments from the council. All right. Caravans, please call the roll. Petty? Grogan? Yes. Bunch? Yes. Tur? Yes. Smith? Yes.
 Gutierrez? Yes. Marsh? Yes. Kenyon? Yes. Mr. Mayor, we need a separate vote to approve the Emergency Clause. Okay. I need a separate, but I need a motion and a second to pass the Emergency Clause. So moved. Second. Okay. Did you get that, Karen? All right. Thank you all. Karen, would you please call the roll? Eddy? Scroggins? Yes. Bunch? Yes.
 Yes. Man. Yes. Gutierrez. Yes. Marsh. Yes. Kenyon. Yes. Okay. Well, that concludes our business.
 Kara, I believe you had an announcement you wanted to make tonight. Yes, thank you so much, Mayor Jordan. So we've already had one council member contact the city clerk office in order to volunteer to be with us on Friday afternoon to do their records destruction. We really need to have one or two more so that four to five hour time period can be split up amongst more council members. So if you have an availability on Friday afternoon
 from 1 to 4 possibly 5 p.m please get in contact with our office so we can get that scheduled and set up thank you so much okay you have anything Susan no sir nothing all right actually really good work tonight Council that was a huge agenda but y'all did really really well I'm real real proud of you real good work um and we'll be back here in two weeks I've got
 kind of recap a little bit i've got three items coming back in two weeks which is two rezonings and the contract and then we have the uh trail side economic thing and the um help me out here i just lost it short-term rental coming back in january how could i forget that until january for that i appreciate that all right thank you all very much we're adjourned