Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Francik. Present. Council Member Golombek. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Warren. Present. A stamp of pledge. I'll call you back. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We're pleased to have with us today, pastor of the First Shiloh Church, Reverend Jonathan Staples, who will lead us in our invocation. Not only is the church a church, but they have built a significant development in the Ellicott District, one of the first to be built on the scale that it has been and really takes care of that community, the church. And we are so honored and pleased to have you in our chambers today, sir. Let's pray together. Loving God, we thank you for the chance to serve. We bless your name for the opportunity to join in with you in what you are doing. In the partisan world in which we live, God, remind us that this is your world. Remind us that you call us to love one another, encourage one another, support one another, pray for one another. restore one another and yes bless one another remind us that we are called to work together and not win encourage us to be our brothers and sisters keepers we pray bless our deliberation this day and in the days to come that they would be in peace and not in an uproar that they would be thoughtful and not selfish that they would be in love and not in hate We ask this in your name, the only name that matters. And yea, God, we give thanks. Amen. Amen. Thank you, sir. Pastor, for Sunday is his 12th anniversary at the trial. 12th anniversary. Congratulations. Seems like you just arrived here. And let me correct myself in your title. It is Reverend Dr. Jonathan Staples. Yes, no, I give honor. You did all the work, the real work to get there, right? Council members, any memorials? Council Member Fontana. Mr. Lane Blyden passed away. Lane was a good... steward of this community for many, many years. In fact, I never knew Elaine's history. I just remembered her from the Bob Lanier Center over at where Mr. Prantek went to high school, the old Turner Carroll there. And she was always there working for the kids. I said, what's this woman's connection to the neighborhood? So one day we had lunch, and he told me, and I said, oh, that blew my mind. So I'm so glad that Buffalo News did a nice editorial obituary on her. They did a very nice write-up, so we want to thank the Buffalo News for that. It really tells people of the true heroes in our community, and Elaine was one of them. We miss her, and we wish her family all God's peace. Absolutely. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to honor and give respect to the family of Richard Nelson. Richard Nelson is one of my mentors, somebody who started at the NICYO and was one of those people who constantly was on us as young men to be responsible. We pray for his family and his loss, but he was someone that really showed me something, how to be a man, how to be responsible. Bless his family. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Councilmember Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside community lost Charles Damiano this past week. He leaves behind his wife of 62 years, Mary, as well as children and grandchildren. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his friends, and the Riverside community. Anyone else? Since our last meeting, we had one soldier to give his life in the... fight for freedom for our country and for others with all of those names that are called we pause in these chambers for a moment thank you i don't believe we have any special presentations On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on September 18, 2018 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections to late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to object to a late file if you have not had time to review it when it is before you. I believe that we have some items to be taken out of order. Mr. Chairman motion to take out of order the following and following order 49 50 51 54 out of submission item 32 and 33 32 and 33 out of legislation of the legislation second by councilmember why I'm 49 is Delvin branch library motion to adopt Motion to adopt second by council member Fontana. Item 50 discharge item 18892 regarding 367 lakefront. Motion to approve the discharge. Second by council member Wyatt. Item 51 discharge riverside towing and 612 northland. Item. Motion to approve the discharge second by council member for your letter 54 request consider renaming of Niagara branch library motion for that second by council member friends that from legislation item 32 public hearing naming 612 Northland Open the promotion that is the item number 32 motion open a public hearing second by council member wing old anyone here in the chambers and I know that I person who kind of inspired this name is here so we'll yield to him first Mr. Herdman Thank you Mr. Chairman, Common Council I appreciate the opportunity to speak on behalf of naming the building Gilmore Law Firm and a couple of Del Mar conventions who was the Council President, Council Member of the Aspen District 5134 these changes to God. Do you, if I look around here today and see all of these faces that I see here, I'm walking down Ferry Street that saw all of these people of honor and all the things that they had done. And I said, there's one name that's not there and should be there, that you played a very, very important part making the city of Buffalo what it is today. Oh, you can just be seated. You can be seated. You don't have to stand, Mr. Thank you. The city often wondered what was going on in the back room. I've never seen him come down from here to come there. Any time you'd have a council meeting and there was a problem, all of a sudden there was an adjournment. He'd go back in the back room and he'd come and he'd put up the problem while it was solved. I think he got the Councilman's Funds Act The real councilman, and I don't mean it, just with a good friend, and most certainly a dear friend, Councilman Mitchell. And Councilman Mitchell was always concerned about the mask and this, he said he knew Buffalo, came to Buffalo, fell in love with Buffalo, he got involved in the government operation, this building, first thing he did, Where are you in school? Yes, sir. Thank you. Is there anyone else to be heard on this item? Mr. Franz, I knew I could not close without Mr. Franz, because he gave me some information the other day on that item that he loved. Mr. Franz? Yes, thank you, Mr. President. It was good listening to you. Mr. Herndon, also known as the man with the plan. And I remember Ed Herndon here back in those good old days, back in the 60s, and he brought back a lot of memories when I used to hang around here, because just about everybody with a Pranzac worked in City Hall, including my dad, who was chief of staff at the council, my uncle, who was a majority leader of the Common Council, and and people used to ask me how'd you get that job in the parks department they asked me and she said gee i don't know how i got it but anyway uh delmar mitchell was uh i remember chet barsky then delmar mitchell was um council president and there's certain things that um i remember first of all he spent the time talking to younger people such as myself at that time i mean most people wouldn't give you the time of day but he certainly did and uh when he was presiding over the meetings if there was a heated discussion He never raised his voice. I never saw him raise his voice once. He was very diplomatic and gentlemanly, and he never wanted to be part of a division insofar as, I think there were, I want to say, it could remind me, I think there were 15 councilmen at the time, at large and low in the district, and he said he didn't want to provide the majority in any vote. I remember that very distinctly. And he said, you be the 8th, I'll be the 9th. as if he had 15. So he would not provide that swing vote that provided the majority. He says, you all work it out. He said, I'm presiding over the meetings. I'm the council president. You all work it out, and then I'll be the vote after you get your majority. And he always operated that way. And I spoke to his sister-in-law the other day, and I went to school with his son, Greg, who now lives out of state. He's got other family. And I think if there's a dedication at Northland, after this body approves us, which I know we will, if there's dedication, I think some of the family members may try to be there. And certainly, as I suggested, Peter Camerata, whose father was very active here at City Hall for many years, a very nice man. We have, he reminded me in 68 or 69 at one of the meetings at Cooperstown, New York, Baseball Hall of Fame at the Otisaga Inn. There used to be Association of New York State Council Members, and Peter said, but gee, that was 50 years ago. And I said, you're right, it was 50 years ago. But I remember being there, and I remember the councilmen were kind of relaxing in between meetings because I remember Delmar is in our home movies fishing. And he's fishing and then he shows us he caught a sunfish and he's showing us the sunfish. And so he's, you know, in our whole movies of 50 years ago. But these people, I always think of them as they were, not as the years that went by. So this is an honor that's well deserved. Thank you. Thank you. Councilman Wingo. Thank you, Mr. President. We have been in contact or have been contacted with the family of Mr. Mitchell, and my office has reached out to invite Mrs. Carol Mitchell and son Darrell Mitchell from Virginia to be here when we do pass this. renaming and also when we do the dedication so hopefully they can make it here Buffalo to be here for that great honor thank you and thank you as the chair as the Master District Councilmember when mr. Hearn came to me He said, any building. He said, find a city building in the city of Buffalo. And he said, I believe you can get it done. It happened to be that Northland was coming up for naming. And, you know, I would have loved for it to have been in the Ellicott District, you know, so I could ride past it all the time. But it went to the right district because that's the district he represented. So I think it's a great day in this city. His picture, of course, hangs. right here, but I cannot, I don't think any of us on this council will be able to take credit. The credit goes to you. You're the one who shopped it. You're the one that asked people. You're the one that did the legwork. So thank you for what you have done today. Councilman Fontana I also wanted to thank mr. Herndon for his diligence and also his education to the public as to a great Leader in this community and I really don't think we could have picked a better building because this building is to move the city forward Through its people and that's exactly what Delmar Mitchell wanted to do. He wanted to move the city forward Speak to young talent. I was there when a young Tony Masiello went to him in 1992 asking for the endorsement from mayor and He wanted that endorsement. And I was at that meeting with Mr. Mr. Tarantino from Tarantino Foods, myself, and Tony Macielo at Delmar Mitchell's home. I had no idea the gravity of the meetings. I was only 16. But that meeting would further shape my life down the road. And also, he did receive the endorsement. Macielo got the endorsement from Delmar Mitchell after he's been out of office 12 years, and he went on to win that election. So Delmar is a very fitting name for this, a very fitting person, and a very fitting future for our city of Buffalo. Thank you. I agree. And final thoughts before we take a vote on this, and I think I'd like to have a roll call vote. I'd like everybody's name to be recorded into the record. You know, I sit here as an Italian-American, as an African-American. I knew it. You knew, right? And it is somewhat emotional to know that, you know, people like Mr. Mitchell, The reason we're here, and I hope that my time on this council and in this chair has done those same things, is to bring people together, not divide people, just to divide people along any lines except the lines of what's right. in the lines of what's wrong. And so, you know, to look to my right and to see two other African Americans who were able to sit here and to know that I'm here because of their sacrifices, but most importantly, because they showed how to lead is an honor. Thank you. Truly. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing, second by Councilmember Wingo. ROLL CALL. MOTION TO APPROVE. MOTION IS TO APPROVE. MOTION TO APPROVE. SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER WYATT. ROLL CALL. COUNCIL MEMBER FERRELLETTO. COUNCIL MEMBER FONTANA. COUNCIL PRESIDENT DELMAR MITCHELL. COUNCIL MEMBER FRANZICK. COUNCIL PRESIDENT DELMAR MITCHELL. COUNCIL MEMBER GALUMBECK. YES TO COUNCIL MEMBER OR COUNCIL PRESIDENT DELMAR MITCHELL. COUNCIL PRESIDENT PRISGEN. YES TO COUNCIL PRESIDENT DELMAR MITCHELL. that's my rivera yes council president del mar mitchell member scanlon yes to council president del mar mitchell that's my wingo yes to council president del mar mitchell customer white yes to council member council president del mar mitchell it is unanimous okay item 33 public hearing renaming old bailey avenue this is a motion open public hearing I'm sorry motion for the public hearing second by council member who's this council member Fontana the public hearing is before us is there anyone here to speak on this side council member I'll speak to it I'll speak to the the uh there's not as much emotion here actually um it might be well no that was that was a truly a special moment it was I said it's almost better than church When it comes down to this, this is more of a situation where Old Bailey Avenue, a lot of customers have to come down to pick up their cars at this location. And Old Bailey Avenue really isn't rendering with anybody when they come to pick up cars at the location. And it's actually important that they actually know where to go to get their car. So in an attempt to further delineate where this is. We decided to name it after the tow shop that's been there for so many years, as well as the fact that it's the only business and the only address on the street. So it makes it much easier. In the old days, I renamed the Lenco Lumber Street after Mr. James Capola, who was a longtime owner of that business, still is today, his widow. And today we're looking to change the name. Riverside towing on the street of being a Riverside Drive. Hopefully they'll go over to Mr. Golombek's district and cause further confusion, but there's another river in the city of Buffalo and Buffalo River and it's on this side of the city So that's what we present today. All right any other comments? All right motion motion closed public hearing second by councilmember Golombek motion to approve second by councilmember why? Yes, sir from the town item one benelict in rem 52 properties motion to approve second by council member for your letter item two eliminate town homes Motion to send the CD. Second by President Pro Temp Scandley. Item 3, report of sale 167-169 Purdy. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 4, cash flow report August 2018. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item 5, letter to Gillian Brown, BMHA. Motion to send the CD, items 5 through... second by councilman of the lumbeck and on number five a letter to bmha um pleased to report that mr brown interim director brown uh did come and meet with me right away the next day uh after our committee met we are going to pause the When we get to that item, although we will send the remainder to committee, the ad hoc committee, because he responded right away, which was wonderful and then did not resist. The efforts to have those apartments identified, identified apartments inspected by city inspectors. Number 2, number 3 will be meeting with Langfield residents in a meeting that is being put together by council member. Why? And I think that and and and has met with the controller and you might address that. So, was everything we asked them to do and at the end of the day, we don't want to battle. with our housing authority we want them to be responsive and responsible and accountable and so at this point i'm pleased to inform not only this council but to those who may be watching or reporting that he has responded and there has not at least in my conversations with him been any hesitation or passing the buck. As a matter of fact, and hopefully I'm not speaking out of school, he said, I've gotta own it if I'm gonna be the leader. And that's what we want to hear from leaders, especially in housing. I think President Pro Temp, oh, it was Council Member Golombek and then Council Member White. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I have to say the same thing, that since Mr. Brown has been the interim director, of the BMHA. It's been a pleasure to call BMHA. He's actually shown up a couple of times when I was having problems in my district at developments in the past. I've always appreciated Modesto Candelario, but he's the number two guy over there. And whenever I would call, he would show up and he would give as best an answer as he possibly could. But I always felt bad for him because he could not give the final definitive answer for BMHA. Now when I call there, you know, Mr. Brown has been just very upfront, very honest, very willing to work with me. And I have three large and two small developments in the North Councilmanic District, which I believe I probably have the most BMHA residents of any of the nine council members. So I need to have a very close, intimate relationship with BMHA. I need to be able to call and I need to be able to get things done as quickly as possible. So I'm very, very happy to see this. Also, I'll just mention this. There was something, I think, in the newspaper and on television about problems at the BMHA. I know that I've gotten calls from constituents, and what I've said to them is this, that there is a new administration over there, that they're already starting to pick up pieces and problems from the past. And I'm not going to kick them while they're down right now, because they're already starting to make these improvements. Before any of us had to jump on them. Mr. Brown, you know, as soon as he got over there, started addressing some of the long-term concerns that they had over there. And I have to commend them, Mr. Candelario, everybody that's over at BMHA, which doesn't mean that we're not going to keep watching them and hold their feet to the fire, but I think that they've done a very, very good start. Absolutely. Council Member White? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Myself and Council Member Fontana were able to attend the meeting yesterday with the Comptroller and Mr. Brown, and I appreciated that dialogue. And as you said, you know, he stood up to the issues. He didn't run away from them. And that's really important. He's going to be meeting with the tenants tomorrow. Ken Phil Langfield, he's going to be there. He did say he's going to bring some of his team members where he wasn't going to before. But, you know, I think it's a step in the right direction. Is he the end all be all? I don't know. But surely the science that he's showing us is something that is a welcome, um, It's refreshing that he is willing to stand and take the issue. Whatever's coming, I got to own it because I'm the executive director. So tomorrow may be a tough day, but again, it's a start. We have to be honest, let these folks vent on what they've dealt with over the last several years. Because in some cases they felt very hopeless. How do you pay your rent every month and then things aren't taken care of in a responsible way? You wouldn't do that if you just were a homeowner, you know, you would be responsive to them. So I'm looking forward to hopefully his great leadership. I know that he has a lot of them right now with the recent issue that has come out. But I think we need to give him time. I mean, we can kick a man when he's down, but what does it do for the residents? And that's where our concern is. What does it do for the residents? We know what these scathing reports are saying, but I'm willing to give the man an opportunity. The fact that he's going to stand in front of these folks, address their issues. I've been getting a number of issues in my office. They've been very responsive, more than they were before. So, again, I think we give him an opportunity. We hold his feet to the fire. We continue to have dialogue with him. And as long as he's cooperating, as I told my deli store owners, as long as you work with the residents, we will work with you. As long as he works with these residents, we will work with him. And I think that's the end-all, be-all for me. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Councillor Infranschi? Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I think Mr. Brown will do a good job. You know, we've had ongoing problems, and you certainly know about this, as the Perry Projects, for example. I've been to some buildings that were quite neglected. Other buildings weren't. is in rough shape as some of those that I saw, and the ongoing problems at Marine Drive. And Mr. Brown, who's been here for a number of years but only now has the authority to be responsive to council members, I feel pretty optimistic that we'll get some progress. When I was talking to Mr. White in committee yesterday, There still seems to be some reluctance with the DMHA to go forward with the city audit, if I'm not mistaken. So I spoke to the controller last week, and I said, Mark, why don't you just, you know, if you don't have the money now, why don't you just put the money, ask for the money in the budget. I know that's six months from now, but ask for the money in the budget, because if you still think this sort of deep... forensic type audit system-wide is needed, then put the money in. And I said, I'll support that and make your case if you think that needs to be done. So he said that he will. So we will see if this part of the request of the budget, you know, I think in February that process begins. You know, it seems like a long time away. But if there are, you know, systemic problems with financial matters, those problems are not just going to evaporate at that period of time. So I'm looking forward to see if he, in fact, puts the request in. And when he does, if we support that, then he can move forward and do what he thinks is necessary. Thank you, sir. All right, next item. Item 7, appoint junior data control clerk. Mr. Chairman, correction. I had said city items 5 through 7. It's actually 5 through 6. All right, correct it. So noted. Item 7. Item 7, appoint junior data control clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 8, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item 9, Citywide Parks Term Contract Year 2. Motion to approve Items 9 through 17. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 18, Appoint Talker Supervisor. Motion to send to Civil Service 18 and 19. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 20, Drug Asset Forfeiture Wire Transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Prokosy. item 21 dance hall licenses varsity theater and banquet hall motion to approve second by council member what I'm 22 food store license 525 Broadway oh it's in the center city my customer what I'm 23 food store license 2141 Elmwood motion to approve items 23 and 24 and my council member column that I'm 25 used car dealer to 27 Fillmore motion to send the legislation in my customer friends I'm 26 notice of intention request to name Niagara branch library motion to adopt item 26 and 27 second by councilman Fontana and 28 times return without approval or disapproval motion to receive and file items 28 through 31 my customer window item 32 rescind special use permit 102 Buffalo motion to adapt we can receive and file that that's a receiving file yep second by council member friends I'm 33 not so apartment temporary provisional permanent motion to send the civil service and my customer for 34 notes of appointment seasonal motion to receive and file second by council member fun Tana miscellaneous items item 35 requests from Apollo producers for allocation of funds motion to send finance my cousin I'm 36 proposal of incubator to provide training for BMHA residents motion is then the CD and my council member what Item 37, inspections for BMHA properties. Motion to send to CD, economic development permits and inspectors. second by council member Lomba item 38 police headquarter naming proposal motion to send the legislation so my council member friends on 39 at CQR neg decks motion to adopt item 39 through 43 and my cousin remember why petitions item 44 special use permit 1416 hurdle motion to send the legislation items 44 through 47 listen and city planning board And city plan second by council member front end committee civil service item one appoint caucus supervisor one item I mean motion to approve items number one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven and twelve Item 13 no supplements temporary provisional permanent receiving five Take my counselor Fontana Finance Committee item 14 letter from PBA president Evans I 14 and 15 if there's no objections at this point now motion to refer to the police oversight committee It's like my council members gather me development committee item 16 reporter sale for our Wade Adams motion to approve item 16 and 17 second by council member friends at and on this item item 17 marks a The second land trust in the City of Buffalo, the first one was actually, well the ones that we know of, was in the Fillmore District under Councilmember Franczak. But for the Fruitbelt, this is significant in that an area that is experiencing gentrification will now have, see the first land trust in our known history where there will be affordable housing there. And this committee that came together and many people, I remember reading some of the comments and it'll never happen and this shouldn't and to see it really beginning to happen. And again, I would love to take credit for it. We can't. It's the people sitting here in this chamber, the people who met over and over, the people who had a dream, and to be very honest, the people who educated me on it. When they first came talking about land trusts, I had no idea what they were talking about. So they took their time, educated me on it. I 100% am in for not only these lots, but hopefully when this land trust gets rolling, There will be more lots in an area so that you can have market rate housing and affordable housing and work class housing and doctors walk into the medical campus. Also with the custodian maybe living next door, children going to school together. This is what we talk about when we talk about One Buffalo. So congratulations to the Fruit Belt Land Trust and all of the work that they are doing. Next item. Item 18, report of sale, 54 Shule. Motion is to recommit items 18 and 19. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 20, violation regarding 510 Hickory. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Legislation Committee, item 21, food store license 1727 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 22, property manager's license. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 23, Special Use Permit 600, Northampton. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 24, regarding Special Use Permit 102, Buffalo. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fiala. Item 25, Zoning Map Amendment 259, Mineral Springs. If there are no objections, motion to receive and file items 25 through and including 30. Second by Councilman Wingo. No, I'm sorry, just 25. Yep, second by Councilman Wingo. Item 26, 1261 Fillmore for alcohol sales. That's motion to approve. Second by Councilman Wingo. Item 27, open Buffalo request public meeting on marijuana enforcement. Now this we can go down if there's no objections. Items 27 through 30, receiving five. And second by Council Member Fontana, I just have a question on 27. Did Ms. Walton appear before legislation? I think we had a meeting. We did? Okay. In chambers. All right. We can pause. There was just a procedural question. We'll just make it short. Okay. It was just a procedural item. Next item. Item 31, zoning map amendment 367, lakefront. That was, we discharged that. That was the resolution. Right. Okay. So we need a motion on it? Yes. So that's fine. The motion is to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Rivera. Resolutions, item 48, waive fees for Oktoberfest at Gallagher Parking Ramp. Motion to approve. second by council member Fila 52 set public hearing disposition of 240 and 260 lakefront motion to adopt item 52 Item 51 all right, so the adopt was on which to which 52 Okay, I just wanted to check make sure procedurally second by council member glum that 53 named Niagara branch library and Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 55, rescind special use permit for 102 Buffum Street. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. This resolution is asking for this body to rescind the special use permit that we previously granted to Maritime Charter School back in June for the expansion of an existing school at 102 Buffum. After we approved this special use permit, during our recess we received two letters. They were also sent to Maritime Charter School requesting a literature search and an archeological field survey. Since that time, the Maritime Charter School has sent the council asking that we rescind the special use permit so that they can undertake the archaeological examination in accordance with the New York State Historic Preservation Office. The decision or the act of this body to rescind this special use permit has no impact on the existing middle school. They can currently operate there under the green code is not an issue. So I would ask for everyone's support as we rescind this special use permit so the maritime can move forward with their archaeological examination. And they would be down the road submitting a new application to this body. Thank you, sir, for the explanation. What's the motion? We already did? Motion was to approve. All right, we already closed up. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 56, BMHA Oversight Task Force. Motion to adopt. The remainder to CD. And remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember White. Who has four? Okay, thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for appointing me to this task force, and I know that prior to what was going on and not really talking to Mr. Brown, we had some serious concerns, and we still have concerns. But I think this task force can work along with him as he works to address issues or I know he was telling me that he doesn't have a lot of the directors that he needs. So hopefully he'll be able to put things in place to really make the Buffalo Housing Authority a preeminent organization like it was when Ms. Sharon West was there. We all hear about Sharon West, what she did. She really cared about these residents, and we hope that we will get back to that, making sure that whatever decisions we make are in the best interest of the residents of the Housing Authority. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 57, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Public Works, Parks, Recreation. Motion to approve items 57 and 58. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 59, calling for voting transit-dependent members of the NFTA Board of Commissioners. Motion to adopt the remainder of the CD. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 60, Wave Special Events. Who has the floor? Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I thank my colleagues for supporting this request that we add a resident, a writer, to the NFTA board. You know, to me, it just seems like a no-brainer. It's something that should have been done a long time. Why we don't have an individual who is a writer who really... knows some of the issues. I think it's important. I think this day and age in our organizations, we try to get people who are part of the community to have a conversation so it's not just people who in some cases are disconnected. We've had over the years constant complaints about ridership, changing times, eliminating of schedules or eliminating of routes. But for without any community input in any cases. So I think this is a fair request. I think it's a needed request, and I hope the NFCA and the Board will see fit to make sure that this happens from the state's level. Thank you. Can you sign me on to? Yes, please. Council Member Scanlon, this is Blue. Thank you, Council President. Council Member Weiss, exactly right. The riders are the eyes and the ears of this system. When we get calls and complaints, they're not coming from the Board of Directors. Coming from the people that are utilizing the NFTA. So I wholeheartedly agree with this resolution and with his permission would like to be signed on as opposed to. Thank you, sir. We're adding. Councilman Fontana would like to be added. Councilman Fairletter would like to be added. Councilman Revere would like to be added. Anybody else? All right. Moving on. 160 wave special event fees for wave Buffalo Inc. Motion to approve second by council Pepper why I'm 61 for sure deeds public duties motion put that Second my calls where in front that not so many meetings many a civil service Tuesday, October 9th 9 45 a.m Committee on finance following civil service many a community development Tuesday, October 9th 1 p.m And legislation Tuesday, October 9th 2 p.m. House members any announcements for your districts. I'm Councilmember Fontana, Councilmember White, Councilmember Wingo. I'll give it a try. One person did tell me that they saw this on channel 1302. Cave up on that. Don't give up on it. Yeah, I know how it goes. October 11th at Schiller Park Senior Citizen Center, I'm hosting our 20th anniversary, essentially. It's going to be a senior masquerade ball. I'm doing all the cooking. This is being privately paid for by myself, for the residents. And we're inviting all Lovejoy District seniors to come down for a night of fun at the masquerade ball. Now, this is different than the mayor's masquerade ball. This is in Schiller Park on October 11th from 4 to 8 p.m. Call the office if you'd like to come. All right, great. Council Member White. Thank you. I just want to invite the residents from the Kinfield-Langfield Housing Authority Development for our meeting at Olmstead School tomorrow from 530 to 7. That's October 3rd from 530 to 7 right at Olmstead School. Please join us to talk about housing concerns. On October 14th, I want to invite the residents to our Working with Wave to Escape Don't Hate event at McCarthy Park. This probably is going to take... be what our Halloween event for the year because we normally have it on Bailey but now we're gonna do it here and I think in and because of what happened yesterday we need more of these events these stop violence events to give our young people other outlets to do things to keep them occupied so that hopefully won't have as many issues that we've had this year and also well that's October 14th excuse me October 14th from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. at McCarthy Park and today is my mother's birthday so I want to say happy birthday mom For the record, Council Member Scali. Just want to wish a happy second birthday to my daughter, Adelaide. All right, for the record. You know, if you look back in the old records, there were all of these birthdays and that kind of stuff. So now your children, your mother and your daughter are on the record. Anything else for the record? Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We are looking forward to it. Who's birthday is it? No, I'm just kidding. Wait a minute. Who's birthday is it? Did I miss somebody's birthday? We are looking forward to this month's Mass in Stakeholders Breakfast again. That's the second Saturday of the month. And we're also looking forward to our Halloween event, which is going to be at the Buffalo Museum of Science. And that will be on October. We're still working out that date and time actually, but right now, October 29th, Monday. That way we're not in conflict with any other events in the city. And we are of course looking forward to having all of our stakeholders there, including the mayor of the city of Buffalo, Mass Blockup Coalition, and of course the executive team at the city. Museum of Science, Marisa Wigglesworth. So we're going to have a great time this month. October is always a fun month for us. We're looking for everyone to come out and please support and get good information from the Master and Stakeholders Breakfast again second Saturday of every month at 8.30 at the Delavan Grider Center. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Wiggles. We also have a Halloween party, I guess it's October 31st for seniors from 10 to 2 at the YMCA. It's free admission, but you have to have the ticket so you can get it from any of the senior centers. And they have prizes. I mean, it's a lot of seniors. They really get dressed up. First, second, and third, and the world's largest coverall bingo. So you know that'll get them out. If nothing else gets them out, bingo will get them out. Is that it? Council Member Scanlon, President Pro Temp Scanlon. If we're extending birthday wishes, it is also Julia Paul from Council Staff's birthday today as well. Yes, and thank you all for supporting her husband and his benefit the other day. I know it wasn't a council function, but it's nice that the Council Staff, Council Members are a family, and that was important. That's it, Council Member Wodge, you got your finger cued up? I just wanted to say because he already comes from a scandal already said it because Julia's birthday my mom they exchanged cards and everything Most you do a juror second by comes with friends that comes members, please stay for two seconds to give