roll call council member farrell leto house member fontana council member franzek here council member columbek council president virgin at the council member rivera president house member scanlon president customer wingo he's here present council member white here foreign president just stand up with pledge pledge of unites states of america and the physical, and the religious, and the spiritual. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Seems as though recently as we've gathered on Tuesdays for prayer, we've had more crises to pray over than I would have ever imagined. Tuesdays has been a somber time of prayer. Hard to get joy out when there's so much happening, so much turmoil. Last night as I watched the news from Las Vegas, At one point, my fears welled up. Just from the overwhelming tragedy of that. Compassion comes to you, you feel it sometimes the same way. Romans 12.15 says, Rejoice with those who rejoice, mourn with those who mourn. It seems like we've been doing more mourning and eating this week. And a couple of years, Dana Harvey, we prayed for in Houston. Irma in Florida, Maria in Puerto Rico. Wildfire from the West Coast, Vegas, Ohio. I went to a friend's website and they said, Pray for the families and friends of those who lost lives yesterday in the shooting. Pray for those who are wounded and traumatized. Some of you know that memories don't disappear easily when you've seen what too many people saw. Pray for the healers, emergency responders, doctors, nurses, counselors. and continue to pray for the disaster relief that's being so desperately needed in places like your precious Puerto Rico. These are days indeed where we need to call out to God. Would you join me as we... Father, it can be overwhelming as we mourn with so many who are weeping, so many who are traumatized. Right now, in prayer, we reach out to family and friends who yesterday experienced tremendous loss. and the tragedy in Las Vegas, the murderous rampage. Lord, I pray for those that continue to be traumatized families and friends and the tragedies that we've been praying about all too often in the last several weeks together. We pray, Lord, even now for healing to come to memories that have singed and seared into the conscience of all too many people, even children and teenagers of our nation. We pray, thanking you for the first responders who leapt into action, Lord, even at the cost of their own injury and loss. And we continue to pray, Lord, as aid is needed in so many places from the hurricane to come throughout this season. Buffalo, the city of good neighbors, has been reaching out. I've seen Common Council members, I myself, have been on City Hall steps, standing with those who are calling out for help. And we ask even now that we would be your arms, hands, and feet from Buffalo for those that are hurting and wounded. And what I presume, we'll be able to rejoice with those who rejoice. Let that day come quickly. Now, guide and guard these discussions, these deliberations with these counselors that are gathered together. Let your presence superimpose it all, we ask in your precious holy name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Captain. Council Members Memorial. Council Member Glombeck. Thank you Mr. President. North District lost a very active assistant in our basketball and sports programs, Roger Winfield. He passed away very unexpectedly about a week ago. He's going to be very, very sadly missed by his family. especially, well not especially, but also by many young men and women that were in the sports, especially basketball programs that we had at Riverside Park. Roger was active at the Assembly of God Church in my district and they would borrow the van so they would be able to go and pick up kids that couldn't make it, you know, mile to mile, sometimes even further. on from the council districts but they were coming into riverside park in plain you know getting off the streets and mentoring these itself last last quarter democratic committee member and city of buffalo employee tom told me he's going to be very sorely missed by his friends and family in riverside especially his wife janice so i'll be lost margaret santiago who passed away and uh... we trotman for these and for all people like to keep them in our memory. Thank you. Yes, sir. Any other comments? Councilman Wingo? Today, we would like to acknowledge the lifelong legacy of William Jackson, who is known as Bill DeVos, long-term member of the Great Baptist Authority, has the extended family all the way down to great, great, great grandchildren. He lived to be 87 years old. He will be missed by his community, by the Madison District, and by his family. He was laid to rest this weekend. Also on the same day, we lost Reverend Clancy. Willie Clancy was an individual. There was only one of them. and his presence will be missed. He would sing to the heart's desire, he would build church houses with his voice, of which is going to be missed, his charisma, and just his interactions. He overcomes some very, very, very big obstacles in his life, and he turns the situation around to make it possible for everyone else, the life that is within him that is provided through his Lord's Savior. So we thank the Madison District Board. embracing Reverend Plansky and we also would like to acknowledge all the people who came out to celebrate the home going of these two individuals. Thank you. Thank you. Any other? There is none. We always recognize our men and women who have given their lives to service our country since our last meeting. Today, I remember those first responders, a chaplain talked about in Las Vegas and not just the first responders but people who became first responders, who don't carry a bag, that's not their daily job. They did it and some of them literally laid their lives down for a friend. For those and all others we pause in these chairs for a moment. You may be seated. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. this afternoon we have a special presentation from president from Christopher P Scandler For those of you here today and maybe some people watching at home, they don't understand the relationship between AMR and the City of Buffalo. Through a contract executed by this Council, American Medical Response is the designated ambulance provider for the City of Buffalo. And they took over that role on September 1st, 2016. Now when you call an ambulance in the City of Buffalo for this contract, the ambulance is supposed to arrive depending on the severity of the call within a certain amount of time and within that contract AMR is supposed to be there at least 90% of the time inside of that time window. I can tell you the reason we brought them here today because in their first 12 months here in the city of Buffalo they've exceeded those thresholds each and every single month so we should give them a round of applause I felt it was extremely important to bring them in here because I know some people would say, what's the big deal? They're just living up to the terms of their contract. But I can tell you, and other council members would tell you, that that has not always been the case here in the city of Buffalo. In the past, we've had ambulance providers only arriving on time sometimes in the 70, somewhere in the neighborhood of 70% of the time. Now, in the past 12 months, if you average it out, based on which category of the three, AMR is responding in time between 95% and 99% of the time. again that's another round of applause they deserve so we have for you on behalf of the council a certificate of recognition I thought another reason was extremely important to bring you in here not just to thank you for your incredible work congratulate you on an incredible job done but I wanted to do it extremely in the public because I know myself and several other council members would not jump at the opportunity to chastise you if you were underperforming. So I think we should just as publicly be praising all the work you're doing. So again, thank you. I know all the council members, myself, we've all either had family members or friends fall ill, become injured, and knowing that AMR is out there doing the job they're doing, acting as reliably as they are and coming through the way they are needs to be recognized. So again, thank you for the last 12 months. Congratulations, and we look forward to seeing how much you continue to grow in the future. So again, on behalf of myself and all nine council members and the residents of the city of Buffalo, thank you. I don't know if someone wants to say a few words on this. Thank you very much. Thank you all very much. Historically, when the ambulance service was on the agenda in hearing chambers, it was for a bad story. The reliability of ambulance service was a question. We're thrilled to be here today. We sincerely appreciate the public lauding that you're giving us today as well. We're here for two reasons. The first one is the great relationship that we have with all of you, and the second is our provider. Brianna Littleton and Jim Stites support all of their efforts in this video. 48, 66. every single week and they're out there doing whatever they need to do to make this these are the people that deserve the praise of faculty and we thank you very much while they're taking a photo thank you president Pro Tem for doing that because you're totally right this is beyond contracts it's about lives and when you all when they get there on time lives get saved so it's great great risk If they have any EMTs here to help me with my cold, I'd be really happy with what you got. Mr. Chair, if I can just add one thing. Because I was one of those people that was critical of AMR initially, but I just want to say that they have done a tremendous job, and I've seen it not only in saving lives, but their corporate leadership and assisting in the community as well as the tremendous effort they put in hiring people from the community. So I want to commend Tom and his team. They've done a fantastic job. They've been at events in my district, but also they're saving lives in the community. And when there's criticism, they respond. So I really appreciate it. I think it's a great relationship. And again, I want to thank the President Pro Temp for his activism Again, uplifting them because before we beat them up, we need to publicly salute them as well. So thank you again. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Now, you all don't have to stay. I know you want to stay for this wonderful council meeting. I know that's been like the highlight of your life, but you don't have to stay. on the motion by mr. Rivera second by miss Scanlon the minutes of stated meeting held on September 19 2017 are approved all of the late calls are before you any objections to any of the late calls before you hearing no objective even have we found only two hearing no objections we'll hear the entire agenda not taking away your right to object in a later if you have not had time to read From the top. Motion to take item 60 out of order. Second by Councilmember Frans. Discharge of legislation 1538 Broadway. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Winrow. From the top, item 1, nominees for appointment, Buffalo and Erie County Library Trustees. Motion to send items 2, 3, and 4 to ledge. I'm sorry, number 1. You said 1? Motion to... Motion was... we're an item number one one one motion to approve second by a customer in Fontana was doing I am to report a recommendation landmark status 980 Ellicott motions and legislation items two through four so my cousin item five report of sale well 52 Sycamore motion to approve that comes with three left I'm six point senior account clerk typist motion to receive and file and waive the 45 days on item second by council member Y. Item 8, consultant for coagulation and corrosion control. Motion to approve items 8 through 12. Second by council member Galante. Item 13, appoint operations manager. Motion to send the civil service items 13 through 29. Council member Y. Item 30, City of Buffalo Police proposed agreement with PAL. Motion to approve items 30 through 32 second by council member wingo item 33 item returned without approval or disapproval motion receiving by items 33 through 37. said the vice president brooks have a scandal item 38 notification notice of appointments temporary provisional permit motion to send civil service single by council member Fontana miscellaneous item 39 BPD checkpoint data motion to send to CD second by councilman friends item 40 Joseph Garner letter motion is sent to DPW second by councilmember the lumpic can can we revisit item 39 motion to revisit item 39 second by customer present we're sending this to CD instead of police oversight it is going to CD No, where did you send it? 39. 39 to CD. Yeah, could it go to police oversight? Absolutely. So that the Commissioner would be able to explain anything that needed to be talked about. Motion to send to police oversight. Alright, so motion to send, we're sending this to CD, seconded by Councilmember Wingo, and to send to police oversight, seconded by Councilmember. Next slide. 141, open Buffalo. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 42, letter to Speaker Hasty, applying fees, fines, and penalties to tax bills. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by President Brooks-Hemphill who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. This is a letter to New York State Assembly Speaker Carl Hasty. In 2014, this council passed a resolution which would apply any fees, fines, or penalties directly to the City of Buffalo property tax bill. We did this because we are all very familiar with the issues of slum and blight and deterioration of properties at the hands of irresponsible property owners. So we wanted to attach those fines to tax bills and we thought it could be a double win for us. It would give us an avenue to possibly recover. recoup those fees which we weren't doing in housing court a lot of the time but also if they decided they didn't want to pay we could use it as though they were unpaid taxes and eventually take the property and get it in the hands of a responsible property owner but in the past couple years in pursuing a home rule message from the New York State legislature we've come into a bit of a roadblock in the assembly the Senate has passed it each of the last two years and the Senate, the assembly has not for one reason or another. You can ask people in Albany, it depends on who you talk to, why it's not passing. But the main reason, the main issue is it's not being passed. So this letter is reaching out to Speaker Hasty and just asking him for some of his support in Albany to try and get this moving. It's something that we'd love to do here. I know obviously there's an issue of the New York State real property tax law and something could alter the way things are done statewide. So that's what they're hesitant about. I know that's one issue. But what this is basically doing, just asking him to get on board, asking him for his support. We're all on board here in Buffalo, so if he could get behind this, it'd be a big win for us. Thank you, sir. Council Member Fontana. This law has been on our books. This council passed this law in 2003. Affirmative were Francek, Milumbek and myself at the time right here in the chamber still to this day. So, and other council members have always supported this law. So we've supported this law right along. It's legal in Rochester. It's legal in Tonawanda. It's legal in other cities across the state. So it should be legal in the city of Buffalo. I must say that Senator Kennedy was able to have the Senate pass this version. We thought that would be the tough nut. I actually went to Albany. Chris went to Albany and we were lobbying for this. I'm going to go again this coming season again to lobby for this. I met with the Senate leadership and they liked what we were talking about. They liked the fact that it's already in place in Rochester and Tonawanda. So they voted for us. And then the assembly comes into play, which I was shocked. I thought the assembly was going to be our playground. It really wasn't. It was a hostile field. So hopefully this will change it. I'm glad that this letter is going to the Speaker today. I think every single Assemblyperson has to push this force locally. Unfortunately, fines are written on properties, and unless you're just embarrassed about it, not much happens. I mean, what happens if they come over to 222 B Street? What happens with those fines and penalties right now? Nothing. And that's a big problem. So if we could convert those fines to a tax, If the tax isn't paid, then foreclose on the property. This is for non-owner occupied houses only, so this isn't about taking homes from senior citizens. This could be a good tool for zombie properties and landlords that just don't care about the property or don't pay. There's one guy that asked me to help him with a tax bill at the county last week. We went to help him. We found out that he hasn't paid taxes in 10 years in the city of Buffalo on 21 properties. Now I don't know what streets he's on and why no one else is buying these properties at the auction. But here's a guy collecting rents on 10 or 15 properties, 21 properties for 10 years and not paying his bills. You know I told him pay your taxes. That's the only help I can tell you right now because this council member is not going to help people that don't pay their taxes. So he came in with a check for $19,000 to pay off those back taxes. And now he has to go to county court to fight the county on a foreclosure that he faced from the county. Maybe he'll get his money back that he paid now, but I tell him there's no way he's getting his property back if he didn't pay his taxes. So we got a little bit of a windfall last week. But hopefully the Assembly can pass it. And it brings up a good point about it's not for... owner-occupied homes. So those seniors who might be watching or other people in the city especially has been very responsive if homes go into the MRM to try to work deals out with people because I think what that shows is that the administration and this council wants people to be able to stay in your home. And there's a difference between I hit a rough patch and I I just left this property and didn't pay the type of... Well, here's the difference. The property next door to you has roaches, has bed bugs, doesn't cut the grass. That senior might have to leave their home just because the property next door that we're talking about. So that property next door that you're mentioning is the problem property, is the one that should be fined and should be... up to speed so the neighbors around it could actually stay in their homes and live. So that's why it's going against the non-owner occupied homes. The owner occupied houses, if they become a problem, they could be written for court, the owner could be brought into court, and since they live there, we know where to find them. And if the marshals have to come get them out of the house and bring them to court, they'll do that. Or if it's a senior and we know that they need help, then we'll rifle the sources, resources necessary to help that homeowner. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 43, policy recommendations to improve relationship between police and community. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Frenzik. Thank you very much. First of all, I want to commend Open Buffalo's Justice and Opportunities Coalition for meeting with us. They've met with both Council President and myself ever since just before recess and they've come together with a list priorities and actions that they'd like to see implemented and some of those were very practical certainly they took some persuading getting the buffalo police department to agree to work with an advisory group under the police oversight commissioner derenda has agreed to do it he's going to sign assign a high level department head, perhaps Deputy Commissioner Beattie, to meet with this group frequently to talk about policies and how to improve relations within the Buckeye Police Department. Since you've instituted the police oversight, we have been more transparent, we have been open, people have had chances to come before this Common Council, whether it's language access, whether it's misconduct, whether it's weapons, whether it's technology, they've had an opportunity that they didn't have for I don't know how many years, perhaps five or six years. They were very happy to know that Commissioner Durenda has agreed to work with the advisory group. We are going to be sending a press release. Anyone who is interested in serving on the advisory board, please send your resume and a letter of interest. We will vet them. We will file a resolution with their names on them. Certainly, if you're interested in... uh... betting along looking at the the list of names but i certainly want to give credit to open buffalo uh... justice and opportunity coalition they're the ones uh... that met with the community at large with forty groups including n double a c p the urban league back to basics hispanics united you name it, PPG, they met with all these individuals and organizations to come up with the plan that they brought before the Common Council. So I thank them for all the work they've done. Once again, if you want, and we say this over and over again, if you want to speak before the police oversight, please file an item. You just can't come here and yell out and protest. As passionate as you may be, You have to clock in an item and I've told organizations this, you have every opportunity to speak. Just like everyone that came before us that day. I think everyone that signed the list to speak spoke. So they're more than welcome to file, clock it in with the clerk's office and you'll have an audience here in the Common Council. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, for meeting with them as well. And it's not an easy thing to do. There's conflicting sides to all of this. But I think we've improved, to a certain degree, the relationship between the public and the Buffalo Police Department. Yeah, I agree with you. I think that we're moving in the right direction. Even this item that's before us in which Partnership for Public Good brought up about the fix-it tickets. I happen to love the idea of the fix the tickets. You get a write out, you know, I don't know how they get tracked, but I would imagine you have so much time to fix an item and then if you get pulled over again that you get a ticket. And especially when you talk about these the police checks and all that is for safety and public safety somebody doesn't know about a light out in the back or those type of things i think is important so i think working i know working together works and uh we just have to keep moving in that direction but i thank you for your leadership in talking both sides of this issue to come up with that committee that i fully support Because I think that there are some new things and new ways or different ways to approach law enforcement or policing. And we can't be afraid to hear and listen. I'm like you. Let's do it organized. Let's do it in a way that really gets results. So thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Now that you mention that, in order for it to work, obviously you have to work between the Buffalo Police Department, the District Attorney's Office, and city court judges. And so this is a collaboration among not just us, but all of those in order to fix the ticket and to make everything work we need the participation of everyone uh assistant district or district attorney mike flynn has been a proponent of many of the things you just mentioned in terms of diversion program low-level offenses so that's something we're looking forward to working with at some point they're going to return to this common council because we establish them they report to us so we'll know exactly what's going on absolutely thank you very much next side 144 issues properties in university district motion to send the cd items 44 and 45 sent by council member wife petitions item 46 zoning map amendment 1029 1043 clinton motion is sent to legislation item 46 through fifth second my council member link item 51 removal of columbus statue and renaming park motion is sent to legislation said about president protein chairman I'm sorry, Councilmember Franczak, you had the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. This is going to committee, but as chairman of the committee, the chairman normally doesn't engage in debate or discussion unless they need to share. And this is a very delicate issue, a very sensitive issue, a divisive issue. And I didn't come up here, but I looked at the petition earlier. where it talks about removing the statue of Christopher Columbus from the city of Buffalo. These kinds of things are happening throughout the country with Columbus. You know, it's indicative that I've never seen a nation so divided, and people split in a very, very strident way. My class was the last class that was draftable for the Vietnam War, so I remember how difficult and divisive all that was. But this time seems even more, people seem even more divided than that time. People are, you know, they don't try to work with each other and understand and forgiveness and things of that nature. Columbus, you know, in this petition was talked about as a murderer, a racist, slave trader, genocide, things of that nature. Christopher Columbus, you know, the historian William Manchester said that You know, the 15th and 16th centuries in Europe were extremely cruel, extremely cruel periods of time where torture, murder was considered to be acceptable behavior. It's not acceptable behavior. And the fact is that Europeans tortured and killed Europeans in the name of God. Catholics and Protestants tortured in the name of God against heretics. The Native American people, they talk about indigenous people. I would say the first people, because indigenous, if it means original, the only original people in the world are from Africa. The first humans came from Africa about 200,000 years ago. Human beings, we all share the same DNA. We are people. We've only been around about 200,000 years, and they trace the roots of us to probably Ethiopia, East Africa. And then later people migrated, so about 22,000 years ago Native Americans migrated here across from Siberia into through Alaska down into the Americas. So they are the first people that are here. Europeans murdered Europeans. Columbus was murdered Indians, tortured Indians, Indians tortured Indians. They practiced torture as part of ritual, as part of culture. It was acceptable practice. You know, it was a, they say get rid of Columbus, who was Cristoforo Colombo. Cristoforo Colombo. He was from Genoa. He was a cartographer. He was a map maker. He was probably the greatest sailor in the history of the world, there's no question. I'm talking about his navigational skill, not his skills as a human being. He was extremely confident, extremely brave. He moves to Portugal, marries a wealthy Portuguese woman. And his name now is not Cristoforo Colombo, it's Cristobal Colón. It's more of a, even though Portuguese is not Spanish, eventually the Spanish would be the ones that would send him on his way. He would become Cristobal Colón. Christopher Columbus is Latin, that's what they call him, is Christopher Columbus. And he tried to sell this idea that he could get the riches of the Orient. He was driven by economics. He read Marco Polo with the Silk Road, getting all the wealth from Genghis Khan, and he said, we can get to Asia, but we don't have to go across the land route. Let's go across the water. Most people think it couldn't be done. He convinces the king and queen of Spain, Ferdinand and Isabella, to fund his ships, the three ships. One was named after a girl. One was named after a prostitute. One was Santa Maria. It was a religious name. So he goes across, very dangerous. We know that he never got to North America. He never got there. He got to San Salvador, Cuba, eventually to Venezuela, a lot of the Caribbean islands, Haiti, Jamaica. He got there. And he thought he was in Asia. He was not in Asia. That's why he called the people there Indians. The native people of Tainos were very gentle people, very giving people. The Spanish were there for gold. And they wanted gold. Christopher Columbus was a very brave man. He was a very greedy man. He was very cruel. But here's the interesting thing. He was extremely devout and extremely religious. He was a deeply devout, practicing Christian. When I look at Columbus, I look at a guy with a... devil on one shoulder and an angel on the other shoulder like most people. He was so devout. He was always reading the Bible. At that time, the conventional thought was that if someone was not a Christian, you had to convert them. If you didn't convert them, you had to torture them so they would become a Christian because you're saving their soul and the body means nothing. I mean, as crazy as that sounds. So, you know, he was almost a fourth order Franciscan. The guy was so religious. But his main goal was gold, and he didn't find that. And he saw that the Portuguese performed slavery in Africa to black people, enslaving black people. He proposed that to the Queen Isabel, and she said, no, we're not going to enslave these new people. She was against that kind of slavery and said they should be converted to Christianity. Native Americans enslaved Native Americans. The gentle Tainos people that encountered the ruthless Spaniards were very much afraid of the Carib Indians. That's where we get the word Caribbean, that's where we get the word cannibal. The Carib Indians were reputed to use the Taino people, especially the babies, as a breeding ground for devouring, essentially, for devouring. young men were castrated for dinner. At the very least, you know, where natives performed torture, they did so for ritual reasons. Eating your captive to give you that strength. That was their culture. When the Spanish tortured people, they did so because they thought they had to for God. They were wrong. When the Aztecs sacrificed 20,000 lives a year by tearing their hearts out in Mesoamerica and Mexico They did so because they thought the gods needed blood or the universe would end. Quetzalcoatl, the god. They said the god must have these... They were killing fellow Indians, the Chiluans, the Tlaxcala, the Teutonics. They kidnapped them, they took them, and they murdered them alive by tearing their hearts up. But they believed, their faith told them that this is what they had to do to stop the end of the universe, the end of the world. It was considered to be... acceptable behavior. We know it's not acceptable, but it was to those people. It was acceptable to the Spaniards to torture for gold. For God, really, was the reason. And it was only... and they say, so take away Columbus and put indigenous people out. I have an idea in a second, but Columbus is very special to the Italian Americans. Because 100 years ago, many of the immigrants who came here were very badly treated. The immigrants, you look at issues of the early Buffalo newspapers and the Italians and other ethnic minorities, mostly from this case from Europe, as we know African Americans were horrendously treated. They were treated like subclass citizens, criminals, violence, horrible. Irish were considered to be drunken brawlers, poles, ignorant pack animals. Italian people, murderers and malachio and all this stuff. And it was very demeaning. So the Italian-American community at that time looked for a person that they could show pride in. Now you can show pride in a lot about Columbus from Genoa, Italian. determined, religious, extremely devout. The most brilliant sea captain, he had what they called dead reckoning. He could just tell where the ship could go. He knew the world wasn't flat. Nobody did. The Greeks and Romans proved the world was spherical. But he was also very cruel. In fact, he was such a bad governor in Cuba that the fellow Spaniards put him in chains and locked him up. And they said, this guy is incompetent, he's nasty, he's brutal. His two brothers weren't any better. And they brought him back to Spain in chains. He went kneeling in chains to the monasteries to pray for forgiveness. The king and queen let him off the hook and he was able to go on another journey. So, you know, let me just mention another where torture was considered to be proper behavior in all cultures at that time. In all cultures. The difference with the Spanish and with the native peoples, the first Americans, is that it was technology. The technology of the Spaniards was superior. The ships, the firearms, the cannon. It was conquest. And the Native Americans who had their rituals, their practices, when Cortes went to Mexico City and 20,000 people a year killed, he brutally murdered the Indians as well. And he only succeeded because of technology. It's the only reason. It's technology. People were pretty much behaving in the same way. But that doesn't take away that these aren't great people, that the native people are great people. The Spanish, they're great people. They just have the devil and the angel in them. And what they thought, it was an Italian enlightenment figure, a jurist and a... He was a jurist and an expert in penology. He wrote a book on crime and punishments in the 18th century, 1760, saying, torture is wrong. It was an Italian that said, Beccaria, Cesare Beccaria said, torture is wrong, the death penalty is wrong. And it did not get into the minds of enlightened people that torture and death penalty is wrong until that time in enlightenment where it was no longer acceptable. Now we know it still happens. Totalitarian countries, You could even argue with the waterboarding and everything else. We know it happens, but no person of any responsibility would ever say that torture is acceptable. In the time of Columbus, torture was seen as an acceptable way of behavior. And it was the same thing in the world here of the native peoples. But that doesn't take away that they're not great people, or the people in Europe. That is not acceptable behavior anymore, even though people secretly practice it, no one will boast it. So, you know, we are changing and moving forward in a positive way. Let me say that, you know, here we have, Columbus never got to this part of the world, I mean this part of North America. We have a great people, we have what they had as the Iroquois Confederation. We have the Seneca people, the Haudenosaunee. You have the Iroquois, the Mohawks, the Nidas, Onondagas, Cayugas, the Senecas. You know, the Mohawks were called the man-eaters because they practiced cannibalism and torture, slaying people alive, but the Europeans, when they came here, did the same sort of practices because they thought they were right. We know it's not morally right, it's not ethically right, and even at some point in time, thinking people said, this must stop, it is not justified by God, it's not justified by culture, it's not justified by ritual, we can never tolerate it. And we should never tolerate it. So, the great, you know, in fact, the Iroquois Confederation and our Seneca natives who are right here and the others, They had such an advanced form of government as a confederation. They said, let's not have war. Let's not destroy each other. Let's bind as a people under a confederation. And when Benjamin Franklin was looking with the other, you know, Americans who wanted to form a new government after the British were removed from the Declaration of Independence, he said, I want to look at the Iroquois Confederation because the native people did it first. They did it first. And we need to look at what they did was as advanced and sophisticated as any concept in the Enlightenment or the American former government. So I did a little looking and I don't want to see the removal of the statue of Columbus because if you remove the statue of Columbus, then it should be replaced with an Italian-American. Should there be an indigenous people day or a first people day? Absolutely. Absolutely there should. And one of the things that I like is that apparently, and more research can be done, but August 22nd, 1142 A.D. is known as the solar eclipse of the Iroquois Confederation. It was the founding of the Iroquois Confederation, which included the Senecas and all the tribes in our area. And it was a confederation that was an inspiration for the American form of government. So I think that we need to look along those lines, you know, create a monument to the Iroquois Confederation as a model for the American form of government that we enjoy today. I think we need to celebrate the original people who were so badly treated and they were put against genocide because of the technology of their opponents, not because that they were more morally evil. They had evil and good. I guess most people do. And I think that the divisiveness that's happening is not helpful. I look at New York City. It's really bad right there right now because the Mayor de Blasio, all the Italian-American federations got together, and they're marching on Mayor de Blasio. Isn't there a way to find a way that we can find understanding, forgiveness, and moving forward in a positive way rather than either or? So I gave that little speech today. put it together. That's my opinion on this and I'm sure that there will be more interesting dialogue. Thank you. Mr. Ponsat, I never took your history class and I'm very glad I did. I hope they got passed. people's names and on your uh when you're at school do you are your test full of all of that information uh those kids are gluttons for punishment thank you mr ferns i cannot think and obviously there will be a lot more discussion on this on this map next time committee civil service i don't want to point senior account clerk typist motion to approve items number one through seven second by council member friend item 8 notice of farmers temporary provisional permit motion to receive a file Finance Committee second my council member Columbus Finance Committee recalled for mayor Fontana bond resolution I thought he said mayor Fontana threw me off I didn't run without recommendation it came with what should we do with this item is this just receiving file at this point I mean motion to receive and file second by the majority community development item 10 opposition to proposed church rehab 16 linwood motion to receive and file items 10 and 11. second by mitchell item 12 cleveland hill united methodist church motion to recommit second by council member phil Item 13, request for security cameras, Crescent Medina. Motion to receive and file 13 through and including 19. Send by Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee, item 20, use 1669 hurdle. If there are no objections, motion to approve items 20 through 23. Send by Council Member Freelon. Item 24, used car dealer, 1906 Genesee. 24, motion to recommit. second by council member Fontaine item twenty five use card dealer eighteen ninety eight Genesee motion to recommit second by council member Fontaine item twenty six four twenty five Goodyear tax fee waiver twenty six and twenty seven motion to receive and file second by council member Wingo item twenty eight use card dealer eight fifty five Sycamore motion to approve with conditions which we had written down and given to the council president's office five car limit All cars New York State inspection, no junk cars, no tires filed, no banners. Cars must be placed on lots facing north and west side of the property only. All right. Second by Council Member Fielder. Item 29, request for park staffs for Buffalo's first reading park. 2930, motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 38, 1538 Broadway Food Store. Motion to discharge the item. second by council members motion to approve send them by president attempts thank you claims committee items 31 through 86 motion to approve items 31 through 86 second by council of the line I made seven claims for payment unapproved by autumn we could be Paul's coming good stuff at the desk and I want to know what I'm gonna see is everybody getting this When we're taking these items out, if we can make sure, because it's just stuff being laid on the desk and I have no idea what's going on. Is this a late file? I'll address it in a few minutes. It's a late file regarding a health issue in public housing. All right, when we get to this item, I want to pause because I want to make sure everybody is, because have we received this? We just received this. No, it's something for you. I want to give the council members time to review it when we get to it. So please let me know when we get to that item. And then I'm going to ask council staff, when you're giving these items out, if you could stop by the chair, explain what's going on before it's passed out so we know what's going on. Thanks. Let's keep everything transparent. Next slide. Item 87, claims for payment unapproved by auditor. motion to approve item 87 and 88 I'm sorry motion to receive and file item 87 and 88 said about present police oversight on 89 written language access plan for BPD motion to receive the post second council member column back resolutions item 52 public art on bollards around City Hall motion to adopt second bank comes when we go back last board Thank you Mr. President. You know, we have, the council voted to improve security in and around the building and it stinks, I mean in plain English. I don't think anybody wanted to support the security or the bollards or anything like that around us here in downtown Buffalo. but we just live as uh... mr project said earlier in a society that has become you know more and more polarized and the violence has become endemic unfortunately and you know on you just shake your head sometimes and i mean after what happened in las vegas over this weekend i have a nephew and a great nephew that lived there and we were trying to contact them all day you know and everything everybody was safe um thank god but uh you know unfortunately i think that it's a part of our modern day you know to do these types of things so um as buffalonians i think sometimes we take lemons and we try to make lemonade and what this resolution is calling for is public art on the bollards around city hall um i know maybe this sounds crazy but instead of having those big ugly balls in front of city hall i think it would be neat to have uh some sort of an art contest to have artists come in and decide, you know, hey, I would love to take these bollards and turn them into what would look like perhaps marbles or the solar system or some sort of artwork so that when people come, they're not just walking by these monstrosities, but they're actually looking at them and it becomes part of our artscape. I want designs that would work with the art deco design of City Hall. I would like to see something that would be painted by local artists. This resolution calls on Public Works to report any safety or infrastructure concerns. that they have. It calls on the Arts Commission to report their recommendations for the project. I have spoken to people in different departments and they've all thought it was sort of interesting, more so artists, but people here in City Hall as well. And I'd like to send this resolution out to various arts organizations in Buffalo to hear their feedback as well. So, let's continue Buffalo being an arts destination, and we can be the first arts destination that does innovative things with the sad technology that we have to use to keep ourselves safe. Thank you. anybody else all right next time 153 425 Goodyear tax-dew waiver motion to approve items 53 and 54 chairman I have my name added to 53 I'm sorry and I have my name added to 53 to the good year 425 Goodyear all right As a matter of fact, and I think I've asked council staff if they could drop me from that. It should really be yours. No, no, no. We both worked on it, so we should. Because it was a ticklish, it was a difficult issue because we're not able to forgive tax principles of a group. you know has back taxes even if they're not for profit under certain circumstances but we can forgive interest penalties and other charges and that's what we're doing yeah so uh you worked on it i worked on it and we should both be on it just you know you're okay with that absolutely subordinate my name on that and make a council member friends that the lead on that because SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER. THANK YOU, MR. SCHMIDT. NO TROUBLE. I DIDN'T GET A CHANCE TO FULLY COMPREHEND. DO THEY PAY TAXES? NO. BUT THERE WAS A TAX BILL SENT? THERE WAS A PROBLEM YEARS AGO WITH the I believe the mailing address and where the tax yeah when they purchased it initially then they did paperwork so they had an attorney they've been working on so there's an old bill that was causing some issues but currently they're not attacked no taxes now right I was wondering why church was named chairman if I could say there's a lot of group I think council members should be attuned to this because a lot of not-for-profits may not understand this I've had it happen on three occasions the st. Luke's mission of mercy the Dispensada Corporation and Buffalo Central Terminal, they're all not-for-profit groups. They acquired a building in at least one of the three cases was formerly a not-for-profit. What they don't realize is they have to register with the assessment taxation department that they are not-for-profit. That building should not be on the tax rolls. Because the building automatically goes back on the tax roll if it's not used any longer for a not-for-profit purpose, and you've got to start that clock brand new. So what happened at Goodyear, there was an address being sent elsewhere, and also they automatically assumed that because they took over a former church that it's automatically tax-exempt, and it wasn't. So the clock was ticking, and the tax bills are going somewhere else, and they don't realize that they're being taxed. And the other not-for-profits didn't realize until it was too late that they owe thousands of dollars. So that's something, if you have a not-for-profit acquiring a building, which was a formerly for-profit building or even a not-for-profit, that building has to be registered. That's right. And thank you, Mr. Franz. I really hope so. next time 155 wave fees drop off drive for puerto rico and mexico relief efforts motion to approve chairman catching up yes sir i just want to uh thank all of the generous folks elected officials government officials um statewide, nationally that have responded to the relief drive in Puerto Rico. I am, my parents and my grandparents and family members in Puerto Rico, so it's very personal to me. I want to personally thank some of the council members that were very helpful as well in terms of their support for the relief drive. Puerto Rico certainly will raise itself up once again. We've had hurricanes in the past and we've always managed to raise ourselves up. But I want to thank the generosity of certainly everyone that have donated. It's unbelievable the response from the general public and from, as I mentioned before, city officials, elected officials. both nationally and here locally. So thank you very much for all that has been done for Puerto Rico. And I agree, Mr. Revere, and we had so many things dropped off at the church. The church was one of the drops. I was actually away when you all did the press conference, but we are taking a portion of the proceeds that we received in hurricane relief to send at the church to Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. Part of that reason, after I went to Houston, we kept getting money in. And so because we called it Hurricane Relief, people knew it wasn't just, we never expected Puerto Rico or U.S. Virgin Islands. to have Hurricane next, but we are searching for boots on the ground to be able to do kind of like what we did in Houston so that we know that those dollars are getting to the neediest people in Puerto Rico. So thank you, Clay Lee. Thank you. I want to shout out the mayor of San Juan. I appreciate her advocacy, standing up for her folks. When people can sit on the sideline and complain and talk about what people should do, I think we as naturally as human beings literally lend ourselves in crisis no matter what. You think about what happened in Harvey. You think about what just recently happened in Las Vegas. We lend ourselves. But for her to scream as loud as she could because for her people was really important. I appreciate her as an elected official recognizing that someone has to scream loud to get that relief. So I thank those who have volunteered and supported, but I thank her for her advocacy. Sometimes we have to go into those dark places without fear to stand up for what's right. And I appreciate her and I want to raise her up and I hope that God will continue to bless her for her fight and her tenacity for her people. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Next item. That was seconded by Council Member Wyatt. 156, remembrance for murder victims. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. 157, Council Housing Rehab Program. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. And you want to send the remainder to CD? Yes. Motion to adopt. Remainder to CD. Thank you. All right. Second by Councilman Byles. And I wanted to speak to this item, Mr. Chair, Mr. President, because this is something that I've talked to a number of my block clubs who have the ability, and I think it's a great way for the community to invest themselves in – the rehabs of some of these houses. And I don't know if this is going to be happening, but certainly want to research it because there are a number of organizations in my district that have the capability of rehabbing houses. Now, I'm not looking at giving them five, ten houses, but if we can give them one to rehab, and have it owner occupied and they can sell it and then some of the proceeds could go to that organization. And then the percentage of it go back to the city, I think it's a fair deal, but it gets people involved in their community as far as rehabbing, it's not just something that's left solely to the city or other developers, but it's something that I think could take hold. If we could moderate it well, it could be done effectively. It could be a useful tool to, again, get those pieces of parcels of property in our communities that sit. And the longer they sit, the more difficult it is to rehab them. So if you have people who want to put their hands to something to improve their community, this is a perfect opportunity, especially when they can get something out of it. So I hope that we can get this passed. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Exciting. 158, request for home rule on red light traffic cameras. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. 159, Commissioner Deese, public duties. Motion for that. Second by Council Member Francik. Item 61 is a late file request report from BMHA. All right, so gentlemen, let's take a few minutes because we're just receiving this to review it before we make a move. Okay. Councilmember Ruff, Mr. Chair? We're going to send this to Finance. Okay. All right. Is that okay with everybody? All right. Motion to send to Finance, second by Councilmember Ponson. Thank you. Just in my zeal, I went back to the early days of late files being written and just thrown in, so I apologize. And I apologize for that. But this was my Monday yesterday. A 91-year-old resident of public housing called me up and told me that she's completely bit up with bedbugs. And we've been complaining about the apartment next to her for over two years. Completely complaining about it for two years. You can't walk in the hall without the stink hitting you in the face. So we asked the gentleman next door to be taken care of, you know, fix up his apartment. We were told his apartment's as clean as it could be. The odor's just on him. Well, now... It's not just on him. The place is a mess. We got in there yesterday, saw it, it's a mess. Now she has bedbugs in her apartment next door. She's being told the bedbugs were brought in by her. This woman's 91 years old, she's cleaner than my mother. My mother's a clean freak. This woman's even cleaner. Her apartment has a couch, a chair, a nightstand, and a dresser. That's it. There's no clutter, there's nothing in this woman's house. I think the bugs came through the wall. Easily could. They're telling me that they don't go through walls. I don't believe that. I think they do go through walls. I think they come through electrical outlets and these bedbugs have now infested her couch and have bitten her all up at 91 years old. She's just completely distraught. So the kicker was they wanted me to remove the couch. I said, why do I have to remove the couch? They said it's the policy of BMHA that the tenants take out the furniture. So, okay, let me tell you something. If I take out that couch right now and I don't wrap it, because I know what to do, but the residents that don't know what to do, if they don't wrap that couch, what are they going to do? Drag it down the hall, put it in an elevator, and infect your entire building. That's what they're going to do. So their policies are deficient. They don't work. So we need to call them in, make sure they have modern-day policies to combat bedbugs within public housing, because residents that that live at Mount Senior Gary, that live anywhere else across the city of Buffalo, deserve to have a clean apartment. These apartments should be inspected regularly and complaints should be taken more seriously about tenants that have odors and foul conditions in their apartments. So that's what this resolution is going to do. We're going to call them in. I want to thank the MHA. They ended up not making me do it after I showed them the ridiculousness of me taking out a couch. and getting everything full of bedbugs. Now, while this lady was out of her apartment, she went into another apartment. Well, if she was on the couch and there's a bed bug in her cuff, she's going to bring it to the other lady's apartment. Now that woman's got to have a bed bug situation. And no one's thinking about this. I said, well, do you know where the woman is right now? And I said, she's in another apartment. And she could obviously have bed bugs on her because she's sitting on the couch. She's going to bring it to the next thing. So the entire building becomes a problem. And people of any age, I don't care. Look, I'll be quite comparing here. Okay. This woman is like a mother to me. She's a fantastic lady. I've known her for 40 years. It doesn't change my representation of her. It's better, but I'd represent anybody. But in this case, this situation is showing the deficiencies in their bed bug policy, and we need to change it right here in the council so that they can change it out in the field. Thank you, sir. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, October 10th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, October 10th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, October 10th, 2 p.m. Special Committee, Committee on Education, Tuesday, October 12th, 530 p.m. Councilmember, any announcements for your district? Thank you Mr. Chairman. October 14th is a Saturday. They have a Taste of the Broadway Market in the evening and so all the vendors will put out their best food and I can guarantee you that there's a lot of delectables that will be there so everyone's welcome to come and invited to go to the Taste of the Broadway Market. It'll be on the evening of October the 14th. Thank you. Taste of the Broadway Market, Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to announce to the residents of the University District that we have our quarterly community breakfast on Saturday, October 14th at St. Lawrence Church, 1520 East Elephant at 9 a.m. to noon. Please RSV our office at 851-5165. There's always this information that we have to exchange and have to get information from them, so I hope they will participate in its end. Thank you. sir thank you mr chair we will be announcing our monthly stakeholders meeting which will be at delvin writer center at 877 east delavan in the city of buffalo and the best district of maston we encourage everyone to come out the seating is limited because it is a full and impactful event we wish that everyone will come out and enjoy the great breakfast that is prepared for all of our constituents And please, as we try to disseminate this information throughout the community, take this information and take it back to your streets and to your block clubs. But this is becoming one of the, how do you call it? It's a place to be on the second Saturday of every month. Madison Delvin Grider Center. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 8.30
 in the morning. Again, we feed you a full breakfast. So we hope that everyone will come out and enjoy this time of friends, fellowship, and food, and great information. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Oh, one more thing, Mr. Chair. We also have on the 31st of this month the annual Halloween event at the Museum of Science, which is also in Madison District. So if you are interested, please call Madison District Office at 716-851-5145. That's 716-851-5145. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Any others? How's my friends? You know, I forgot to mention earlier, Mr. Chairman, not to belabor the issue, with Columbus, but it has a very strong Buffalo connection. There wouldn't have been a federal holiday without Buffalo because of Mr. Mariano Luca. Mr. Mariano Luca was a Buffalonian, lived near the Peace Bridge. I remember having dinner with him over 40 years ago. He was already an elderly gentleman. After 1931, President Roosevelt made Columbus Day uh... commemorated nineteen seventy one because of buffalo and mario uh... it's a national holiday so this one throw that inside forgot about that a razor not so when the blind people in the area of madison street over by school um 75 that tonight if you're watching live from five to six there will be a meeting about the redevelopment of school 75 at the William Emsley YMCA and there is also and I apologize I don't have it with me but for the seniors of the Ellicott district for several districts seniors a um A costume party that's coming up, you can call the office to get the information, 851-4980 for seniors. All right, anything else? Yes. Thank you. One more meeting this month on the 6th. This Thursday at 6.30 p.m., we're going to have the Hamlin Park Community Taxpayer Association meeting, which is going to have some very heavy issues on the agenda that we would like to speak to the community about. So if you do live in the Hamlin Park community, please come out to that meeting at school number 74 on Donaldson. So we would like to see everyone who is interested in seeing what's happening in the community. Some of the things that are being proposed to happen in the community, that the community did not necessarily get the first word on those proposals. And we would like to make sure that everyone knows to come out Thursday for the Hamilton Park Community Taxpayer Association, 6 o'clock, 6.30, Thursday, School 74. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Motion to adjourn. Second by President Proton. That's kind of my courage that matters.