Councilman Bowman, can you hear us? Okay. Sir, can you hear me? I can hear you very well.
 Thanks.
 Are we okay? Countdown. Four, three, two, one. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Okay.
 Present.
 Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, the Republic for which it stands, under God, under God's name, and to the justice of all. Today we have a guest chaplain with us. He is a part of the board of ECMC, Board of Trustees. He also teaches at the UB Medical School. And he is a part of many organizations, too many to name, in these chambers. He's also the pastor of the Agape Fellowship Baptist Church. Pastor, kinder, pointer, welcome to the chambers. Thank you, Brother President. Lord, our master, how majestic your name in all the earth, whose splendor was told over the heavens. From the mouths of babes and sucklings, you found the strength on account of your foes to put an end to enemy and avenger. When I see your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, you fix firm. What is man that you should note him and the human creature that you pay him heed? And you make him little less than the gods with glory and grant her you crown him. You make him rule over the work of your hands. So, O Lord, we pray today that in this August chamber, these, the servants of the people, will be mindful that you have set them. We ask, O God, that you will plow up the fertile ground of their hearts, that they will be mindful of the suffering that goes on in our city, that they will resolve to end it. We pray, O God, that your presence here, as always... reminds them of the decorum necessary to do the business of this community and to rescue your people from calamities seen and unseen. And bowing humbly before your majesty, we simply say thank you that you knit their hearts together and that their work would be sure, certain, and in ways that humans are capable of, perfect. And it's in your name we thank you. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Poynter, and thank you for all you do in our community. Council members, memorials. Council member, Columbia. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside High School, my alma mater, class of 83, lost one of the best teachers that I ever had while I was there. I just saw it in the newspaper this morning. Bob Stark was an English teacher, and he taught there, I believe, for his entire career, from roughly 1968 until he retired in, I think, the mid to late 1990s. But he had an impact on so many young women and young men that attended and graduated from Riverside High School, including me. I want to just mention him for the record, and my condolences after a long battle. He's finally succumbed, but my condolences to his wife and his children. Thank you. Council Member White. Just asking for the prayers of a longtime resident in the University District, Ms. Jenny Isom. She was the president of the Roosevelt Block Club, and I just saw her about a week ago at a meeting, and, you know, she passed suddenly, so I know that her family is dearly hurting, and our community is hurting because she was a staunch supporter of the University District, and so we're just asking for prayers for her family. Anyone else? Yes. Hearing none other, we always pause in these chambers for those names that have been called and also for those who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and the freedom of other countries across the world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Before going to the presentation, I want to thank Art for what we gaveled in with today. In 1815, the White House was rebuilt from the War of 1812, 1813, This gavel that we just gaveled in was made from the wood of the 1815 White House of President Truman in 1950. When his daughter's foot went through the floor of the White House, President Truman took pieces of wood from the 1815 rebuild of the White House and made 48 gavels and plates to go to every governor then of the 48 states. And this is one of the gavels that was brought in under security, or should have been brought in under security, that ART has brought before it travels to a different location. And the White House is, of course, the house of the people, just as the chambers are the chambers of the people. And that's why we thought it would be appropriate to bring this gavel here today and why Art has brought it to us to use to gavel it. So history. And thank you, Art, the 10th council member, for bringing that in today. And we'll use it all through the session. There is a special presentation by Council Member Joe Colombe. thank you mr president i'd like nate newman to please come down should i say major ah Nate is a constituent. He's a City Hall employee. And more importantly, he's been a friend to me for, geez, 12 years, more than that. I think I met you when you were first in high school. You were campaigning. Yeah, yeah. Wow, wow. But Nate was recently honored with a promotion to major in the United States Army. Oh, I'm sorry, from major. I'm sorry, from major to lieutenant colonel. I kept wanting to call you general. But that's next. That's next. But I wanted to wish him congratulations from myself and from this council. And we did, as council members, a little proclamation. Nathan Newman graduated from Hutchinson Central Technical High School, joined the U.S. Army Reserve Officer Training Corps, and received his bachelor's degree in environmental design and master's degree in urban planning from the State University of New York. Nathan Newman became a commissioned officer in the United States Army in 2005 and served in four deployments, Iraq from 2006 to 2007 and 2009 to 2010, Afghanistan from 2012 to 2013, and Kuwait from 2017 to 2018. He received a combat action badge for his service in Iraq, two bronze stars for meritorious service in the combat zone, and an Army Commendation Medal for meritorious achievement. Nathan Newman has been a stellar citizen and has served the community through his board membership at Western New York Veterans Housing Coalition and at the Western New York Veterans One Stop Center. Now, therefore, I hereby proclaim that it is an honor and a privilege for the City of Buffalo Common Council to extend our sincere congratulations to Mr. Nathan C. Newman to his promotion to Lieutenant Colonel, for the 304th Civil Affairs Brigade in Bristol, Pennsylvania. Congratulations. Thank you all. It really is truly an honor. I always joke with people that I have two careers, and most people don't know about one or the other. I have my civilian career. I work here in city governments. I'm a planner, now a project manager, but I also have a second career in the Army. And people are not accustomed to seeing me in my uniform, but when you've spent now 19 and a half years in the Army, it becomes a really big part of your life. And you rise up to the ranks, and you become a leader in various positions. So it's not just one week in a month like they advertise on the reserve. it becomes so much almost an everyday activity for me where I'm quietly checking emails throughout the day, making sure my soldiers and staff are doing well and so forth, or meeting certain requirements and achievements and all that. And once a month I take a big drive down to Philadelphia, wherever I may be stationed at that time. And, you know, we go out to the field and we play Army. So the fact that my two careers are colluding right now, or colliding right now, I should say, is pretty cool and interesting for me. So it's an honor to be here and to be honored by all of you gentlemen and ladies. And thank you very much. Thank you. all right majority leader um i'm sorry on a motion by mr revere second by mrs scanlon the minutes of the stated meeting held on september 20th 2022 are approved council members the late files are before you are there any objections to any of the late files hearing no objections to any of the late files we'll hear the entire agenda that's before us not taking away your right to pause the meeting so that you may be able to review any item are we going from the top from the top from the top Item 1, Mayor Out-of-Town Travel, 92822. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Friuletta. Item 2, Appoint Director of Office of New Americans. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 3, American Rescue Plan with University at Buffalo. Motion to approve Items 3, 4, and 5. Second by Councilmember Bowman, who is joining us through Zoom. Item 6. Planned Unit Development Findings, M1 Crossing. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 7, Request for Funding and to Enter into Agreement, Riverside Military Historic Resource Survey. This is a late file. All right. And what's the desire to do with it? Councilmember Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. I was hoping that we could approve this. It is time-sensitive. I think that it had gotten lost right after we went on break during August. They were trying to get it to us at the end of July, and it came a little bit late. Thank you, Chris Hawley, for digging it out and saying, oh my gosh, this is time-sensitive. You've got to do this. So if we could approve it, I would appreciate it. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golomba. item eight appoint real estate specialist motion to send civil service my council member wingo item nine cash flow report august 2022 motion to send the finance and by council member what item 10 certificate of necessity motion to approve my council member fear letter item 11 city of buffalo payroll audit motion to send to finance second by councilman white item 12 permission to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with new york state motion to approve second by president pro temp scandal Item 13 notification cereal motion to receive and file saying my councilmember Nookowski item 14 change order Casanova Park pathway motion to approve items 14 Through 20 saying my councilmember Columbia item 21 notice of appointment chief plumbing plant Engineer motion to send the civil service my councilmember Bowman item 22 Buffalo firefighter retirement incentive program motion to approve my councilmember scale a Item 23, compulsory interest arbitration award between City of Buffalo and Buffalo Police Benevolent Association. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember White. Item 24, appoint deputy corporation counsel. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 25, property manager's license. Motion to approve items 25 through 30. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 31, fiscal year 2023 HUD funding allocation. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 32, police arbitration award allocation fiscal years 2020 and 2021. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member White has the floor. Okay. I thought we were sending this to finance. This is supposed to go to finance. There was. 23 went to finance. Compulsory interest arbitration. Item 23? Yeah. That went to finance. This is police arbitration award allocation fiscal year 2020. 22, 2021. Can we send this to finance as well, sir, if that's okay? So this is what you want to say for the record? Because it's a matter of executive privilege, because it is a legal matter, she's going to step to explain to the council member if anybody else needs to, we can go into executive session. But it is time-sensitive. I'm going to hold this one in abeyance. We can hold this. Motion is to hold item 32 in abeyance. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 33, appoint Superintendent of Auto Supplies. Motion to send civil service item 33 and 34. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 35, G-Techno contract extension. Motion to send to civil service. Oh, it's going to civil service. All right. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 36, proposed agreement with Palo Buffalo to administer recreational programs. Motion to approve items 35 through 39. Second by Council Member Fierlato. We were on item 36. Let me pause for a minute. Excuse me, item 35 should have been approved. So you want to revisit item 35? Motion to revisit item 35. Second by Council Member Fierlato. Motion now is to approve. Thank you. All right, so the motion we're going to rescind the previous motion second by councilmember fair little and now to approve setting by councilmember Wingo next item item 36 proposed agreement with pala buffalo to administer recreational programs motion to approve items 36 through 39 second by councilmember Colombo item 40 proposed agreement with say s education for family support specialist motion to send finance I think by councilmember what? Item 41, Proposed Agreement with City Swim Project. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 42, Liquor Licenses. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item 43, Notices of Appointment, Temporary Provisional Permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service items 43 through 45. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 46, Notice of Appointment, Council Intern 3. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 47, additional information, amended Elmwood Crossing PUD. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 48, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board, sidewalk snow removal fact sheet and recommendations. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 49, Elmwood Crossing seeker finding statement. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 50, experience applying for surplus under the current city process. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. And thank the Western New York Law Center for their diligent work on this. I'm going to say I'm very sensitive to this issue because there's a lot of folks out in in our community who have lost homes because of finances and other reasons. And I think this is a very, very important issue that we need to take up and make sure we address this issue. We've been talking about this over the last year and a half, and we still haven't gotten to the point where we can make some type of decision to help those who are most vulnerable, who are hurting right now. So I'm really hopeful, and I will be pressing that and without believe within the next 90 days that we can have this matter resolved because it sometimes we just make thing of Paralysis of analysis and some things we have to have to be honest about what we're trying to do and for me I'm trying to make sure that if someone has lost their home that they can get their surplus money their equity That's their money on the city has a responsibility there are things that the city as old as If the city is made whole, then these people need to get their money, and I'm hopeful that we can come to that point. This document that I'm placing forward in legislation, there's another attorney that's involved that has cited the state laws and different things and how that really pertains to this issue, and it's not really a city issue, but the state has already allowed for it. So I'm hopeful that within the next 90 days that we can get this taken care of. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? Next slide. item 51 public notice brownfield cleanup motion to receive and file second by councilmember norkowski item 52 opposition to treatment clinic in cleve hill plaza motion to send the cd second by president pro temp scan item 53 zoning map amendment 38 tremont motion to send to legislation city planning board items 50 53 through 63. second by councilmember wingle Civil Service, item number one, appoint inclusionary compliance officer. Motion is to approve items one through and including 13. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Item 14, notice of appointment, Laborer 2. Motion is to receive and file items 14 through and including 23. Second by Majority Leader, Revere. Finance, item 24, consulting services for the curb management plan for downtown Buffalo. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member, Fairlotto. community development item 25 report of sale 222 carl motion to recommit second by councilmember wingle item 26 reported sale 579 west motion to approve second by the majority leader riviera item 27 reported sale portion of 92 burgard uh mr bullman this is yours uh uh motions as well as 29 Actually, 29 if we could recommit, please. Okay, then the motion is 27 and 28 to approve, please. All right, second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 29, reported sale portion of 15 truck. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item 30, potholes and driveway skirt to hurdle. Motion to receive and file 30 through third band, including 35. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. Legislation, item 36, amended Elmwood Crossing, planned unit development as of August 30th, 2022. This item is in the Niagara District and marks without recommendation. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. This item has been before us since February when a proposed PUD amendment was put forward. Since then, we've held a number of community meetings. And I just want to go through some of them because we want people to know the work that went into the decision that's being made here today. On February 1st, we had an in-person meeting in my office with Ellicott Development and Sinatra Group. 622 in-person meeting in my office with Ellicott and Sinatra and neighborhood representatives. 7-13 in-person community meeting at Richmond Summer Senior Center. 7-27 in-person meeting in my office with three residents. August 10th, in-person meeting in Councilmember Rivera's office with representatives of the planning board and four residents. 8-30, attended online update from Ellicott and Sinatra. 9-7, meeting in my office, representative from the planning board, Ellicott Development, and Sinatra. In between that, we had dozens of phone calls and emails. 9-13, we had a public hearing here in the hearing council chambers and legislation committee. 9-26, the approval with conditions by the planning board. 9-28, planning board findings were posted to my Facebook account. Changes that were made to the PUT, so the residents are aware. And many of these changes were changes that the residents asked for. Maximum height reduction from four stories to three stories, that's in the PUD. Rear yard setback from one feet to 15 feet, that's in the PUD. 187 Bryan Street is being preserved. They ask that this building not be torn down. It's being preserved. At least 10% green space. Skyline size limited to the variety tower. There was a plan to put skyline signs in different places They narrowed it down to the skyline tower even so we're going to offer conditions here today to the PUD any proposed guideline signs must come before the Planning Board for major site review and Those residents that have been calling me, texting me down to the wire while I was still coming down the stairs. Any proposed skyline signs must come before the planning board for major site review. The subdivision of any parcels must come before the planning board for review as well. Those are safeguards that the public can have. Certainly the public want confidence in the process. I want to thank the Elmwood Crossing Advisory Committee, who have been working on this for over six years now. I want to thank Ellen Malone, Peggy Moriarty, Catherine Gillespie, Bob Patterson. I have a question for our law department. I want clarification on this. In the EIS, I received an email from somebody regarding the EIS. In the EIS, it says 30%... six and a half feet setback to 180 to 188 West Utica. That's in the EIS, yet the original PUD had the setback at one feet. What supersedes? Is it the EIS or is it the PUD that we voted on? Assistant Corp Councilor Karen Gordon. So the EIS, as it states, is an environmental impact statement that basically gives recommendations. It's an evaluation of the environmental impact that may come as a result of the project, and they're all recommendations. At the end of the day, the PUD is... is independent of that in the uh that eis even though it's uh it's an insight to what could be and it gives a sense of uh understanding for the common council when they make its determination but the part is is distinct and separate from the eis the eis the part is a legislation right a legislative act the eis is not okay so the eis is a recommendation is that correct that's correct and the pod is legislation that's correct okay thank you very much um that was one of the sticking points we had with some of the residents and i just wanted to clarify it people see things through different lenses whether it's preservation whether it's preserving a house whether it's setback whether it's historic So we have people that look at things through different lenses, and we understand and appreciate that. My office has worked diligently over the last months with the residents, law department, the planning board, and the development team. I also want to thank the development team for many of the changes that they agreed to. So I want to thank Mark Romaneski, the development team as well. Hopefully this project is a better project as a result of the community engagement and the changes that were made. Many people want to see something happen at that site. We want to develop momentum. We want to see that site redeveloped. As quickly as it could happen. So I want to thank everyone involved. Our goal is to make the project much better. And I think as a result of all the work that has been done, including my staff, I just want to thank Valerie Malia who has worked diligently on this. Answering emails and setting up meetings. With that, I move that we approve the PUD with the amendments. and with the conditions motion is to approve the the putt as amended with conditions seconded by council member glenbeck item 37 special use 433 massachusetts motion is to approve items 37 38 with conditions approve 39 40 and 41. seconded by council member wyatt item 42 special use 3214 main street motion to recommit seconded by council member wingo Item 43, Zoning Map Amendment 219, Walnut. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 44, Special Use 279, Guilford. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item 45, Special Use 385, Rhode Island. Motion to approve Items 45 and 46. Seconded by Council Member Glembach. Claims, Item 47, A1-B. Farrell-Steven, 535,000. Motion to approve Items 47 through 71. All seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Resolutions, Item 64, Budget and Personnel Amendment, Community Services. Motion to approve Items 64 through 70. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 71, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 72 exploring at-large councilmember positions Sitem's open this item is open council president pigeon. Thank you. Mr. Chair The this item and I want to just be clear that this is not stating that this council supports or does not support at large there has been many people who have come to this council and others who called and asked us to at least look at a the benefit, if there is a benefit, if there is not a benefit to the residents of the City of Buffalo, when you talk about at large. Of course we know that right now all of us are district council members and personally I think that we work very well in ensuring that every district gets those things that are important. But we can't always count on that, is the fear of some people that there could be a different council that becomes very, very divided. And we've seen that in the past. So this is just a conversation in that resolution. It talks about opening up a period of public discussion, no different than the discussions that we had about a different form of administration. I think that this is timely to talk about is there time is it time for the council to Explore at-large members who then are not necessarily beholden to one district But to the city and again, I think that this present council does a great job in ensuring that whatever NORF's priorities are or university, I've seen this council stick together. It is really about how we move forward in the future and what is best for the people of Buffalo. So all the information, I won't go into detail, is in the resolution of the public period. Council staff did a great job in researching and really putting together a resolution that does not have us on one side or the other, but really opening up for discussion. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And Corporation Council, because these are good discussions to have, because what's important is when the council downsized, it was downsized by the people. It was voted for in a referendum. So I'm assuming that if we were to, as the city has changed over the course of 20 years, and so if that would also be subject to public referendum, if you could kind of give us some cursory examples, Corporation Council. Assistant Corp. Counsel Karen Gordon. Thank you. So there could be more than one ways of getting that done. For instance, we just did our redistricting. That would have been one way to do it because that's when most times at large and additional council members are added or removed because it's all based on the population. So let's say June redistricting, we had an X amount of people being added to the city population, that would be the opportune time. Outside of that, if we get a large influx of people before the next census, then a referendum would be the next option. Thank you. Council Member Glumbach. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I support the discussion. I think that having discussion is always very, very important. And I was here back when we downsized the council from 13 to nine. And depending on whether it was popular or not at the time when it was popular, some of my other colleagues took credit for everything. Then when it became unpopular, it was all my fault. But that's politics and you roll with the punches. I just want to share one of the reasons why I had always had a very discomfort with the at-large positions was because of probably where I come from. The North District has always been an exceptionally diverse district. It was diverse in ethnic, racial, political, financial, you know, right across the board, and it still is. I think that North is now, correct me if I'm wrong, but I think it's the most diverse district in the city of Buffalo. One of the concerns that I've always had with the at-large members was because of where I come from, the North District never had an at-large representative. And in a perfect world, you would have somebody that isn't that large person that looks out for the whole city of Buffalo. The unfortunate aspect is that because of politics, we take care of our base and you would see that Fillmore used to have numerous at-large council member representation, Mastin, South, and Delaware. And those probably 90% of the at-large members came from those four districts. And what my fear has always been, and I think that it's been demonstrated, borne out on numerous occasions, that you ended up having at-large members who tried to look out citywide, but ultimately ended up catering to their base. So it ended up like you had duplicate council members, and whether it was from South or Fillmore or Mastin or Delaware. You ended up having two votes, three votes that would go in that direction to help out that district. But I'm very supportive of discussing this because I think that all the different pros and cons should be brought out. So I'm in the yes. Anyone else? I agree with councilmember glombeck that I'm 100% open to the conversation I think one thing that this council has always done Regardless of the topic or a change of the dynamics of how things operate within this building in city government We've always been open to discussions to changing things and not staying stagnant So I only affirmative it well to have the discussion Seconded by councilmember Rivera motion is to adopt motion to adapt seconded by councilmember. Can we send a reminder? I? Remain there so that we keep it where do you want to send it to? They'll probably go to ledge like just talking about motion is to adopt the resolve send the remainder to legislation seconded by councilmember Nalkowski item 73 wave fees for bury the violence motion to approve item 73 and 74 motion to revisit item 32 one a clarification motion to revisit item number What was it 32 32 seconded by councilmember Wyatt? Oh? councilmember wingo thank you just to ask uh our clerk's office what was the motion on item 32 if there was one recorded we had it was to approve initially okay so we have to rescind that motion to send it to finance well yeah that's what i know when we come back are we back at the item yeah we're going to go into executive session a motion to go into executive session by council member pridgen seconded by council member norkowski oh you know that That's interesting because we sent the other one. I'm sorry. The compulsory, yeah, we sent. We good? We good? All right. So we are back in session. We were out for executive session to discuss with our Corporation Council Compulsory Interest Arbitration Award between the City of Buffalo and the Buffalo Police Benevolent Association. We are now moving back into the full session moved by Council Member Revere, seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. We are now back on the record of the full session of the Buffalo Common Council. And we are going to revisit two items. Motion to revisit item number 32. All right. Motion is to revisit on the regular agenda item number 32, second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 32, police arbitration award allocation. Motion to approve. Motion is to approve, and just for the record, we revisited, but we had held it in advance. So actually, the motion is to put it back on the floor. But motion to approve, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And there's one other item. Motion to revisit item 36. Out of legislation, item number 36, seconded by Councilmember Golombek. mr chairman with regards to the conditions set by the common council i just want to clarify one of the conditions the second condition the subdivision of parcels the condition now reads the subdivisions of one or more acres one or more acres will go before the planning board for review is that correct And that's an additional amendment to those amendments that have already been... We're going to strike the previous condition. The previous condition was to the subdivision of parcels must go before the planning board for review. The new condition, the substitute condition, is the subdivision of one or more acres will go before the planning board for review. Okay. Is that correct? I can't hear you. You've got to turn your mic on, sir. Assistant Corporation Councilor Karen Gordon. If you like, you can read Condition 1 and Condition 2 now, just to make it clear. Okay, I'll read both conditions. Yes. Thank you. Any proposed skyline sign must come before the Planning Board for review. The skyline signs. On the Variety Tower, the subdivision of one acre or more must go to the Planning Board for review. Those are the conditions set. all right so the motion has been written to the record uh second by councilmember columbia motion is now to approve with conditions with the amendment with the amended conditions approve the pud with the with the conditions with the amended part with the conditions motion to approve the amended part with the condition got it second by councilmember noah kowski all right any other business before us council members announcements for your districts councilmember what i'm sorry I'm sorry. Go ahead. Let's read the committee meetings for some second. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be held in Council Chambers 13th floor City Hall, Buffalo, New York. Meetings may be attend virtually. Please contact Council staff at 716-851-5105 or Council staff at buffalonny.gov for more information on how to attend. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, October 11th at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, Tuesday, October 11th at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, October 11th at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, October 11th at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Police Oversight, Tuesday, October 12th at 11 o'clock a.m. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to invite the residents of the University District... and to be heard regarding the streetscape planning for Bailey Avenue. We've had two meetings, wasn't very well attended, but some of the input that we've gotten thus far is that they're recommending bike lanes in the district. And I know I've talked to a lot of residents who are just, they can't believe that we're going to be trying to put bike lanes. So I need you to come out on Thursday at 530 at Westminster Charter School to be heard against your opposition or what you would like to see. This is your opportunity. The streetscape plan is moving very quickly, and we need your input. So we need you to come out 530 this Thursday at Winston-Lutheran Charter School. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? Council Member Wingo and then Council Member Scala. President Pro Tem. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Madison District, of course, is having our monthly district meeting and Stakeholders breakfast where you can come out and receive great information get great updates on things that are happening in the community As well as be part of the conversations as councilmember Why just spoke of regarding the Bailey streetscape program that will be this Saturday the 8th of October at 930 in the morning at 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center then of course I The senior bingo ball is back, the Mastin District. Of course, we're happy to announce October the 29th at 6 p.m., the senior bingo ball, formerly known as Bingo with Wingo. Thank you. And we will have our Senior Bingo Ball. This year, of course, we will have a great time eating, playing bingo, and then dancing. Of course, great prizes that have been donated are always going to be a lot of fun for folks to get and receive. And also have fun playing bingo. But that's going to be October 29th, Saturday, at 6 p.m. You can park at the OSC parking lot down the street on Delavan. You will be shuttled in a limo down the street to the Delavan Grider Center. That's right. And you will do your red carpet walk up to the Delavan Grider Center and go into the area where we will have our bingo ball. Please call the Mass. and District Office for more information. The number is 716-851-5145, 716-851-5145. The seating is limited, space is limited, so please give us a shout as soon as you can. Our office is standing by waiting to receive your phone calls and your interest for Madison District residents to come out and enjoy an evening of bingo, eating, fun games and dancing. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council President. That's good. I have an announcement anyway, so if you have time. That's a good opening. Thank you, Council President. I welcome and encourage South District residents to come out to the Abbott Road Phase 2 Streetscape Improvement Project meeting taking place next Thursday, October 13th at 6 p.m. at the Buffalo Irish Center. This is a continuation of the project that started on... Phase 1 of Abbott Road, this second phase will be from Merritt into the city line at Dorrance. During Phase 1, we had a tremendous amount of participation and feedback from the community, so I encourage everyone to come out and take part again. Again, that is next Thursday, October 13th at 6 p.m. at the Buffalo Irish Center. Thank you, sir. And the Ellicott District stakeholder, Council Member Nowakowski, I apologize. Thank you. I just wanted to join the party. For Saturday at 9 a.m. at the Broadway Market in the parking lot, Erie County will be hosting free rabies vaccination clinic for dogs and indoor and outdoor cats, so please come out. Thank you. Ellicott District stakeholder meeting is Tuesday, October 18th. 6 p.m. at the Dorothy J. Collier Community Center, 118 Eshutica, Department of Public Works, Citizen Services, Board of Block Clubs, and others will be there. And a light meal. It will not be breakfast, but it will be a light afternoon meal, evening meal, to first come, first serve. And then the seniors Halloween party that we sponsor will be held at the William Emslie YMCA. You can call the office 851-4980 for more information and to register. There are already a few hundred registered, so space is limited. Anything else? All right. Second by Council Member Rashida and C. Wyatt. Thank you.