Council members, we're ready to begin. Ready? Oh, wait, Jim. We are. Countdown. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golumbak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council president Pridgen. Aki. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. He is here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Cormans present. All right, can we stand for the pledge? As the states of America, and to the republic for which it stands, I, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Today we are pleased to have a guest to offer our invocation. He has pastored in Western New York and been a bishop across the country for many years. He is now the Bishop Emeritus at the Full Gospel Tabernacle in Orchard Park. He is a friend of Buffalonians and has been with us before, and we welcome to the podium the Bishop Tommy Reed. It's a special treat anytime that Bishop Tommy Reed can join us. He is 89 on his way to his 90th birthday. So he wasn't here for the last pandemic, but didn't miss it by that much in that journey that he's been on. Proverbs talks about the counsel of the godly. And many of us in leadership, including the Consul President, myself and others, look to this father and senior leader for the wisdom and counsel. And any time there's a storm of the century, you want somebody at the captain's wheel who's been through storms before. And when I'm in a storm, I look to you, Bishop, for your wisdom to sort of calm me down as I'm navigating unknown, uncharted waters. Our city is sort of there in many ways as well, and these, the elected representatives, are happy to make those decisions regularly. So thank you for joining us today. Well, he just said that I'm old, all right? I didn't say that. Can we pray? Our Lord, this day, we need your wisdom. There are issues, there are problems, there are difficulties in all of our ways of life, specifically many of them because of the problems we go through. And yet, Lord, we know that you are still the king. You are still our Lord. We invoke your presence and we ask for your wisdom in the deliberations that we make. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Bishop Tommy Reed. We honor council members and morals. Council member Golombek. Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside neighborhood got double whack this week. Chuck Galante from the neighborhood, a young man my age passed away. A loving husband of Jessica Galante will be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends. Also Jim James McCabe worked for the city, I believe it was the Water Authority. His wife Judy also works for the City of Buffalo. He passed away after a short illness. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family, his friends, people in Riverside, and especially for Judy. Thank you. Any others? Council Member White. My prayers, if we could pray for the family of Ms. Elnisa Banks, who is the owner and founder of The Challenger. Her dad passed, 96 years old, and he was a Korean War veteran. I had an opportunity to stop by the wake on yesterday, and we'd just like to keep her family in prayer. Absolutely. Anyone else? As always, we remember our men and women. I don't believe we had zero that have passed since our last meeting. However, for people across this world who have given their life for the freedom of others, we always pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. It is my pleasure to bring forward Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt for what I feel is a very, very important presentation. President, just want to bring down Sherry Shirell from the We Are Women Warriors, if she can come down real quick. Just want to say before we bring the gentleman down that This is very special to me, and I didn't do anything. I'm just a lowly public servant. But whether it be the Buffalo Five, the Central Park Five, Trayvon Martin, Breonna Taylor, Eric Gardner, unfortunately for black and brown people, we are guilty and unproven innocent. And these gentlemen fought very hard to overturn that conviction. And I first want to thank my bishop, Pastor Pridgen, who, when Mr. Our DA was running for office. The only thing he asked from him is to look into this case. And I want to give that respect to Attorney Flynn that he looked into this case and these gentlemen have been fully exonerated. So with that being said, I want to bring Sherri Cherelle up who's been a part of the Women, We Are Women Warriors and have assisted in this campaign as well. And you can introduce the gentleman and bring them down. Good morning, everyone. I almost said good evening. My name is Sherry Sherrill. I'm the Special Projects Facilitator for the We Are Women Warriors organization, and I'm privileged and honored to stand before this honorable body and with you all. Before I start, I want to ask Mr. John Walker of the Buffalo Five and the Buffalo Five's Mr. Daryl Boyd if they would make their way here. As they approach, I just want to say that the fight... The fight to obtain justice for the Buffalo Five continues. And the We Are Women Warriors organization is pleased and we are indeed deeply grateful and honored to be able to assist Mr. Walker and Mr. Boyd in that fight. We want to acknowledge at this time their parents, Mr. John Henry Walker Sr. and Ms. Carolyn Walker. We want to acknowledge at this point also the parents of Mr. Daryl Boyd, Mr. Alfred Boyd, and Ms. Thomasina Green. And forgive me, I get emotional about this, but I just want to add before I introduce them that those family members, those parents fought for 44 and 45 years and in the spirit, because John's parents are both deceased, to see this day when their son's innocence would indeed be acknowledged. And praise God. The Bible says in Psalm 35, weeping may endureth for a night, but joy cometh in the morning. The Buffalo Five's John Walker and Darrell Boyd. Council Member? Good afternoon, everybody. First, I'd like to thank Councilman Wyatt. He said he didn't do anything, but if it wasn't for him, this moment might not have been possible. I'd also like to say thank you to Council President Darius Pridgett for all the help that he's given. And I'd also like to thank all the rest of the councilmen here today for having us and for listening to us today. Thank you all very much. Um, as far as us, overturn the case, um, we've been up under this here conviction for, um, 548 months, 1 week and 5 days. And we finally got out from under it and we're very appreciative and we're appreciative of acknowledging that there's been many times that I came and asked for assistance from, um, certain people in this membership. and I didn't get it then, didn't really understand why. But at the time, we was fighting to get our case overturned. So, you know, I can understand that you don't put everything down. But now that we have been successful and have overturned our conviction, it's really an assessment that we was innocent of the crime that we spent all that time in jail for. We now have got that overturned, and I now look forward to— Anytime that I might come to one of you guys and ask for your assistance, I will please, please just help us. We have done a lot of time here in Buffalo for this case that we had nothing to do with. As Ms. Sherry just said, my parents are no longer here. So I can't, you know, go to them with my happy face and say, Ma, look, I overturned this conviction, which she knew I would always do anyway. But for me, it's no longer about my parents and trying to, you know, make them feel good about what happened to me. It's about my son now. It's about me not leaving no legacy of a convicted murder to my son John Walker III. And that's been my real fight all the time. I didn't want my son going nowhere and they looking him up on Facebook or whatever and messing around and got my name and figured out I'm a convicted murderer for something I had nothing to do with. So now I don't worry about that with my son now. And I'm really appreciative of that, and I'm really appreciative of you guys, everybody in here today listening to us. I thank you all very, very much. And again, special thanks to Council President and to Councilman Watts. We have council staff for a picture. Anybody? I have received in the past, I have received other awards like this, but never something So nice is this one. Never have I received one of this one again. Thank y'all. For any of y'all who put your name on here, thank y'all very, very much. Very much. Thank y'all. Thank y'all. Thank y'all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To a lot of people, they might think just another award. But to me, this one is very, very special. I will always have this hanging on my wall and always be appreciative of y'all taking the time to listen to us. Thank y'all once again. Yes, my name is Darryl Boyd, a member of the Buffalo Five. John said it all. Ms. Sherry said it all. Councilman Pridgen, Pridgen, Councilman Wyatt, and the whole house. I'm a little nervous right now. Still was nervous. Still just trying to recover from even actually the announcement of round-rope conviction on August 18th. I'm still absorbing it. And thank you. I want to just say, as Martin Luther King says, free at last. Free at last. As just as you all are taking pictures, you can keep going. I want to say that every DA that has run for office since they were out, I have publicly asked to look at their case on the pulpit of my church and publicly. And today, and I thank you, Council Member Wyatt, for today. And I think we're all a little emotional because from the first day these gentlemen came to see me in my office at the church, I believed them. And a lot of people come to me and say they're innocent, but I haven't really had many people come to me after they have served time. I used to say serve their time, but it wasn't their time. They served time because they said from the beginning they were innocent. And those who had an attorney walked. Those who had public defenders went to jail. And so when we talk about injustice, I do believe that this is one of those cases. And I'm thankful that you all stuck with me and we stuck with you. And those announcements and you know you have your own roving reporter and Betty Jean Grant who stuck with everybody. But to have in these chambers as an African-American man to have you here and to have you free. And to have behind you another person who my heart was there, Carol Horn, and to have a law that is named after her in these chambers. I am honored to sit in this seat and to have the use of any power to help people, especially those who have been unjustly treated. Again, thank you, Council Member Wyatt, and thank you to this council for receiving them in such a grand manner. This is what Buffalo is about. Thank you. Now, you all don't have to stay for the whole meeting. We know. It's really not that exciting after. You brought all the excitement. Thank you. And when I looked up Sunday and saw Daryl ushering in church Sunday, it was a blessing. Thank you, sir. All righty. I'll give the audience a little chance to get out of the door. We're going right from the top. All right. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanley, the minutes of the stated meeting held on September 21st, 2021 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause this meeting if you need to further review an item. We are going, I believe, from the top. Item number one, report a sale, 100 grade. Motion to approve items one and two. Second by Council Member Golombi. One, two, and three. Item number four, report of sale 244, Maple. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number five, report of sale 194, Monroe. Motion to approve items five, six, and seven. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number eight, report of sale 573, Spring. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number nine, report of sale 1115, Sycamore. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number ten, cash flow report. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Temps. Scanlon. Item number 11, Broadway Market Facility. Motion to receive and file items 11 through 14. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number 15, Contract Amendment Number 2 with Socrata Inc. for open data. Motion to approve item 16 through 26. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 27, Corporation Council, Amira Hill, 15,000. Motion to send to the claims committee items 27 through 46. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Permits and inspections, item number 47, Full Store, license 671 Fillmore Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 48, garbage collector license. Motion to approve items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 50, used car dealer 346 Hopkins Street. Motion to send to legislation items 50 and 51. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 52, purchase, auction, and scrap a vehicle. Motion to approve items 52 and 53. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 54, appoint automotive inventory clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 55, proposed agreement with Dress for Success Buffalo Program. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 56, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 57, appoint chief of staff. Motion to adopt items 57 and 58. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Wyatt, you have the floor. Mr. President, can we do a roll call vote for Mr. Montour? If you'd like to. Thank you. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Okay. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes. President Pro Tem Scalin. Yes. Council Member Winkle. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Absolutely yes. It is unanimous, thank you. Council Member Wingo. Thank you. I was trying to have my comments before the vote, because there's something I needed to say about Jim Montour. You have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Jim Montour has served this council since before I came on. And Jim Montour has been one consistent worker that I've noticed in that central staff. Jim Montour never asked for a single promotion that I know of since I've been council member the last six plus years. He has always done everything with fidelity and with care and with concern. I don't believe there is a more deserving person for this position in central staff. And that's not to say anything against anyone else. But if there's anyone who's going to take Malcolm Eartha's place, I believe Jim Montour is the perfect candidate for this job. And for that, today I say congratulations to Jim. And I hope that Jim makes this position all that I know he can because he has so many different skills and other things to bring to the council. So we do miss Malcolm. Let me speak for myself. I do miss Malcolm in this position. Jim has made us feel like we are going to be okay and Says a lot coming behind a person who is as capable as Malcolm was so again Jim Congratulations, you are very well deserving of this position and we're looking forward to bigger and better and higher things from you On this council and in this position. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair councilmember. Why it was next who called the roll Thank you, mr. President and I just wanted to say because Jim came on when I was chief of staff and And when Mr. Golumbek brought him on, at first I had some concerns, but he has been exemplary. And again, I appreciate the dialogue that we've had throughout. And I said, Jim, I think it was the wedding. I think it was the marriage that changed. Thank you. But he's done an exemplary job and I'm looking forward to him continuing to elevate the office of chief of staff. And again, congratulations. Council Member Golombek, who brought him to the table, I believe. Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, it's funny, I'm trying to think, it was maybe around 2003, 2004 where I met Jim. He showed up at my class at Buff State and he was trying to force register. His then girlfriend was also a friend of mine and she had already given me the heads up. And I didn't tell him that, so he's telling me, I've heard good things about you, I wanted to get into your class, yada, dada, dada. And then I'm just looking at him and he's going on and on and on and on. And finally I said, Catherine, at the time, I said, Catherine already talked to me already and I've already filled out the paperwork. So it's funny, who would have thought at that moment that Jim would be my friend and I'm very proud that I brought him onto the council and the work that he's done and the growth that he's had here on the council. So congratulations, Jim. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I've had the great pleasure of watching Jim Trins. formed from a new staff member into a seasoned veteran and eventually into a leader in that office. He is a true leader down there in Central's staff. I know he's going to do a tremendous job in his new position, and I wish him nothing but the best of luck. Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you Mr. President. I did get the pleasure of working with Jim when I was a member of central staff and members of central staff, we go places, right? We're a testament to that. But there's nothing Jim can't do. He's very, and I only use this word sparingly to those that deserve it, talented. Jim, anything there is, Jim can figure it out. And those that are appointed to central staff to serve on the council have to be sponsored by, there's usually a region of one council member, so you usually keep that district close to your heart. But I do this just to tease my colleague on the council. So although Jim comes from north, he's honorary filmer sometimes too. Actually he lives in south. Is that why you're raising your hand? Yeah. Well, I'd hate to break it to everyone, but he lives in South Buffalo and I think that's what they don't put over the edge for him. A lot of people don't recognize what council staff does, makes all of us look good. Because all of the research and the hard work that we get up and present as if we kind of wrote it sometime, it's the folks from council staff. So congratulations, Jim. All righty. Item number 59, neighborhood improvement corpse proposal. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member White. Item number 60, amend site plan special use permit for 581 William. Motion to send the legislation item 60 and 61. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 62, request to speak at police oversight committee. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by Council Member Glumbach. Petitions, item number 63, special use, 1450 Michigan Avenue. Motion to send the legislation to the City Planning Board, items 63 through 68. Seconded by Council Member Fierletto. Submission list, committee, civil service, item number one, appoint assistant corporation council. Motion is to approve items one through four. You approve it? Our doubt is receiving file items one through four. Seconded by the Majority Leader Revere. Community Development, item number 5, report is so 310 North Hampton. Motion is to approve items 5 and 6. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Legislation, item number 7, Prom Brokers License 1407, a.k.a. 1421 Main Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 8, 901 Furman Boulevard Special Use Permit. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Motion to approve. Item number nine, negative declaration for 901 Furman Boulevard. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Tempst-Scanlon. Item number ten, Buffalo police reform legislation. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by the majority leader. Item number 11, legislative loopholes. Motion to receive and file items 11 through 13. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 14, 901 Furman Boulevard for pedestrian and bicycle path. Motion to approve. And by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 15. Council Member Golombet. I'd like to be recorded in the negative. I'm not opposed to development along the waterfront. I think that there needs to be some sort of a balance ultimately. Years ago, I voted against the casino coming to downtown Buffalo, and my vote against the casino was not based on gambling issues. It was based on the law of unforeseen consequences. And one of the concerns I had at the time was, was that if we had X amount of acres of land in downtown Buffalo, that it was possible that it could be used for something that we didn't necessarily intend at that moment. That's what I was thinking. Well, a few years later, one of downtown's developers who had disagreed with me on my vote for the casino pulled me aside and said, you know, you were right. what happened was once again this is the unintended consequences he said that he was no longer able to get medium-ranked parents at his venue because the casino was undercutting him and he was you know not able to get the music that he necessarily wanted to that he was able to get in the nineties in the early So as much as I'm concerned about the infrastructure and the possible entering and exiting from a venue of this size, I think that there's other things that are potentially problematic long term. I hope that I'm wrong. I do wish it success. I hope that things can work out there and that there's no negative impacts. But my concerns outweigh my support, so I have to be in the negative on this. Thank you. You're recorded. Anyone else? All right. Item number 15, 2227 South Park for Tobacco. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 16, support for Clean Slate New York Bill. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President, and I want to thank my colleagues and co-sponsors on this. This is really meaningful legislation as we talk about justice reform. And although this is not the end-all, be-all, it's a big leap in the right direction to help individuals who made a mistake and had to serve time. For too long we have put these individuals, and after they've served their time, we've extended that time after that, that they couldn't get jobs, they couldn't get housing, they couldn't get an education. And that is what continues to permeate poverty in our communities, because where do they go when they come back? they come back to our community and they can't find a job and they can't get they can support their family so some of them fall back into the same old situation because they can't get those opportunities so thank my colleagues on for taking this leap of faith in doing this in supporting with the legislature is putting forth which i'm really proud that they've done something like this because we need more So this is just one piece. There's a lot of other pieces that we need to do, but I want to thank them. And that's also Tavia Pert, I think she's in here, who brought forth the legislation and shared it with me and has been on, who's on the committee and works with the public good. And making certain that they continue to engage the community in such things like this. So again, thank my colleagues for their support and the approval on this. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Williams. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you again to Council Member Wyatt for initially sponsoring this bill. I'm very pleased and honored and privileged to be able to co-sponsor this bill and lend my support, my full support for this legislation that is in the state right now. Because again, once a person has served time, they should be allowed to start over. And this is what spurs recidivism in our communities. When folks come out of incarceration and they are reentering citizens and they are trying to start their lives over. But yet they are faced with all of these barriers that prohibit them and preclude them even from having a life of inequality because of their past that they're still being judged on. So I am extremely pleased to be part of this movement. And again, to Councilmember Wyatt for ensuring that this legislation has been put forth. Well, not legislation, but this resolution is being put forth to show that we have unanimous support in this council for this bill. And I know I called for a roll call. During committee, of course, of which I was not a voting member of, but because this is in the body of the whole, I would like to call roll call for this vote so that I could proudly say vote in the affirmative. Why are we voting on something that is still going through the legislature? Sorry about that. People would ask, why are we voting on something that is going to go through the legislature? And it's probably going to get amended and changed. And there could probably be more guardrails in place by the time it gets through. But I think we're approving it here because of the intent itself. Yeah. The intent is that once people serve their time. their convictions and they're off parole and they're off probation and they're starting their lives over again. I think it's important that they have access to the same quality of life that every other American has. And I think this is what the legislation is about. They're not any less Americans, any less people once they serve their time. So I am proud to support this. I'm looking forward to seeing the final bill to make sure all the safeguards that people are concerned about are in place. So thank you very much to Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt for bringing it up and certainly to the Assemblywoman in New York City. Thank you. Absolutely, I think that this is not a get out of jail free card. And there are, and some of my colleagues after they read it were able to support it because they saw the guardrails, which I think is important, as you said, it will even probably get changed more. This is definitely a you had to serve your time. You had to serve all of your time. You had to repay your debt to society. And anybody who repays and then who is ready to be back in society as a contributing member of society— This gives them that chance and for all of the reasons that have been brought up. I don't know how many people every, probably month, that come to me who have served their time, finished everything, and still when they go to get a job can't. And this council has been rather consistent on caring about that because it was this council that did the, it's called eliminate the box or something on applications. So we've been doing that for some years, but this is important. And quite frankly, Council Member Wyatt is one of those council members that doesn't try to take the credit. He's giving the credit to other people bringing it to him and then him bringing it to us. And so my name is on their co-sponsor. I didn't do anything but ask to co-sponsor. So I want to be clear that there is all of these people working together in our community for those who have – I'm not going to say, I heard a judge say, don't tell me you made a mistake, you made a bad choice. Some have made bad choices and they've paid their debt. So I agree with you all and honored to be joined on this. All righty, I think there was a call for a roll call. And Council Member Wingo is out of. Do we still want a roll call? Do I have a second? All right, roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Council Member Wyatt? Yes. All right, it is unanimous. Thank you all. Item. Thank you. We usually don't have applause in the chamber except when I beg. You already started it, so we just joined in. We finally forgot to. Next item. Item number 17, special use permit, 1941 Clinton for assembly. Motion to approve items 17 through 20. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 21, special use permit for 61 Tams for parking structure. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 22, special use for 248 Willett for now owner occupied short-term rental. The motion is to approve item 22 with conditions and 23, 24, and 25. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, or Bowman. I'm sorry. You're welcome. Item number 70, Broie Market Management Plan. Motion to adopt. It resolves the remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski, who I knew was going to put up his finger to speak. Councilmember Nowakowski, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. As you know, the Broadway market is probably in the Fillmore District. And earlier this year, there was a market study and plan that was presented to the public early in the year around late January and early February, where a lot of people worked on it and came up with wonderful analysis and a road map. that the market should use to be a regional attraction, but also an asset to the surrounding neighborhood. And part of that plan outlines the structure of how the market should be run. And successful markets, public ones, all throughout the country are run by a nonprofit entity whose sole mission is to... gather vendors, do capital projects, write grants. Frankly, what we should be looking at is our partner in the Niagara District in the Westside Bazaar. That's becoming really a regional attraction in the Westside of Buffalo. And there is currently $4 million in ESD funding that was secured through the Buffalo Billion. And before we spend public money, we need to make sure that that money is spent within a structure that is utilizing all of the tools that are outlined. And sometimes... the best decision made is the one that's made instead of just the paralysis of analysis and we have to keep the ship moving Broadway Film Wars now seeing resurgence And this is this is working in tandem with that and moving it forward and this is the first step so I look forward to the Buffalo Common Council adopting this plan and sending the rest to Committee so that we could speak with city officials and the Department real estate and other folks on how we can come up with a structure To run the Broadway market in the future. Thank you. Thank you, sir Next item. Item number 71, support for Haitian refugees. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt, second by Councilmember Wyatt. This, and I want to thank Councilmember Nowkowski last week for two weeks ago when we talked about those who are coming into our area from Afghanistan. And as we talked, we realized that sooner or later, our government will make a decision on certain people who have come into our country from Haiti. Haiti being one of the, I guess I could say this without getting in trouble, stop me, counselor, one of the most known corrupt governments in the world. I've been to Haiti. I went to Haiti after the earthquake. I spent some time and some money in Haiti, have friends that are in Haiti. Some people look at Haiti and think that the people coming from Haiti, that everybody's a criminal and everybody's wrong. But I want to tell you there's some beautiful people and they have really gone through probably one of the most difficult countries that I've ever visited in my life. the city of New York City was Haiti. And so as we are opening up our arms and saying to people, you are welcome in Western New York. We want to make sure that those who are suffering so much in Haiti knew that this common council welcomes them to this city also. So thank you all for the adoption. Council Member Scal. Item number 72, fee waiver for the Boys and Girls Club in Gold Bike, Buffalo. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 73, City of Buffalo objectives for 2022 congressional redistricting. Motion to adopt items 73 through 75. Second by President Pro Temps, Christopher P. Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Council President. As we all know, the results of the 2020 census were recently released. And as a result, New York State must redraw its district lines for the United States House of Representatives. Currently, the New York State independent... redistricting commission is listening to public comment as far as the redrawing of the lines one of the issues that has been brought up by some people is the potential to cut the city of buffalo in half with one of those districts and creating two separate districts and if they were to create the or revisit the old quote unquote earmuff district which stretched from the eastern portion of Buffalo to the eastern side of Rochester I think it'd be very problematic I think we should have one single one singular voice coming from the city of Buffalo I think if you start um adding a congressman who's going to represent one portion of Buffalo a very rural area between here and Rochester then representing Rochester even east of Rochester I think it'd be problematic I think as I mentioned the people of people of Our representative in Congress should have one singular voice representing them and I'm hopeful that my colleagues will be supportive of this resolution. Thank you for this. Yes, thank you. Item number 76, transfer of funds for meat resource center. Motion to approve item 76 through 79. Second by council member Wyatt. Oh, the stand of the agenda announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled and to be held in the Common Council Chamber's Regular committees committee on civil service is Tuesday, October 12 2021 at 9 45 a.m Committee on finance file on civil service is Tuesday, October 12 2021 at 10 a.m Committee on legislation is Tuesday, October 12 2021 at 1 p.m Committee on community development is Tuesday, October 12 2021 at 2 p.m Committee on claims is Wednesday, October 13 2021 at 11 a.m. Special committees on Committee on Police Oversight is Tuesday, October 6, 2021 at 11 a.m. council members any announcements council member bowman thank you council president just wanted to announce uh over in the lovejoy district we're holding a schiller park harvest festival friday october 15th from four to seven that's over at our schiller senior center 2057 genesee uh fun food and just a general community day we're partnering with the board of block clubs my office and legislator johnson so hope to see you there thank you All righty. Councilman White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to announce that it's that time again of the year and we're going to be doing our turkey giveaway. on November 22nd from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. So please register. Call the office at 851-5165. That's 851-5165. And also this month is Breast Cancer Awareness Month, so many of my colleagues were all wearing pink acknowledgement of those survivors and those who are still enduring this terrible disease. But we want to continue to do our part to show that we support. Absolutely. Absolutely. And also one thing, and I don't have the time, but I wanted to make people aware that Wednesday, October 20th at the Berksville Penny Arts Center is where we'll be having a redistricting conversation. So we want to make sure, and I know Jim is still trying to find the time, but we're going to put it on our Facebook page. because we want people to know what redistricting is about. And so the state will be doing this convening this on the 20th of October at Birchfield Penny, and we will put it on our Facebook page at the time because we want to make certain that everyone is involved and involved in the conversation of what happens. Thank you. Thank you. It's just Wednesday the 20th at 4 o'clock. Wednesday the 20th at 4 PM at the Birchfield Penny Art Center. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am remiss that I was pulled away from the council during that historic vote for the Clean Sweep legislation resolution. But for the record, I am in absolute unequivocal support of that, even though I did miss that being pulled away for some community concerns. Other than that, October 15th, bingo with wingo, it's back. It's going to be next week, Friday, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m it's good to see that bingo with wingo can make everyone smile but uh please call the office with your uh registration uh 851-5145 this year it will be inside a building at the delavan writer center at 877 east delavan right here in the great city of buffalo new york in the masson district i apologize to my colleague joe forletto who lost sleep over bingo with wingo but you're free and welcome to join us council member for a little and any other council member for that matter you can join us and have some uh some fun with the seniors of our city again uh bingo with wingo was october the 15th from 11 a.m to 2 p.m at the delavan grinder center looking forward to seeing everyone who registers there Thank you, sir. Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And those that aren't playing bingo tomorrow, I encourage to come to the Hope Center on Petereski that's run by the Matt Urban Center. At the corner of Sears and Petereski is a large city lot that entities are looking to build a playground right in the neighborhood that has been, you know, that was through its history a playground, but now... might get a new adaptive reuse of the space. So I encourage those folks who come out between 9 and noon tomorrow at the Hope Center to have their voices heard and to see some of the momentum that's really growing around to have green space at Sears and Petereski. All right, anyone else? Second by Councilmember Joseph Golombek, Jr.