Here. Councilmember Golombet. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Hakeem. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scalin. Councilmember Wingo. Present. And Councilmember Wyatt. Quorum is present. And we're joined by Councilmember Fontana. Let's stand for the pledge. The United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one, individual, liberty, and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. So I found out the only disadvantage to 83 degree weather on October 1st is that buffalo is still doing construction work common council president and uh eagle street was closed and the circle was closed and uh hopefully i won't be towed and none of you as well uh but uh what gorgeous weather today and for some of us we're looking at it and saying it might be a while before we get it again i want to open with a thought from deuteronomy chapter 30. I was at an early morning meeting this morning with a local leader, a business leader, and he'd been pondering the phrase legacy. And this was a scripture that I used with him as he thought about it. Deuteronomy 30 verse 2, When you and your children return to the Lord your God and obey him with all your heart and with all your soul according to everything I command you today, then the Lord your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you. And then verse 5, He'll bring you to the land that belonged to your fathers. You'll take possession of it. He'll make you more prosperous and numerous than your fathers. more prosperous and numerous than your fathers. When they do polls these days, they oftentimes find out that young people aren't certain that they're going to make more money than their parents, which turns out is highly unusual in American society. Every generation has assumed that they build on the legacy of the past generation. In Buffalo, we've known generations where things went way south, and tragically we lost some of our kids way south and west, but God here gives a promise about legacy that as far as we went, the next generation should be able to go farther, rise higher, and that they have a plan and a purpose, but we're to set them up for their legacy. It's more than just, I'm sometimes with fathers and with leaders who because of their insecurity want to keep the next generation small so that they don't overshadow them. I want my kids to overshadow me. and any good father, mother would want their kids, but also those that will succeed you in the seats and chairs that you occupy today. How do we set up legacy success for the future political leaders of the city of Buffalo? How do we let them build on where we've been and take us where we've not yet gone? So today I just want you to think for a moment as I pray about legacy of your chair for your district. Father, right now I thank you that this morning as these discussions were happening, I was quickly reminded that the Common Council is always a body under change, in transition, moving from place to place. And that Lord, no one that's here is here permanently. No seat is a permanent seat. That each election cycle that we submit back to the voters and then eventually Lord, we're going to pass a baton. I pray that for all nine council districts, that even today the members would keep in mind the legacy that they're setting, the legacy that they're establishing. Let there be a good foundation to build a better tomorrow for better and better and betterment of the city of Buffalo. Thank you for your powerful presence. Touch now each council member. Give wisdom beyond their own. I ask in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. council members memorials councilman with the lumbay thank you mr president Actually, I believe that the service was done at your church for Barbara Alexander. Her son, Mike Wolford, is a friend of mine, and he's the manager extraordinaire at the Moose Club on Tonawanda Street. He's really turned the place around. I've known him for many, many years, but over the past year or so, I've worked on a few projects with him, and sadly, he lost his... mom to work in the middle of September. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. The city of Buffalo mourns the loss of Sharon Gale Porter Lucas, who passed away a couple of weeks ago. She was laid to rest last Saturday. She will be sorely missed, as well as Eva Dunbar, who passed away this last Friday. Eva Dunbar was a member of the Antioch Baptist Church. She would bring her grandchildren to church every single Sunday. She was very ill, but she wouldn't allow her ailments to keep her from worship service to the point where even on Sunday morning after service she would walk up to me and say that she felt better. on her way and while she was there than staying home. And I wish that a lot of people would follow in her footsteps as she would always make certain that her priority was to fellowship with other folks so that they can also see the strength in fellowship. So we're going to mourn the loss of Eva Dunbar. Her sister Pearl is coming up from out of town to lay her to rest, her body to rest. as well as all of her grandchildren, who she would tote in a row as they walked through the door on Sunday morning. Thank you for this moment, and we'll get the write-ups for these two stalwarts to the clerk's office. Thank you. Hopefully her grandchildren will keep going. Anyone else? We mourn the loss of Militia Tips, a young lady who unfortunately was killed in the mall, McKinley Mall. Her funeral services will be at True Bethel on Saturday, I'm not sure, 10 and 11 o'clock. Just a great tragedy for her family and the children that she leaves behind. Hearing none others, we have no soldiers that we know of that have died, but we always remember Anyone who has given their life for the freedom of not only our country but for the freedom of others We pause in this chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you on a motion by mr Revere second by mr. Scanlon the minutes of stated meeting held on September 2 17 2019 are approved council members the late files are before you are there any objections to any of the late files? Oh Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting. If we get to a late file that you have not been able to review. Mr. Chairman or Council President, motion to take items 17, 20, and 21 from submission out of order. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 17, land disposition agreement of Carousel Parsons. Motion open to public hearing. Second by Council Member Winkle. uh is there anyone here on this item all right let me i'm i'm just getting to the item out of community development all right if you come down to the mic anyone who's going to be speaking in any of the public hearings if you will you're going to be speaking if you get close as you can to the mic so we can roll right through because we have three we have three public hearings i'm going to ask you to limit your comments um to three minutes i'm not sure if they're hearing me so let me say again because i know you all were tied up over so for all of the public hearings i'm going to ask you to limit your comments to three minutes so that we can get through all of the public hearings and then if you have to come back and revisit we'll give you more time okay if you'll state your name for the record and address my name is joan boser from the buffalo heritage carousel welcome and you have the floor i'll speak mark wendell erie canal harbor development corporation i just want to state that you know this project has been in the long process and over the last three years we're very excited to be working with the city of buffalo and the council to take this next step next step forward and getting the the carousel underway under construction and moving forward to be a public entertainment in the year of 2020 so i'm i'm here also to answer any questions that might have come up Anything else or just the one? All right, council members on this item? Council member Franzen. This project has been in the works for many, many years. And former Erie County legislator, she served for 18 years on the legislature and she always supported worthy projects like this. uh looking out for the interests of the city of buffalo and the carousel project was happening even before the waterfront had reached the germination process it has now so i'm thinking it's years ago when she first came forward with the group that proposed this project. I mean, the horses were carved in Tonawanda, North Tonawanda, so it's all a buffalo born and bred. And I'm sure a lot of the children in the city of Buffalo will be very thrilled with going on something that's probably 100 years old as a concept or older, a carousel, so I think it'll be a great addition to the Buffalo waterfront. thank you sir i think it's in my district i don't know if it's in here i think it's yours it's in mine yeah yep you you get the you get the honor of that i get the honor anyone else all right hearing none motion closed public hearing second by council member franzat motion to approve second by council member franzat thank you very much next item item number 20 disposition of road property 52 56 and 58. The public hearing. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Is there anyone here to speak on 5256 and 5858 Nash? Come down. And we are working on sound. It's not okay. Hi, my name is Stephen Carmina. Most of you know my cousin Stephen, the architect. I'm here to speak on 5256 and 5858 Nash. We're looking to acquire those properties to give... 18 additional parking space that a project we're doing corner Broadway, Michigan Seven of those parcels will be open to the public. They will be public parking with two of those being accessible we're in the final throws of getting our Construction financing in place and that project should be starting so anybody has any questions How many we talked about putting in in this item? the exact amount of spots that will be available for the public over there and Well, there's going to be seven spaces with two of them being accessible. That will always be available. That will be all to the public. All right. And did we include that in the deal? All right, the only thing I don't know if it was already put into writing, and my concern is just future generations because as we build that corridor, this was one of the stipulations that I had in order to transfer that property. Right there was an easement language put in to that. I'm sorry. There was easement language put into the- There, so there is- Yeah, there is an easement in there that the city will retain the right to the use of those seven spaces. Okay, as long as that is in. Anyone else for Nash Street? All right. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Frioletto. Thank you, sir. item number 21 exchange slash disposition of rural properties between the city of buffalo and nordell motion of the public hearing second by council member columbus is there anyone here how are you sir just push that button there i'm sorry peter camerata buffalo urban development corporation i'm here to to give you a brief description of a landslap that would take place between budc and the city of buffalo uh If you look on the diagram of the Northland campus, you'll see in the left hand side at the corner of Northland and Fillmore. On the northeast corner, a group of properties outlined in yellow that are owned by the city of Buffalo. They're commercial properties for the most part, although there are a couple residential properties on Winchester. We would like to get those properties in our hands so that we can look at some gateway treatments for the Northland campus and some future possible commercial development on those properties. What we would like to swap with the City of Buffalo is two parcels. that are actually Northland addresses but go up the side streets. That originally were taken away from the fabric of the neighborhood to create parking lots for clearing Niagara and Niagara Machine and Tool Works. We would like to swap those back so that the residential fabric could become part of that area again. So we think it's a good deal on both sides so that we can continue to do some further development in the Northland corridor, but also reestablish the residential fabric. Thank you. Council members or anyone else here from the public? Hearing none, Council Member Fontana. You're welcome to the chambers, and thank you for all your hard work over the years on making Buffalo a better place to live and work. Thank you, Council Member. There's a TV show about wives about this, but I've never heard about a city ordinance that we swap land. When does it come down to, does this come before the appraisal review board? How do we know the values of the land are concurrent? How do we know it's a good deal for the taxpayers? So those are the questions I would have as a councilman on an item such as this. Actually, we had appraisals done on both properties and Buffalo Urban Development Corporation paid for the appraisals on both our side in the city side and we've determined working with the city real estate department that the exchange is Fairly even exchange in value just so residents know because sometimes they might hear of a swap and and they want to know that we have our due diligence done sounds like the due diligence is done and that it's slightly favored towards the city you say slightly favored towards the city yes is the land that we're receiving clean land the land that you are receiving is clean the land that we are receiving is not But that's what we do, clean up land for future development. So as a taxpayer sitting at home, they should feel comfortable with the deal? All of those parcels were demolitions in previous years and then covered, in one case, with asphalt, and then in the other case just with grass that we maintain at this point. Thank you, Peter. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? All right. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Motion to approve. Thank you. second by council member fontana next item thank you sir item number one permission to extend designated developer agreement for cds by the way thank you for taking our dirty land and giving us the clean land that's that's pretty good deal Next item. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number two reported cell 189 Phyllis. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number three request for air rights easement over a portion of Main Street. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item number four 2019-2020 annual action plan summary correction. Motion to approve items four and five. Second by Councilmember Golombak. Item number six, appropriated fund transfer. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Temps-Hanley. Item number seven, contract for operation of Hatch and William K's Restaurant. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fairluck. Item number eight, extension of agreement to audit in City of Buffalo's financial statements. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fontana. item number nine july and august 2019 cash flow report motion to send finance items nine and ten second by councilmember columbus item number 11 change order street light replacement group a62a motion to approve items 11 through and including 26. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 27, Mayor reported out of state, 91819 to 91919. Motion to receive and file items 27 through 31. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 32, notices of appointment, temporary, permanent, provisional. Motion to send to civil service. Second by President Poteau. Item number 33, Allentown Association Housing Court Oversight. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item number 34, request to send resolution to New York State Ledge to pass New York State Off Act. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 35, Besson Mask and Red Light Research. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item number 36, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilman Fontana. Item number 37, Seeker Nagdeck for special use 16 South Hampton. Motion to adopt item 7, 37 through 39. Seconded by Councilmember Furlow. Item number 40, revocation of special use permit for 3199 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Franzen. Item number 41, concerns about food trucks in downtown Buffalo. Motion to send the legislation. Second by council member Golombet. Item number 42, accessible housing for people with families. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member Fontana. Item number 43, response to agenda item 19-1555. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Golombet. item number 44 is secret determination of type 2 action for special use at 668 william motion to adopt items 44 and 45 second by council member friends item number 46 petition for removal replacement of bust in mlk park motion to send the cd second by councilman wingo item number 47 zone and map amendment for 729 to 735 sycamore street and 137 harman street motion to send legislation city planning board my cousin friends submission list civil service item number one appoint supervisor data processing motion to approve items number one two three four five six seven eight nine second by council member revere you want to appoint numbers and ten all included so most receiving five Item number 11, notice of appointment, temporary, provisional, or permanent. Now you want to receive and file it? Or did you want to receive and file it? Second by Councilmember Fontana. Church, when everyone talks. Finance Committee, item number 12, auto report on the internal controls at the Division of Parking. There's no objections. Motion to receive and file 12 through and including 14. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Community Development, item number 15, approval of LDA and sale of 2351 Delaware. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Second by Council Member Ferlet and Council Member Golombik. Yes, I can mention on item number 15. That's Mr. Ferletta, the item you had worked on. Item number 15, that's the library. I just want to mention that Mr. Ferraletto and other people from the community really stepped up to the plate. I remember when this item first came in front of us and the goal was basically to tear down the library. And no secret, Mr. Fronczak and I probably have close to 100, if not 100% preservation record. We supported keeping it. And the key, though, is that you can't just mothball properties. And it was wonderful that the Italian-American community got together and worked very, very closely with the city of Buffalo to save that building. It's just across the street from my district, and I think it's a very, very important building to save. It's in, I believe, the Little Italy section of Hurdle Avenue, or I think is that, Joel, where it begins technically? You know, so I think that, you know, this is a win-win for the City of Buffalo and for the North Buffalo community. So once again, I want to thank Councilmember Ferraletto and the Italian American community for all the work that they did to save that building. Yes, sir. Item number 18, report of cell 140, Rodney. Motion to approve items 18 and 19. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Legislation Committee, item number 22, food store license 398, Vengeance. Motion to approve second by councilmember fontana item number 23 concerns a vehicle booting and immobilization fees motion receiving file My council member Wyatt and a number 24 special use for 16 South Hampton for assembly and community center motion to recommit second by councilmember Rivera on this item we originally have sent this to be approved and right after the meeting residents of South Hampton, I believe one resident came in and then I just received this week a letter from four streets around this project. who are at this point not in support with a laundry list of reasons. So I have asked Mr. Gaynor to have another community meeting and have our office present, and this will come back and for those who want to speak to it on the record, the council, it'll be in legislation and if the chairman allows it to be spoken to on next Tuesday, that will occur. Thank you. Next item. Item number 25, zone and map amendment for 421 Balkan Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombak, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to request that staff put a note along with this item that it be signed immediately by the mayor. I did send a message to the mayor and to Corporation Council Ball. What this is, is we're trying to get a parking lot across the street from the charter school for applied technology for safety issues. If we wait. 30 days the construction season is pretty much all going to be you know over so we're hoping that the mayor could sign it immediately So that we can get working on this It really is a safety issue for the kids that get dropped off and then across the street. Thank you. Thank you sir item number 26 zone and map amendment 51 Alamo place that item originally came without recommendation the motion now is to recommit recommit second by Councilman Scandler item number 27 7 local landmark 55 grape street there are no objections motion to approve items 27 and 28. saying of my council member the longback Item 29 petition for special parking permission at 296 Sobieski motion to receive and file second by councilmember Wingo item number 30 special use 249 Allen Street a motion to deny with the reasons Read into the record per the Unified Development Code deny with reason Corporation Council, can you like for you to state the reason I read it in that the I I don't have the citations. I read it into the committee. I read the bell, book, and candle. At the last committee meeting on legislation, I read the... the numbers in the section and I read the whole section. So it deals with incompatible developments near residential areas, essentially.
 Okay. So- The section, I don't want to mistake the section now, but I read it. Right, exactly. So for the record, it was read already into the record by the legislature. It was read into the record at the legislation committee last Tuesday. By myself. Thank you, sir. Item number 31, food store license, 950 Eastbury. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Revere. Resolutions. Item number 48, ordinance amendment for rental dwelling unit. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number 49, fee waiver for Halloween parade. Motion to approve items 49 and 50. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 51, set public air in Main Street. Motion. Air rights easement. Motion to adopt items 51 and 52. Second by Councilmember Francis. Second by Mr. Chairman. Councilmember Columbo. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. On item number 52, this is the item that people have been getting sort of excited about. It's a speed limit and redevelopment of the Skajakwita Expressway item. And when I originally came up with this idea with Mr. Faroletto and we bandied some ideas across, the key is, as we know here, are the resolves that come out of this, and there are three resolves that come out of this. And I think that people are taking some of the comments that have been made about the speed limit along the 198 in particular. But what this council is asking is that we request that the speed limit on the Skidjackwood Expressway be temporarily reassessed for an appropriate speed until construction takes place and a new design is implemented. It doesn't say what speed limit. If it's reassessed and it comes back at 30, 40, or 50, so be it. But we're just simply asking that there be a reassessment of it. So nowhere did we specifically come out and say that we're endorsing a speed limit on there. We all have our own personal opinions as to what that could be. But the key... The key, in my opinion, to this resolution is the resolve number two. We're calling on the governor to implement a nationwide competition seeking creative ideas and plans for the 33 and 198 expressways. This would be similar, hopefully, to what happened with the Skyway in downtown Buffalo. It's been, I believe, a good four years since the speed limit has dropped along the 198. And it is frustrating to drive along that route for people. And it's because the Speedway, which I wish never would have been built. I'm going to state that right off. I wish it would never have been built. I wish we could have had the Delaware Park and the rest of the neighborhoods looking the way that they were planned to look originally. But unfortunately, that's not the case that we find ourselves in. We find ourselves in a case where we have expressways that are cutting off neighborhoods, parks, etc. And in my neighborhood along the Skajakwita Creek, we have a new partner that's come onto the scene that we did not have for the same in 2015. And that's Buffalo State College. Buffalo State College is most likely going to purchase either directly or through their alumni association or one of their agencies, the old impound lot. The impound lot covers the remainder of the 198 that is in that Black Rock neighborhood. I think that this gives us an opportunity that we did not have four years ago. It gives us an opportunity to work with a lot of different partners that have access to dollars beyond just what the city of Buffalo has. I would like to see Buffalo State College have a bigger footprint in the neighborhood and in the city of Buffalo. I usually refer to Buff State as Buffalo's College, no shot at UB, but they only have a little arm in the city of Buffalo. But Buff State, in my opinion, is Buffalo's College. I think that there's a lot of different groups that we can work with. And once again, the key to this resolution is calling on nationwide competition. And I've seen some of the proposals from some of the neighborhood groups. The Grant Amherst Business Association has an outstanding proposal. for the Skajakwita. It would make the Skajakwita, the 198, into a real parkway. Not a phony parkway that is only a parkway because it says 30 miles an hour. Not a phony parkway that doesn't really allow residents or bicyclists to ride along it. But this would truly make it into a parkway, sort of like what you have in Rochester along the Genesee River. or as you all know, one of my favorite cities, Quebec City, the St. Charles River, where you can walk for miles and miles and miles along this beautiful river in downtown and parts of Quebec City. And you feel like you're in nature. And I think that that's what ultimately we could have here. But once again, the key The key is the resolves. It's not all the bandying about the speed limit. This council did not endorse raising, lowering, changing the speed limit. The key to this resolution is calling on the governor to implement a nationwide competition seeking creative ideas and plans for the 33 and 198 expressways. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Senator. Council Member Winkler? Thank you, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to just speak real briefly on this resolution. My colleagues to add me to this resolution because I think that bringing national attention to this area is very, very wise. Also, the fact that the 33 and the 198 effectively trisects the Mastin district. It splits my district into three individual parts. The 198 starts in Mastin and it goes from Glenda goes from Main Street all the way down back to the Humboldt 33 My constituents have have expressed their concern with not being included Now as their representative, I have a duty to ensure that there are voices are heard in this council chambers so because of the constituents in my district and There is a desire for the speed limit not to be increased, but I do appreciate how my colleague, Councilmember Golombek, has intimated that we are not asking for the speed limit to be increased, but there to be a study to see what the appropriate speed limit should be. And due to that kind of knee-jerk reaction several years ago to dramatically decrease the speed, there really is no data to support that everything that's happened in the last few years is a direct result of that reaction. However, again, because of my constituents and their concern for inclusion and making sure that their voice is heard, They specifically ask that we not increase the speed limit or support a speed limit increase, but again, according to the resolution, that's not what we're asking. So I'm going to, I'm still going to vote in favor of the resolution. although they have expressed that they would like to speed limit to stay where it is i'd be remiss and i would not be doing uh i will be doing my constituents a disservice if i did not express what they have clearly expressed to me uh these last several days uh on this council floor so with that uh i'm i'm still voting for this resolution because i do think that we need to bring attention to the issues especially how of course Madison District residents have been screaming for decades about the need for the 33 to be revisited and also the 198 so with that said mr. chair thank you for the time for allowing me to express my constituents wishes on this and I will still vote in favor of this resolution thank you sir councilman Revere thank you very much mr. chairman like councilmember Wingo I have heard from an organization vision niagara who has some concerns and i believe they've been in touch with council member joe golombic with regards to the speed limit i know that we've been working years on the redesign i know there have been mentioned um just recently in the paper and channel 2 did a poll with regards to the speed limit however there has been very little community engagement as council member um wingle had mentioned people feel that they're not included and certainly this organization feels as well community engagement is very important early on in any project that we do i think Council members do that almost automatically. They feel that there hasn't been enough community engagement. I understand the resolution has whereas resolves with regards to Assessing the speed limit, and that is kind of open ended. I think that causes a little bit of concern when you assess it. Is it going to be 30354045? Is it going to be 50? And they're concerned and I understand they're asking the State Department to perhaps look at it and see what's the correct speed limit. But at the same time. It causes some concerns that residents how high is it going to go? Is it going to go back to 50? Is it going to go to 354045? uh but i understand the resolution but it does bring some concerns and people need to be uh to feel included in this process early on so i told them i would speak on behalf of them on their voice for people that live in my district but i like council member wingle will support the resolution thank you and before i go to council member fontana um it could be 20. there's nothing in there that and i think that we have to be very very clear there was nothing in there that suggests any amount so it indeed could be a study and they come back and say it's 25 is should be the speed limit now yeah so I want to just reiterate all of your points that there's no nothing in it at all that suggests raising it because my front end you had a floor But it's interesting to see two credible news stations on the Bing site here, right, that I'm looking at, WKBW Television, WIVB, headline, Buffalo lawmakers calling on states to raise Skaggweta Express limit. So it's out there, and people think. And sometimes when they're thinking, the perception is the reality. I did receive a few phone calls from some presidents in my district today saying please don't vote for this because, you know, we don't want to raise the speed limit. But I did have a talk with them. We talked through it. Years ago, the Kensington 33 was 50. They raised it to 55 because they did a study, and most people were going 55. So they said, well, rather than create a situation where we got slower drivers causing a slowdown, let's just raise it, keep traffic flowing. Now, I'm not proposing 55 on this Cajac, but I think that was too high to begin with with all the turns and the off ramps and such. i have a number in my head i won't put it out there but it's not much more than the 30 but i think it could work better but i'm voting today in favor of this item so that they could look at the issue Go out there, do what I did this morning, drive the Skajak, see what happens when you go 30 and what's on your tail. You know I drive a small car. Right on my tail were trucks pushing me to go faster, faster, faster. I went up to 35. They still weren't happy. I went up to 40. They still weren't happy. So everyone's starting to zip around you, and it becomes a problem where you're almost becoming a problem on the road. If the thruway... was if someone's going 30 in the thruway and it's 55 zone you know what happens you get rear in it so there's a 45 mile per hour limited speed limit on the minimum speed limit on the thruway 55. it's always 10 under but at 30 it could cause some issues so i think it's important that we do look look at this have the state look at it again see if it does work on a slightly increased scale While not causing the problems of the past and I think that's where our vote is coming in today So I will get some phone calls to the office today saying why did you vote to get this kajak would have raised? Personally, I think you should but I think it should be looked at to see if the issues that I brought up as far as People going 30 and being pushed to go faster creates even more of a hazard than we were trying to avoid in the first place plus This is a roadway issue, but one roadway that was affected by this was a tragedy that occurred for the residents of Fenton Street. They lost a young child on Fenton Street, and I'm reminded of that every day. So the guardrails were put in. That's what was really needed at the time. The guardrails were never put up for aesthetics. Those guardrails are now up. They look, I guess, okay because they put some wood on them. But now that there's wood on these guardrails, people were okay with them. So now we have guardrails that could have been put up. potentially, in my opinion, helped in the first place. But I think it's a very good resolution by the sponsors, and I think asking for the state to look at the speed is a wise and prudent thing to do. I don't know if the sponsors would support this if we have Council staff, especially if we have headlines that are wrong, have council staff immediately send a notification to the media of exactly what is and is not in that portion. That way, even tonight, if it runs, we've already told them and the headlines should change. Councilman Freeler? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. So that just to clear this up the initial resolution that was filed by Councilmember Glumbeck and I had a specific request to raise the speed limit to 40 because that was the initial design of the roadway. Councilmember Glumbeck had a conversation with me and he wanted to change the language in that. So that's what we're voting on it with the changed language. So I don't think there was any. erroneous reporting. I think that was initially with the resolution that came out and that had since been changed. So just to clear that up. But I have heard from many constituents, many people in my district for years that feel that it was a knee jerk reaction to change the speed limit to 30 miles per hour overnight. And there have been a number of people who ton of people that are in support of raising the speed limit and feel that it would be safer at a speed limit not necessarily 50 but a safer speed limit because when you have cars as Councilmember Fontana observed this morning traveling different speeds going in and out of lanes um it's it could be safer at a higher speed so thank you very much um would you like would you like staff to send them something so they know are you okay no okay so we won't have to send them in All right. Thank you. Council Member Wingo? Yes. I don't want to insult the intelligence of everyone who read this. And I don't want to insult the intelligence of my constituents who read this. Even with the modified language, even though the results are not specifically asked for, the speed limit to be raised, the fact of the matter is there is a whereas that clearly says that the speed limit should be raised to an appropriate speed. So that's suggesting that we want the roadway to be faster than it is right now. Whether it's 35, 40, 45, whatever it is, the fact of the matter is drivers are frustrated with it. And I'm not going to insult my people's intelligence by saying that that's not what they read, because I'm looking at it too. But the resolve that is correct, Councilmember Glumbach was very clear and that the resolve do not specifically say what the speed limit should be. And I don't want anyone to think that we're dancing around the obvious. The obvious is We want the speed limit to be faster than what it is now. The constituents are saying that they want the speed limit to stay where it is. The different groups in my district have clearly restated to me what the resolutions have said. So I'm not going to insult anyone's intelligence again. But one of the major issues in my district is the fact that the 198 starts in Mastin and it ends on Main Street. And with that on ramp to the 198, with folks having to drive 30 miles an hour, it creates less of an accident hazard over by Humboldt and Kisington, where they have that off ramp by Monticello and those other streets over there. incentive for the community and my constituents to have this speed limit stay at 30 because you don't have to stop from 50 coming off the on-ramp where there's a lot of accidents over there. You only have to stop from 30, which slower traffic coming out of that on-ramp means less accidents. So just want to make sure that we're not insulting anyone's intelligence. The language is right here, and this is why it's in front of us. Again, I do applaud the fact that we're asking for some national attention to this area. this particular situation and with that um i'll give it back to you mr chair thank you so just so we is the language and i know there are three sponsors is that language okay or did you want to amend that language to adjust it or i'm fine with the three resolves being the key i mean if somebody else if anybody wants to make any changes that's fine but for me the key was the resolves okay you okay all right Next item. Item number 53, ordinance amendment chapter 28, taxes and assessment. Motion to send the legislation. This is what I said . So a correction on 53, it's a local law, chapter 28, taxes and assessment, not ordinance amendment. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Scanlon has the floor. Thank you, Council President. I know this item is going to committee. I just wanted to raise one concern I had with the enacting legislation that brought this issue to us. I absolutely believe that the exemption has merit. I want to be clear about that. As elected officials, we have the responsibility to look out for our residents, and in particular those of our residents who are most vulnerable. And in many, whether that's financially or physically vulnerable and in many instances, those are our seniors. So I'm glad that we are looking at this. So I do not begrudge a senior receiving an exemption to their tax and assessment situation. That's going to help them out if they're in a particular position. The problem I, the concern I have is I believe that the enacting legislation kind of approaches this from a, not kind of, it approaches it from a neighborhood or census track basis instead of an individual basis. All across the city of Buffalo, there are people who are struggling financially. And seniors in particular, a lot of them on their fixed incomes. And so I would argue that some of them actually in areas outside some of these census tracts might be in a tougher situation if their neighborhoods are assessed at a higher level and they're still at that poverty level. So I think instead of concentrating just on the seven census tracts, we need to look at the overall city of Buffalo and how we can help. residents across the city of Buffalo, our seniors who are struggling financially. I know we can't unilaterally change the enacting legislation, but I hope through conversations at the committee that we're going to have and other conversations we could have, we could look at our state representatives and hopefully they can amend that the enacting legislation. Yeah. And I personally would have no problem with it because, um, you know, wherever we could, so we will have conversations and let's have them try to start having some conversations like immediately with our state folks. And I'm all in. I think that the legislation that came from the Assembly, the majority leader is sound, is solid. But I have no problem in extending that out if she does, if the state folks have no problem. And really starting to have that conversation sooner than later. Okay, wonderful. I support that. Thank you. Council Member Riviere? Thank you very much. I just want to piggyback on Council Member Scanlon. The district that I represent, Neighborhood Census Tracts within my district, has seen the largest increase in revaluation and taxes among all nine council districts. And among them there are census tracts that we have people living in poverty that are stressed out over their last revaluation, or this current revaluation, and the tax increases that they have. We're going to be holding a meeting here in council chambers. I have offered assistance from my office to challenge both in the first process, the interview process, and in the Board of Assessments, to single out a neighborhood instead of dealing with the problem in general is kind of selective. People feel, why is it happening? And I'm not going to begrudge any part of the city. I think they're all entitled to it. If you're living in poverty, no matter where you are, whether it's the Fruit Belt, whether it's the Lower West Side, South Buffalo, any district, if you're living in poverty and these assessments are having such a negative impact on you, you don't have the wherewithal. to pay the taxes and I'm talking about seniors as well disabled and veterans people that lived on fixed incomes are the ones that are stressing over this. And I think we need to be more sensitive and not pick one neighborhood against another pick one against the other. And I think this legislation does not go deal directly with the problem. And that is the impact. that these revaluations are having not only in certain districts or certain census tract but among the citizens of the city of buffalo especially those that are in fixed income and that are elderly so i'd like to see that broaden i don't know how we could do it but just to pick a neighborhood and say this is where we're going to do it instead of saying hey we have this problem across the board and that's that's how we're going to deal with it thank you very much and if i'm not mistaken i hope i'm not speaking out of school the neighborhoods from the sponsor um where the main neighborhoods i'm not sure if some of the other neighborhoods are not in the sponsors area i'm not positive we'll look at it we'll look at the whole situation this week and then we'll figure out where we go from there okay councilmember Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to agree with my two colleagues. One of the concerns that I've had with this type of legislation from day one was that it pitted neighborhoods against neighborhoods. And I remember one of the groups came to talk to me, and it was Marty Kennedy was still Commissioner at the time and we sat in my office and they explained to me about how some neighborhoods, etc. And I asked them, I said, I go. So what you're telling me is, is that you want poor people that I represent in Black Rock and Riverside parts of Riverside has a 22,000 dollar median income ballpark. You know, it's a lot of working poor people that live there. And I said, I go, so you're telling me that you want me to get people in Black Rock Riverside basically to subsidize people in, at that time I think they were talking Allentown and parts of the Elmwood Village. And I said, I go, you know, I can't support that. And they said I was wrong, the assessor's office said no, actually you're sort of right. And that was my concern. And I would rather see people that are in poverty throughout the entire city. As my colleague said, whether they're seniors or veterans or handicapped or whatever. The situation, if they're below the poverty level or if they fit into the guidelines no matter where they live, I'd like to see some sort of assistance for them rather than pitting one neighborhood against another. Thank you. So we'll invite also someone, if they're available, from the Assemblywoman's office for the discussion when we get to committee. Okay? And that's the good thing about government. You start somewhere and then you build upon it. You make adjustments. You do what you got to do. Council Member Fontana? Just for the voice of the... People I speak with on a regular basis are heard on this floor of the council. I've heard from many residents on the topic that it's more so the residents that have a mortgage, currently. They have a current mortgage and then it goes up, the amount of that mortgage could go up because of the escrow. It could be upwards of $200 more a month. If there's no mortgage, I'm not hearing as much from residents that have no mortgage. Because at that point, say your taxes went up from, I don't know, $1,000 to $2,400. $2,400 divided by 12 is $200 a month. It's not a lot of money if you don't have a mortgage per se. Cuz where else are you gonna live for $200 a month, you figure? Just speaking that way. Still might be a lot of money for an individual, but you're not gonna be able to sell your house and go somewhere and live for $200 a month. It's just not gonna happen. But if you have a mortgage and your bills go up $200 more a month, you're already paying a lot of money per month for your house. So those that have the luxury, and this says for people that have been there for 25 consecutive years. they still might have a mortgage so they might get some time out of this so that's good but a vast majority might not and we might be given an exemption somewhere where the bulk of the affected residents aren't i think the bulk of the residents are those people that are still working well past their 60s to keep paying their mortgage they're working they might have retired from city hall they might have retired from state government they might have retired from the private sector they're working side jobs just to make ends meet. And those are the residents that think are really going to be affected by the increase, potentially. Those whose homes are paid for, I see less coming into the office as far as a concern. Because someone says, yeah, they went up, but where am I going to live for $200 a month? And I think that's a good thing to know when we're trying to ask Albany for different helps. You know, if we're looking for help from Albany, I think it really has to be where the bulk of the people are, and that's in those areas where people have a mortgage. Thank you. anything else all right next item item number 54 buffalo united fronts family fish and day fee waiver motion motion to approve items uh 54 through 59 second my council member fontana item number 60 commissioner of deeds motion to adopt item 60 and 61. my council member white item number 62 support for eight days of hope citywide motion to send the cd second my council member wide who has the floor thank you mr chair i just wanted to asked for support on this and I know Council staff has been reaching out to Brendan and Haffey and that group to talk about how we can get additional dollars and you know I know in my district the support of eight days of hope has been tremendous to people who now are some may deal in with increased taxes um to have this type of support to assist them in getting their homes repaired could be huge. And I know we have dollars for a lot of different things, and there's so much regulation tied to it. But what eight days of hope was able to accomplish in my district was simply amazing. About 400 families were able to get repairs, much needed repairs. A lady contacted me and she was just so thankful. She was on the phone crying. because for several years she was not able to get any resource, any help whatsoever. I'm sure thankful the University District was able to benefit, but certainly I'm looking to assist in other ways because I know 8 Days of Hope will go in other areas. So putting this forward will assist in getting them additional resources that could do the same thing in another area because I know our city is poor. I mean, Buffalo is turned around, but we still have poor residents. We have residents who are working two jobs. We have residents who are still suffering in their homes, working their jobs, but not able to repair their roof or plumbing issues or electrical. Having these resources could be a huge help. So I'm asking Steve Tybor to come in and talk about those very things. We've seen them on the news. We had a woman who was in her home and of course could not afford a ramp. And I talked to some of the guys who were coming to see her every day, and they would have to struggle in carrying her at her home. After five years, now she has a ramp that she can move our home. These are the real life stories. These aren't people that's trying to ingratiate themselves, become rich. These are people who are just suffering in the dark, that our grant system and our programs do not reach them. So I'm hopeful that we can do something with Eight Days of Hope, where they don't have to worry about a living wage and those type things. only worry about helping these residents who have been suffering in the dark. So again, I'm appreciative to my colleagues for supporting this and look forward to eight days of hope making a difference in another district next year. Thank you. Item number 63, waive fees for Halloween on Bailey. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service Tuesday, October 8, 2019 at 945 AM. Committee on finance file on civil services Tuesday, October 8, 2019 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, October 8, 2019 at 1 PM. Committee on community development is Tuesday, October 8, 2019 at 2 PM. Council members, any announcements? Councilmember Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Appreciate it. The Madison district will host again our stakeholders breakfast slash meeting on Saturday, October the 12th at 830 in the morning at 877 East Delavan at the Delavan Grider Center. We're looking forward to everyone coming. We had a very, very. special stakeholders meeting last month of which we will follow through and follow up on what we discussed last month which was history making so we're looking forward to bringing those discussions to fruition right here in council chambers floor and hopefully all of our colleagues will agree that it's it's time for us to make history again here in the city of Buffalo of course of which a lot of you all are history makers looking forward to making history again thank you mr. chair again Saturday after over 12 830 Delavan Grider, 877 East Delavan. We will serve you a hot breakfast, the best breakfast you have on a Saturday morning in the city of Buffalo. Thank you again. I think Ms. Maddie would argue with you on that, Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you. Just want to remind the residents it is now October and just giving them a heads up, we have our annual Halloween on Bailey event October 30th at Edward Saunders from 6 to 8 PM. It's a way for our children to enjoy themselves and in a safe environment. So I just want to make sure that they're aware that it will be happening again this year. Thank you. All right, any other announcements? All right. Motion to adjourn. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. We're adjourned.