Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombet. Here. Council Member Noachowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Here. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge, I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic under God, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing today, our guest chaplain is well known in the city and I'm sure by council member, I believe, Columbeck. Pastor Brett Cockrell, who is the retired pastor of Renovation Church in the city of Buffalo. Welcome to the chambers. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for this amazing day. Thank you that when we woke up today, you gave us once again new mercies and new grace. So Father, as we come together in this chamber, Father, we ask for your wisdom, for your direction, for your help. Father, help us to be a city not of good neighbors that's just maybe on a sign on the hall somewhere, but Father, help it to be in every neighborhood, in every community, in every space. And Father, it starts with loving you and loving each other. And so Father, today I pray that you would guide all that needs to get done today. And I pray that we would be reminded that leadership is a stewardship and we will be held accountable and we don't always have it forever. So Father, today, guide us in all that we do. We thank you for this day. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor Kaku. Council Members, any memoirs? Council Member Scalab? Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts the family of Steve Phillips, the owner and operator of the Lodge Auction House in South Buffalo, who passed away last month. Terrible loss, passed away at the age of 61, years of age after a brief illness. And I would ask that we keep him in our thoughts. He did a tremendous amount of charity work throughout the area for a number of different causes, and he's going to be a tremendous loss to the community. Seeing no others, we always remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries across this world since our last council meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a special presentation by Council Member David A. Good afternoon and welcome to council chambers. It's my honor and privilege today to recognize a construction company in the city of Buffalo that I think everyone is familiar with. If you look around, you'll see containers that say Rodriguez Construction, and you see them throughout the city of Buffalo. This year they had asked me to nominate somebody from the community that has made significant contributions not only to the community but to the city of Buffalo. Mr. Rodriguez has a certified minority owned business that prides itself in construction and construction management. It has a portfolio of $22 million for a guy from the west side. Who would have thought? I'm sure that many people are looking to you as an example. You have hired 75 people. That's how big your company has grown. I think you are a model to many people. So this month, as we celebrate our rich culture and history and dancing and music. Today we celebrate our business community as well and the contributions that you have made. So it's my honor on behalf of all of the Common Council members to recognize you during Hispanic Heritage Month. Thank you very much. Well, I first thank you. I mean, I'm humbled. Definitely didn't think I was going to get an award or proclamation, but I just want to say thank you from the bottom of my heart. I love this city. I was born and raised, and I think it's just something I want to show, that how important it is to give back and hire people in the community. People of color, minority businesses can actually do something well and do it right. So that's what I live with every day, making sure we're doing it right, and appreciate the opportunity for everything that we have. Very well done. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on September 19th, 2023 are approved. Council members, you have late files before you. Are there any objections? Any of the late files that are before you? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before you. Now take away your right to pause the meeting in order to review an item that you may not have had a chance to review. I believe we're going from the top today. From the top. From the top. Item number one, Buffalo Herbal Renewal Agency 2023-2024. Motion to send the finance items one through three. Second by Council Member Norikowski. Item number four, land disposition agreement. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number five, local landmark for one Buffalo River place and 11 Boston Place. Motion to send to legislation committee. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number six, report is so 95 Grider. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number seven, report is so 11 and 19 Spruce. Motion to approve item seven through 11. Second by Council Member White. Item number 12, subrecipient agreement with Buffalo, Erie, Niagara Land Improvement Corporation. Motion to send the finance. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 13, certificate of necessity, FD track vehicle bid. Motion to receive and file items 13 and 14. Second by Council Member White. Item number 15, correspondence to Mayor Byron Brown, employee suspended with pay. Motion to send the civil service items 15 through 17. Second by council member Noah Cousin. Item number 18, change order for citywide community center roof progressive. Motion to approve items 18 through 30. Second by council member Freelander. Item number 31, appoint firefighters. Motion to send to civil service. Second by President Pro Tempst-Gannon. Item number 32, municipal approval for Cannabis Growers Showcase. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Boyle. Item number 33, year 49 hub funding allocation. Motion to send to finance items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 35, G-Techno contract extension. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Glumby. Item number 36, Mayor's impact team obtain a tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Second by Council Member Fairland. Item number 38, designation of urban development action area. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member White. Item number 39, items returned to city clerk by mayor with or without approval. Motion to receive and file items 39 through 41. Second by council. 40, I think, is approved. I'm sorry? Did you say 39 through 41? 39 through 41. Yep, it would just be 39. Excuse me, that's item 39. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 40, Cole Miglin, of in application for 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Approval is on 40. Approval is for 40. Yep. Second by Council Member White. Item number 41, Liquor License Notice 610, Hurdle. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Glumman. Item number 42, Notice of Attention, Hand to Rename Broderick Park as Freedom Park. Motion to send the CD items 42 and 43. Second by Council Member White. Item number 44 a point paralegal assistant motion to send civil service items 44 and 45 Item number 46 Buffalo Eclipse concertum motion to send the CD Seven improvements to the you do motion to send to legislation Item number 48 zone and map amendment 163 current motion sent to legislation City Planning Board items 48 and Through 52. Second by President Pro Tempst-Camp. Item number 53, petition to park on Baltic Place. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Norcosa. Submission list, civil service. Item number one, amended COA. Motion to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number two, appoint senior tax clerk. Motion is to approve items two through and including seven. Second by the majority leader. Item number eight, notice of appointment for associate account clerk. Motion is to receive and file 8 through and including 17. Second by Council Member Bowman. Finance, item number 18, ARPA Small Business Program Subrecipient Agreement. Motion to approve items number 18 and 19. Second by Council Member Noakowski. Item number 20, CAEL Contract Extension Single Source. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Filner. Item number 21, Permission to Renew Western New York Polygraph Contract. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Community Development, item number 22, permission to enter into a lease to own agreement. Motion to approve items 22 through 25. Second by the majority leader. I'm sorry, through 24. Through 24. Second by the majority leader. Item number 25, the Buffalo Board of Education leaves district seats out of sync with population changes. Motion to receive and file items 25 through and including 31. Second by the majority leader. Legislation, item number 32, property manager. This motion, this would sound without recommendation. If someone would like to make a motion on it, great. If not, we'll table it. Recommit. Okay, motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Ward. Item number 33, special use 1125 Tonda Wanda. Motion to approve items 33, 34, 35, 36. Approve 37 with conditions. Approve 38, 39 is in south. Council Member, recommit. Okay. You have the floor. I'd like to be recorded in the negative on item number 34. All right. myself as well and i had a question on item number 35. all right let me get a second person and we'll uh second by councilmember wyatt and then there was a question that you had yeah thank you um we didn't really discuss this i don't believe the committee last week because we were overwhelmed with all of the um public hearings and whatnot and i still support moving the date that the um report has to be given to us on the council. And my understanding is, to the law department, this is just a mechanism to begin the process. And what I would request and ask to make sure that there will be some discussion on this. Because the more I was thinking about it, and once again, I completely agree that dates have to be changed. I don't know if April 1st is necessarily a good date because with the problems that we're having in, you know, earlier the October surprise, things like that, we could still be fighting winter and April 1st. And so I was just thinking, and this is just an idea to throw out there, maybe what we could do is have the Department of Public Works give us an update that would be due to us roughly on April the 15th. That would tell us how things went. It's almost like a almost report, if you will, and then having them have to submit the report to us for September 1st when we get back from recess. I think that way we would have enough information to be able to look at the city budget in May. But it would also give them enough time if we're still fighting snow that late into the year, which we could be. So I think that this is something that I would just like to see discussed. in the future, because I do support the changing of dates. But I just think that the April 1st date maybe isn't the best date to actually have them give us the new snow removal plan. Yeah, and I appreciate and I know I've heard that from the administration, at least through the press. We did have the commissioner here who he agreed on on that date. So he's the one who has to create the plan. So if he says yes, I don't know why now, because even if we were and it's just my opinion, even if we were fighting back. in April. Still, I mean, now it's fresh in your mind of what we need to do. And I think sometimes what happens, we get to the summer and our mind is on construction season, And then winter hits again. And then we get a report right before the winter after we've done the budget. And like, where's the money coming from? Like the equipment that we just had to recently buy. So that's the reason it is early. I know that everybody is going to have an opinion. Well, it should be in the summertime. Well, it should be the second week of winter. It's got to be somewhere. But I think we, well, this whole council did agree that It needs to be moved from where it is. So I agree with you there. Where it is, where's a perfect date, i depend on that commissioner to tell us straightforward you know if that wasn't the right date so it was a little surprising to hear it later like well why are they talking about that date we discussed it right here on the floor we asked it was said yes and then it was like the council was doing something nefarious and so councilmember and mr chair thank you and i agree um because i really i wanted it for may 1. But some of my colleagues said, hey, why don't we do a little bit earlier? So we settled on April 1st. So I think it gives them enough time. I mean, I looked through some of the research and the staff did a lot of research. And the minimal amount of snowfall we've gotten in April is minuscule compared to the other times of the year. And so I think it gives them enough time to evaluate things and give us something so that we can assist them in making sure we get the equipment that we need, as you just stated. We try to work collaboratively with DPW. I think we've been very effective in working with them on whatever their needs are, because that's what our constituents want. So I think the April 1st date is a good date, but even if my colleagues were okay with April 15th, I would be good with April 15th, but it has to be at enough time that gives us the support to make certain that during budget season, we can ensure that get the equipment that we need. Absolutely. Council Member Glomick. Thank you, Mr. President. Don't forget, they'd have to put the report together in March. So they might be working on it from the middle of March until the beginning of April 1st. I guess that's what my concern is, the bigger part of the concern. And that's why I think having perhaps a report that would be due to us in April, that the snow removal plan that would be given to us then say on September 1st, would be based upon, would still give us that information, but it wouldn't be forcing them last minute to try to put something together. If they're still fighting, but I think. I guess I'm just asking, hopefully there will be some more discussion on this when it comes back to legislation. Totally. So thank you. Thank you. Council Member Rivera? Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you're correct. During the hearings after the storm, we discussed moving the date to more or less coincide with our budget year. And that makes all the sense. As a matter of fact, they don't wait until March to start talking about budget. They're already working on this year's budget. Every department head has to provide the administration With their budget what they would like they don't wait until April or May they're working on this as we speak They're so far ahead and we get the budget May 1st. They're working on it long before that So I agree. I think you know we can be flexible we can discuss it night I agree that the argument of May versus May or April versus I coming off recess in September. That, to me, really... As Councilmember said, chances of us getting a storm in April is minuscule. I'm not saying it can't happen. Normally it doesn't happen. Traditionally it doesn't happen. I think we're siding on the side of caution by doing it in April just before the budget year. Because that way we can allocate the dollars, the resources, the manpower, the technology, everything we need. We can allocate it then. So I think it coincides perfectly. So I don't understand the administration's reluctance to move it. I think it's a good idea in terms of efficiency and planning. I think it's just perfect. And as I said, they're working on the budget. So they have an idea more or less what their needs are long before they present us with the budget. Thank you, sir. Council Member Freeler. Yeah, before we move on, I was just making sure we had a second for items 32 through 38. Yep, the second was made by Council Member Wyatt. Okay. Yep. Thank you, sir. Anything else on this item? All righty, thank you. Next item. Item number 39, special use 82 Woodside. Motion to recommit. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 40, special use 403 Hampshire. This item's in the Niagara District. Majority leader, is there a motion? I'm sorry, which one was it? 40. 40 in legislation. I didn't realize that we hadn't marked it, so I apologize. We can go ahead and approve it. Second by the majority leader. Item number 41, 28 Cleo. Motion to recommit. Second by President Pro Temscon. Item number 42, special use 321, Swan. Motion to approve items 42 through 48 with conditions on 45. Second by Council Member White. Item number 49, new used car dealer 273, Niagara Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 50, food store license 1390, Jefferson. Motion to approve items 50 through 53. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wingo, you have the floor.
 Yes.
 You want to say? Oh yeah, thank you. So Mr. Chair, thank you for the opportunity to speak on these items, in particular 1390 Jefferson and 1036 East Ferry. I'm not going to say which applicant it was, but there should be a level of scrutiny when stores apply to open up businesses in our districts. Sometimes we find that stores open up without permission, and then they'll claim they didn't know. But yet you had a store open in another district, but you claim you did not know that you were supposed to apply for this district. And I'm just hopeful that in the future that a rigorous level of scrutiny continues to serve the Masson district. Because when the constituency speaks, they ought to be heard. And it doesn't matter if you have stores in other districts, doesn't matter if you are a quote unquote self proclaimed good business person. The people of that district deserve to know what's happening and what's going to be open and what's not going to be open. So in the future, I'm just hoping that Even though these stores have been held up for a while seemingly it's because of a lack of communication not on the city side, but also a Convenient forgetfulness or a convenient omission of information that's needed to Continue with these applications, but other than that mr. Chair, we're going to prove these today and until December 31st in If anyone applies in the Mass and District for a license to conduct their food store business, you will go through the same level of scrutiny because the people of the district deserve that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Nowakowski, for allowing me to borrow your mic. All righty, motion stands. Item number 54, moratorium on future smoking and vape shops until license and process is developed. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 55, special use 934 Walden Avenue. Motion to deny 56, 56, 55, 56, and 57. All right, second by Council Member Bowman. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have sent the reason for denial for all three locations to our law department and our clerk. Essentially, these have sat in committee for a long time and my office has not been able to get in communication with the applicants. We believe they're no longer pursuing them and that's the reason for denial. Thank you. All right, so noted for the record. Plains, item number 58, Myesha Trevor Xavier Tariq Drayton, 255,000. Motion is to approve items 58 through 72. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item number 73, Agnes 15338. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 74, Police Radel Home. Motion is to send the CD. Second by Council Member Freelander. Education, item number 75, resolution on school safe zones. Motion is receiving a file, items 75 through 77. Seconded by the Majority Leader. Resolutions, item number 54, Halton Conservancy. conservative conservation area nature is inspiration day fee waiver motion to approve like I was for a moment item number 55 report requests for civil service employment of people living with disabilities motion to adapt remainder civil service Item number 56, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt 56 and 57. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 58, fee waiver for care and flag raising. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Columbeck. Item number 59, request a follow up to audit on a street lighting system. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to finance. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 60, transfer funds for Buffalo Fire Department. Motion to approve item 60 through 62. Second by Councilmember Rasheed Wyatt. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, October 10, 2023 at 9.45 AM. Committee on Finance, fellow in Civil Service is Tuesday, October 10, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, October 10, 2023 at 1 PM. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, October 10, 2023 at 2 PM. I'm looking for the date for Broderick Park. There's two on that day, I believe. just so that we can have it announced for joyce renaming something for joyce while we're waiting on that any announcements for your districts is that in your district is that gotta go to public hearing all right public hearing for broderick park so the rename uh freedom park will be tuesday october 24 23 at 2 p.m is that correct that's it all right motion motion to adjourn second by council member joseph columbia jr