I'm exploring more and October is National Disability Employment Awareness Month, a time to recognize and celebrate the contributions of workers living with disabilities and to acknowledge the efforts of organizations that embrace diversity and inclusion in the workplace. I'm really thrilled that I get Explore More in my district and to put faces to reality is really important. And I'm here with a pretty dynamic and powerful workforce and I think that it's important that as we talk about equity and inclusion, that we talk about everybody, and that we make sure that when we look at people living with disabilities, we don't just look to accommodate them, we look to include them in the workplace, in our economy, and to help build the city of Buffalo. So before we hear from a few of the workers, I'm going to turn it over to their fearless leader, Michelle Ransby. Thank you everyone and thank you for having us today. It is an honor and it's an honor to stand with my wonderful workforce. more was coming from East Aurora to the city, one of the things I vowed as a leader in our board was that we were going to be a community museum, meaning no one was going to be left behind. If we were going to be in the city of Buffalo, right at Canal Side, we were going to make sure that our board, our workforce, our visitors represented the community in which we live in. And I'm proud to say we've done that. And I'm also proud to say I've got the most dynamic workforce. Our workforce has all different abilities and we come together. I always say we're a puzzle and everyone has a piece of the puzzle. And when we put it together, we make something beautiful. You could see the full picture and that's how Explore More is. So every single person who works there has a piece of that puzzle and is listened to, is respected, has a job, has responsibility. They come with such a great attitude. I am lucky because our workforce has a great attitude. They wanna be there, they wanna represent the community. And for us, it's a gift that just keeps giving and I'm really lucky to have them. So thank you today. We are honored to receive this award and we're just honored to be here, so thank you. And hi, I'm Valerie Drapeau. I work at Explore & More as our education coordinator. And just to share, these five wonderful individuals behind me are just an excellent asset to the Explore & More team. As Michelle said, they are hardworking, they have incredible character, and they are just a joy to be a part of the team, not only serving customers, but also with each other. So we're very thankful to be here today and certainly appreciate all of these team members that we have. Thank you so much. And one more thing I do want to share as we talk about people in the workforce and disability month. These are jobs. These are job descriptions. These are paid. These are not unpaid. These are real jobs, real job descriptions, real responsibility, radios. things that they have to do, lesson plans they're putting together. So, I encourage anyone who is looking for the best workforce is to look outside, something a little bit different because you'd be surprised at how wonderful our workforce is. I just want to share Bruce's story. Bruce has been with us for four years, came very, very part-time and is now full-time. Last year, full-time benefits, retirement, everything. We couldn't live without them. So it's just one of those things that you just see people transform. That's just one of the things I want to share because when Bruce came, Very seldom looked at us, and now you're just the shining star. And that's how everyone is here. We're a family, and I just want to make sure you're aware that there's just such abilities. And just get outside your comfort zone and see what people have to offer. You'd be surprised at how amazing your workforce can be. Thank you, Michelle. So we are joined by Kaylee, Craig, Bruce, Dylan, and Mina. So I'm gonna appoint you president of this crew, and give us a few words of how your experience at Explore & More have been. Hi, I'm Craig Donatelli. I am so proud as my boss, Eric Hooger-Valerie. We are close like a family because this guy right here, We brought him as a gift. We are coming together as one. We are here for my parents. Proud of my parents over there. My mother and my dad. I'm proud of my sister, always not here today. But the only thing I say, Mitch, you are the one that I love and think of all you do. To my boss, Valerie, and Jackie, the whole team, I always say go Buffalo and thank you. Go Buffalo. Thanks Craig. I've got a twin and three stepbrothers and another brother in Craig, but I'm going to put you to work since you're a brother. So if you can give this to Kaylee and the next is Bruce, then the next is Dylan, Mina, and Craig for last. Let's take a quick photo. Thanks everyone. Excellent. Thank you. Great place to go. Congratulations. How you doing? Our second presentation is by Councilmember David A. Rivera. How are you doing? Breast Cancer Awareness Month is a time to raise awareness about the importance of detection and treatment and to fight against cancer, one of the most prevalent cancer in our society today. And although we want to bring awareness and it's part of a national conversation throughout America, Just bringing awareness is not enough. We have to do more in terms of early detection and prevention. And making sure that the medical services are in place to deal and educate young people to get tested, to get screened. And so it's not just enough to bring awareness, we also have to make sure that there is some action that goes along with it in terms of screening. And donating to this cause. And there's an organization that does a great job in doing that. And that's the Breast Cancer Network of Western New York. I think it's important. that we recognize the great work you do in trying to eradicate breast cancer. And that is the goal to ultimately do away with breast cancer. I think that we all at some point know someone, a family member, a friend that has gone through breast cancer and what the survival rate is. And we have to do more to make sure that October people recognize it's time to get to give and to donate and to take some action to prevent this from continuing. So thank you very much for all you do and I'll let you say a few words. Thanks everybody. I think you kind of took my thunder. You just kind of said what I was going to say. But I'll go ahead and read it anyways if that's okay. I am Rob Jones, Executive Director from the Breast Cancer Network of Western New York. And on behalf of all breast cancer patients and survivors of Western New York, as well as our organization, I'm honored to accept this proclamation from the Buffalo Common Council in recognition of the important work our organization does. Each year there are nearly 900 women in Erie County who are diagnosed with breast cancer. If their diagnosis occurs at an early stage, the five-year survival rate is close to 99%. Unfortunately, early stage diagnosis occurs only about 68% of the time, which ultimately leads to more than 42,000 breast cancer deaths every year in the United States. Our organization does everything we can to educate people on the importance of screenings and early detection. We are there with education and programming for newly diagnosed patients, people in treatment, and the thousands of breast cancer survivors of Western New York living life after breast cancer. We also have a very strong commitment to women living with stage four metastatic breast cancer and make an annual donation to research for that cause. In September, after over 13 years in Depew, we relocated our services to the United Way building on Delaware Avenue. Our intent is to be located centrally in our community, to be accessible by public transportation, and to be available to a larger and more diverse population. We look forward to serving the whole of our community from this new location and to collaborating with the Common Council for the good of all who have been impacted by breast cancer in Western New York. In this month of October, Breast Cancer Awareness Month, we ask that all women who have died be remembered, that all women in treatment are healed, and that all survivors live without fear of recurrence. Thank you all again for your support and recognition of our work and commitment. This is for you. Great, thank you very much. Thank you. Great, thanks. Next presentation is by Councilmember Joseph Golombak. Okay, good afternoon. We're here. In honor of Domestic Violence Awareness Month, honoring the Family Justice Center, Representative Mary Murphy is here with us, and about Domestic Violence Awareness Month. Domestic violence affects millions annually. One in three women and one in four men will be victims of domestic violence in their lifetime. That is 20 people per minute. Only 34% of victims receive medical care. About the Family Justice Center, they offer free comprehensive services for victims of domestic abuse. They empower survivors and ensure their safety. They provide support, legal aid, and counseling. And they're dedicated towards a future free from abuse. And Mary, I'd like you to have the floor. Thank you so much. Hello, everybody. We basically do it all. It's a coordinated community response to this evil in our society. And those stats are real. We're seeing one in three girls in that eight- to ten-year-old age group to 24 to 26 year old age group. One in four women, one in seven boys and men. And when I say a collaboration, I mean it. A huge shout out to the Common Council in the city of Buffalo. We have anything everybody needs in our huge, gorgeous downtown center uh... thirteen advocates we see two thousand new clients every year victims of control and abuse and violence two thousand new clients every year and two thousand repeat clients we have co-located with us buffalo police a full-time officer and a report technician we partner very closely with the district attorney's office we the only forensic medical unit dedicated solely to domestic violence in all of new york state our nurse body maps an electronic map of the body injuries with high-tech colored pictures using software that can get in into the body that you can see outside when people are strangled we've a hundred percent conviction rate in court when our forensic medical unit evidence is used all of our services are free we feed our clients we give them safety plans you need an order of protection you don't have to go to court we can do it over the phone or we can do it video conferencing. We have co-located advocates in family court. We can tie anybody together with trauma-informed therapy. It's an amazing miracle. We have satellite offices in Orchard Park. We see those same statistics in Orchard Park. On Grand Island, we have a satellite office and in Williamsville. And we co-locate on the east side of Buffalo in Harvest House. And every day, even though these are the high-risk cases, meaning just about everybody who walks through our door, those 4,000 people in the snap of a finger, that case can go lethal. Safety planning is key. We have the great privilege every day of our lives watching our clients walk out the door headed for hope and healing and safe havens. And I thank the City of Buffalo for their participation in this collaboration. Thank you. And on behalf of the city council, I'd like to give you this proclamation for you and your organization. And to a day when organizations like yours are no longer necessary. I look forward to it. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you to all and I'm sure that you're ready to go. So you're welcome to stay. Thank you and congratulations to everyone. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on October 3rd, 2023 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Yes. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting to be able to review an item if you have not had a chance. And I believe we're going from the top. From the top. Item number one, appoint Ray Moore-Nosworthy to Buffalo Water Board. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Noakowski. Item number two, appointment to City Preservation Board. Motion to send the civil service items two, three, and four. Second by Councilmember Golomba. And five. Second by Council Member Glomack. Item number six, Local 2651, collected bargaining agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number seven, report of sale 23 Roebling. Motion to approve item 789. Second by Council Member Freeland. And 10. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 11, Seeker Nag Deck for 90 and 100 Airy Street. Motion to receive and file items 11 and 12. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 13 notice of appointment director real estate motion to send the civil service and my customer involvement item number 14 certificate of necessity salary adjustments motion to send the finance saying my councilman Columbia and a number 15 change order Buffalo roadways motion to approve items 15 through and including 26 saying that councilmember no account Item number 27, notice of appointment, engineering aid. Motion to send the civil service items 27 and 28. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 29, contract for city of Buffalo, Hanna demolition, 141 Bushnell fire demolition. Motion to approve. Second by president Pro Tem Scano. Item number 30, food store license 975, Borowa. Motion to send the legislation items 30 through 33. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 34, food store license 973, Tonawanda. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Golombiec, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the permits department and the police department, we're going to recommend denying this item. It was open without a license. There was a shooting in front of or inside, we're not exactly sure. the property about a week or two ago while it was open without permits and so at the request of permits and inspections and the police department we are going to deny this they will be sending something later with more information thank you for the record is best item number 35 property manager DLT management motion is to approve items 35 through 43 Second by Council Member White. Item number 44, cannabis license notices. Motion to receive and file items. 44 through 45. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 46, notices of appointments for tent provisional and permanent. Motion to send civil service items 46 through 47. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number miscellaneous, item number 48, concerns for SAS and institution agreement. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 49, flavored tobacco and nicotine is social justice and health ed. Motion to send the CD items 49 and 50. Second by council member . Item number 51, 61 Terrence, second request to extend special use permit. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Temsken. Petitions item number 52, special use, 1287 East Elephant. Motion to set legislation to city planning board items 52 through 58. Second by Council Member Colombo. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint firefighters. Motion is to receive and file items one through and including 11. Seconded by the Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 12, Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency 2023-2024 budget. Motion to approve items 12, 13, and 14. Second by the majority, Wade Rivera. Item number 15, subrecipient agreement with Buffalo and Erie Niagara Land Improvement. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 16, Northland Workforce Training Center. Motion to approve item 16 and 17. Second by Council Member Fairlady. Community Development, item number 18, Land Disposition Agreement for sale of Mohawk Ramp 477 Washington. Motion to approve 18 and 19. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 20, municipal approval for Cannabis Growers Showcase. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Columbus. Item 21, regarding abandonment and sale of a portion of former William L. Gator Parkway located. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tem Scott. Item number 22, Friends of Roderick Park proposal to rename Roderick Park to Freedom Park. Motion to receive and file items 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Legislation item number 24, property manager for JJ Acquisition and Management LLC. Motion to approve 24 and 25. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 26, special use 28, Clio. Motion to recommit 26 and 27. Second by President Pro Tempskin. Item number 28, approach mental city right of ways 429, Rhode Island. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Revere. Item number 29, request to appeal preservation board decision 387, Florida Street. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 30 special use 830 Abbott Road motion to approve item 30 and to approve item 31 with conditions Thank you just for item 31 I'd like to read I've sent it to the clerk But I would like to also read for item 31 For the following condition following the completion of all phases of development There shall be no fewer than 616 units of affordable housing on the site currently known as 90 and 100 Erie Street. I Thank you, sir. For the record. Item number 32, special use 106 Trinity Place. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 33, special use 805, a.k.a. 807 Elk Street. Motion to approve items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member O'Hanley. Resolutions item number 59, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to send finances items 59, 60, and 61. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 62, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt item 62, 63, and 64. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 65, trailblazing resolution for Ms. Barbara D Glover. Motion to approve item 65 and 66. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 67, calling for a public hearing for naming of the athletic center as social park as the Thomas M Smith Athletic Center. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member White. Item number 68, fee waiver for banshee fee for shade day. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item number 69, transfer funds for Department of Public Works and Department of Permits and Inspections. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member Goulambe. Mr. Chair, motion to revisit item number 12. Second by Council Member Goulambe. Item number 12, notice of appointment, Deputy Director of Real Estate. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Councilmember, no council. Motion now is to send the civil service. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, October 24, 2023 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, October 24, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, October 24, 2023 at 1 PM. Committee on Community Development will be Tuesday, October 24th, 2023 at 2 PM. Also during a public hearing for community development will be the renaming of Broderick Park to Freedom Park, as well as the renaming of Martin Luther King Jr. Park Casino to Joyce Wilson Nixon Casino. Special committees, committee on police oversight will be Wednesday, October 25th, 2023 at 11 AM. Members, any announcements for your districts? Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President, the Buffalo Common Council. We are hosting the Winter Preparedness Series. We'll have a few meetings, at least one before the next one, but I just wanted to throw this out there for November 2nd at 530 at the Northwest Community Center, 155 Lawn Avenue. The second will be November 8th, 530 at the Bell Center, 104 Maryland. November 11th from 10 AM to 2 PM will be the Central Library. November 14th at 5.30 will be the Delavan Grider Center. And the last is November 16th, 5.30 PM, Tash County Community Center, 35 Casanova Street. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. Any other announcements? Hearing none. Motion to adjourn. Second by President Pro Tem Christopher P Scanlon. It was record setting. Record setting.