Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Here. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Hi. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Corners present. The pledge to the flag, please.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one state, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our Council Chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you. If you have...
 walked up and down sidewalks and looked in art and photography stores in Buffalo. You oftentimes see pictures of our beautiful lighthouses. And as a city on the lake, we're known for those lighthouses and the years of service that they put into the city. The scripture that I have is Matthew chapter 5, verses 14 to 16. You.
 are the light of the world. Like a city on a hilltop that can't be hidden, no one lights a lamp and then puts it under a basket. Instead, the lamp is placed on a stand where it gives light to everyone in the house. In the same way, let your good deed shine out for all to see, so that everyone will praise your heavenly Father. That phrase, you are the light of the world, like a
 how lighthouses are beautiful when they're photographed. And Deb and I have been to some of our lighthouses and put them, you know, on Facebook page, and they're cute and quaint and lovely. But actually, lighthouses weren't built for days like the one we're experiencing today. They were built for days of great storm and turmoil.
 And that's when a lighthouse comes into impact, into effect, when it takes up the mantle of why it was built, why it was created. Because it's meant to be there to save lives. And then the scripture that talks about the fact that a city on a hilltop, a city on a hilltop as the light of the world.
 So in these days, there are certainly days of great storm for the council and great storms for City Hall, great storms for many of our neighborhoods, great storms for many of our businesses and educators, great storms for arts and entertainment with Shea's announcement, great storms.
 There needs to be a place of light and lighthouse. And my prayer today, as I pray, is going to be for this council. And, you know, when we meet on the 13th floor of City Hall, we're taller than any lighthouse on the entire lake because we're above all of that. And that there'll be for us a call to be a city on a hill that others find light from the direction that we're given by the Father. Let's pray.
 Father, thank you for your goodness. Lord, this scripture is such a powerful image. The light of the world, a city set on a hill, and Buffalo, for much of its history, has been a city that other smaller cities in upstate New York looked up to and pioneered so many things throughout the years. But Father, even as that lighthouse imagery rings true for our lakeshore, it also rings true that lighthouses are built for days of storm.
 I thank you Father that this council right now in the storm can still be a light on a hill. I pray that you'd bring light to our discussions, light to our deliberations, light to the legislation that rests on the shoulders of each of these nine. I pray Father for those in neighborhoods that are feeling the darkness that even now that there's going to be a sense of light that permeates, light that penetrates, and light that sets things right.
 Lord, I thank you that that light for this city on a hill comes from you. And I pray even now that it would shine brightly through us, in us, and on us. And we thank you in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Councilman, thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmembers, any memorials? Councilmember Bowman, then Councilmember Golombek.
 Thank you, Council President. This is a tough one for the Lovejoy neighborhood and the Lovejoy district. We lost Bud Hastings, who was a longtime resident on Longnecker Street, and he was just an activist in the community. I was working with Bud on a couple issues around his house. Just saw him three weeks ago, and he looked fine as could be. So just a stark reminder just to, you know,
 live every day in the moment. And we're going to miss Bud to his wife, Kitty, his daughters and sons. We wish you all the best and a year in our thoughts and prayers. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sorry to hear that. Council Member Golombet?
 Thank you, Mr. President. The Black Rock Grant Amherst neighborhood lost Ed Popeye, also known as Pappage. That's the same name that Popeye the Sailor Man comes in, who was a Polish character once upon a time. But Mr. Popeye was a barber in the neighborhood, and he was known for taking care of people when they needed help.
 whether it was financially or giving them a free haircut or a little bit of food or whatever. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his children. And then also Jeff Benjamin passed away. Some of you may have been to the Viking Lobster Company.
 the Viking restaurant. That was Jeff Benjamin's pride and joy. He was a real fixture in the North Buffalo West Side, Black Rock Riverside neighborhoods. Going to be very, very sorely missed by his daughter, Stacy, his sons, and by a multitude of friends and neighbors.
 Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to send out prayers to the family of Lanita Lewis. I know she had her funeral last Friday. I hadn't seen Lanita in a long time, but she was someone who I truly admired. She worked with me at the bank, and I saw in her obituary that she had risen to the level of vice president.
 which when I worked there didn't see a lot of people that looked like me as vice president. So I just admired her. She was just one of the sweetest, kindest people. Every time you saw her, she had a good word. So my heart goes out to her family, and we'll definitely keep them in our prayers. Thank you. Any others? Yes, she was. I was honored to be able to funeralize her. We actually went to high school together and then got our
 from the same college and got our masters from the same college.
 and she's going to be missed. Also, Macy Faber, who is a jazz lover, a facionado, if you will, of jazz, was on the radio here in the city of Buffalo. I remember being on his show in the past, and I listened to a very little bit of jazz. I like jazz, but I don't know much about it. So he has me on and asked me, what's your favorite jazz? Of course, I say, Washington, Buffalo's own.
 So I was very surprised to hear that he passed. He'll be, his viewing will be Friday evening at the Thomas T. Edwards Funeral Home and his services will be Saturday 10 a.m. viewing and 11 o'clock service at the True Bethel Church on 907 East Ferry. So to his family and to the many jazz lovers, his service will reflect his life
 uh in that jazz will be uh played at his service so he'll be missed seeing no others as always we remember men and women who may have given their life for the freedom of our country the freedom for other people since our last meeting we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence thank you all and on a motion by mr revere second by mr scanlon the minutes of stated meeting
 Held on September 29, 2020 are approved. Council members, are there, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Hearing no objection, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us today. I believe we're going from the top majority leader? Yes, we are from the top.
 Item number one, veto message CCP 20-355, ordinance amendment chapter 479 traffic ordinance. Motion to send to legislation. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number two, abandonment and sale of portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Scanlon. Item number three, community foundation for greater Buffalo led education. Motion to approve items three, four and five.
 Second by council. Second by council member Nowakowski. Do a roll call for the approvals? Yes. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golombek? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyant? Yes. Council member Kite?
 I'm excited. Item number six, silo pilot. Let's me approve that one. So item number seven. Item number seven. Item number seven, submission of monthly reports, September 2020. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Scan. Item number eight, appoint director of development.
 I believe this is an approve. I was, was Councilmember Wengel? Yes, this is an approval. The comptroller's office specifically asked if we could not send this to civil service, asked to delay the needed work that this individual would be doing in the comptroller's office. Therefore, I would like for there to be a motion to approve. Motion to approve. There's no objections. Seconded by Councilmember Wengel.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? I think your your mute was on. Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. So moved. Item number nine, Fitch Ratings Incorporated Buffalo New York downgrade. Motion to send the finance
 Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 10, Interim 54 List of Delinquent Taxes, Usurp Fees, and Sewer Rent, Volume 1 and 2. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 11, Buffalo Fire Department Interior Improvements at Various Locations. Motion to approve items 11 through 13. Is 14 going to be approved, Council, uh, Majority Leader?
 Were there any questions regarding that? Change of orders, speed limits, signs? There was some discussion in caucus. There's no objection, we can move to approve. Then you can go all the way to item 22 if you want to. Go all the way to item 22. All right, motion is to approve all the way to item 22, second by Council Member Ferraletto. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes.
 Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Council Member LeBron? Yes.
 Item number 23, approval to renew contract, Western New York Polygraph Services. Hold on one second, Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Council President. Real quick, I want to thank the Council Chief of Staff, Malcolm Arthur, for bringing this to my attention. The item that I will speak in reference to
 in the mayor's line. I apologize, I got my appointments crossed. It is not for the comptroller's office. That was actually an appointment for the mayor that did not need to go to civil service, but it will be the same majority leader for the item for the comptroller's office. And thank you for bringing that to my attention. Just for the record, I wanna make sure that everyone knows that I did misspoke. That was not for the comptroller's office, that was for the mayor's office. Thank you, Mr. President. Not a problem. Next item.
 Item number 23, Buffalo Police Department approval to renew contract. Motion to send finance. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 24, permission to enter contract for Buffalo Police Department Canine Veterinary Services. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Buhlmann. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombic. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 25, permission to accept funding under 2020 Edward Byrne Justice Assistant Grant. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 26, food store license 2577 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation item 26 and 27.
 Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 28, food store license 139 grant. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombic. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombic. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 29, food through a license 257 Niagara aka 259. Motion to send legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Golombic. And 30 can go to legislation as well. 30 can go to legislation as well. Thank you for saving us time, Councilmember. Seconded by Councilmember Golombic. Next item.
 Bill number 31, Police Department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 31, 32. Can you scroll down? 31 and 32. Second by the President, Pro Tem Scanley. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 33, notice of intention request to rename Columbus Park as Prospect Park. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Fioletto. Item number 34, leave of absence. Motion to receive and file items 34 through 36. Second by Councilmember Galambe.
 Item number 37, notice of appointment, council intern eight. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 38, notice of appointment, laborer two. Motion to send civil service items 38 and 39. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 40, appoint legislative aide. Motion to adopt items 40 and 41. Seconded by Councilmember White. Motion to adopt.
 Item number 42, complaint against Buffalo Police Department on behalf of Morgan Eaton. Motion to send police oversight. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item number 43, CPC budget and bond sale recommendation. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by President Pro Tempskin. Item number 44, council meeting transcription. Motion to receive and file items 44 through 46. Seconded by Council Member Freeland.
 Item number 47, opposition to the Montante solar proposal. Motion to send the legislation to items 47, 48 and 49. Say my council member Wyatt. Item number 50, urban think tank and NB-AWNY-LOS of criminal justice reform task force. Motion to send the CD. Say my council member Wyatt. Item number 51, special use permit 726 Jefferson for assembly.
 Motion to send legislation to City Planning Board. Seconded by Councilmember Wink. Item number 52, 389 Manhattan Petition. Motion to send the CDE items 52 and 53. Seconded by Councilmember DeLonga. Item number 54, Special Use Permit 351, Tacoma for Tavern Outdoor Dining Live Entertainment. Motion to send to legislation and City Planning Board items 54 through 56. Seconded by Councilmember Fairbanks. Submissions list, Civil Service. Item number one, Appoint Associate Auditor.
 Our motion is to approve both items one and two. Second by the Majority Leader Revere. Community Development, item number three, request for designated developer status of city-owned parcels located at 61 Terrace. Do we need to approve those two items, the roll call and the last two? Ah, yes indeed. For items number one and two under civil service, Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto?
 Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyeth. Yes. Under community development item number three, request for designated developer status of city owned parcels located at 61 Terrace. Motion is to approve. Second by majority leader Riviera.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. And Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Item number four, notice of intention naming parcel at Main and North Division Streets. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Council member going, but I'm sorry. Scanlon Item number five name parcel at main and North division streets. Motion to approve. Second by council members can Have some ever Bowman. Yes. Captain or fair little Yes.
 Council Member Golovkin? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second. You want to receive? Through and including seven. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Legislation item number eight, a city of Buffalo department of permanent inspection to provide guidance on outdoor heat lamps. Motion to receive and file. Second by council member Scanlon. Item number nine, special use permit 1335 hurdle for Tavern Outdoor Dining, Artisan Industrial. Number nine. Motion to approve items nine through 13. Second by council member Bollman. Council member Bollman. Yes.
 Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Kolombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Education, item 14, FBI Buffalo Citizens Academy Alumni Association request. Motion to receive on file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Resolutions. Item number 57, ATV and unregistered recreational use vehicles. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. And Councilmembers, I just want to remind you when the agenda is up, I can't see you. So if you want to speak on the item, just let me know. Councilmember Bowman, did you want to speak on that one?
 Sure, thank you, Council President. Just wanted to introduce this item and say that we'll be talking more about it in legislation, but it's a problem that gets worse every year. The ATV is driving in our streets and on our parks, so we're looking at increasing fines, potentially impounding the vehicle if possible. So I'm looking forward to working with the law department and to see how we can put our residents at ease and get this problem under control. Thank you.
 And I know in caucus we had a lot of discussion, a lot of the council members were in support, so I thought it was very important that you spoke to this item for the public, so they would know the council is not ignoring it. And it will be discussed next Tuesday. So thank you for this resolution.
 Councilmember White. Councilmember White Thank you Mr. President and I want to thank my colleague for putting this forth. I know we've had a lot of conversation and we have been in a number of the E-District police meetings in which this is addressed and many residents have concerns on this matter. I actually had some further conversation with someone that has been doing some stories on
 that is also a part of a legal ring of illegal activity. So we really need to get a handle on this, but I wanna do a little bit more research on that aspect and talk to our police department on that. But it's a little bit more than what we see
 but I know it's a dangerous situation for residents. And again, I commend my colleague and those who have signed on for our efforts to address it because we just can't continue to let it go on as if there's no law, there is law. It's just that we, the police department has taken a tact not to do chasing because it is a danger to the rest of the public, but we have to do something and I commend Council Member Bowman and look forward to working with him and coming up with some resolutions for this, thank you.
 And if possible, if we can have, and then I'll come to you, Council Member Behr, if we could have from the police department on what their policy is so that when we get together on Tuesday, we have real clear information.
 direction on what the police department's policy is. Even Councilmember Frioletto talked about this in caucus. I brought it up also because I think there is some confusion on whether the police do tag or take vehicles and exactly how they handle it. So if we can get that for Tuesday, I think that would really help in our discussion.
 Councilmember Becerra? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was just going to recommend the same, that we have somebody from the police department there to talk about the policy now. The policy with regards to stopping them as when they're just a few of them out in the street
 And the other one is when they're hanging out in large groups, as they've been doing recently in my district. I mean, there's like hundreds. They were kicked out of Broderick Park. They're kicked out of Niagara Street. They're up and down Connecticut Street. And we've gotten a number of calls from the residents, and they want to know why aren't the police doing this.
 anything and there's probably an explanation they don't want to get into a chase with them however what is the policy going forward if you're not going to get into a chase how are we going to condition them to obey the vehicle and traffic laws of new york state and how to prevent something terrible from happening because they do go up and down their street zigzagging going the wrong way it's just a matter of time before we have a fatality or somebody you know even the person that's driving on the
 on the three wheel or four wheel vehicles gets into an accident. So I wanna thank council member, Brian Bowman. And we want the police department to come down. This was gonna be part of a discussion in police oversight, but I'm glad we're gonna hold this meeting. While we're talking about police oversight in this matter, that was gonna be brought up. I just want the general public to know that we are attempting to hold a police oversight meeting
 where we had a commitment from the commissioner that we would be quarterly to discuss matters that, different matters and we've,
 We're extending the opportunity to the commissioner. We're working around his schedule. However, we have to lock in a date. We will lock in a date, and we hope that he's there to answer the questions. We want to work with the police department. I think we've had a good working relationship with the Buffalo Police Department. As a matter of fact, I think most of the reforms that we're going through right now,
 started somewhere in police oversight. So we encourage the administration and the commissioner to work with our staff, to schedule these meetings going forward. So we can lock them in way in advance. Thank you very much. Thank you. Council member Nowakowski.
 Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to commend my colleague, Council Member Brian Bowman. I think the other department that we need to bring into this discussion is the parking department and what their current policy is now for impounding ATVs and thinking about how we can craft legislation to empower this department
 situation in our neighborhoods that are you know Seneca Babcock areas getting hit hard my neighborhood's getting hit hard so just so that we can expand this conversation so in committee we have all the various departments needed to have a well-rounded conversation thank you I agree I know and I said it in caucus I had a letter from folks who live around the LaSalle park well it's not LaSalle park anymore the Centennial park and
 They are upset and think the police aren't doing anything. And that's why I think it's important for the police to be there because they are doing, you know, but this is like something that grew and mushroomed and
 And so at the end of the day, you know, we, we, our police can't spend every day, all day. And these ATVs obviously can go where the police vehicles cannot. And I think that's where some people forget. They know they can get away from the police very, very easily. Like in my neighborhood, they just go through a field or something and the police car can't go through the field.
 So having the police there, you know, is important. So good job, Council Member Bowman. Anybody else? Mr. President, if I could just clarify the request for this item specifically, which is going to legislation and not police oversight. You want their policy in writing for them to appear or both? If they're going to appear, then they can just state it for the record.
 If for some reason they cannot appear, then we need the explanation in writing of what their policy is concerning these ATVs. Understood, sir. We'll be reaching out today. Yeah. The appearance would be the best thing because then council members could ask questions. But if the schedule doesn't permit, we need something. Thank you. Thank you. All righty. Next item. Item number 58, designation of Black Lives Matter way.
 item mr chair um i want to thank uh the community this has been on the table for a while um this is something that was special to me in that mckay edwards a student in buffalo public schools and his friends reached out and they wanted to do something they wanted to participate in
 the calls for change and they had seen across the country where municipalities would either write Black Lives Matter in the street. We know in Buffalo in a few weeks, you wouldn't see it once the snow starts to fly. And we wanted to do something a little more significant and they are very pleased that this council has taken this up.
 We put in a blank basically so that we would have this opportunity as a council to vote on this together. The resolution, if you have not received it, I'll just go to the resolves and people can read the resolution online after this meeting. Resolved that the City of Buffalo Common Council designates Fillmore Avenue.
 between Main Street, well the entire Fillmore Avenue, which is Main Street to Seneca Street, as Black Lives Matter Way, in honor of the Black Lives movement and the continued events that have happened in our country.
 And so it has been overwhelmingly Fillmore Avenue, especially as we look at the sometimes controversial decisions that President Fillmore, Millard Fillmore made. And at the end of the day, this seemed like the right thing to do. At this location, I have already spoken to the administration and have been speaking so that when we make this motion, it would not then be,
 You know, is the administration against it, the mayor, and I won't speak for the mayor, but I have spoken to the mayor on countless times about this. So we both agree, Councilmember Wingo, who has a lot of Fillmore, and Councilmember Nowakowski have signed on, who have a lot. I only have a really small little speckle.
 spot on Fillmore for Ellicott District. But for me, it even going in three different districts that are very diverse in some parts, I think is very important. So I want to thank Councilmember Wingo and Councilmember Nowakowski, because they could have said no, and they did not. They both right away were like, yes. And I give the floor now to Councilmember Wingo. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate this resolution, not only because, you know, we're honoring the movement, but it's more than just honoring the movement, but making a statement. And Fillmore is one of the most major other real ways in streets in the city and Mastin District. And it's our main street, basically. It cuts right through the middle of Mastin.
 And when we had conducted a poll on Facebook, of course, a non-scientific poll,
 poll on Facebook, the overwhelming majority of people who responded both submitted Jefferson and Fillmore, with Fillmore being the leaning winner by just a little margin, but enough for us to, you know, put these signs up on Fillmore. Fillmore also has its historical flags of various
 African Americans all down Fillmore, all the way to Martin Luther King Park that was spearheaded by CAO. And we really appreciate that effort. We are hoping that...
 we can come to an agreement as to where we will have our ceremony. I'm pretty sure that's going to be the next thing that we have to discuss. But I'm looking at, I'm looking at, hopefully, hopefully we can have this on in MLK Park. Look, Mitch is getting ready to unmute. I'm going to hope that we can have this in MLK.
 MLK Park, being that this is historic, MLK Park is one of those areas that is a, you know, the epicenter of our community. And we're looking forward to that ribbon cutting ceremony, the unveiling of this movement. It is such a monumental expression of what is necessary moving forward with the climate, the way it has been with the relations of police and African Americans. And we wanna make sure that we say it loud and clear
 And not in just in the vein of the movement, but we want to make sure that we say loud and clear that black lives do matter. Black lives matter, too. And anything other than black lives matter would be the antithesis.
 And I want people to be very, very clear that I'm not saying that to be disrespectful or rude, but Black Lives Matter too. And until we treat all peoples with the same dignity and respect and the value, Black Lives Matter will just be that a movement and not an expression of reality or truth.
 And we need to make sure that we are continuing as local leaders in the community to speak truth to power. And this is more than just a trailblazing sign. This is our heart, this is our sentiment, this is our belief.
 And we believe that it's going to take all of us to ensure that Black lives matter. And we want to direct your attention and now direct your attention to MLK Park. All of the folks watching and listening out here, we want to have this in MLK Park. We're going to vote on that next, I guess. But in the meantime, thank you for the time, Mr. Chair. And thank you for the resolution and allowing me to contribute to it as well. Appreciate it. Thank you. Council Member Nowakowski.
 I'll be brief. I'll just state for the record that the MLK Park starts in the Fillmore District but ends in the Madison District. So we'll come together and do it in the middle of the park, right?
 Well, it's about the resolution. I'll let you all know. Mr. Thayer, it's all a matter of perspective now. Look, MLK, that is the border of our district. Council Member Nowakowski, anything else? No, that's it. Well, thank you all. And so the public will know that right now what we're planning on doing is at every, it won't just be one sign.
 But imagine going all the way down Fillmore and at every main intersection, you will see Black Lives Matter way. And that is, that's just
 significant for so many reasons. Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I congratulate my colleagues and just want to add to if I could have my name added to that resolution is not going down Bailey, but I'm definitely in support of the idea because I'm like, our colleagues have said, Black Lives do matter. And we all need to recognize that, you know, if our lives matter, we definitely have to say that Black Lives definitely matter. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else?
 All right. So this would be a motion to believe approved. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Absolutely yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes.
 Enthusiastically and unapologetically, yes. Chancellor Wyatt. Unequivocally, yes. This is an item, again, that makes history in the city of Buffalo.
 In name, although it's a designation. The second largest city in the state of New York. When you drive in town and you drive through Mastin and you drive through Ellicott and you drive through Fillmore you drive through one of our major thoroughfares
 It will have up the name. And as Councilman Wingo said, without apology, Black Lives Matter. Thank you to the entire council for supporting this resolution. Next item. Item number 59, a sit hearing portion of Land Beneath Buffalo River. Motion to adopt.
 Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 60, waive fees for South Buffalo farmers market. Item 60, 61 and 62. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Galambe. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 63, Commissioner repeats. Motion to adapt. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Second. Oh, that's it? All right. Announcements?
 Sure. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash B-F-L-O-C-C. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, October 20th at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, Tuesday, October 20th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, October 20th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, October 20th at 2 p.m.
 I apologize. Majority Leader, Councilmember Wyatt had asked to revisit item one during the meeting and I failed to do that. Can we revisit that? Lord, you should revisit item number one. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to, you know, I know the mayor has vetoed this item. This is probably the first veto that we've seen since I've been on the council. And, you know, I think it's something that's really important that
 It speaks volumes of this veto. I'm concerned about the impact it will have on people who are really struggling. Buffalo is the third poorest city in the country. I think that we put this resolution forward because we were concerned about the safety of children. And we want to make sure it stays focused on the safety of children.
 My colleagues and I supported this resolution because we didn't want to penalize people when children were safely in school. When children are safely in school for people to get tickets at 11 o'clock or 12 o'clock, I think is unfair and unfair to the drivers and unfair to our residents.
 I know that we had some conversation with some parents who wanted to do the entire day, but there are people who are going to lunch and those other times, and that's what we heard loud and clear during our public session when we first addressed it, is that they were concerned that during the day they're being penalized when children are safely in school. So I'm going to read...
 restate that, that this is about the safety of our children, but it's also about a time right now where COVID has impacted a lot of families, and $50 for some may be extremely a lot of money and could possibly have their license or registration suspended. We don't want to have those type of ramifications, especially when we're talking about
 the children arrive in school, making sure that people are following the law. And when people are dismissed, that people are following the law. So I'm willing to do whatever we have to do to make certain that we do and protect those who are most vulnerable right now. And I'm not talking about our children because we put the resolution for because we want them to be safe. We've also signed a resolution for the security arms
 buses are out there that if there's a bus that, a car that goes by a bus with an arm extended, that there are people are penalized. So we definitely want to make sure our children are safe, but we don't wanna punish people and penalize them when again, our children are safe in the school and there's no one out on the street, people should not be getting tickets because they drove in front of a school. Thank you, Mr. President. All righty, council members, any announcements for your districts?
 I do have one. I'm having bingo with Pridgen. No, I'm just kidding. Hey, I will go to that. I will be there.
 The annual Senior Citizens Halloween Party Drive-Thru will be October 29, 2020, 11 a.m. until 2 p.m. at the, at 585 William, the William Emsley YMCA. Again, that's October 29th.
 11 to 2 prizes for best costume, first, second, and third, and food will be catered by Texas Roadhouse. And it's also being sponsored by UnitedHealthcare and Citizens Healthcare and Texas Roadhouse. So seniors, we have to do it a different way, but your costume will be judged and there will be food and the cost is free. Is that why you are asking?
 RSVP, oh, okay, Mark is behind me. He is our 845-5440, 845-5440. I don't know what happens if you don't RSVP, they're not gonna let your car drive up or something, but you might not get lunch. So please join us then. Any other announcements? Council Member Wyatt.
 Just want to announce to the residents, we do have a safe Halloween movie that's taking place at the Greater Bible Tabernacle, 391 Edison, October 31st. There's going to be opening up at 530. Movie will begin at 630.
 have free candy, but we make sure we social distance and you must wear a mask and you must stay in your vehicle. But I'm excited about doing something different. We want to make sure that our families and our children still enjoy that time in the community. And thank you to Greater Faith Bible Tabernacle for playing a role in this Halloween drive-thru. Thank you. Drive in. All right. Any other announcements? Mr. and Mrs. Chair. Council Member Waringo.
 I'm trying to say this without laughing. I'm going to invite my colleagues for all of us to do a bingo event. Is it going to be bingo with Wingo again? It's going to be bingo with Wingo in the city of Buffalo. Cool.
 Bingo with Wingo and Buffalo I didn't know how you were going to pull it off But they did pull it off We pulled it off I got to say this because I want to thank all of the seniors that did come out They had so much fun I got a little frustrated But it started raining And then my workers and my co-hosts Was doing a lot of talking And they wanted to play bingo But for the most part They had so much fun We had a ton
 of voicemail. So all of my seniors who are watching, who are listening to this meeting today, you are so very welcome. And because of the success of this event, Mr. Chair, we have to do another one, but it's cold outside now, and I don't want my staff standing outside. So we're gonna do another one, but you know, if anyone wants to join in next time, I'll be sure to bring you on
 And it won't just be bingo with Wingo, it'll be bingo with the city of Buffalo. Okay, how about that? But for the most part, I mean, they have so much fun. I just wanna invite everyone to collaborate. We did get some great feedback and constructive criticisms so that the next one can be even better and more successful. Thank you. Absolutely, but I think any effort at all is important to keep our seniors active.
 Nothing is perfect, but good job. As we, before we get off, I think I have a solution to when the signs are ready, where we should do the ceremony. I think that we should go to a place where Mastin, Fillmore, Ellicott meet up. And I guess we could probably start walking from one of them and then probably end up at the Martin Luther King bus. I think, I think, right? We'll figure it out.
 All right, everybody. Is that it? It's it. Motion? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.