Thank you. Four, three, two, one. Council Member Ballman? Present. Council Member Ferruetto? Here. Council Member Golubbeck? Here. Council Member Nowakowski? Here. Council President Pridgen? Majority Leader Rivera? Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Present. Council Member Wingo? Council Member Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. United States of America. I stand on behalf of the President. Thank you, Council President. I come today with a heavy heart, even on what I'm about to share. Last week, as I'm sure many of you followed in the news, a parliamentarian of Great Britain, Sir David Arness, was killed in a church while he was meeting with voters, his constituents. And I meet with all of each of you. And I thought a church was supposed to be such a sacred, safe place, and it was anything but. So you've got extra prayers for me this week. But so has this precious parliamentarian's family and constituents and nation. And then I thought about cities and nations around the world where government leaders have been killed or assassinated. It's a long list, as many of you know, including a U.S. president killed in this city. These are sobering times. You know, when we come into City Hall, we come through security. As we're here in chambers, guards stand over these chambers. I oftentimes say to them, I hope you'll have a boring day today. I don't want anything memorable to happen at all. I want you to just go through the day, but I want God to do protection on each of you, on this building, on government leaders and officials throughout our city, throughout our state, nation, throughout the world. but you're heavy on my heart i'm i'm sure that those that love you care for you value you um weren't expecting the unsettledness that holding office but i believe god's put you here for such a time as this let me read the scripture and then pray first timothy chapter 2 verse 1 i urge them first of all that requests prayers intercession and thanksgiving be made for everyone Everyone. But verse 2 says, for kings and all those. Actually Timothy is commanded by Paul to pay close attention to those who lead, recognizing that they set the tone for everyone under their authority. That we may live peaceful and quiet lives in all godliness and holiness. This is good and pleases God our Savior who wants all men to be saved and come to a knowledge of the truth. I want to pause and pray for each of you now and for those like you in cities and nations around the world. Let's bow in prayer. Father, you know what happened inside me when that news broke last week. I thank you that it rose up a prayer burden, additional prayer burden, for each of the nine Common Council members. I recognize that Great Britain is greatly shaken, but other places are shaken when such circumstances take place. I pray now for each of these in authority, that there'd be peaceful and quiet lives. Lord, I pray that you'd protect each of them, those like them. I pray for the guards in this house, that they would have eagle eyes for anyone who would want to do something unholy, unspeakable, and that they'd know exactly what to do in those circumstances. father i thank you that your protection is 24 7. not just in this building but wherever their feet i pray lord even now the safety guardianship protection of the lord and i pray father recognizing that that is extending to all those who'd be vulnerable in leadership we ask this all in christ's name amen amen thank you council members memorials Thank you, Mr. President. I just rise up while I'm standing in recognition of a great American General Colin Powell. During my life, I've had a number of people who I admired, and one of them was Sidney Poitier, but the other one was Colin Powell. I just loved his his humanity, his being a humanitarian, and just a distinguished man. He lost his life in complication of COVID. My prayers are with his family, and I celebrate his life and what he not only meant to our country, but what he meant to black men. Thank you. Councilman Bowles. Thank you, Council President. Lovejoy District, we lost Mr. Robert Delaney. He was a Seneca-Badcock Community Association board member. He was a lifelong trailblazer for the Seneca-Badcock community. He volunteered in that neighborhood for the span of 60 years, devoted his life to that community. So our deepest condolences go out to his family members. The last man that escapes me, first name is Filani, played the Hammond B-3 in the city of Buffalo and others. Hammond B-3 being now used in churches more than it is for jazz. But he was recognized internationally. Played at the Blinkins. His daughter is retired. Buffalo Police shot her. passed and we remember. And I do agree, the biggest thing about Colin Powell for me, of course, as a veteran, is that he served our country. And he not only served our country in two tours of Vietnam, but went on to really the top rank that you could go to. So I think that not only do African-Americans celebrate his life, I think our entire country many people across the world celebrate that we had a COVID power. And if I can say about this, and this not be a disrespect, he was just a cool dude. The way he carried himself, you almost I felt like you knew him even if you didn't, he will be missed. And a person who regardless of what his political affiliation, he just didn't care when it came to Colin Powell, because he just didn't care about people. So that's it. So that's my take on it. Any others? As we always do, we pause to remember any who may have given their life for the freedom of others in our country or across this world. We pause for a moment. Oh, I'm sorry. There were those who have been kidnapped in Haiti. We want to remember them and pray for them. The missionaries who have been kidnapped and ransom has been asked. I just wanted to mention that in these terms. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. Today we have two presentations. We'll begin with Councilmember Rashee N. Seawight. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to say that this is Breast Cancer Awareness Month, and we want to bring down Rob Jones, who's the Executive Director of Breast Cancer Network of Western New York. And this is kind of interesting. You know, breast cancer affects women. And we talk about diversity and things. And sometimes I think we kind of miss it. We think about diversity as black and white or women, but for a gentleman to be representing this organization, speaks volumes. And it's funny, I was watching something on 60 Minutes and it talked about breast cancer awareness and some of the statistics. They talked about how sometimes women have no symptoms. They don't have any type of lumps or anything. And that was an interesting thing. So I was very appreciative when Taisha asked me if I would be one of the sponsors for this because all of us have a woman in our lives because we were birthed by one. My mom, my sisters, and my aunts, None of them have breast cancer. However, I do want them to be aware that they have to continue to be tested. And so for all that you do for your organization, thank you so much. And we just want to give you a moment to say a few words. Thank you for all that you do in saving the lives of many women in our country. Thank you. Well, I certainly appreciate the recognition and the acknowledgement. I'm not sure how we were chosen, but thank you so much. We are, the Breast Cancer Network of Western New York is a local independent nonprofit organization dedicated to supporting, educating, and advocating for breast cancer survivors and patients of Western New York. Founded in 1994, we strive to offer excellent programming and support to our local breast cancer community. New York State's Department of Health reports that there are over 900 new cases of breast cancer diagnosed in Erie County every year. We reach out to those women with a specialized program for newly diagnosed individuals. That includes a tote bag filled with resources and information about breast cancer, along with private counseling sessions. Through a regular schedule of support groups, restorative health classes and education programs, the Breast Cancer Network delivers survivorship support that encourages healthy living lifestyles that can help reduce the risk of recurrence. Breast Cancer Network also has a strong commitment to women living with advanced stage 4 metastatic breast cancer, and we make an annual donation to help fund research for that specific and very important cause. Breast cancer will affect one in every eight women. 280,000 women are diagnosed each year, and breast cancer deaths continue to average over 40,000 annually. Progress is being made, but every year there are more people in Western New York facing breast cancer diagnosis. With the support and generosity of our community, the Breast Cancer Network will continue to provide support, education, and encouragement to these patients and survivors to help them navigate their breast cancer from diagnosis thank you very much for um thank you next presentation will be coming from council member columbic thank you um i would like to welcome reverend pat and his wife to the council chambers and uh i have a little recognition for him but a little bit of history first i think i met the reverend about three or four years ago when we did the mckinley of uh sketch And Reverend Cobb is a teacher at McKinley High School, and he is a beautiful, beautiful artist. And I saw this sketching that he did, and we were just sort of bandying things about, and I briefly mentioned about Big Jim Parker. And while I was there, Dr. Nevergold was there as well, and I was talking to some other people, and I said, you know, Big Jim Parker has never been honored anywhere across the country. For those of you that don't know who Big Jim Parker are, you obviously didn't take my History of Buffalo class because he's one of the people that I talk about. Big Jim Parker was a black man who was standing in line, second or third, behind Leon Choklosh in that horrible September day in 1901 in Buffalo in my council district. And as Leon Choklosh walked up to the president to shake his hand, he, He had a pistol that was in his hand and he let loose once, twice, and Big Jim Parker, it was called Big Jim Parker because he was a big man, I think he was close to 6'6", he was like 250 pounds. I mean that would be big today, imagine 1901. Well Big Jim Parker tackled Leon Choklos, threw him to the ground, and he became an American hero. briefly because unfortunately President McKinley died a few days later and the hero of the day was no longer Big Jim Parker but the enemy of the day was Leon Chogos who shot President McKinley. And so I just sort of started talking among people that were there and I commissioned Reverend Cobb to do this sketch. Well, he is like such a great guy. Once he found out what I wanted it for, he said, I don't want to get paid for this. He goes, I want to donate my time and my energy for this. He donated this to us and it's going to go to McKinley High School at a later date and it's going to hang up right across from the portrait of President McKinley that the Reverend Cobb did. And I'm just very, very excited because once upon a time, you know, Buffalo was a city of segregation and a city of separate nations, separate communities. And we've changed, we've come a long way. There's still a long ways to go, don't get me wrong. But things have changed a great deal in the city of Buffalo. And Jim, Big Jim Parker was probably a black man's hero, a black woman's hero once upon a time. He should be a Buffalo hero. He should be a hero that cuts right across neighborhoods, communities, races, and ethnicities. And later during the resolution parts, I have some things that I'm going to read. about him, but I wanted to present Reverend Cobb with a little proclamation on behalf for the generous use of his many gifts and talents. The City of Buffalo Common Council recognizes William Codd for his portrait of James, Big Jim Parker. This work will proudly be put on display at McKinley High School, where students will now know the face of an American hero who risked his own life to capture President William McKinley's assassin. And in witness hereof, I give this to you, Reverend Codd. In the old days, we would give keys to the city of Buffalo, but we don't do that anymore. We're going to give you a Buffalo's of the city of Buffalo. So for each of you, and if you'd like to say something. And I want to thank Mrs. Cobb in particular because she said that for quite some time he was working on this sketch and she didn't have her husband with her as much as she would like. But thank you very much for sharing him with us. Say just a few words. I'm also a man, so I should be finishing. First of all, I'd like to give all praise and glory to the God who put the talent in this hand. I've been able to produce happiness for someone. I'd like to say that I'm honored to be here. I'd like to thank each and every one of you for considering me for any honor. But I'd also like to thank Mr. Golombek, who is giving me honor. He commended for seeking out the truth about what happened. honor to Miss Neville go with you. They have information that we can place on that portrait so that they can read about how he reached out to apprehend the suspect when we did the shooting. I think my wife, you just spoke about her, she's my eyes. She'll come around and she'll look at everything that I'm doing and she won't say it's finished because she has great eyes. And when she says it's done, it's done. But today, Mr. Parker is the true honor. It's a long overdue to an African American who risked his life to do what he did. And I pray that after this is over, all of us will consider it being a great deed, done with a great heart, ignored his own safety, to apprehend a suspect who shot 500. I say may he rest in peace. Thank you so much. I want to get one official photo. While they're going to the. Well, I know they're not going to hang around, but I do want to thank the council member. And you did it when it wasn't Black History Month, which is significant. And I mean that from my heart. Because there's a lot of recognition that happens for African-Americans during that month. But for you to come here today and to bring probably one of the most brilliant artists in our city. And you educated me today, earlier in my office, because I didn't even know. So imagine how many people know. So thank you very much, Councilman Golombet, for breaking it to us. Anything else? And Ms. Cobb, you all have to stay. It doesn't, you are the exciting part of this agenda. So thank you for being with us. Thank you very much. Yeah, did he get his email? Are we going from the top? We're taking one item out of order? oh i'm sorry no you gotta accept the minutes on the most about mr reverie second by miss adler the minutes of state meeting held on october 5th 2021 are approved council members and late files out before you are there any objections to any of the lake files saying no objections to any of the lake files we will hear the entire agenda that is before us we are taking one item out of order yes mr chair motion to take item 43 out of order second by council member mitch No one comes item number 43 discharge items 21-13 79 from community development motion to adopt second by council member no council Move. Item number one, appoint BMHA board member. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Wyeth. Item number two, Amber Gems and Moore Broadway Marketplace. Motion to approve items two and three. Second by council member Golomba. Item number four, approve Landis position agreement for 321 Olympic. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Fierla. Item number five, permission to enter into lease agreement between city of Buffalo and Northwest Buffalo Community Center. Motion to approve. Second by council member Feeler. Item number six, report is cell 107, Polar Down. Motion to send the CD item six and seven. Second by council member Bohn. Item number eight, report is cell 344, Ideal. Motion to approve items eight and nine. Second by council member Bohn. Item number 10, report is cell 395, Ontario. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 11, report is still 189, Fittles. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Scanna. Item number 12, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 13, change order for Dewey Park and Trinidad Shelter Building. Motion to approve items 13 through 18. 22. to 18. second by council member what item number 19 permission to name rcw jcp entrance motion simple legislation uh second by council member bolem item number 20 reported bids broadway park improvements motion to approve items 20 through 22. second by council members A. Number 23, food store license 553 East Amherst. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Milakovsky. A. Number 24, food store license 557 Hurdle. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Freelon. A. Number 25, Sidewalk Cafe for Ike and BG's Restaurant. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Freelon. 25 to 27. I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Freelon. Item number 28, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file items 28, 29, and 30. Second by council member Noah Kopsman. Item number 31, appoint seasonal labor. Motion to send civil service items 31 and 32. Second by council member Bowling. Item number 33, appoint senior legislative assistant Ford. Motion to adopt items 33 through 36. Second by president Pro Tem Scam. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. Mr. President, can I speak on item number 33? Item number 33 is before us. First, I just want to thank my colleagues and although it's not my appointment, I think this young lady has worked so diligently. She joined my board to continuing serving this Buffalo Common Council. Thank you, sir. Council President. Thank you, Council President. I could not agree more with Council Member Wyatt. with his reference and his comments about Miss St. Jean. She's been an incredible addition to this council staff during her time in staff. Much like two weeks ago when we approved Mr. Montour, it's been wonderful to be able to watch her blossom into the role she is in now. And I know she's going to continue to do incredible things for the entire staff. You've seen some of the stuff she's done on the communications side, the marketing side. things like that. She's done an incredible job, so I look forward to continuing to work with her and congratulate her on her new position. Thanks. Congressman Murphy. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, I told her at our caucus meeting that I had a problem with disappointment, and I was kidding her, and she almost fell over backwards. But I just wanted to say something about certainly her qualification and not only her qualification, but our whole central staff and all the work that they do. I, you know, over the last few years, they have been accessible. They have done everything we have asked them to do in a very difficult time. I mean, they kept everything running during COVID They're very professional and I just feel that she's going to raise the level of professionalism. We lost Ertha, who was a great Chief of Staff, and we gained Jim Montour. And I know that she's going to raise the level of professionalism in that office. So I'm proud of all of them. And welcome and we're looking forward to continue to work with her. Thank you very much. Council Member Glombeck. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, during COVID, it was tough on all of us. Working from home, you know, I remember at first thinking, oh, this is going to be great. I'm going to get so much work done. And then the reality set in, and it was like you were spinning, or at least I felt like I was spinning my wheels much of the time. Because I was trying to get information in the old days, I could walk from my office to the clerk's office or to central staff or Department of Public Works or whatever. But for the past 18 months, I've had to do that. So I can work better from now on. I concur. All right. Item number 37, conditions worsened for blacks in Buffalo. Mr. Chair, this is a late file. I'm a member of the White House. Mr. President, can we send this to CD? Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 38, a death and reuse for 197th summer retail and service. Motion to send for legislation to the State Planning Board. Second by Council Member Smith. Item number 39, special use 445 Rhode Island. Motion to send for legislation. Second by Council Member Furlough. Item number 40, special use 485 Michigan Avenue. Motion to send for legislation. Motion to send the legislation in city planning court. Second by Council Member Bowman. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint automotive inventory clerk. Motion to receive and file. By Council Member Gallardo. Finance, item number two, audit on the street lighting system in the city. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Noonan. Item number three, armed car services for city hall. I assume motion to receive and file items three through, including 23. So where? Number three include up to 23 23 second by council And number 24 the city of Buffalo's financial management of accounts motion to be committed Community development item number 25 for to sell to free for me motion to approve Number 26 reported so by 73 spring uh at the request of the district council member the motion is to deny it thank you sir and for the record this is a denial because in speaking to the applicant the desire of the applicant is to buy several lots to build a house so he's going to buy one at a time and let's take him back through the process as designated developer so that he can build a house and he wants to move into that neighborhood so the deny this get him back in the process so we can have him apply for this Second by Councilmember Nookomsky. Able number 27, concerns for Salvation Army proposal for 960 through 970 Main Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember... Able number 29, oppose 86, one spare zone variance. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nookomsky. Oh, I'm sorry. Item, I have to recall that item. Item 28, 1703 and 1707, Main Street Designated Developer Agreement. Motion is to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Noakowski, Councilmember Noakowski. So we have to revisit, we'll go into item 29, but we need to rescind that motion to approve on item 29, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon, and then we'll call the right of 29. Item number 29, oppose 86-1, spare zone and variance. Motion to receive in file 29 and 30. Second by the majority leader, Rivera. Item number 31, in room auction for city resident owner occupied. Motion to send this item to the finance committee. Second by Councilor Arboleda. Item number 32, letter regarding 308 Highgate residence petition. Motion to receive in file 32 through and including 35. Seconded by Council Member Freelander. Item number 36, Broadway Market Management Plan. This item is discharged. Seconded by Council Member. Can we recommit it? You want to recommit it? We have a motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Eugenio Wilkowski. Legislation item number 37, used car dealer A22 plan. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Nocosa. Item number 38, Amend Site Plan for Special Use Permit 581 William. Motion to receive and file items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Boland. Item number 40, Special Use Permit 2227 South Park for Tobacco. Motion. Second by Council Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 41, 481 Peckle for Neighborhood Shop. Motion to approve the items 41 through 43. Second by Councilmember Newark. Item number 44, use car dollar 271 Benjamin Street. Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit, second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 45, request parking commissioner to issue ticket refunds. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 46, repeal of home rules, school zones, fee enforcement. Motion to receive and file items 46 through 52. Second by Council Member Boyle. Item number 53, zone and map amendment for 9 and 11 City Ship Canal. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Skagg. Item number 54, school zone and traffic concerns. Motion to receive and file items 54 through 59. Second by Majority Leader Behr. Plains, item number 60, Omyra Hill 15,000. Motion is to approve item 60 and including 79. Second by Councilmember Rupiah. Police Oversight, Item number 80, Request to Speak at Police Oversight Committee. Motion to receive and file items 80 and 81. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Resolutions, Item number 41, 2021 Lovejoy Halloween Parade fee waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Belonga. Item number 42, nomination of James Big Jim Parker for the Citizens Congressional Medal of Power. So, that item is 42 through 44. Second by Council Member Dilanbeck who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not trying to put anybody on the spot, but I would love for my colleagues to all co-sponsor this. I think it's a good resolution. I think it's something that I assume we'd all be on board with. But to go into just a little bit more detail, you know, Big Jim Parker was born in 1857 in Atlanta, Georgia to enslaved parents. He worked a variety of jobs, including newspaper salesman for the Southern Recorder. He also worked as a constable. He later moved to Chicago, Illinois, where he was employed as a waiter, before returning to Atlanta, where he appears in city directories as a mail carrier for the United States Postal Service. After your heart. Yes. This was followed by additional moves to Saratoga, New York, and finally to Buffalo, where he took a job at a catering company at the Pan American Expositions Plaza restaurant. Parker had been laid off from his job at the Plaza restaurant on September 6, 1901, and used that day to visit the exposition's Hall of Fame, where President William McKinley was receiving members of the public. The recent assassination of European leaders by anarchist terrorists led to a heightened security for William McKinley during his visit to the Pan American Exposition. At the exposition, a contingent of up to 75 city Buffalo police monitored the doors to the Hall of Music and patrolled the quay waiting to see the president. McKinley was well known for liking to press the flesh. This was a day and an age, you know, there was no tweets, there was no radio, there was newspaper. And campaigning was when you jumped on a train and you had the caboose, if you will, decorated with vote for Pritch and vote for Glumbeck, you know, whatever. And you would go out at stops and you would speak from the train and then you'd move on to the next agenda. McKinley did what he had to do, but he loved to press the flesh. And it was 1901, he was already re-elected president, and he just liked being with the with people shaking hands. So, unfortunately, this made him a target. Anarchist terrorist, Mian Choklosh, was able to slip past President McKinley's security and shot the President twice at Point Blank Range. According to a later account by U.S. Secret Service Special Agent Samuel Ireland, Parker punched Choklosh in the neck, then tacking him to the ground before he could continue shooting. Because of his swift actions and willingness to put his life on the line, James Parker stopped Choklosh from continuing to fire into the crowd. Parker was quickly joined by a Buffalo policeman in restraining Choklosh until he was detained. Despite initial optimism that McKinley would recover, the president died about a week later of complications arising from his wound. Chogos was quickly tried and convicted in the Erie County Superior Court. Exactly 45 days after McKinley's death, he was executed. Parker was not called to testify, though his attempt to save the President was later lauded in a speech given by Booker T. Washington. In Parker's own account of the event, given in a newspaper interview a few days later, he said, I heard the shots. I did what every citizen in the country should have done. I am sorry I did not see him four seconds before. In a separate interview given to the New York Journal, Hart remarked, Just think, Father Dave freed me, and now I saved his successor from death, provided that bullet he got into the president don't kill him. After the events of the Pan Am exposition, Parker was approached with several commercial offers, including from one company who wanted to sell his photograph. He refused all offers, stating in a newspaper interview that, "...I did not think that the American people would like me to make capital out of this unfortunate circumstance." After the assassination, Parker left Buffalo and traveled throughout the United States giving lectures to enthusiastic crowds at such places as Nashville, Tennessee, Long Branch, New Jersey, Brooklyn, New York, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Sadly, Parker died of heart-related health problems. only six years after the events of the Pan Am Exposition at the age of 49. Parker never accepted any compensation of any kind for his actions, and the United States has yet to properly honor him for his heroism and courage. If the outcome of McKinley's assassination was different and the President had survived, Jim Parker's name would be well-known among the list of American heroes in our history textbooks. The Congressional Medal of Honor, society has the power to honor a civilian with the Congressional Medal of Honor. The criteria for nomination is for the individual to, through a singular act of extraordinary heroism or through a prolonged series of selfless acts, clearly demonstrate a willingness to place his or her own life at risk for the for others or has dedicated themselves to the service of others james parker put his life in grave danger against an active shooter in order to prevent the president of the united states and the surrounding people gathered from any further harm james parker's actions were representative of the service above self were performed above and beyond his professional or vocational area of responsibility or conduct Individual nominees who are deceased are eligible. I'm asking that this be sent to different representatives, etc. And I have been in contact with Congressmember Higgins' office, and while there was no firm commitment one way or the other, they said that they would do something. You know, they said they needed to take a closer look at this. The Congressmember and I are all colleagues from teaching at Buffalo State. I didn't get a chance to talk to him but I don't want to put words in his mouth or pressure on him. I have a feeling this is going to be right up his alley as a student of history and a student of Buffalo history. And lastly, I just want to say something that, you know, I'm I like history. Mr. President, you and I were talking earlier today. And I like reading about Buffalo history, snippets, and all of Buffalo's history, the good, the bad, the ugly. This is definitely the good that came out of the bad and ugly situation. I do believe that if the president would have survived, that big Jim Parker would be more honored than he has been. But let's be honest, he was a black man in 1901. and that would have been somewhat problematic for society of the day and i think that he may or may not have been honored more but i think he fits in to the category to receive the citizens congressional medal of honor and i hope that all of us working together you know making a hero of the black community into a hero of the buffalo community will help move this city forward, help heal some of the divides that we've had over the last couple of years. And in a worst-case scenario, I don't want any kid from McKinley High School who graduates to not know who Big Jim Parker is. So thank you, Mr. President. Thank you to my colleagues. Please include me. councilmember nowakowski is asked to be included councilmember revere councilmember scanlon councilmember feraletto councilmember wyatt councilmember bowman and for the record councilmember wingo is already included on this full council support not just today but as you go through the process you have the full council thank you very much thank you item number 45 wave event fees for western new york veterans day parade motion to approve items 45 through 47 second by the president from tomb scanner at number 48 commissioner of deeds Motion to adopt items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember Newacouski. Item number 50, building a downtown Buffalo Bill Stadium. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyeth-Mozafil. Thank you, Mr. President. And I want to be honest. I want to first thank Councilmember Fioreletto because we were on a tour. And we were talking deeply about this stadium, and although we don't have any land or any money for this, we do have a responsibility to not make another mistake. Many years ago, and I think in the resolution it talks about the bills moving from the rock pile out to Orchard Park. That was probably a big mistake. We've allowed UB to move from south and expand in there, in Amherst. And we leave and lose out on the economic viability of those institutions not being in our neighborhood. And when you think about the impact of the Buffalo Bills and all the laws yesterday, we know that they have a long way to go. But when we think about the economic impact in other cities that have done similar, that their stadiums are downtown, we are on the move, we are growing. But not to put the bills back in Buffalo, We all need to be shamed if we don't use our voice, use this bully pulpit to demand, not demand, to encourage strongly the consideration. of the bills being back in Buffalo. They are the Buffalo Bills, the new businesses that could spur up. And I know there are some who talk about the tailgating aspect, but I think that the tailgating that took place on Chippewa last, before the Chiefs game, was emblematic of what could be It may be a new way of tailgating, but it's still tailgating. But more importantly, the impact that it brings to downtown Buffalo, to our city, is something that we just can't pass up. And so we ask for this resolution to be sent to all of our elected officials in our state leadership because we have to consider Buffalo. I know and I'm thankful to hear that the governor Kathy Hochul has put on the tape. Now she hasn't put it there on there to talk about it but it was brought up because when it first came out about the new stadium Buffalo wasn't even mentioned. It was just we're gonna build it across the street and so I think it's our responsibility as being the leaders of Buffalo that we put forth a full court press to encourage to see this stadium back where it belongs. And helping us continue the economic revival of our city. When I think about the dollars and what the dollars can do for our city, it's huge. And to see it happening in other, Nashville is another example, last night. I can imagine the bars and the restaurants and the hotels in that area and the impact to that community, as well as new small business development. If we don't do this, then shame on us. But I think my colleagues, and I don't know if everyone signed on, I thought many did, we have to do this. And I would not be doing, being responsible and doing my job if we did not put forth a... as forceful as we can, as insightful and encouraging, as motivating as we can to really consider the Buffalo Bills back in Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, and I don't see the rest of their names, but I know it has to be on. Councilman Bowman has to be on, Friar Leto has to be on, Councilmember Scanlon, and I know Councilmember Scanlon, I believe you wrote a letter. Was it you who wrote a letter? we were going to we were waiting on additional information but okay because i think every effort is so important and i mentioned that earlier um so i didn't know whether that went out councilmember veer wanted to be on it did you want the floor yes thank you mr chair when we look at the city of buffalo perhaps they'll look at some challenges in terms of land and land acquisition and the cost of building downtown building out in the portrait department i The cost upfront would be a lot more if you build in the city of Buffalo. And that is one of the challenges that the city of Buffalo would have to overcome. But that's a challenge I believe we should overcome, because over the period of time, I think that it'll be an economic boom for the region, for the city. Although it may cost money upfront in terms of land acquisition and the location, I think it's well worth it. And this is not about Orchard Park versus the city of Buffalo, or Hamburg versus the city of Buffalo, because it is a region that we look at. Buffalo is the core of that region. And if you look at other cities and what other cities are doing, they're doing exactly what we're proposing to do. If you go to Pittsburgh, if you go to Baltimore, if you go to Philadelphia, their stadiums are centrally located. And I think it does well for the business. Those businesses are going to grow. I was just in Cleveland, I mentioned that, and there was so much excitement and enthusiasm downtown because you had Progressive Field where they play basketball. You had the other stadium where they play football nearby. You had the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. You had the baseball stadium where the Braves were playing Boston. And you can see all the energy and enthusiasm, and you can see the density and what that density brings in terms of funds because the patios were full. You may not have the tailgate, but I guarantee you, you're going to see people all over the place spending money in restaurants and bars and patios and buying souvenirs and spending money in hotels. I think it's an economic boom for the city of Buffalo and I hope that it doesn't become us versus them. I look at this as regional and there's a benefit to the whole region because people are going to come to the suburbs, from the suburbs. They're going to come into downtown like they come for other events. So we hope that even those people in the suburbs will look at this as us, not us versus them. Thank you very much, Chairman Hsu. Council Member Locust. I did speak to my colleague, Council Member Wyden, before about this resolution, and I do support the genesis of where he's going with the resolution and examining these locations for a new stadium located in Buffalo. And I certainly understand the importance of building up our city town and our urban core. There just are some locations that are looked at that are in my district and to a fault, I'm pretty protective of my district, but especially the sensitive neighborhoods where this could potentially be and certainly don't wanna see anyone displaced or have something in someone's neighborhood that could conflict. That's just one piece to a very large puzzle. Multiple locations in this resolution that have been identified, but just for this sake of the matter, this is just about Council Member Wyatt's resolution to have the larger conversation about the Buffalo Bills being located in the city. I think it's a good point to make because you have some neighborhoods that are afraid that if a stadium comes that there will be the displacement. I'll go right to it and beat around the bush. You know, there are people in paired projects who say, you know, what happens to low-income housing that has never been rebuilt? And of course, the rumors have always been that rumors, let me say rumors, have been that paired projects was not rebuilt so that they could put a state in there, that would concerning, but I agree having that conversation, the overall conversation, regardless of where we go. But I agree with Councilman Dwight, if we don't say anything, then we have, then we've basically silenced this agreement. And in this case, whether it was the conversation that was started with President Pro Temp, this resolution now, and looks like wide support. the commerce what we're asked for is to be in the conversation so i agree councilman thank you council president um the building of this stadium is a once in a generation opportunity and once it's completed it's going to be a significant taxpayer investment And we need to make sure that we choose a location that will have the greatest economic impact on this region. If the taxpayers of this region are going to be footing the bill, and when I say taxpayers, I think we all know that Buffalo is the largest portion of this region. So I would figure the largest portion of those taxes would be paid by the city of Buffalo residents. If the taxpayers are going to be footing the bill, They need to see the largest return possible on their investment. It is encouraging to see that they're willing to look at other locations. I'm not saying it should be at one location or another. I don't have all the information surrounding it. Stadium being built within the limits of the city of Buffalo could be a game changer for this city, much like it has been in other areas that have been referenced in addition to some that haven't. So I am 100% in favor of a stadium being built within the city of Buffalo and willing to help this body do whatever we can to influence that one way or the other. Thank you, sir. Councilman Fairlough. Thank you. For years when I was younger, I'd always hear older folks say, you know, two things that the city of Buffalo did or in Buffalo were that the Mill Stadium went downtown and UB moved to Amherst. And the city would be so much better if those things happened. I think now we have a once in a lifetime opportunity to advocate for a stadium to be downtown and correct the wrong decisions that were made decades ago. Thank you.
 Deal. All right, next item. Item number 51, waive permit fee for DJ Shea 3 on 3 basketball tournament. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by council member White. If we could go back to one item, and it is in claims. Cuz I know we accepted the whole agenda, but I think it's befitting for item number 65, go back to item 65. to revisit M65 in Slams Bay. Second by Councilman McSnell. I didn't want to close out this meeting and not again give a heartfelt condolence to the family of Craig Lange. This is one of those situations where there wasn't a lot of discussion. There was probably more emotion than there was discussion. And I wanted to make sure that before we closed out, Again, that we show that respect not only to his family, but to the memory of Craig. I didn't have the opportunity to meet him, but hearing about him and spending time with his family. I was able to spend time as the then President of the United States was calling his family family to give his condolences. And I think he was on Air Force One. We were waiting for Craig's remains to be brought to a certain location. His family was phenomenal in supporting one another, in not casting blame. At first I didn't know when I was invited to come in that room what would be their feeling against an official from the city of Buffalo. but it was one of love, one of caring, and one of remembering Craig. And so I want to thank each of my colleagues for in this instance, in this instance, and not that we don't in others, but especially in this one, for our heart more than our pocketbook. Our heart for him, and there were two words that I wrote down about him. One was dedicated and the other was brave. And I wanted to, with your permission, dedicate this meeting today in Craig's. All right. Any other announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, October 26th, 2021 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance, file on civil service is Tuesday, October 26th at 10 AM. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, October 26th. 2021 at 1 p.m. and Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, October 26, 2021 at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Education is Tuesday, October 26, 2021 at 11 a.m. Councilmember, any announcements? Councilmember White. First, I thank you, Mr. President. I want to acknowledge your 27th anniversary. And as pastor and bishop of True Bethel Baptist Church, I'm going through my timeline on Facebook. Councilmember Rivera was at your 25th and had very kind words about you. And I know he made a little bit of a mistake. He said Navy versus Air Force, and I know you're very particular about that. But I just want to thank you because you've been such a great leader for a long time, even before you became a council president. You've always had heart for people and you started or began the pastorate of a church in which that was a great example. And I think about some of our first experiences when it came to children. That was something that was a real priority. You knew that adults have to make their own mind up, but children sometimes don't have that opportunity. And you gave them a black platform with the puppets. And we had so many children want to come to the church because it was something that they could connect with. And you just got them in the door. But your leadership has been very unique and anointed. And I think the impact that you've made in our city has been tremendous. And we're grateful for your life. We're grateful that you fulfilled your calling and your humility is something that's hallmarked. So we just say God bless you and congratulations on 27 faithful years in the pastorate of True Bethel Baptist. Thank you, sir. In the first puppet stand of True Bethel, Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt and I built in the back of our old church. We went to, I don't know what the hardware store was then, and bought the wood and cut the wood and put it up. And the first time that I knew of a city church that had puppets on Sunday morning. So I guess I still, I don't know if I paid you for that yet, but thank you. And I just also want to mention to everyone that is paying attention, we have our redistricting meeting that's sponsored by the New York State Independent Redistricting Commission. It's going to be held tomorrow at the Buff-Burtfield Penny Arts Center at 4 p.m. people asking me about this because this is another opportunity for you to hear what the district means and how they go about doing it it's something that a lot of people have not engaged in so I just want to invite residents doesn't have to be universities for any district you can come in here also want to invite people to the University District Block Club coalition coalition meeting unfortunately due to COVID they have not been meeting so this is one of their first meetings so that's going to be tough taking place tonight at 995 Kensington. So that's gonna take place at 6 p.m. And also, if you are interested in your turkey for Thanksgiving, please call our another annual year of turkey giveaways, as well as vegetables. Mr. Dash for his constant support of people in our community. And you can just call our office at 851-5165 to make a reservation for your turkey. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? I just want to report another condition with our annual seniors. seniors. Uh, party will be a drive through again this year, october 29 11 o'clock A. M. William William M. Y. M. C. A. The cost is free and prizes still for the best costume and they dressed up last year in their cars. First best Oh, I'm sorry. After you're done. Okay. For the best cost tool, first, second, and third, catered by the Texas Roadhouse, also sponsored by United Healthcare Center Healthcare, and a senior moment radio show. Mr. Carey, yes, Mr. Paul. Very nice. Love Joy District. We always do Halloween big. So Beggars Night in Kaisertown, as always, starts at dusk. But then on the Halloween afternoon, Sunday, October 31st at 1230, we're going to have a Halloween parade starting at William and Ogden. And we'll finish at Hennepin Center for a little party afterwards. Alright good good stuff going on. All right here in northern announcements customer Motion to adjourn second by Joel P