Ladies and gentlemen, we'll be getting started in just a brief moment. We're just waiting on our council agendas to be generated. So we'll be right with you. Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Temp-Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Pope. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Council President Scanlon. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please remain standing for our guest invocator, Pastor James Giles of Back to Basics Ministry. All minds clear. God Almighty, you who are the creator and the sustainer of life, God, we just ask that you would grace us with your presence as we prepare to discuss the business of this great city that you've already blessed. I lift up all of these representatives, God, in each of their districts and pray your hand be upon the wellness, God, of each. And then I ask God that you would bless this body. Bless it, O God, that they would have the wisdom, the guidance, and the patience, Lord, the due process, Lord, that we may do what is best for the residents of this great city. And our pledge, God, is to give you all the honor and the glory for all that you have done. In your precious name we pray. Amen. Council members in memoriams. No memoriams. I'll just ask that we do a brief moment of silence for all of our first responders and those men and women who serve our country. Thank you. We do have several special presentations today. I will begin with Niagara District Councilmember David Rivera. Thank you very much. It's my honor and privilege to be here today. I have the opportunity. to celebrate and learn about different cultures throughout the city of Buffalo. But it is especially proud for me today to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month. From September 15th to October 15th, we recognize Hispanics throughout the country and here locally that contribute to the quality of life, business, politics, our traditions, our culture, our vibrant culture. So with that in mind today that we celebrate individuals that work here in city government. I am so proud when I look out and see people in the audience that represent us in one way. whether you're a commissioner, deputy commissioners of public works that contribute to the quality of life of many of the residents. Whether it's infrastructure, whether it's snow removal, the work that you all do, not just here in city government, but in your personal lives as well. And there's so many people here that are just as worthy as you are today. I look out the audience, I see your parents, I see your uncles, I see your families, people that have been with you and who have worked in this community for many, many decades that came here in early parts of the century. And their goal was to making sure that people understood, learned, and experienced the Hispanic culture. I'm so proud we have elected officials, we have a judge, we have president of the Hispanic Heritage Council here, we have the president of the Puerto Rican and Hispanic Day Parade here. We have teachers, we have educators, we have business people here to reflect the diversity and the inclusion that Hispanics have had. So I have this proclamation recognizing the Hispanic Women's League has been A cornerstone of support and empowerment for Hispanic women deeply committed to improving their quality of life, fostering personal and professional development, and advocating for their concerns. The primary mission of Hispanic Women's League is to provide scholarship and to women of Hispanic descent, enabling them to pursue higher education and achieve their academic and career goals. Why don't you just come down, yes? Hispanic women, come on down. This is for all the women, by the way, all members of the Hispanic Women's League. Thus promoting educational equality, economic empowerment in the Hispanic community. Through community service, fundraising, contribution, specifically aimed at addressing the unique needs and challenge faced by Hispanic women and their broader Latino community. The Hispanic Women League serves as a catalyst for positive change and advocates for the inclusion, representation, and success of Hispanic women in this area. There's just so much to talk about the Hispanic women's league. I've been a supporter of theirs, and I'm not going to go any longer reading all of this. But you're worthy of the recognition and acknowledgement. Let me just say that this organization has done more to empower women, Hispanic women, in the city of Buffalo than any other organization. And their founders are here today and those that have passed on. But I recognize the unique identity. issues that women, I can only say I appreciate because I haven't experienced them. The unique issues that Hispanic Women's League go through. But I want to thank you and the Women's League itself and all the members that are here, former and past members for the work that you have done. Thank you so much and I'll let you take a picture. I just want to say thank you for this recognition and all the women that are here that have contributed to the Hispanic Women's League. It is a very proud moment for me as we also just celebrated 45 years. Thank you. Next we'll have a presentation from our Madison District Councilmember, Zanetta Everhart. Thank you, Councilman. So as you all know, this month is Breast Cancer Awareness Month and I have the honor of honoring someone amazing who I love. Ms. Sanford, who took her own bottle with breast cancer and turned it into something beautiful. She holds an annual event in the Mastin District, and I had the opportunity to go there last week, and it was just absolutely beautiful to see. So many women, so many survivors that I got to meet that were there. They're championing other women, making sure that they know to go out and get their mammograms. It was an absolute... beautiful day and it was a beautiful event. And so I wanted to honor her. I met her some years ago and I remember you gave me that amazing t-shirt. Sadie Strong, she started this organization to bring awareness to breast cancer because it can be a scary thing. Conversations we've had and she shared her own struggle with getting the mammogram and dealing with it and dealing with the diagnosis. And so I definitely wanted to honor her and I will read this. Whereas, Sharon Sanford, a Buffalo native and breast cancer survivor, founded the Sadie Strong Organization to provide critical support, empowerment, and awareness to women affected by breast cancer with a mission rooted in faith, hope, and love. The Sadie Strong organization's initiatives, including the Celebration of Healing Fundraiser, Sadie Strong Love Boxes, and Sister Circle Chat and Workshop Series, offer encouragement, resources, and community for women navigating their healing journey. Her leadership extends to partnerships with community agencies, creating health and wellness collaborations that provide vital health screenings, mammograms, and educational services to underserved communities in Buffalo and the surrounding areas. Sharron Sanford's unwavering commitment to health, wellness, and inclusion has earned her numerous accolades, including the 2012 Nell Jackson Administrator of the Year Award. And her work continues to inspire women to walk in their purpose and overcome adversity encouraged. Now, therefore, we, the Buffalo Common Council, hereby honor and recognize Sharon Sanford for her outstanding contributions to breast cancer awareness, her advocacy for continued efforts to inspire and uplift our community. Her leadership and dedication serve as a beacon of hope, reminding us all of the importance of care, compassion, and solidarity during times of struggle and beyond. We're going to take a picture. Thank you. This is truly an honor and I want to encourage every woman in this room, if you haven't done so already, please get your annual mammogram. Have a great day. Next we have a presentation from our Majority Leader, Councilwoman Leah Halton-Pope. And here together to honor two incredible gentlemen who work right here in City Hall with us, Wilmer Olavencia Jr. and Francisco Guzman, if you wouldn't mind coming up. And as Councilmember Rivera said earlier, what I love about this city and our community as a whole is the diversity in it. But I also love the diversity that we have right here in City Hall. It's never happened before. And we pray that it continues on into the future and in these tumultuous times, it's still really important that we still recognize this diversity and these people who've shown such great leadership in our communities. And so we're honored to be here to be able to acknowledge these two incredible gentlemen. So I will read one, you want to read the other? Sure. Okay, great. So I will start with Francisco Guzman was born in Rios Pedros. Puerto Rico and raised in both Spanish Harlem and Puerto Rico moved to Buffalo, New York to pursue higher education, earning a Bachelor of Science from Buffalo State College and a Masters in Architecture from the State University of New York at Buffalo. Mr. Guzman has contributed significantly to Buffalo's urban development, serving in key roles as Engineer, Architect and Federal Labor Standards Compliance Officer for Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency Bureau. where he led major projects that improve city parks, playgrounds, and public spaces. In his role as project manager for the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning, Mr. Guzman oversaw transformative housing projects such as Sycamore Village Subdivision, and the Fruitbelt Homeownership Project, and the Fruitbelt Homeownership Project, creating affordable housing and revitalizing Buffalo communities. His current role is Deputy Commissioner of Department of Public Works. Mr. Guzman manages municipal and community center projects, enhancing the city's infrastructure and improving the quality of life for residents and visitors. Now therefore, we hereby proclaim that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo honors and celebrates Francisco Guzman during National Hispanic Heritage Month. We honor you for your invaluable contributions towards Buffalo's growth and development, recognizing your leadership and dedication to public service. Thank you, sir. Go ahead and speak. Congratulations. Thank you. Gracias. Gracias y bendición. To God be the glory. To God be the glory of all. I want to thank all my family for being here. Because you're here because you're not a friend. You're part of the Guzman family. So each and every one of you have a place in my heart. We do this because united we are more. Unidos somos mas. So we got to move forward. Palante. My dear wife. My princess. My favorite daughter, Alexia. My son Diego, Francisco, and Pablo. I do this for you. I do this for us. because our community is one. Unidos somos mas. Unidad en la comunidad. Palante. Thank you very much. Let me first thank Majority Leader Leah Holton-Pope. About three weeks ago, she asked me, do you want to go on a proclamation for Hispanic Heritage Month? Of course. Thank you. Thank you so much for joining in. And I want to thank you, Majority Leader. Let me just say how proud I am of these two individuals. I deal with them every single day with regards to any complaints that I have. And the one I'm going to recognize today is filling large shoes, Henry Jackson who left here, and they're looking for somebody to replace Henry Jackson. And those are pretty big shoes to fill, anybody that works here in city government. And the administration chose a person that I've known for many years. I've known him since he was young and not even involved with the Pucho-Olivencia Community Center. It was his grandfather and his father and his uncle. The father's here and the uncle's since passed away, who ran the organization. And that organization was, The place where our community would come to in the early part of the century, where we didn't have a building or location where we can go gather and celebrate our history and our culture. And brick by brick, they put the building together. Thank you to your family. Years later, Romeo Levencia is now the board chairman, and he continues the tradition that his family started in the early part of the century. And here in city government, if we have any complaints regarding snow removal, this is who you call. Street sanitation, picking up your garbage. Street sanitation and cleaning up. But they chose the right person for it. He has a passion for community. He listens to people. I have a long proclamation here, and I don't know if everybody wants to hear it, but I'm sure you do. It says really nice things about you. Whereas Wilmer Olivencia, a lifelong resident of Buffalo, grew up in Buffalo's historic Latino neighborhood. He attended St. Columbia, Bridget Grammar School, McKinley Vocational High School, and Erie Community College, remaining as an active and dedicated member of Buffalo's Hispanic community. Wilmer was appointed Deputy Commissioner of the City of Buffalo Department of Public Works Street and Sanitation division by Mayor Byron Brown, where he oversees vital city service such as snow removal, street cleaning, trash collection, animal shelter management, citywide extermination efforts. Ensuring the health, safety, and quality of life for the residents of Buffalo. He is a dedicated and lifelong member of the Agustin Pucholivencia Community Center and later joined it as board member. Now serving as the president, the center undergoes a transformation to self-sufficient community hub. And whereas Wilmer Olivencia is esteemed festival chair of the Greece Pole Festival, Buffalo's oldest ethnic festival which recently marked its 53rd year. The festival draws tens of thousands of people from across the United States, uniting the community in the celebration of culture, heritage, and tradition, playing a key role in promoting Hispanic culture, pride, unity within the city of Buffalo. Now, therefore... I hereby proclaim the Common Council City of Buffalo honors and celebrates Wilmer Olivencia Jr. in recognition of National Hispanic Heritage Month in the City of Buffalo for his leadership, service, unwavering dedication to the community. Through his roles with the City of Buffalo and Agustin Pucho Olivencia Community Center, he has preserved the rich legacy of the Hispanic and Latino culture in our city and continues to ensure future generations through the commitment to service and community development. Thank you so much. Thank you. I first of all like to thank this honorable body for presenting both Francisco and I with this esteemed honor. I want to thank my parents, they're here today. They taught me as a young kid to get involved in the community and be active. My wife for sharing me with all you guys because there's a lot of hours that we spend as community. There's no the time and commitment that we do that. And to my village, you guys, you leaders here, everyone that's here present today, it was your leadership and mentorship that got me to where I am today. Thank you so much. Thank you. Congratulations again to all our recipients. Francisco's, great job. Guests, you're all welcome to stay, but we understand if you don't want to stay for the business end. Thank you. Thank you. A little more? On a motion by Councilmember Majority Leader Leah Hulten-Polk, seconded by Councilmember Ferraletto, the minutes of the State of Meeting held on October 1st, 2024 were approved. Councilmembers, you have to lay files before you. Are there any objections to lay files? Hearing no objections, To the late files, we will hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Mr. President Pro Tem, I'd like to ask that we move that we discharge item number 81 from the resolutions first. Motion is to discharge item 81, seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. I'm sorry, Mr. President Pro Tem, can we just wait for a moment for the doors to be shut? Yes. Thank you. Item number 81, discharge item 24-1482 from Community Development Committee. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number one, resignation of mayor. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number two, creation of the Office of Gun Violence Prevention. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number three, diversity report for the City of Buffalo. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferravetto. Item number four, naming of Mayor Anthony M. Macielo Basketball Courts at Delaware Park. Motion to approve items four through eight. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number nine, amendment to pilot agreement for A.D. Price, second phase housing development fund corporation. Motion to approve items nine through twelve. Thank you. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 13, Appoint Junior Accountant. Motion to send items 13 and 14 to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Public Works, item number 15, Change Order for Buffalo Museum of Science. Motion to approve items 15 through and including 30. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 31, notice of appointment, building superintendent. Motion to send items 31 through and including 35 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Gallenbeck. Item number 36, permission to extend contract with Paws Occupational Medicine. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 37, contract the city of Buffalo and get it done at Western New York 706 Broadway Demolition. Motion to approve items 37 and 38. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 39, property managers license citywide homes, LLC. Motion to send items 39 and 42 legislation. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 41, our beneficiary agreement, Buffalo History Museum. Motion to approve items 41 through 44. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Item number 45, highlight of my agreement. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 46, New York State Office of Parks, Recreation, Historic and Preservation, permission to enter into agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 47, permission to accept awarded and turn to agreement DPW and DEC. Motion to send items 47 through and including 50 to finance. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 51, items returned by Mayor to City Clerk without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 51 and 52. Seconded by Council Member Newakowski. Item number 53, notices of appointment, temp provision on permanent. Motion to send items 53 and 54 to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Miscellaneous, item number 55, affordable housing task force, October 2024 recommendations. Motion to send this community development. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 56, Concerned Civil Service Examination Provisional Data Specialist Appointment. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 57, Bicycle and Pedestrian Advisory Board, July meeting minutes. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Farrelletto. Item number 58, Buffalo Water Board Adoption of Schedule of Rates, Fees, and Charges. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 59, October Education Committee Meeting Invitation. Motion to send to education. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 60, Norfolk Ave. Block Club, the chickens are out the coop. Motion is to send items 60 and 61 to Community Development. Second by Councilmember Everhart. Item number 62, Seeker Negative Declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 63, License Event Notification Service. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 64, request Corporation Council to release a plan to Council temporary vacancy. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Farrelletto. Petitions item number 65, put up for 680, 666, 668, and 670 amherst. Motion to send item 65 through and including 73 to legislation and the city planning board. Second by council member Wyatt. Submission list, civil service, item number one, certificate of appointment, principal accountant. Motion to approve items one, two, three, and four. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number five, appoint detective. Motion to receive and file items 5 through 13. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Finance, item number 14, Buffalo Equity and Street Trees Program Best Grant Project Agreement. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 15, cash flow report August 2024. Motion is to receive and file items 15 and 16. Seconded by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 17, permission to accept funds and enter into agreement Jefferson Phase 5, Best to Swan. Motion is to approve items 17, 18, and 19. Seconded by Councilmember Ferreira. Item number 20, cash flow for May 2024. Motion is to receive and file items 20 through and including 29. Thank you. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development, item number 30, resolution requesting annual reports and quarterly minutes for city boards and commissions. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 31, resolution to establish the City of Buffalo Public Dumping Task Force. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to just state and thank my colleagues for moving to adopt this. Our staff has worked immensely hard with all the departments on coordinating a meeting for this task force to meet, and every department has been very responsive, and I've seen their responses through email. So I'm looking forward to not only a well-rounded discussion with this task force, but recommendations for this body from the purview of people that fight public dumping every single day like police inspections 3-1-1 our council offices and look at what resources are out there what laws we potentially might need to change and how we combat this problem of public dumping in our city thank you thank you legislation item number 32 land disposition agreement for 1105 group property management motion to recommit Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 33, Lodge and House 1296 Delaware. Motion to approve items 33 through 35. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item 36, proposed resolution opposing offshore wind facilities in Lake Erie. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 37, Establish Charter Review Commission. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 38, special use 193, West Utica. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, special use 194, Southside Parkway. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Able number 4063, Wellington. Motion to approve items 40 through 42 with conditions on 40 and 42. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Able number 43, Special Use 112, Dodge. Motion to deny. Seconded by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Able number 44, Special Use 531, Elmwood. Motion to approve 44 and 45 with conditions on 45. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 46, special use 84 arraignment for neighborhood shop. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 47, special use 857 Genesee for Tavern. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 48, special use 100 aka 104 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file items 48 through 50. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Resolutions. Item number 74. Relocate existing Buffalo Fire Department line and conduct as the part of the Best Street Bridge. Motion to adopt item 74 and 75. Seconded by Councilmember Gallenbeck. Item number 76. Moratorium on owner-occupied short-term rentals. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Wyeth. Councilmember Farrelletto has the floor. I would just like to be recorded in the negative. Record. Councilmember Fair letto. Aye. In the negative, and then Council Member Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. So I want to thank the sponsors that are on this resolution where this initially began a problem in my district that has trickled into other districts and that's why we're responding. Initially from when legislation that previous council members sponsored in 2019, the role of Airbnbs, have completely changed drastically in the five years that it has occurred in the city of Buffalo. And we're talking about non-owner occupied units. Owner occupied units are completely different. There is no moratorium on them. And I think it's really important that Majority Leader Holt and Pope worked really hard in making sure that something like this speaks to multiple districts and has a carve out for this very nuanced and complex problems that we're interacting with inspections and planning and zoning. And you name it, all interacting within each other. And it's important for me to read into the record number two, and I want to thank the majority leader and policy advisor and staff for crafting this. And it states, the immediate temporary moratorium shall not apply to the renewal of any previously granted non-owner occupied short-term rental license. The second is any first time application for a non-owner occupied short-term rental special use permit where the owner of the rental property resides on the same block or within 1,000 feet of the rental property. any application for an owner occupied short term rental special use permit. And that's very important to articulate that because right now where the first whereas has is either residential zones that are zoned residential or zoned single family occupancy. And we're trying to protect. residentially zoned areas to remain residential. And we're trying to protect neighborhoods that are facing serious disharmony. I had some people joke laughing on the council, but there's times where people have gotten hostile with me that do not like my stance on that and wanted to physically fight me out of an establishment in my own district. I've been in neighborhood block clubs where it's gotten really hostile, where neighbors are at each other's throats when it comes to this. And you can see in our own chambers when there's applications where the neighborhood shows up in droves against an application because there are, this is urban economics and living in an urban area is complex, but we have to make sure we're protecting neighborhoods. And the neighborhood I live in, which is the West Village Historic District, and I represent Allentown and Cobblestone and other historic districts. And they're facing whiplash from this because in the 70s and 80s and 90s, homeowners and owner occupant, houses were the revitalization to these areas people living in them and investing in their properties and they're now starting to see them change to be transient in nature and You know, what is the difference between a non owner-occupied unit? Just basically being an unregulated hotel in a residential neighborhood those uses conflict And we know that we can't just legislate on this council We need the backing and the hard work of our planning zoning and office of strategic planning to work on for a unified solution to this because municipalities around the world and our country are dealing with this. I was in Barcelona in Spain and their localites are pushing back on this because they're being pushed out of their own neighborhoods, just like other areas in even in Florida or in Louisiana and other municipalities are facing this and it's complex. It's evolving, it's changing, and we need something that's within our green code that's comprehensive. Because right now you have council members brokering deals with the applicant and the neighbors for every application that comes before us. And that's not appropriate. We need to have a comprehensive plan when we're dealing with this. So I would like to thank the support of my colleagues. Council Member Gatlinbeck. Thank you, Councilmember. I was going to vote no on this if it was going to be adopted, but I spoke to the Majority Leader and she said that she would send it to committee because I have some concerns with this. I supported last year when we did the brief moratorium, I think it was two or three months, and... I'm not sure exactly what we accomplished by doing that last year. And my concern is that we do another moratorium right now. And my question is, what ultimately would we end up accomplishing by that? I was doing some research and some reading, and I forget, I think it's one of the sites that was writing about Airbnb or maybe it was the Buffalo News, I can't remember now. But supposedly there's about 700 units in the city of Buffalo that are unlicensed. What I would like to see is us going after those 700 units that are unlicensed, because I see those as being a bigger problem than licensed Airbnb. I have concerns in my district. I would hate to see this take place in my district because I have several absentee, I guess you would call them, Airbnb people, who have opened up Airbnbs in the North District and in some cases are the nicest house on the block because they are good landlords. And I like having the opportunity to be able to work with the neighborhood and with the the individual that is applying for the Airbnb status. And yes, it does get frustrating, and yes, it does sometimes get contentious, just like when we have a coming into the North District and we have one or two or sometimes three community meetings with them in the district to talk about the new development. But in my opinion, instead of having a one size fits all approach, I would much rather have us continue what we have right now and as individual council members, we can vote no. on an Airbnb coming into our district. I think every single one that's come into mind, I've put a one-year sunset clause on them, and I've not had a single problem with any of them. But once again, I want to thank the Majority Leader for sending this to committee, and I am going to push that we go after those several hundred or so unlicensed Airbnb properties in the City of Buffalo and I'd like to nail them and fine them for not following the rules before we do anything else and I'm going to try to make that a part of whatever comes out of this resolution. Thank you. Thank you. We'll need a motion to rescind the previous motion to adopt. No. It's already set to lodge. Okay. And it was seconded? Okay. We're good. Item number 77, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 77 through 79. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 80, immediate and future solutions for Buffalo Animal Shelters facility needs. Motion to send to Community Development. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. So this is something that is a citywide facility that is in the Ellicott District, and I'm looking forward to working with the Ellicott District Councilmember and Majority Leader, but ultimately my colleagues. And so this was brought to my attention from a series of emails from the volunteers at the shelter that are mostly my constituents but others from other districts that highlighted this issue to me. I then reached out to the shelter and the Department of Public Works. And I got the council member tour, so I got the nickel and dime show to make sure that things are up to standards while I'm there. But the videos and the correspondence that I've gotten has shown deplorable conditions within our animal shelter. We have animals that are rolling around in their feces. We have unventilated cramped spaces where animals are being sheltered inhumanely and that are oversizing this facility. The first is under chapter six of the city charter article 15, we have 15-48 through and including 51 that states that the city of Buffalo has to have an animal shelter that's under the division and bureau of streets. And the composition of the staff that needs to be changed gives the shelter a director, one animal control officer, and one clerical employee, but The powers and duties, the city of Buffalo animal shelter shall be the responsibility for animal control activities including but not limited to retrieving and caring for stray animals and rodents and other pest control within the city of Buffalo. The city of Buffalo animal shelter shall operate an annual adoption program including spayed and neutering services for adopted animals from the shelter. And then ultimately the last is an annual report from the director, which I have worked for this council either as a staff or as a council member for ten years and I've never seen it. The fact is, is we cannot be housing any creature or any animal in the City of Buffalo inhumanely. That is not appropriate. And to then have them live in substandard conditions to then either number one, euthanize them or send back to the public or back to our residents is wrong. And this has been pushed aside for decades because the city of Buffalo has a history of always living hand to mouth and other needs come first, but this is within the city purview and our responsibility. And I understand that our resources are limited, But our animals and their treatment deserve better than what they're being given. And this has been easy to push aside and to overlook for far too long. And I really hope that my colleagues support me on this resolution. I know it's being moved to community development, and it's a very well-written resolution written myself. And I think that it gives out a blueprint of how we can move forward responsibly because we have to be responsible and treat all of God's creatures humanely. Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 82, Commissioner of Deeds Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 83, fee waiver for Halloween on Bailey. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Gallinbeck and Majority Leader Halton Pope as the floor. Motion to revisit item number 37 under legislation. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Thank you. I just briefly want to remind my colleagues of deadlines regarding the Charter Review Commission and the criteria. The resolution emphasizes that we have to appoint a diverse group of members with expertise in law, academia, civic engagement, and community leadership. Appointees should bring relevant insights and experience to assist the Commission in its comprehensive review. These appointees are due to the Clerk by the 24th of October. So please be very deliberate in your thought process and who those individuals will be. If you need something more detailed, please feel free to reach out to council staff and make sure that it's also emailed to you so that you have a copy of the requirements we need to get that as soon as possible to the clerk whoever your appointees will be for the commission so we can get us started thank you council member white um i understand the deadline however i think there needs to be more conversation before we put deadlines in place because we don't really know how this is going to go You all may have been meeting, but the public at large has not heard any conversation. So I think it's pretty aggressive to say let's have a deadline about something that many people don't even know what it is. And so I think that we should look at that deadline date and maybe look at pushing it back a little until we have some conversation. Because it seems like this is going rush, rush, rush, and I don't know what the rush is. Because I do want it to be thorough, and I do want us to have people that can meet the deadline and also participate the entire process and not people that's going to jump off. So I hope that we can have that conversation before we have a hardened deadline at 24th is it? And if you don't respond by the 24th, what does that mean? To just clarify- I'm just saying. I understand, but since this is a resolution and you're asking a question, sir, respectfully, the deadline was for you to submit names for appointees. And since this is now two weeks later of asking, I'm just reminding people of what was in the resolution that was voted on by our colleagues, not once now but twice, that this is when the names are submitted with the first Tuesday of December being the very first meeting day. But I understand and if you'd like to have a separate conversation, we can all do that as well Yeah, but I think it's a little bit conversation. Not just a conversation Again, you there's been meetings and all that and I can agree with that but I'm saying a public conversation I want us to continue to try to be more transparent and how we do this I know years ago when the Commission was done. I don't think I paid a lot of attention I don't think it was a lot of communication in that and I'm hoping that we could I learn from that experience and make sure that this is more transparent and more inclusive in the conversation of how we move forward. This is a very critical time. I think that a lot of people would like to have their two cents because we have a lot of organizations since I've been here that have had differences or disagreements with the charter. Now these folks will have an opportunity to at least have some say or even give us a white paper into what they might want to see, not just leaning on the individuals but also on the community at large and how do we make this charter something that the community can live with and not just a few people that come and make a decision and not have input from the community. Thank you. Thank you. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, October 22nd at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, October 22nd at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, October 22nd at 1 p.m. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, October 22nd at 2 p.m. Committee on education will be Tuesday, October 29th, 2024 at 11 a.m. Council members, announcements for your districts. Yes. Mr. President, this is an announcement, but before we adjourn the meeting, I just want to have a quick discussion for item number 80 in the animal shelters facility needs. I have a lot of financial implications that I wrote within the resolution because the need of an appraisal, the budget allocation, and the potential financial impact to the city. I just believed it was germane to the finances as well. community development if my colleagues in the majority leader are okay with it being moved to the Finance Committee instead of the Community Development Committee due to its financial implications on our city budget motion to revisit item Motion is to revisit item number 81 under resolution second of my councilmember no Koski and a number 80 and immediate and future solutions for Buffalo animal shelters facility needs and Motion to resend the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Neverhart. council members announcements for your districts councilman white thank you mr president i'd like to invite the residents of the university district to our university district breakfast our quarterly breakfast will be taking place this saturday at the university presbyterian church on main street please call the office to make your reservation and also want to let them know that we're also going to be having our annual halloween um event right at edward saunders so please this will be taking place on halloween so please Get your babies available. We love to have an event that's in our district, in our community, that's safe for our children and families. So just want to let the community know about that. Thank you. Thank you. Majority Leader Hultenpoel. Yes, thank you. There will also be a stakeholders meeting for the Outlook Kid District on Saturday at 10 a.m. at Bethesda on Main Street, 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. Please contact our office for more details. Also, there is a free grant writing. workshop for Ellicott District residents. There is no cost for our district residents. Please contact our office at 851-4980 to register for that. And finally, there is the annual Ellicott District Senior Halloween Luncheon that will be taking place on Thursday, October 31st. Please contact the William Emsley office. The phone number is 845-5440 to register. Thank you. No other announcements? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member McGowan back.