Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Council Member Francik. Here. Council Member Glumbeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Let's stand for the pledge. To the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. as we remain standing our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. So if I were to take you into the view of Mark chapter 4, see Jesus and the disciples in a boat and a storm that comes up. And these guys who many of them came from professional fish family, they knew storms and then they knew storm. This was a killer storm and they, those seasoned fishermen feared for their lives. But in the midst of that moment came an opportunity. And Jesus spoke over the storm simple words, peace, be still. And suddenly, the wind, the wave, the storm obeyed him. And the disciples were actually frightened by what they had just seen happen. There are storms you expect when you walk down the nightly news, them coming, but there are storms that hit you totally blind. The ribbons that we're wearing today represent some people probably in the chambers and certainly some that will be watching this newscast that had a storm hit them that has... destabilized all kinds of things in their lives. I know for the council president, we had some family funerals that just take a toll, a storm that comes up and suddenly we're pummeled. For my son who lost his job yesterday, what that does for his wife and two small kids, a storm unexpected. I have a small one, I'm trying to finish my dissertation by the end of this month. Many of you in the chambers have experienced a storm and many, citizens in our city have? And how do we help them respond to storms, both effective and unexpected? Let's pray together. Lord, I read those words, peace be still, and I think some of us need to have those words spoken over our lives, our situations, our circumstances, unexpected storms that have hit, the toll that they take, the punch to the gut that sometimes it involves. I think of each of those represented by the pins that we're wearing today, and I pray for them, their families, their loved ones, their friendships, everybody that's surrounding them in their network. And, Lord, I pray even now that in the person after person, situation after situation, the words that stilled a storm 2,000 years ago would speak even now over our circumstances. Peace be still. We ask that that voice arise in our city and with it come. the calm, the peace, the presence of the one who spoke it. We thank you in your precious son's name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain, Councilmembers, Memorials. Councilmember Golumbik. Thank you, Mr. President. John Furcano passed away. That's the uncle of my intern, Ray Ignasiak. He's going to be very sadly missed by his family and friends in North Buffalo. Dr. Steven Gladys lived to be a ripe young age of 90. He was an optometrist in Black Rock for many, many years. I can remember going to him when I was a little boy. I grew up in Riverside, we still had those Black Rock roots. And I remember going to him on Amherst Street across from Assumption Parish. And last but certainly not least, John Vela passed away. John was the principal of Riverside High School for many, many years. He was there when I was teaching at Riverside High School. There were a lot of people that, teachers that didn't care for Mr. Bell. He would get in trouble with the union on occasion because he ran a tight ship. But I remember I got yelled at one day because I was helping a student and I wasn't at my door quick enough and the union rep said to me, well, you know, you can't let him yell at you like that. And I thought he was right. He was right. I should have been at the door. You know, Riverside's always been a rough school. And Mr. Velo was always very, very tough but fair with the kids and with the staff. And because he was so good and so tough with the kids, I think that you had a reasonable success rate there. He was a good guy. I would run into him. I'd go to a hockey game once a year usually, and I would run into him there. He was an avid Buffalo Sabres fan and just an all-around good guy. He's going to be very sorely missed by his family and his friends. And he was also at the best school in Buffalo, at Bennett High School, when I was there. And you're totally correct. He was tough, but he was an instructor that students, when they really needed to talk to him, they knew they could go to him. So he will be missed. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. President. Praying for the family of a friend that I grew up with, James Leonard, A good friend of mine, Dwayne Leonard, passed recently, he had a wonderful home going. And a family member of mine, one of my little cousins, died in Atlanta. He was in a car accident, 32 years old, leaves his little daughter. Reggie Turner Jr. I'm praying for my cousin Nene and her husband Reggie Sr. an unfortunate loss of their son and also a dear friend who a lady that I called mother her husband passed Odessa Cohen her husband Dean Cohen passed this morning but we're definitely praying for them so pray for all those thank you thank you any others I have been informed that one soldier, 23 years old, lost his life in Afghanistan since our last meeting. For all of those who have been mentioned and those who you may even be thinking of at this point, this Council pauses for a moment of silence. Thank you for your respect. At the moment, today we are pleased to have our Majority Leader, Majority Leader Rivera come for a presentation to the Amoran Heritage Organization, and if they will come forward. Welcome and greetings to our council chambers. I'm going to ask the young ladies from Amoran Heritage to please come to the front. And if you have people here who want to take pictures, they're very, very welcome to come as close as they can. Each year, the United States recognizes the accomplishments and the achievements of Latinos with the celebration of National Hispanic Heritage Month that runs from October Actually, September 15th to October 15th. During that time, we celebrate our heritage, our cultures, our traditions. And we have this beautiful group of young women here that are going to celebrate with us through dance. And we're looking for, once again, the only difference is the addition of this young dancer that's with us today. I don't remember seeing her last time we were here when you were dancing. We're looking forward to it. Thank you very much for your contributions to our heritage and culture. Thank you. Hola. Thank you so much. You are a more American university. Thank you. In these six years, we have taught over 7,000 kids all around Erie County. And we have provided free diversity dance classes to kids every summer. Today, in our celebration of diversity with all of you, We have Natasha Perkins, Andrea Bruno, Laura Garcia, and they are going to be performing for you. The first song is going to be a Colombian cumbia. Cumbia is traditional music from Colombia, and this song, even though it was created in the 1800s, it became popular again in 1955, and now in every party you still hear this song. this song is a celebration of the coast of colombia and as you can see there is uh a beautiful movement of skirts that symbolizing the movement of the waves in the ocean in this specific music style we celebrate the latino community with the native american community the african community and the european community so enjoy Thank you. Cumbia de mi tierra Hey! Hey! Okay, now feel free to clap. feel free to stand up and dance with us because this song is a celebration of life it's a celebration of diversity it's a celebration of how when we work together the world becomes a better place the dance styles that we are going to be doing it we involve bomba and plena from puerto rico it has a little bit of salsa it has a little bit of dominican merengue merengue dominicano and it's just such a happy song so enjoy it is I'm going to sing it. Thank you, thank you. Yes, okay. Yes. Yes. Puerto Rico, Dominican, y que mas? Colombia. Quien es Colombia? Usted? Fabian? Si! Gracias para todo. Alright, back to English. Where am I? Alright, any other presentations? On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 2nd, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing and seeing no objects to lay files, we'll hear the entire agenda. As before, it's not taking away your right to pause this meeting if you have not had a chance to review. We have several public hearings here today, or else everybody just came because they wanted to be in the chambers and to watch the dance. So we do have a few. So what I'm going to ask so that in fairness is that speakers will have three minutes. maximum it does not mean you have to utilize all three of your minutes but three minutes maximum on any topic to present whatever you would like to so that we are able to get through expeditiously with all of the public hearings majority leader motion take items 47 9 11 excuse me 9 16 and 18 out of submissions. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 47 of resolutions, discharge item 18-1662 from CD. Motion to adopt a discharge. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item 9 from CD public hearing, disposition of real property 240-260 Lakefront. Motion to open a public hearing. Motion is open to public hearing. Second by Councilmember Wingo. We are now, this hearing, there are two mics, one on both sides. We ask that people go toward the mics so that we don't have to wait for you to move to get to them to speak. So if you will go toward those mics, even if you're sitting in that area, it will be much appreciated. If you give it every speaker will give their name and at least their street address for the record of some type of address for the record. All right. Speaker number one. Speaker number one. No, I direct the meeting. So, Frank, Frank. No, no, no. I'm going to share this one. So you're on. There we go. My name is Frank Lysiak. I live in the Waterfront Village. I've lived there for 20 years come this December. I'm the volunteer executive director for the Waterfront Village Advisory Council. And just to give you a little background, the Waterfront Village is made up of 367 units, and that's divided amongst 11 different associations who have responsibility for their own respective units within those associations. My purpose here today is to... Report back to you, the Waterfront Village Advisory Council's communication regarding the 240-260 lakefront RFP. and i want to make a couple clarifications once again there's 11 different associations and when i'm up here at the mic i'm speaking for 10 10 of those associations the breakwater's associations asked me not to speak on their behalf and i respect that so therefore i'm speaking for 10 of the associations within the waterfront village and And again, each association has two representatives on their Waterfront Village Advisory Council. Bottom line, we took a vote regarding the 240-260 lakefront RFP. And after four and a half years, is that right, Danver? About four and a half years of negotiations, discussions, and some very hard work by a committee headed up by Kim Fiddler, who will be speaking shortly, we've come to a consensus. And of the 10 associations, not 11, but the 10, one had no opinion. Okay, and the remaining nine were in favor of the 240 260 lakefront RFP To include the reduced sale of the land So I just wanted to report that out and I want to turn it over to Kim to talk more about what his committee were Oh, I'm sorry. I still chair Second speaker you finished right? Are you finished? Yes. Okay. Good afternoon. Amber Holy Cross representing Simonelli real estate corporation. I'm I met with eight of the nine councilmen last week, and I updated all of you on a minor change that we made to our plan at the end of September. We shifted the lead townhome over in a southern direction, an additional 10.7 feet. What that did was increase the waterfront setback from 115 feet to 120 feet. It also opened up the view shed an additional six feet beyond what would have been provided if we would have simply pulled all townhomes back the additional 15 feet that had previously been requested. Because of this final change, as Frank stated, we did garner the support of three of our four nearest neighbors and several of the other developments within the Waterfront Village. We have continued to work with the Waterfront Village Advisory Council over the last two weeks. An additional 10 requests have come in, and we sincerely have made the effort to continue to work with the Advisory Council, and we will continue to do that even after this process is over. So I respectfully request that the council vote to approve this land sale. Thank you. Next speaker. Thank you. Hello Councilman and Council President. My name is Ken Fidler. I am the Chairman of the Special Committee for the Waterfront Village Advisory Council. We've set up to negotiate and review the plans that the developer presented. This has been a long four and a half year process. We had many public meetings, a lot of face-to-face negotiations and what started out four and a half years ago is monstrous buildings that were totally incompatible with our neighborhood has now been transformed into a Project that we feel is much more in keeping with our unique neighbor much credit goes to Councilman David Franz act and council president priggin who? steadfastly supported the residents' concerns over this period, and I don't think we would have reached this point without both of your help. Thank you very much. I would also like to commend Amber Holycross from Simonelli, their project manager. He finally took the lead role in negotiating through the process, and at that point, I'm I think, you know, progress was made and finally reached the point where compromises were made and she achieved a viable project. There remains a variety of details that are open and ongoing. Amber stated in one of her recent emails, and she just stated it here, that, in quote, our team will make our best effort to work through these items as well as those that come up in the future, end quote. with our support today we're relying on amber's pledge continue to work out those details as they arise between us thank you thank you sir next speaker council president thank you thank you and councilman my name is louis j fasolino i reside at 249 lakefront boulevard in buff downtown buffalo my residence is directly across the street from the proposed project that simonelli is proposing And I am part of Breakwater, and there's a number of people that reside at the Breakwater residence that were not given any consideration in regards to the view shed, etc., etc. I also have a deep concern in regards to the original RFP, which was issued approximately four and a half to five years ago. And now they're proposing, Simonelli's proposing to get a $900,000 reduction. I think this is ludicrous. I also think that does not give other developers the opportunity to come in with a plan for the less dollar amount for the purchase of the property. I do know that some of the principals involved served on BURA, served on BERC, and in the back of my mind I say, wow, there may be a conflict of interest here. I want you to look at this closely before you vote on it, and I want you to understand the impact it's going to have down the road. I appreciate the time. I know many of you council members over the years, I've dealt with many of you over the years, including our council president and the mayor, and I would like you to just consider about a new RFP, and let's make the table clear. Thank you. Okay. Any other speakers? Councilman Franczak, do you have anything before we close? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We've both been in this process for four and a half years. You and I attended many, many meetings on this. A large number of them are right at the waterfront going back and forth. A lot of changes have been made, and the folks that are here today, Frank and Sherry and Kim and have been, you know, very helpful to us every step of the way on this. And the developer, Simonelli, has made a tremendous amount of changes on this project. There's no doubt about it. Even your suggestion that that last big building on the N be retoggled was done. So they've come a very long way. You know, I'm sensitive to – I spoke at length with Mr. – CATALDI AND MR. FASOLINO. I KNOW HIM WHEN HE WAS AT DHCR 35 YEARS AGO. I'M NOT SAYING HOW MANY YEARS AGO THAT WAS. AND SO I KNOW THEM FOR MANY YEARS. AND THEY HAVE LEGITIMATE ISSUES. They understand. I don't know if going back to the drawing board, I don't know if there's an appetite for going back to another four-year process because you don't know what you're going to get. You might get a project that is not as advanced as this one. You might go back to bringing towers and whatnot. So I don't know if there's an appetite to totally go back to the drawing board. But one of the things, and the folks that live in breakwaters, they live in a they've been living with a sword of damocles for 25 years because at some point they knew that that last undeveloped land would be developed they knew that there'd be a project there so the viewshed in some ways would be affected so they knew that that day would come however uh some of the things that uh mr pataldi mentioned may be worth looking at again in regards, well, we know there's going to be more traffic because people want to live on the waterfront. They've got vehicles. They want to park there. They want to live there. And one of the things Mr. Cataldi suggested is that, you know, the parking will be along, you know, the parallel between breakwaters and the new development along the length of the eight condos that are being built or the eight units that are being built. And he suggested that this appears to be the south. He's the coroner and he thought that most of the parking should be there. No, he should he's here He wants to speak for himself. I can't put words in somebody's mouth. I'm only Paraphrasing what he said and I figure everybody should be heard. It's a public hearing So if someone has something to say they should say it in comes member I read can can you are you finish your remarks because we're not going to help me know anything else you want to say? No, it's just that again. I I think we've come a very very long way and You know if they sell That 33 I think was the percentage where the city will get you know percentage of the money if the units are self or million dollars And up you know the water for I heard a property right on the water is going for 1.3 I don't know if that's true, but so obviously there's still appreciation in the city of Buffalo. It's very desirable So we want to make the people of breakwaters comfortable and With the knowledge that one day this day would come, in 2008 a bunch of doctors came and wanted to build, but the economy crashed. It didn't happen. So it was a 10-year interregnum, essentially, that brought us to this day. So the Simonelli project wouldn't go unless you and I were comfortable. So we're working to that point if we can. Absolutely. Thank you. Lawrence Cataldi, 233 Lakefront Boulevard. That's two doors from Mr. Casolino. The suggestion is this. We talked from square one about setback, and there's been a lot of talk and a lot of engagement between the other parties in Simonelli concerning the setback from the waterfront because of their viewpoints is what they're concerned about. Our concern is setback from lakefront. We'd like to see it set back as far back as the other property next to it, which is Portside. And as far back as between our front and our setbacks. So we have that strip in there that would not be too crowded for the people that live down in there. Now, Lakefront is only a two-lane street. There's not even enough room on that street to have a car park that occur. Park is not allowed. You can't put any there. And in the winter, with snow plowing, it's impossible to put a car up there. So our suggestion was that you put in only two egress and enter areas, one at the rounded southeast corner of the property, where it would come in and if you look at portside they've done this they only have one exit entrance coming in there that goes into an interior drive which goes around to the units if they did something similar here they would have them come in from that point for those two that are are the ones that are facing a jibwa and the first two that are facing lakefront enter and exit from there and then the other one would be across from where i live which goes to the ones that go to the units that go back to the the water the ones that are running in the other direction that's one of the two things we suggested at the planning board um we had no success in doing that also if it's back as far as we'd like to have them back that gives us a little ability to make sure that three-story building is now blocking us completely black in the sun black in anything that we're looking at these are minor things we've suggested in many times frank hasn't been able to accomplish and getting that done from our perspective we ask that somebody look at that before they approve okay i want to thank everyone who has been working through this process four and a half years ago of course i sit on bureau and when this project was first presented it had a timeline of i think six months that they hoped that we'd be here I slowed down that timeline right at that meeting and said, it will not occur like that because you haven't talked to people. And the one thing that I've been huge on on this council is that if a developer comes to me, I don't care who it is, you have to talk to the people who live around it. Your money doesn't mean anything if we're elected by the people. So that process slowed down, the persons changed. I do believe that the personalities that were involved in the beginning were not great for this process. It changed to have somebody who came in. We had so many, I've had more public hearing meetings on this project than any other project since I've sat on this council. the project changed it even now meets i believe all of the specs for the green code so it didn't need the variances and then we've been everything from the council from lawyer to peacekeeper environmentalist and i became an architect and started moving buildings around we made that last move it worked i just took a stab in the dark but it worked and we we got the Some of the changes that were made, but that was not the only change. There were many changes from this tall building that had a swimming pool on top with glass and parking to now a few townhouses. Well, some townhouses. Nobody's going to be totally happy, but I think at the end of the day, the process that is before the people has worked somewhat. It has worked somewhat to change a project. Now, I am not thrilled, and I'll say it about now selling this at the amount, but I also understand why. There is remediation that must take place on the site that wasn't known about. And before this comes to a vote, I do want to see the written estimate of the remediation. Because we've been told that, and I already shared that with Mr. Mahaffey, we've been told what it is verbally, but I want to see it. I want to see it in my hand from a company who may be hired to do it. This building, as I said, is in the green code. This will be one of the only buildings in that area to still have public access to the waterfront. The rest of them, you can't get to the waterfront. That was built in by the request of the people, and it was there. It's there. There will be something there, folks. It belongs to Bureau. At the end of the day, the mission of Bureau is to help those areas in our city that are struggling, Buffalo urban renewal. So the money that will come from there is to help other neighborhoods, right? So would I like to see more? Yes, but at the end of the day, if they're not being allowed to put up, by the neighbor's request, a 10-story building, the finances are not there. But at the end of the day, if it makes a profit, the city of Buffalo, Bureau, right, the Bureau would then get 33 percent. Is that what it is? there's a percentage that then comes back to bureau. So although nothing is the best, I'm glad for the changes and I want to thank Amber especially, Amber, right? I want to thank Amber for working through this and working with the neighbors. And I do understand that there are still concerns. And Amber has still said that she'd still work through them. I was very surprised to get another list on my desk this week of about ten other things that were asked that I never heard of. So somewhere this has to stop. And so I was going to bring this to a vote. However, Bura has not weighed in on this. And because the land belongs to Bura, I want to see a vote from Bura. that would then come back to this council with their stamp of approval, and then we will move that vote forward at our next council meeting. Council Member Franzen? Yeah, I thought that was a very wise decision to do that. It was very smart that you recommended that. And then the second thing, what Mr. Cataldi said, I'd just like to see a response to what he asked for. You know, from Simonelli's project and maybe Mr. Mahaffey to take a look at it to see, especially with this, you mentioned this more setback. I don't know if that could be done, but just the response on that. And then for the parking on that southeast corner, it could be put there instead of in front of their houses. Not parking, but. Curb cuts and things it is something that I would like to hear a formal response from the team on that you got it And I think if I'm not mistaken I was given the responses to each one of those so they have actually responded in writing back And we can share that and even file it with the council because I like everything public everything transparent This is what this body is about All right. Motion comes motion to close public hearing. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Motion to send the CD. Motion to, was it in CD? Recommit. Recommit. Recommit. Second by Councilmember Fontana. But this body will make a vote at its next session unless something comes up that I'm not made aware of. It will vote. All right, next item. Item 16 out of legislation, public hearing, renamed Niagara Branch Library. Motion open public hearing. Motion open public hearing, second by Councilman Fontana. This public hearing, is there anybody here to speak on this item? Mr. Chairman. Yes, sir. The purpose of this was to change the name. It's Isaias Soto Gonzalez. That's the only change that was made. So we had to file this just to make sure that we got his full name. All right. So motion is to close. Motion to close the public hearing. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Next item. Item 18 from legislation. Public hearing. Rename East Elvin Branch Library. Motion to open the public hearing. All right. I don't think there's anybody here to speak. Oh, no, I'm just kidding. Again, we ask that you keep your comments to a maximum of three minutes. You don't have to utilize all three minutes. If you're going to speak, if you'll get near a mic. So when it's your turn, you will be in place. We know who the first one is, but for the record, you'll still have to introduce yourself. Thank you, Mr. President. The name is George Holt. I live at 222 Clinton Street in Buffalo, New York. And first of all, I want to thank you, Mr. President and Mr. Fontana, for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of renaming the East Sullivan Ranch Library to Leroy R. Coles, the late Leroy R. Coles, Jr. And just to have an opportunity to speak a few minutes on his behalf. He's been a man I have known since I was 13 years old. And I was, and I am fortunate in our family that he had an opportunity to marry my sister, who was the first African American girl to graduate from Nardin Academy in 1954. Now you know how prestigious that institution is, and in 1954, you can also remember, that was the year when Brown versus the Board of Education. to bring integration to the public schools. So having a parent like my mother and having a parent like my dad to make sure our sister got a quality education, Leroy Coles had opportunity to marry her and they built a very quality family and he led the Urban League to the successes that it is today. And he was a quiet giant in this community. It wasn't publicized in terms of all the work he has done for so many of us as African Americans. In terms of issues around job training, civil rights issues, housing. And one of the main stories I can recall, when James Pitts and him agreed on an issue of housing in which I live today on Clinton Street around William, Michigan area because that was going to be the Urban League's new facility coming off of Broadway. But him and James developed a relationship. The Urban League went downtown and gave an opportunity for quality housing for so many people who live there today. So that was the type of person that Leroy Coles was. When I was coming out of graduate school in 1974, I had an opportunity to meet with Wells V. Mood Foundation. And I was developing a program called the Randy Smith League and National Inner City Youth Opportunity. I went to Mr. Leroy R. Coles because we didn't have a 501c3. And Mr. Muth said he'd be willing to help us with seed dollars if we had an opportunity to have a 5-0 seed seed. And Mr. Coles was the pass-through agency for that. And from that experience, I became publicly well-known in a legislator. We had Mr. Wyatt, who had had his first job. And now he's a council member. But these are the kind of things that it took one person's voice to make a difference in this community. So I just, you know, the time is involved in this. I just want to say to this council member group that this is a great choice and opportunity to recognize the man who's done a lot of quiet things and very efficient. and was a professional that represented this community so i appreciate that you all consider this vote and support mr cole to have his name in honor of him thank you sir thank you upstairs good afternoon good afternoon uh the president of the pons act to this prestigious body the members of the greater buffalo community It is with great honor and respect that I sit here. When I first met Leroy, it was a very long time ago, and I was running as he was walking with his head stopped, dressed impeccably and quite the character. He didn't know me because I was transported to Buffalo by a, of course, dark out in Jamaica and then the Bronx and then Buffalo. What I will say to you is, he's truly a child of Buffalo. He loved his community, the greater community. He mentored many of the individuals who later became political individuals, including, as I know, our mayor and other people that I could mentor, because that was the kind of His family made great sacrifices because when you are the leader of an Urban League, as I know Mrs. McDuffie will let you know, from 1972 until 1998, Leroy was our CEO and president of the Buffalo Urban League. And in that role, he might have had a quiet spirit, but he had a strong voice. And that voice was always for those less fortunate. and to continue the work of the Urban League, which was started during the Great Migration to help the people coming into this region to adjust to life in the Northeast. And we still do that. When I was a child, my father told me, privilege is the realization that until the least among you have a place, don't sit quiet. And I can tell you, coming from an island, that people, that's how funny, you know. They got to have big fence and everything because they can't sleep at night when there's so many people without. And this was a gentleman that made sure, as an urban leaguer, because once an urban leader, always, leaguer, always an urban leader. Mrs. McDuffie, who I know is going to speak next. I had the privilege of being board chair under Mr. Cole. He taught me about Buffalo. He taught a whole lot of folks that I need everything they need. Because he wanted to make sure I stepped on no toes, I offended no one. Because the purpose of the league was not to isolate, but generate high degree help for people that truly need it. And I hope you guys realize how much we really need it right So in saying that, it is so befitting to have somewhere that education is the key. That little neighborhood is my neighborhood. My office was right here at Bailey and Deliver. That's my branch. And I will tell you, it not only services the kids and the educated, it services the recovering community. It services a lot more than you really could realize. So I'm asking you, actually, I don't know this much, but I am hoping that you can dig deep and make this happen, as not only would it make me thrilled, it feels as if it would be doing good for some of us. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, you didn't give a name for the record. Mr. Johnson. All right. Yes, sir? President Pridgen, I'm Reverend Eugene Pierce. the past commander of Jesse Clipper Post 430. I'm honored to support veteran Leroy Cole. I recall a unique situation with him. This happened back in the 1970s. We had what we identified as the 45-caliber killer. This was an individual that was going around killing blacks in the community. and the community was very tense. You can imagine they felt like the next .45 caliber bullet might enter their body. So Leroy Cole was called together what became known as the Black Leadership Forum at Gethsemane Baptist Church. And he said the 45 caliber killer has a comprehensive program to kill black folk in the community. We need a comprehensive, excuse me, a comprehensive comprehensive, okay, means to deal with this situation. And for an individual to be able to call together Good Curtin, federal court, mayor of the city of Buffalo, Common Council president at that time was, I believe it was Delmar Mitchell. Also, Bill Gator, the bill organization, so on and so forth, and he said, now, we have to be one body serving one purpose. And somehow that's widening the community. And when you have an individual that can bring peace in the community, like veteran Leroy Coles was able to do, that's commendable. Very, very few people can do it, even today. So I commend the work that he did back then, and I commend this honorable body for approving, and I'm saying approving now, the naming of the East Delavan Library, Leroy Cole's Library. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Next speaker. I'm Reverend Jimmy Allen Bedgood, chaplain for United Veterans of Buffalo. I didn't get the opportunity to meet Mr. Lee Coles Jr., but I can say that I am who I am today because of people like Mr. Coles. As I looked at his biography, I realized he was born the same year as my father, and if his situation resembled my father, which I'm assuming it did, my father picked cotton at age 8 and had to support his family in the south and leave school at eight years old and He didn't have the opportunity to get education But it stuck with me and it made me the person that I am it wasn't too long ago And we can't forget the sacrifices that people like mr. Cole's made for us and if one child looks on that building at Delavan Avenue and says to their parent I Who is Lee Coles Jr.? And there's an opportunity for someone to tell the story of how he marched with Dr. Martin Luther King, how he had to prove himself competent and intelligent enough to vote by taking a test, that he couldn't go to certain schools, that he couldn't sit in certain restaurants. It wasn't too long ago. My great-grandmother died when she was 117 in 1977. She was five years old when slavery was abolished. It wasn't that long ago, and we can't forget. Thank you, sir. Next slide. Good afternoon to this honorable body. My name is Brenda McDuffie, and I sit here tremendously blessed and very proud to be the president and CEO of the Buffalo Urban League, who truly not only followed in Mr. Coles' footsteps, but I stand on his shoulders, rely on his implantation of information and wisdom to me that I still use because it is still relevant in this community today. You see, Mr. Coles was not only a son of Buffalo, but he was a father, a mentor, a friend, an advisor, a cheerleader, an advocate, and I can go on and on and on. He has left an indelible reputation and legacy to this community. And for you to consider naming a library a place of learning, a place that is a positive safe haven in our community, in his honor, he is more than worthy of that consideration. I met Mr. Coles probably 40 plus years ago. I met him while I was working at that time for something called the Private Industry Council. And at that time, I was one of the original staff persons, and he was one of the original board members named for that body. He pulled me aside the first time he met me and offered to provide any support that I needed to be able to fulfill my responsibilities at a level of excellence. He not only did that for me, He did that for every person he met. You either came to his office or he came to you. And he sat down and said, I am here to support you. He was not only a champion for individuals, but he was a champion for this entire community. As you've heard, when we had the murder of black men in this community, he led. a group of leaders in this community to make sure that that would not continue and never ever happen again. He created programs and services in this community and throughout the nation that are still in place. The National Urban League created a program called New Lights. It was a program where young adults from across the country in the age cohort of 14 to 18 would come to the National Urban League Conference. He was the first to bring a delegation from Buffalo, New York of young people. And today I can sit here and say every year because of what he created, Urban League affiliates across this nation bring young people to participate in that conference and their lives are forever changed because of the exposure and the support they receive when they get there. So his mark is not just in Buffalo. Bismarck is across this nation. And so as a community, When we teach people our history, we have to have parents who will tell their children about Mr. Cole and what he did and what impact it has had on their lives. I can go on and on and on and it wouldn't be enough time for me to express my gratitude to him the sacrifices his family made, and what he has really made as a lasting impression to this community. All of the things that you see this Buffalo Urban League doing in directly touching the lives, changing the lives of 20,000 people annually, who are in need, who are facing life's challenges, are in large part because of Mr. Leroy Cole. MR. Thank you. MS. Thank you. We could probably take the vote now, but I think that we got a few other speakers in this session. Keep it right at three minutes. Yes. Good afternoon, Council President and Council Members. My name is Commander Debbie Ransom, the founding commander of the Janetta R. Cole and Best Post Number 24, and I do not believe that they are related, but I need to do my homework. The reason why I'm here is after hearing everyone that is supportive of this in our community, that lives and works in our community, I guess I personally feel that as we have a representative council person should be representing what the community that he represents is saying, and I think that the community is saying, let's do this. And when we vote for people, we vote for them to work for us. And as I also continue on, even though I didn't know Mr. Coles, I'm a proud veteran. And anything that's going to help our youth, help our community understand, support, appreciate, and learn about the history of our heroes right here in Buffalo is very important. My last thing I would like to say is that I'm hoping to see a change in the Delavan Street Library's name, not just a name with Delavan Street Library added, I would like to see, just like every other library, like the Meriwether Library or the Frank E. Meriwether Jr. Library, and any of the other libraries, the new Hispanic named library, they don't have, they have formally particular library. So please, when you consider renaming, rename it even if you do a memorial, but name it Leroy R. Coles Jr. Branch Library. That's what I'm asking for, and I wanted to make that perfectly clear. We want to be able to be like any other library. strong and understanding thank you so much for giving me this opportunity I'm full because I'm proud I'm proud of us having this opportunity to say what we need to say so thank you all all the council members very very much thank you any other speakers and again if there's going to be other speakers please get as close as you can oh continue rolling uh council member good afternoon president gentlemen i've known mr coles my whole life and i had the honor of speaking at his funeral to talk about not just him at the urban league but as a family man mr coles was a family man he was a silent warrior I can tell you that many of you guys know me, or councilman, I'm sorry, for maybe Dave, he's known me 40 years, and some other folks I've known 20. But I would stay up late at night with Mr. Coles, and he would say, did you read this? Did you read that? So it's something, the fact that a library would be named after him because he was all about education, empowerment, and not just speaking off the top of your head. Before he would say something, he knew what he was going to say, and when he spoke, it meant something. And I can't tell you how much that he has been like a patriarch to the family, and I just... Say this would be the right thing to do and thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Thanks for you. Good afternoon council members I just want to quickly say that I'm here representing Group of organizations the black chamber of commerce Delavan Grider, I'm sorry citizens alliance Rock reclaiming our community coalition and the Deaconess site. We are all in favor of renaming library for mr. Coles. He's a definitely a fighter for our community and his history goes way back not only in Buffalo across the state and we are all in full support of renaming the library to exclusively have his name up there not next to East Delavan. There's no other libraries renamed with the name and the street continue and as we do rename libraries we need to keep that in mind and again we appreciate their bodies considering this and thank you. Thank you. We've heard from the community today, which I really appreciate everybody coming down to the chambers. This is really what the community is all about. A few questions. A few of our speakers, Post Commander Ransom mentioned the name. I just want to make sure that we're clear on the name so we don't have to do a correction later on. We don't want to have the East Delavan branch still in there. We just want the Leroy Harcoles Jr. Is the Jr. still proper? Is it still proper? Okay, so as long as the Jr. is still proper. Name similar to the Frank Meriwether branch library. So we want to be consistent with the Meriwether branch. So, can we do that as part of this hearing? I think we could. We're voting on today, Mr. Chairman. We just dedicated yesterday. The Niagara branch library, and we changed the name from outside building, working with Erie County. Mary Dean Dick Lebowski Yeah And we took off the Niagara branch library completely off the building and if you drive by and big bold letters You'll see he say F. Soto Gonzalez his family and approximately 100 people and it's interesting to note that Most of the dot libraries in Erie County are named after the town South District or Elma Amherst Library, they all have, with very few exceptions, so it is an honor and a privilege to name a library after an individual. And I think it's a legacy to his family and for all the children that are going to go to the library, they're going to look at that and they're going to say, who is that person? And they can also say, I want to be like that person, once they find out who that person was. So I think it's very important. It's something the community wants, and I'm certain that there's overwhelming support for this, but you can change the name completely. You can have it taken right off the building, and the big bold letters, it'll say his name. I'm wondering about the item, though, as far as what we do today, if this is approved today, I hope it is. Will that still go through properly? Can we just amend the item that it's named similar to the Merriweather Branch Library? Sure. and Assistant Corporation, Council Karen Gordon. I think we can make that amendment Right now right. That's what I was hoping to do because it's in the same spirit of the resolution We're just striking a section of it. Plus the sign would be mega li big now also Brenda was here from the Urban League and I would love this to be a legacy that continues Well beyond a name so anything we could work together with the Urban League in the future to bring that connection to the library I think would be a huge conduit. So we look forward to that relationship in the future and then thirdly I You've all mentioned, I've heard people mention about a young person seeing the name and saying, who is that? Well, this council years ago voted for a 1% art project cost to go into public art in buildings. We got a bill of, I don't know, about $20,000 one time for doors at the Meriwether Branch Library. And I says, I'm not voting for $20,000 for the doors. What are you, nuts? And they says, no, it's public art. It's the public art process. And if you look at the doors on the entrance to the Meriwether, they're all inscribed and very nice. that's public art so of course then I voted for once I knew it wasn't a $20,000 thrill of a dork but it's an actual real public art door I would like something to be placed at this library as part of our 1% so I'm asking staff our central staff to send a letter to Public Works to make sure that the 1% public art because we have a project going on there currently capital project they were expanding the library that 1% of that go towards some type of memorial MEMORIAL THAT SHOWS YOUNG PEOPLE AND ANY USERS OF THE LIBRARY THAT WHY THIS BRANCH WAS NAMED AFTER MR. COLES AND I THINK THAT WOULD BE A NICE FITTING TRIBUTE. let's just hope they haven't spent it yet but if they did we'll think of something else but if they haven't spent that we'll do it that way if not we'll do something else and then new signage is needed for the building so this is a good time to do this i want to thank everybody for coming forward today this item came through earlier at a process and to be honest with you folks i have only one and only one ambition for the lovejoy district is to be safe and viable and those are the options i work on every single day whether it's whether Whatever it takes. We just want to make sure it's safe and viable. And that's Mr. Coles' mission as well. And I'll end up with saying that I didn't know Mr. Coles because I'm only about 25 years back. And he was just finishing up as I was starting. I know Mr. Duffy. I didn't know Mr. Coles. But in the old days, I used to have Rosetta Kennedy working for me in my office. Well, I lack that knowledge now because I don't have Rosetta with us anymore, but I could call her. So I call Rosetta. I says, tell me all about Mr. Coles. And Roscoe doesn't come in the office as much anymore as he used to for talks. But she told me very, very fond things of Mr. Coles. She said it would be a very fitting tribute. And I asked my colleagues today if you could please vote for this. I'd appreciate it. So thanks to everybody for coming down. Thank you. Oh, and also, just also, I want to thank the original person that started the letter was Sandra Williams. Is Sandra here? Sandra? Well, thank you, Sandra. And we want to thank her. I gave you a call a couple weeks ago. I was just stopped by Newburgh Street. I never got over. But we want to thank you for sending the letter in. And so as we get ready to go to a vote, I did know Mr. Coles and he was an encourager of mine, especially when I first ran school board and first time a full-time pastor ever run. It beat me up pretty bad. And he came around and said something to the effect of, you know, son, you got to do what's right. You got to do what's right. And to get that from Mr. Coles, that was huge for him to even know who I was, first of all. And then to encourage me in that way, it did mean a lot. So we want to be very sure that we have this name right for the record. So is it to be named Leroy R. Coles Jr. or the entire middle name spelled out? No. Just Leroy R. Coles Jr.? Kyle Coles Jr. Branch Library. All right. So this council in the last few weeks has not only renamed, and I know Mr. Herndon is probably, or Gigi's father is up there probably really happy. This council unanimously voted for Delmar Mitchell to be the name for Northland Corridor, recently Sheriff Higgins. in different areas unanimously. And I think, you know, a name does mean a lot. And when somebody sees these names, I agree. It's important. So we want to, Councilman White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to be able to add my name. I know we're going to do a vote, but I want to thank two people who spoke here because they are mentors of mine, and they talked about Mr. Coles. Butch Holt, who gave me a job every year at NICYO. His son, Kevin Cooper, my cousin, passed, rest in peace, when he was when he was a young man, but he was a tremendous influence. And if I had time, I would tell a story about when I called in one day, and he called me on the phone and said, son, if you don't get here, you won't have a job. But that was one of the lessons that you have to learn as a young person to recognize, and people have to pour into you, and he was one. And Brendan McDuffie, one of my first articles that was written about me in Business First, She made a special statement about me that I will never forget. But those were things that added to me to give me my confidence. And so those two individuals being here in honor of Mr. Coles, who was someone that everyone talked about how he influenced them, I'm thankful for. So I'm thankful to be on his shoulders from those two individuals that he poured into my life. Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Thank you. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion to approve. Let's take a roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Yes. Council Member Francik. Yes to Mr. Cole, who I remember is a very, very nice man. Councilmember Golombak? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Council President Pridgen? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Councilmember Rivera? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Councilmember Wingo? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes to Leroy R. Coles Jr. Good stuff. Really good stuff. All right. We'll get to the more exciting part now of the agenda. From the top? From the top. Item 1, local landmark 1522 Broadway. Motion to send legislation items 1 through 3. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 4, report of sale 169 Keystone and 56 Lawrence. Motion to approve items. Second by Council Member Franzen. That's the motion to approve. I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 5, report of sale 12 Wakefield. Motion to approve. To approve? Is that to approve? Yes, to approve. Okay. Okay. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 6, appoint press information officer. Motion to receive and file item 6 and 7. Second by Council Member Friuleta. Item 8, interfund loan, Middle Main Street Project. Motion to approve items 8 through 11. Second by Council Member Glumbeck. Item 12, food store license 1350 Fillmore. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Friuleta. Item 13, food store license 819 Genesee. Motion to send the legislation items 13 and 14. Second by President Proton. item 15 food store license 2608 maine motion to approve my president item 16 used car dealer 407 south park motion to send the legislation singing by councilman franza item 17 appoint building inspector motion to send civil service item 18 agreement with pal for summer reading motion to approve items 18 through 20 Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item 21, item to return to City Clerk by Mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 21 through 26. Second by Councilmember Friulio. Item 27, notice of appointment, Council in turn. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Winkler. Item 28, notice of appointment is temporary or provisional or permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. SECOND BY PRESIDENT PRODUCTION SCANDAL. ITEM 29, NOTICE OF APPOINTMENT SEASONAL. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECOND BY CONSULTANT GOLUMBA. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS, ITEM 30, CONCERNS FAMILY DOLLAR, DOLLAR STORE, DOLLAR GENERAL. MOTION CENTERED CED ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT PERMITS AND INSPECTION. SECOND BY CONSULTANT MEMBER GOLUMBA. ITEM 31, CENTRAL STAFF TASK LIST, 2018, OCTOBER 16. MOTION TO RECEIVE AND FILE. SECOND BY CONSULTANT MEMBER GOLUMBA. ITEM 32, SEQ IRON NEG and my customer philip item 33 monthly city hall incident report motion to receive and file second by customer freedom item 34 department of public service commission motion to send a cd items 34 and 35 second by customer item 36 capital budget recommendation 2019 motion to receive and file Second by Council Member Wynne. Item 37, Community Foundation Invitation to the Racial Equality and Impact Analysis Tool Training. Motion to send to CDE. Second by Council Member Fileto. If I could just comment very quickly on this. They'll be coming to explain what they're asking us. It's a four-hour training of a multi-million dollar effort for racial equity. The largest businesses have signed on, been trained, and it is about hiring, it is about inclusion. It is probably one of the biggest efforts when it comes to examining and evening the racial divide in this area. It's huge. They sent me to San Diego year before last with Dr. Cash. This is big, so I'm going to encourage everyone. Councilman, I asked her to come here to kind of explain it a little bit more why they're asking for four hours of your time, but I promise you it's important that this body embrace it or at least hears it. Next item. Item 38, letter from Mayor to Commissioner Comerford. Thank you. Motion receiving file items 38 through 40 second my customer for a lot of 41 urban teacher residency program motion to send Education said my customer in petitions item 42 use 802 Elmwood Motion to send the legislation items like legislation city plan work items 42 through 45 say my customer friends Committee civil service item 1 appoint junior data control clerk somebody called it. I know please I Motion to approve items 1 through 3. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 4, notice of appointment temporary for provisional permit. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Freelander. Finance Committee, item 5, cash flow report July 2018. Keep calling, keep calling, he'll get there. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 6, financial management of accounts. Motion to table. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Community Development Committee, item 7, food store license 525 Broadway. Seating motion to approve item seven and eight second by councilman white Legislation committee item 10 special use permit 1416 hurdle motion to approve items 10 through including 13 second by councilman front in item 14 used car dealer to 27 film or motion to approve with conditions so my customer what item 15 property managers license I Motion to approve so my customer wife item 17 ordinance amendment chapter 437 taxi cabs liveries and sightseeing buses motion to recommit Sam I cause with a long back to as the floor Thank you Mr. President. A little bit of confusion about item number 17. This item, I received some phone calls from some people asking me if this was in response to the accident that they had in Skerry County over the past week or so ago, and it's not. This is something that I and this council has been working on for quite some time, and it's to try to make sure that we don't have an incident like what happened in Schoharie County. We don't want there to be, I don't want to speak for all of my colleagues, but to completely deregulate something does not leave the residents, the visitors, the tourists that come to the city of Buffalo completely safe. So what we're looking at is trying to revamp all of our taxicab license rules, et cetera. and we've been working on it slowly because we want to make sure that it gets done properly. So this is not a reaction to what happened a week or so ago, but it is something that's been ongoing for myself and this council. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item 19, Albright-Knox, request amendment to agreement to allow expansion. There are no objections. Motion to receive in file 19 through and including 21. Second by Council Member Fontana. Resolutions, item 46, commemorate 100th anniversary Poland independence. Motion to adopt items 46 and 48. Chair. My president, Phil Temskill. Council Member Franczak has the floor. Yes, thanks. On the Polish independence resolution that Council Member Golombek and I sponsored, Buffalo is one of the largest concentrations of Americans of Polish descent in the United States. And in fact, there were so many people of Polish descent that left the country, much like in Ireland after the potato famine, that the city of Chicago had more people of Polish descent than Warsaw, Poland. That's how many people left, primarily for economic reasons, but also for political reasons as well. Buffalo and western New York, Eastside, Black Rock neighborhoods, there was as many as 350,000 people of Polish descent living in western New York, which is a very large number. And there was great loyalty and patriotism to their country that they adopted, the United States, but they're always very and still are very concerned about events in the old country, what's going on there. And this year, Poland celebrates its 100th year of independence. It was a great power at one time and was independent with great achievements. And in fact, in May 1791, the Constitution of May the 3rd, they put out the most democratic constitution in the history of Europe up to that point. Ours was 1776. Theirs was a little later in 1791. But the autocratic powers that surrounded them didn't like that. Russia, Prussia, and Austria, those big countries came in and took away their independence. So for 100 years, the Poles didn't have independence until 1918. They fought for it. And also President Woodrow Wilson of the United States was part of those 14 points and said if there are people of a certain background and ethnicity and language and they want their own country, they should have their own country. So they fought for it, the 14 points, got their own country back. was tragically lost in 1939 in World War II, and then for over 50 years of communist domination, but now they've become free again. And so we're celebrating those 100 years, and then when we come to the point of announcements of events in the community, I'll mention some of the events that are being commemorated by the Polish community in Buffalo, too. MEMORIAL OF THE PAST. I WANT TO REMEMBER THIS EVENT. AGAIN, PEOPLE THAT ARE VERY PROUD TO BE AMERICANS BUT ALSO ARE STILL VERY DEEP FAMILY TIES TO THE OLD COUNTRY IN POLAND. THANK YOU. NEW SPEAKER THANK YOU, SIR. THERE WAS SOMETHING THAT NEEDED TO BE REVISITED. NEW SPEAKER NO, SAME ITEM. NEW SPEAKER OH, I'M SORRY. THE SAME ITEM. NEW SPEAKER IF YOU COULD ADD MY NAME TO THE RESOLUTION, I APPRECIATE IT. NEW SPEAKER ALL RIGHT. ADDING COUNCILMEMBER PONTANA'S NAME. ADDING COUNCILMEMBER WYATT'S NAME. I don't know much about it, but I'm going to trust you or not when I have my name. Pastor Ramgol, I'm back. Thank you, Mr. President. You know, I want to say that it's a great honor to be on this resolution. My grandfather came to this country in the early turn of the 19th, 20th century, and he ended up fighting for the United States in the First World War in the military, in the Army. as did an uncle of mine. Like about a quarter to a third of all Poles that came to America, he went back to Poland in 1920-21 when Poland was reconstituted as a state. So if that wouldn't have happened, my grandfather would have most likely stayed in this country. In 1930, my father was born in Poland and lived there during the German occupation and the Soviet occupation. And around 1946, 47, he was 16, 17 years old. And he had the opportunity of having the choice of being an American or a Polish citizen. And he looked at what had gone on under the Nazis, he looked at what was going on under the communists, and he said, boy oh boy oh, America looks good. And so I'm so glad that he made that decision to come to this country, because he wouldn't have met my mother, I wouldn't be here right now. But it's with great honor, as I mentioned, that I co-sponsor this resolution. the historical nature, as Mr. Francik said, of a great number of people that are of Polish background that live in this community. And it's just one of the many fibers that make Buffalo into the great community that it is. The Latinas that were dancing earlier today, that's part of it. The cute little one stole all of our hearts. You know, and we have every week when we have a council meeting, we bring in so many different groups into this council. And there's so many different ethnic festivals throughout this community. And it's really become a microcosm and a melting pot. And in all of our neighborhoods, we have groups like the Burmese and others. So it's just wonderful to have so many of these different groups. And I'm proud of my Polish heritage today. as we celebrate the 100th anniversary of its re-found independence. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you for educating us, those of us who did not know. Thank you. Was there an item to revisit? Number 35, Mr. President? Number 35. And what I'm going to ask, and I'm going to ask council staff to put at the end of every agenda, is revisiting of items so that during the meeting we don't have to stop and revisit. So when we get to the end of the agenda, so if you all are okay with that, that way when we get to the end, like we did just now, we can come back to it. Council Member Wyatt, you wanted to revisit item 35, you said? Yes, sir. Council Member Revere, motion to revisit item 35. Second by Councilmember Lumbe. The item is in front of us. Councilmember White. I want to thank the council staff for getting this item back on getting this item on the agenda. I got this email that charter was increasing rates spectrum. It just baffles my mind that you know with all the things going on that we would get a notice our residents would get a notice of a rate increase and I know that they have I believe a 45 day window that the PFC is asking them to move on. And I just would like them to move on. Because I think they have done a disservice to this community. And everyone is struggling with the expense of cable, Wi-Fi, all those things. And for the problems that they're having, For them to send out a notice for increase is just an insult to injury. And it just shows that they have no care, no concern about the residents of the city of Buffalo. That even though they haven't done what they said they were going to do, the state is trying to move them out. They still think that they are... should be able to receive an increase. And so again, that shows that they are disconnected to the city of Buffalo, disconnected to our residents, that they think that it's okay to submit a rate increase. So I hope that we've sent this to finance and that we are gonna have a meeting with the PSC to talk about our concerns and that we're hopeful that they will make the decision and make it stick, that spectrum move on, because they have done us no favors here in the City of Buffalo. They've drilled one problem after another. They've undersold and undersold and underdelivered and underdelivered. And when they continue to think that they own us, they have no respect for us. Our residents, they had no respect for the council, that we had public government access, that we had on the station that many residents can go and get information. Now that information is lost. No one goes to station 1000. We had a conversation with them and they had no recourse. They felt no remorse about that or never even thought about, will we visit it? No, they just said it's going to be like it is. They have some things on that station that, again, the education that we were getting from that station for the education that they saw the Board of Education meetings, all those things that we've developed over a long period of time, as well as the disrespect for the producers, who, Council President, you were a producer for a long time of public access. These folks who have built up a fan base or a viewership base that now they just don't do it, you know. So again, it's time for Spectrum to move on and this is just another insult to injury that these folks think that they deserve a rate increase based on what I have no idea. They must be looking at somewhere in the moon that we're not there. But I think they need to move on and I hope the PSC makes their decision final that Spectrum needs to move from the western New York area to the state of New York. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We gave council staff an assignment to send to New York State our concerns that that occurred. Malcolm or the council chief of staff. Yes, the letter went out last week. The item is, I forget which number, but it's on this agenda. The actual area. So that's going to CD and you know, it's tough when you're only game in town because you own a lot of infrastructure. At the end of the day, there is, you know, it's time for the franchise agreement to be renegotiated. BUT WHO ELSE DO YOU NEGOTIATE WITH? NEW YORK STATE DOESN'T SAY GOODBYE. AND SO YOU STILL GOT TO NEGOTIATE WITH THE SAME ENTITY. AND IT IS UNFORTUNATE, COUNCILMEMBER WYATT, BECAUSE WE DEPEND SO MUCH NOW ON CABLE. IT'S LIKE THE OLD DAYS WHEN EVERYBODY HAD THE FLYING PHONE. YOU HAD TO HAVE A PHONE IN THE HOUSE. WE DEPEND ON THE CABLE. AND THEY ARE NOW THE ONES WHO HAVE THE PHONE, THE INTERNET, AND OUR TV AND NEWS. And if they go up to $230, what do we do? You know? If you want all those things, and that's unfortunate, and that should be considered in this franchise agreement. And I hope whoever from the city of Buffalo is meeting with them right now, that they do not take for granted this council and believe that any type of agreement that they're going to bring to us, that we are going to rubber stamp and zippity-doo-dah, zippity-day, go along with it. It won't happen from this council member. It's going to be scrutinized. It's going to be scrutinized all the way to the end of channel 1300 and whatever we're on. And as long as it takes the people to get to there, and again, the letter that I got that said it couldn't be considered, sure it can be considered, because it's a matter of trust. And when you're making, when you get this much money from residents and then didn't even tell some of the residents what the discounts were. And I talked to one of the customer service people over there. They were told according to them not to tell people. You sell the package. You don't ask a question, are you a senior? You don't ask the question, is this your first time getting cable? You sell the package. You sell the package. So since they sell the package, when their package is in front of this Common Council, this Common Council has a responsibility to scrutinize it. It's our job, and we'll see it when it comes in front of us. Councilman Fontana. In the old days, you used to get static on your television. Now you get static on the phone line when you talk to them because they'll throw every line of defense at you before they'll offer you a discount. Now, this is not a small increase. This is a Billy Fusillo huge increase, 10%. I hope you got that quote. That is a 10% increase. Well, you're advertising for Billy. I hope she's listening over there. No, I'm just joking. I know how to get ink. 10% though is a large increase. And guess what? Now they've made us all get the boxes. The boxes are going up now too. So we all got a big increase. The boxes don't cost them more. They've actually sold less. They've sold more of them. So for the boxes to increase now as well as a hit to the residents that are forced now to get a box. Thank you, gentlemen. Anything else? Cause our change? Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, October 23rd, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Education, Tuesday, October 23rd, 12 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, October 23rd, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, October 23rd, 2 p.m. Anything else, Council Members? Council Member Franczak. Thank you, Mr. President. Just apropos of ongoing celebrations in Buffalo, the 100th anniversary of Polish independence, on Saturday, October 27th, at the Hyatt Regency in Buffalo, there will be a grand gala in Ball, Polonez, celebrating the 100th anniversary of Polish independence at 6 p.m., The Buffalo Philharmonic on Sunday, October 28th, will put on a presentation in honor of the 100th anniversary of Polish independence featuring Paderewski's Poland. And also in Joe's district and the North District, on November 11th, there will be a concert mass and reception honoring the 100th anniversary of Poland's rebirth and Veterans Day. And Americans of Polish descent have served in every American war since the War of Independence. And also the Polish cadets of Polonia will commemorate Polish independence on November 17th at the Polish Cadets' Hall on Grant Street. Thank you. already no other announcements motion to adjourn second by council president protest christopher p scanlon chris