FONTANA. Present. Councilmember Francik, here. Councilmember Golombek, here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Forum present. Join us for the play. This is a play. To the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. We bow. Our Chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. For. Praise be to the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of compassion and the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our trouble, so that we can comfort ourselves. I have resounded down my remarks because my thoughts were discombobulated today. As for many of you council members in the gallery and those that will watch this on television, our hearts are so heavy. I would like to welcome the police department, and I would like to welcome Craig Lehner. As you may know, Craig has three families. His deeply hurting physical, his post-scarred family, and his Buffalo Police Department family, with all of them in indescribable pain today. It hits close to home for those of us in City Hall. Some of you may have been to the dive site. Pastor Prigg did not become president, but his pastor went there. And as a minister and the chaplain of this council, Debbie and I went there Sunday, Sunday afternoon. Deanna, thank you for the invitation to do it. We represent you when we went to that Diocese. We spent time and prayed with family and first responders and are reminded everyone we prayed with that they were hearing just Debbie and me pray, but behind us are thousands and thousands of Buffalonians that are praying. They may be hearing just two voices or a few voices, but everywhere I go, people are talking about this. Buffalo is a city of good neighbors, good days, and bad. So as we pause now and pray, I know your prayers have already been going up, but let me verbalize this for us collectively, if you would. Father, you know the people on this Friday have focused on that one tract of water and one brave man. a man who regularly put his life at risk. How do you know today all those that are part of his family and except family and friends, but Lord especially for his physical family, the ache and pain and overwhelming thoughts of every one of them. We join with them right now. And as Scripture says so well, the God of all, we invite you Lord into this seemingly to us impossible situation. Lord, first of all, I pray for those that are diving, some of them who are grief-stricken themselves. Keep every one of them safe. Thank you for cities and states that have responded, and even from Canada, to help us at our time of need. I pray safety for every diver and eagle eyes as they search. Lord, I pray for the family and all the agony they're feeling. I pray that you, the God of comfort, would come especially close to each and every one of them. And then, Lord, I pray as... Buffalo Police Department spokesman said so well that they'll be able to find their brother. Lord, I pray that even now that would be taking place. Lord, I thank you that even when we don't have words to express, our hearts and prayers make a difference. We thank you for your presence through all seasons, all times, all ways, and we thank you in the preciousness Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain, for such appropriate remarks. Councilmember Zamora? Councilmember Glombe? Thank you, Mr. President. Annette Beaver passed away a week and a half ago. She is the sister and sister-in-law of former police, I think, lieutenants and captains. Christine and James Giardina. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and friends. And also George Cook passed away. Used to joke with him, I would see him, he lived across the street from St. Francis Xavier Church and I would see him there, it's now the Religious Arts Center, I used to joke with him that he was the mayor of Black Rock. He was always sitting out on the porch keeping an eye on everything. One of those people that we have them on throughout our entire neighborhood, but he's going to be sorely missed by his family, his friends, and everybody that knew him. Thank you. Anyone else? I'm assuming for what? Prayers go out to the family of our former deputy clerk, Mary Baldwin, and the loss of her aunt, Lucy Taylor. And I believe she's going to be funeralized through Bethel. I'm just praying for her and her family. Thank you. Yes, and she was funeralized today at 11 o'clock. Any others? We are... Of course, praying for the families of six soldiers who have died since our last meeting that are and civilians and other personnel who have given their life for our country and for others' freedom since our last meeting, we pause for a moment of silence. You may be seated. I'm going to ask the Majority Leader to take the chair for just five minutes. The late files are before you. There are no objections. we will move that we accept the late files it doesn't preclude you from objecting at any points through the late files I'm going to ask councilmember a frantic I have the well there's a presentation here by councilmember Dave frantic go right ahead thank you he's in a meeting back there When Russell is recognizing the achievement of the gentleman who is making his way to the center floor here, Mike Mulley. Mike Mulley, they always say that life is short, art is long. I never really understood what that meant. I guess one thing to prove that Mr. Mully has dedicated his entire life to the pursuit of our people. To the to our health of our citizens that don't have the necessity of life, but we also have that life, both meaningful, both as well as a place for many people to live. Art Gallery, you know, and then for the years, so, that, that replaced the Art Gallery, there was a business that, the first darkness to switch handle, what it did was, they opened a gallery, uh, to market our cables, very successful, a bike installed, and they offered very good, I can tell you directly that he has taken some wonderful pictures of the famous Broadway Market, public book while growing market still our place so based on his several decades of place like to take today calling for Mike I present this to you thank you very much this is Anyway, I just want to thank my neighborhood, Allentown. I came to Allentown in 1997. I immediately found a home and comrades in the arts and the performing arts and visual arts. And I just want to, if I have to thank one person other than my mother, of course, it would be Walter Matt. Walter gave me a little teeny-tiny storefront in 1997. And in October 1998, I moved to the larger one on the front of Allen Street. the music and basically being an oasis in the middle of our little neighborhood for people, although everybody was welcome, everybody came, everybody enjoyed. And I just want to thank my neighborhood, Allentown, and the city of Buffalo. Thanks. Motion to take item 44 and 47 out of order. Right before that, Mr. Revere, on a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mrs. Scanlon, the minutes stated meeting held on October 3, 2017 are approved. And then the motion on the floor is to take those items out. Could you give me the number again, Mr. Revere? Item 44 and 47. Item 44 and 47 are being taken out of order, seconded by Council Member Franczak. Clerk? Item 44, discharge item 17-1489, discharge item from CD. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member White. Item 47, support of United States government efforts for Puerto Rico. Motion to adopt. Motion is to adopt, and this is a resolution that I wrote that is asking the President of the United States to continue his efforts in the aid of our brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico. It might seem that it is not a city issue, but I believe that it definitely is an issue that the city should be responsive in, especially and regardless of whether we had as many people who are of Puerto Rican descent in our city, but just because it's the right thing to do. And so we are encouraging the President of the United States, and this is going not only to the offices that hopefully have influence over our President, to be able to say that at least one city in the United States on the mainland is concerned about pulling out of Puerto Rico before the power is back on, before people are safe. um in in their areas and the infrastructure is there puerto rico is a part of us we are a part of puerto rico and so this is so important um that we do that so thank you to my colleagues uh for allowing this resolution uh to go forward and at this time um something that we normally don't do. Normally we do the presentations first, but I wanted to attach what is about to happen that Mr. Rivera is going to do with this resolution because I think this is so important. Majority Leader? Thank you very much, Council President. I just want to take this opportunity to thank all of the people of the City of Buffalo and the various communities that have contributed to the relief fund of Puerto Rico. The Mayor of the City of Buffalo held an event in front steps of City Hall, and he assigned senior members of his staff to coordinate with the community a relief fund on behalf of the City of Buffalo. At that event we had Mayor of Dunkirk Rosa, we had our County Executive, we had Council Members, and we had members of various organizations throughout the community, including the Hispanic Heritage, Council with Casimiro Rodriguez. We had Father Bell, the president of Father Bell, the president of the board, Oswaldo Mestri, and a senior level member of the Brown administration. We had Chido Vivencia, who flew, who's been here from Puerto Rico. We had Johnny Sanabria. And of course, we had Luz Candelario, who is the executive director of the Father Bell Romeo Levencia, who lent the community center for a series of meetings that we had leading up and during the fun drive. And I just want to mention some of the things that were collected. In Buffalo, the city of Buffalo, under the leadership of the mayor, and I want to give the mayor... Credit because it was his administration that led this effort along with all the organizations that are here before you. Buffalo amassed over 300 pallets of emergency supplies including seven tons of food, 28,000 different personal care items including paper products, baby items, and cleaning supplies. We know of Buffalo's deep connection to Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands. I want to thank all of the leaders of this donation drive, starting with the mayor. His leadership on this effort is what made it so successful. I want to recognize Oswaldo Mestre and Romero Vencia for their hard work and dedication to the mayor's drive. They knew it would be a heavy lift. That's why the city couldn't do it alone. We thank all of the community partners for their efforts, especially Luz Candelario. I can't say enough about the work that Luz has done. She was always lifting and working. When people perhaps were tired of working, she was still there working tirelessly, collecting the food drives at the center, opening the doors for the donations. This week, I received a call from members of the Vietnamese community who came here in the 70s. I imagine in the 70s or approximately more or less in that time period. They have located in different parts of the city. Many of them reside, do business, and have a community center in the heart of the West Side in the city of Buffalo. And I was contacted regarding a donation. and I called the person on the phone not knowing what the donation was and they said we want to make take a check we wanted to bring a check and I said that's great we bring the check and then when he said I said well how much is the check and he says twelve thousand dollars that is the largest donation of any group to this day I want to say that Despite all the money that we have collected, there's still a need in Puerto Rico for much more. It is still recovering, and they still need the very basic things to survive, like water, like electricity. So we're going to continue to accept funds. on behalf of the City of Buffalo. And I want to ask all those organizations that were part of this meeting, I want to ask Oswaldo, Cass, Chido, Johnny Sanabria, Luis Candelario, John Rivera, John, you can come down too, Will, anybody else, am I missing somebody? The members of the Vietnamese community, please come down. Thank you. I want to thank all the council members for their generosity and donations to the relief fund it is in times like this that this country comes together whether it's houston whether it's south florida the u.s virgin islands it is during the times of disasters and problems that this country shows its best and i just want to thank everyone that is here obviously every organization I want to give an opportunity to Oswaldo Mestre on behalf of the administration and then Luz Candelario who set up an account at Father Bell a relief account where we're going to present this check Luz is going to deposit the check that you're presenting today and I am so encouraged and proud of the support from the Vietnamese community. It means so much when immigrants and refugees from different parts of the world come together to help other people here in the United States. Thank you so much. I want to give Oswaldo an opportunity. Oswaldo Pinarello, U.S. Secretary of State for Human Rights, U.S. Secretary of State all of the elected officials, but let me just underscore the resiliency of the people of Buffalo and western New York. We have many Latino leaders in this community are blessed and humbled to be doing this work. Many of us have family members that are in Puerto Rico, and they need our prayers. They need, you know, just hope in terms of what we can do for folks. And so this is just not the solution. We are our brother's keeper, so Buffalo is no different. Buffalo, you've seen people come all the way from Gasport, I mean, to the Bell Center to items. And so now we are in another phase where what we hear from they need money and they need dollars to purchase a particular item. So the money raised at the committee, we've been meeting once a week to talk about what we're going to be doing in terms of having boots on the ground talking to the community that I affected. So this money, we say thank you very much. These efforts, we say thank you to Western New York and all of the councilmen and all of the elected officials here. And let me say this. We thank you. I mean, thank you very much for your efforts. We understand that the human bond of people are what we do for each other. And so the fact of the matter here is that We are one in terms of Buffalo, and we want to thank you for your effort. I usually don't like public speaking, but I do have to say from the bottom, thank you so much. I tend to get all the answers on behalf of the committee, but it's truly a proof of the labor of love. And on behalf of the grateful people, I am. Now, youth presentation. Well, I'm tempted with you all. As you all know, within a month, we already can hit our beloved homeland in the Virgin Islands. And I was there at the Virgin Islands in August when I go on vacation. That makes things easier to set up this fundraising. But most important is we are at the Vietnamese community. We know firsthand how devastating it is. People put our homeland every year, we got, you know, flooded by hurricane and whatever. And we were here 30 years and this country was so grateful, you know. We come here with our bare hands. And the water worked out. Now we are stuck with something. So after the three hurricanes, all our community, actually they, the people, are calling us, you know, we have to do something for all the people. That's why I remember, but really we get it. On September 30th, we did make it happen. We have a fundraiser in our own community and we were surprised. We thought we were gonna make like 2,000, you know, but people were tremendous and then they stole their heart. You know, they stole, they said that the way, you know, just a little small thank you. This country has been so good and successful here. And this is just a small thing, you know, to be here with all the . Anyways, so final, the number after we calculate is $12,550. I would like to thank you. Thank you all so very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. I just want to announce the total to date. We have raised $80,000. Thank you so much. $12,000. You said just a little bit, huh? Yeah, that is telethon money without all the calls. Thank you. While they're talking, I want to ask that the council go into a brief recess. I'm going to ask that the council members would meet me to the left of the chambers. I do understand open meeting laws, and it is just a sensitive matter. However, based on open meeting laws, if there are four of us in the room, then the press or anyone else is allowed to be there. However, what I am going to ask is you just give us, and you can walk in if you want to. I have no problem with it just to establish four open meeting laws. Go in this recess second by Councilman Glumbeck. So. All right, we're going to go back on the record and come out of recess. Moved by Majority Leader, seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Thank you to the public for allowing us that time. According to the reports of our local newspaper and also confirmed with the Buffalo Police Department by myself that the body... Craig has been located and so I wanted to take the time to come out for the council members to hear that and our employee Chris I sent our president pro temp to escort her to the site okay one request to name Dartmouth Park motion to approve Adopt. Motion is to adopt. Is that an approval or adopt? Adopt. It's asking us to go forward. Alright, motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Franzenko. Item 2, Submission Monthly Report, September 2017. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 3, Utilization of BEN-LIC to Obtain Title or Bid Rights in INRAM 51. Motion to approve Items 3 and 4. Second by Council Member Friuletto. Staff, please close the door. Item 5, notification of cereals. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 6, agreement for sidewalk snow removal. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Frielo. Item 7, Buffalo Museum of Science, Culture, and Recreational Easement. Motion to approve Item 7 through 18. Second by Council Member Frielo. Item 19, position allocation maintenance. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 20, purchase two response vehicles. Motion to approve second by councilman friends item 21 food store license 314 Hampshire motion to send legislation items 21 through 25 Second my councilman friends. I'm 26 1420 Main Street public dancehall motion to approve And my comes with a bloom but I'm 27 secondhand dealer license 31 24 Bailey motion to send to legislation items 27 through 29 to my customer in fellow item 30 purchase auction scrap vehicle of a Stop a vehicle motion to approve items 30 through 35 second my councilman Next item 36 residency waiver report motion to receive and file items 36 through 40 I Thank you. Council Member, uh, second by Council Member Frioletto, I'm, I apologize for so much going on. Are there any objections to any of the late files in the agenda? Hearing none, we will proceed with the entire agenda. Item 41, notice of appointment, Council intern. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 42, notice of appointment, temporary provisional permit. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golombet. Miscellaneous item 43, SEAF short environmental assessment form 10.9 Clinton. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilman Byrd, Wyatt. Committee, civil service item 1 appoints senior accounts clerk typist. Motion to approve items number 1 through 14. Second by Councilman Frioletto. Item 15 appoints senior production editor. 15. Recommit. Recommit. motion to make recommit second by councilman fontaine item 16 appoint cocker supervisor motion to approve item 16 17 and 18. second by council member glumber i have 19 notes appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to receive and file saying my councilman free load item 20 appoint assistant to assessor motion to be committed second by councilman friends I mean your development committee item 21 by regarding Richie soul food motion to receive in file and my customer but I'm 22 designate developer 57 Howard motion TO APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS. ALL RIGHT. THIS MOTION IS TO APPROVE WITH CONDITIONS. AND I KNOW THAT THEIR DEVELOPER IS HERE. AFTER SEVERAL COMMUNITY MEETINGS, AND I DO WANT TO THANK BOTH THE DEVELOPERS FOR MEETING WITH THE COMMUNITY ON MULTIPLE OCCASIONS AND CHANGING THIS PROJECT at least twice based on community concern. What I'm submitting for the record is what the community and the developer agreed on in writing that would include school 75 and several parcels of land that are high lit. Now, the one that is being submitted to the clerk is that one in color, because you gave me a black and white copy here. All right, so the clerk has the Blackley color copy and it will be an approval with the parcels that are listed on what is submitted that would include parcels on Howard, Adams, and Monroe as listed in the submission. Second by Councilmember Branzac, and again, thank you. I made the motion. Oh, did we do a motion? Yeah, I did the motion. Okay, oh you did the motion. I'm sorry. Second by the Majority Leader, and thank you for meeting with the community over and over. Giving the community what they asked for the first time, and then giving what they asked for the second time. It is a veterans housing project that I'm happy to support. Thank you. Next slide. Legislation Committee Item 23, extend DDA community hope builders. Motion to approve. All right, this is an approval with conditions, and for the record, the conditions are that the developer must come back to the council in six months with an identified funding source for this project. So although it says 12 months as requested because they needed that for the grant, I want to be very clear that the developer has agreed that this will be reviewed in six months. If in six months there is not an identified funder for this project, it would be the council's... It would be up to the council on whether this is extended for the second six months. So on paper it does say 12 months with a six month review. Um, Brendan Mahaffey has been briefed on this and agrees with this, so let the record show six months after today's date at the next, and we will, we should, uh, council staff, we should file a resolution at least by tomorrow, that would state these facts so that it would go back to the legislation committee and sit on the table for those six months to be revisited. And the reason for this is to make sure we've already this property, all of these properties have already been with the designated developer for over a year. They were not successful at this point at finding a funder. And I don't want to see these properties sit for a year and then another year, we have to start putting some timelines that are agreeable so that these projects don't just sit. So that has been established with Brendan Mahaffey, established with the developer, and let the record so reflect. Make sure we have that Next item. Item 24, permission to designate developer Broadway Walnut and Archie Lotz. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glumbert. Item 25, zoning map amendment 1029-1043 Clinton. The item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Freeland. Item 26, special use permit 285 Southside. There are no objections. Motion to approve items 26 and 27. Seconded by Council Member Colombo. Item 28, use 3144 Main Street. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 29, use 20 Buffalo River for Hellport. 29 and 30, motion receive and file. Second by Councilman Fonten. Item 31, used car dealer 1906 Genesee. 31 is approved with a zero car limit, and item 32 is approved with a 24 car limit. Second by Councilman Fonten. Who has the floor? Well, you might be wondering why I said zero cars, but it's the same applicant for both lots, and they're on the corner of the street. So you've got Genesee Street and a street in between, and I'm voting today the way I would vote if I was a resident there wanting to see what I see every day coming home. I'm not going to allow them to choke off traffic with cars on that street anymore. It's done. They've been doing it for a long time. The corner building is just a building, never was a car lot before. I granted a car lot status, I think, in the late 90s. Never been too much of a problem. But there's no display area. The display area is in the back on the side street. So there's absolutely no reason to continue that operation with a display area behind the location on a side street that people live on. So since it's the same applicant, I've determined to give him zero cars at that location, but give him his full allotment that the fire department allowed at 24 across the street. If he can't make money selling 24 cars at a time, then he should pick another business. And that's the final ruling, and I appreciate my colleagues for supporting on that. I think the residents of the street will appreciate this ruling. That's pretty short. Motion to revisit item 36. Yes. Seconded by Councilmember Ferriero. Residency waiver report. Motion to rescind the motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Berneberg. Motion now to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember White. Resolutions. Item 45, BMHA Acknowledgement of City Debt. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Item 46, Council Member excused from meeting. Motion is to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Item 48, Fee Waiver Fantastic Friends of Western York Fundraiser. Motion to approve Items 48 and 49. Second by Council Member Frenzel. Item 50, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service. Tuesday, October 24th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance. Following civil service. Committee on community development. Tuesday, October 24th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation. Tuesday, October 24th, 2 p.m. Special committees. Committee on education. Tuesday, October 24th, 1230 in room 1417. All righty. Council members, any announcements? If we could... Make a motion just to excuse formerly mr. Scanlon from the rest of the meeting that was Something I've talked over with a lot of her. Okay I don't think we have he was already on record when we started. Yep Yeah, but I believe if you leave early sometimes you're supposed to excuse. Okay, we can so Motion motion is to excuse Council member Chris Scanlon from the rest of the meeting from the rest of the meeting but let the record reflect He was you know, right second by customer thank you motion to adjourn oh is there anything else all right I'm just want to invite the residents of the University District to our first annual Halloween on Bailey which is going to take place October 27 at 530 7th, excuse me, at 7th. This is an event that we want to keep young people safe and give them some activity. And so this is, you know, thank the Bailey Check Cashing for being the major sponsor. And it's been doing a tremendous job in the district in helping us to make sure that we have activities on one of our main thoroughfares. So again, October 27th at 7 p.m., Bailey Check Cashing, we want the children to come out and have a fun time and wear positive characters positive characters, no scary characters. Thank you, sir. And also the Ellicott District is sponsoring a senior costume party on October 25th, 10 to 3 o'clock. The YMCA, I think last year there was about almost 500 seniors that showed up. So thank you to Terry who helps to put this together and all seniors are invited. I'm free of charge. um by request of uh council member golombic and in respect to our fallen officer we would ask that today when we dismiss we dismiss in silence until we meet motion motion made to adjourn second by council member columbia