Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Glumbach. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Aki. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. We come together today and The Bills won and the whole city rejoiced over the weekend because a city and its suburbs come together to celebrate such a time. I'd like to just camp there today, but there's something else heavy on my heart and I think also something that brings tragically our community, its city, and suburbs together. Since this council last met in full session, Kira Benefield is dead on October 5th. here in the city of Buffalo, three children that she leaves behind. The next day, on October 6th, Mary Beth Burgum and Nancy and Mark Burgum and Clarence were also tragically killed, murdered. Within a day, the city came together, united in grief, not around the celebration of victory, but around the tragic death and loss On the nightly news, you hear the statistic that murders are up across the nation, but to these families, that's not a statistic. I don't know if it's in every one of your districts, but in all too many of them, on the anniversary of the murder of a child or a family member, there are prayer vigils and candles lit, and they're united in grief and And sometimes we want to hold that a bit at arm's length because it's so painful. But that's part of the burden that a city collectively carries. Scripture in Psalm 34, the Lord is close to the brokenhearted. He rescues those whose spirits are crushed. The Lord is close to the brokenhearted. He rescues those whose spirits are crushed. Today, I want to lead us. in the Council and in the Chambers as we pray for these seven children and all that will need to come alongside to support them in this time of immeasurable, unspeakable grief and loss. But I also want to add to that families who've experienced tragedy and acts of violence that continue to haunt them on a daily basis. A few weeks ago I had Pastor Giles from Buffalo Peacemakers here. I want to pray for those organizations that are reaching out so effectively and calling and working for peace. And we have those in law enforcement with us today. I want to pray for all those that are charged with keeping safety but also then investigating these horrific crimes that scar a city but can unite us asking God to be close to the brokenhearted and rescue those whose spirits are crushed. Would you bow with me in prayer? Father, within just a day two families were shattered forever and Lord I know that many here on the council have had those within their own districts who understand all too well such horrific outcomes. Lord we are broken hearted in grief and mourning with those who are in such great hurt and agony and pain and lord for some of us who don't understand it fully others understand it all too well i pray lord for every family that's been affected every family that's been impacted and especially for these seven children just a couple of weeks ago Lord, I pray that you would be close to those, the brokenhearted. We pray for Pastor Giles and peacemakers and so many that are working to better conclusions. Lord, I pray you'd bless their efforts, multiply them. We pray for those in law enforcement and first responders who see so much and carry such a load. I ask, Father, that you'd help turn the light on unsolved crimes and, Lord, bring to justice where justice is due. Thank you, Father, for your being close to this group today as they gather and deliberate. Thank you and blessings, blessings, blessings for your presence in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council Members and Morals, Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Council President. Just want to ask the city for their prayers for one of our E-District officers, Aaron Murphy. One of the officers told me she was just so bubbly. She was one of the happiest officers. He just couldn't believe how happy he was, but something happened. And so we don't know what that is, but I know that her family, as pastor, our chaplain talked about families being crushed. I'm sure her family is crushed, and we just want to lead them in prayer, letting them know that the city is praying with them. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Glumbin. Thank you, Mr. President. The Riverside neighborhood All Saints Parish lost one of our old, small old stalwarts, Mrs. Ruff, Judy Ruff. She was a mother of friends of mine growing up in the neighborhood, her sons. Mike and Mark, daughter Sherry, pre-deceased by her husband, but passed away after a short fight and a short illness. She's gonna be missed not only by her family and friends, but the parishioners at All Saints and St. Amelia's. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? Hearing no other, we always remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country, for the freedom of other countries across this world. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. This morning we'll begin, or this afternoon, we'll begin with a special presentation by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. We are joined today by representatives of Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center. We have Michael Johnson, the Director of Government and Community Affairs. We have Dr. Marie Quinn, the Director of Breast Imaging, and Isnery Colon, the Health Education Specialist with Roswell Park. For those of you who do not know October is Breast Cancer Awareness Month. And although we are always vigilant and always fighting the disease of cancer on a continual basis, in October we take time out to focus on breast cancer awareness, creating additional awareness, raising funds to fight this terrible disease that will impact one in eight women in their lifetime. And right there at ground zero fighting that battle is Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center. And although we know about the doctors and the nurses and the tremendous work they do there at Roswell Park, it really is a holistic approach as well. In addition to that, they have patient navigators who help women with programming, transportation if needed, of childcare if needed. They do not need prescriptions or referrals. They can come right in for mammograms and not delay it. As we all know, early detection is paramount in treating the disease. So on behalf of the council, I want to thank you for the tremendous work you're doing at Roswell Park. We have a proclamation on behalf of the council members from all nine council members. And if I could read this, each October, we recognize Breast Cancer Awareness Month in the United States in an effort to raise awareness of the disease and to raise funds for research into its cause prevention, diagnosis, treatment, and cure. One in eight women will get breast cancer in their lifetime and men can get breast cancer too. Roswell Park recommends annual screening mammograms starting at age 40 for women of average risk because annual mammography has been shown to save lives. In recognition of breast cancer awareness, the City of Buffalo Common Council recognizes Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center for its continued service to those suffering from this disease in addition to the numerous others they serve. Founded in 1898, Roswell Park has the distinction of being the first dedicated cancer research center in the United States. Now, therefore, we hereby proclaim in honor of Breast Cancer Awareness Month that it is an honor and a privilege for the City of Buffalo Common Council to extend our gratitude to Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in recognition for their continued service to the community, and we sincerely thank them for their diligent service to the communities of Buffalo and Western New York. So on behalf of myself and my colleagues on the Common Council, who I'm sure have all Known people affected by this terrible disease have families who have been impacted by this terrible days I want to thank you for the incredible work that you do there at Roswell Park And thank you so much for coming in today. Thank you so much for having us and That was wonderful. I don't have much to add. Thank you for advocating for yearly screening mammograms beginning at 40. They do save the most lives On behalf of Roswell Park we all appreciate it and we think that everyone for being here and Our major thing is getting woman over 40 to get their mammograms done It does save lives and we encourage all the woman to you know, get their screenings done Terrific. So Roswell Park is the only business I know trying to put themselves out of business Thank you, thank you president pro temp we now have a special presentation by councilmember Wingo I Thank you, Mr. President. I'm going to ask that Captain Rick Williams and his colleagues come down to the council floor. Unfortunately, we live in a day and age where sometimes the only news is bad news, and it's unfortunate that folks are painted with general brushes. And we know here in the City of Buffalo that we have stellar enforcement, through Buffalo Police, through our Erie County sheriffs, and of course, our New York State Police. And if I missed any, please charge it to my head, not my heart. But on May 14th in 2022 this year, we all were faced with the personification of evil, hatred, and racism. And the person who came and exacted a hate crime and killed 10 beautiful lives in the city of Buffalo and injured three more. Many law enforcement agencies came to our call, including that of the New York State Troopers. They were also here and on scene within minutes, and they also utilized their Bureau of Criminal Investigation, including members from the Joint Terrorism Task Force, as well as the Counterterrorism Intelligence Unit and the Special Investigations Unit. They're all brought to the aid of the Buffalo Police Department's investigation, including the New York State Police Special Operations Response Team, or SORT, that also was deployed to assist the BPD SWAT team at events that had transpired after that horrific event happened here in Buffalo, New York. Because of their coordinated and immediate response to the suspect's residence in Broome County, we were able to get the needed warrant to, in fact, make sure that there were no further threats to anyone else in New York State. It's important to highlight the fact that we have law enforcement agencies who also are involved in community affairs, not just to be present but to be involved and to collaborate. I'm going to read these because I believe because the news, not just any news, but the media, and I'm not villainizing media, but again, sometimes it feels like in our community, in our society, the only thing that's covered is bad news. So let me just say this, and Mr. President, if you don't mind, I'd just like to just read a few of the things, just a few. of the events that the New York State Police officers were engaged in this year in the City of Buffalo. They attended several Mastin District stakeholders' breakfasts. They didn't just come for the food, though. Officer Hartman was there, and she enjoyed the food, the fellowship, and also provided great... Wait, do I say that again? Oh, Trooper Gary Carrion came and did the... You'll say the name correctly, I'm sorry. But I know for a fact that... Go ahead. Trooper Carrion Bryman. You got to know Captain Rick Williams. He's a stickler for the truth and for things to be exactly correct. So thank you, Trooper Williams, Captain Williams. But they attended several Mass and District stakeholders' meetings over the summer. outreach and a presence at several high schools throughout the year, as well as BOCES, outreach at several inner city churches to collaborate and provide information regarding possible careers with the New York State Police. Several job fairs they were in attendance at, including the Northern Workforce Training Center, which is in Mastin District. There was representation at Buffalo Prep, Upward Bound, Monroe High School Basketball Camp, county fairs. They cover eight counties, is that correct? Troop A covers eight counties. All of the county fairs they were part of. outreach at National Night Out. We've seen them at our black clubs, parties, recruitment centers, at the Galleria Mall where there was sufficient traffic. Play Ball Week sponsored by the Buffalo Bisons, one of the largest African American celebrations in the country. They had a substantial presence at Buffalo's Juneteenth event that went from the Fillmore District and, of course, went straight through the Madison District. And they were very, very present and they marched with us. We thank them for that. The Taste of Buffalo, Taking it to the Street, the Youth Academy, the Grease Pole Festival, Gospel Fest which is a mainstay in Maston District, the Jazz Fest which is a mainstay, the Funk Fest which is a mainstay, the Boys and Girls Club Law Enforcement Day they participated in, the New York State Police Presentation to the Better Me Program, the Faith in Blue Impacting Love Global Ministries at the Galleria Mall they collaborated with, the Hispanic Heritage Council. the Puerto Rican and Hispanic Day Parades, the Hispanic Month Opening Celebration, the Hispanic Heritage Tabling Event at the Buffalo Public Library, the Aroah House of Prayer, and many, many others, just to say the least. And I think it's important that we just highlight the great work that these officers do. I mean, we know them by name. We know Officer Fryer. We know Officer Threats. We know Officer Hartman. We know them by first names. I wouldn't say just Jenny, but I'd be respectful and say officer. But we do appreciate the relationships that we have with the New York State Police. And with that being said, we did prepare... A proclamation for the New York State Police officers, particularly those who are working over here in Troop A, to ensure that we are safe. I've attended now, this is my second Police Citizens Academy training. And one of the things that really stuck with me as I go through these Citizens Academies is that the average citizen or resident in your life, you encounter about four to five traumatic events. four to five traumatic events. Police officers encounter over 600 in their career. That is incredible. And yet they suit up every single day. They put their armor, they put their gear on, not just outer armor, but they guard their hearts to do the hard work of running into bad situations. They are the ones who run to the worst of humanity to keep the rest of us safe. And I think that is worth recognizing. I think that is worth acknowledging. And I am so very glad that we have Captain Rick Williams at the helm to recruit more great people to be part of this stellar law force and law enforcement. And if you're a New York State trooper, you can go anywhere in the country and get a job because this is the best, this is the premier agency in the country. And we really thank them for all their hard work. And with that said, We hereby proclaim that it is an honor and a privilege for the common council, the City of Buffalo's common council, to extend our gratitude to the New York State Police for their efforts in the aftermath of the racially motivated attack at our Topps supermarket. And this is for all of the state troopers in the City of Buffalo. This is for all of our people who run to dangerous scenes. This is for everyone who puts on that badge and takes it seriously enough that they will put themselves in harm's way to make sure that the rest of us are safe. So again, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, and thank you. Hello, everyone. On behalf of the superintendent and the Troop A commander, Major Eugene Staniszewski, and our Troop A recruitment team, I want to thank the esteemed honorable members of the City Council and City Council President Darius Pridgen for this important recognition. Back in the spring of 2021, I was appointed to oversee state police recruitment as part of a rethinking of how we do things. We understood that we needed to move in a different direction. Recruiting people to a career in law enforcement has become more difficult, as we all know. There are a number of tragic incidents involving police officers that led to a flood of bad publicity, civil unrest, and calls for criminal justice reform. As a result of these issues, along with the increasing number of career choices available to students, recruiting for law enforcement has become more difficult. The number of people who took our exam dropped over the past two exam cycles. It was clear that we needed a change. It was clear that we needed to move in a different direction. It was clear that we needed a new strategy. So the focus of our new recruitment strategy, we want the state police of the future to reflect the communities that we serve. And that means we want more minorities and more female members. We want people who truly understand their communities. We want people. from Buffalo. But actually, we are going beyond just recruitment. We want to build long-term, mutually beneficial relationships. We want to understand your problems. We want to know what role we can play in helping you solve those problems, because your city's problems are our problems. And we want to just to get to know you. The response from the Buffalo community has been outstanding. And I can't thank enough people here in this room that made that happen. What we want all of you to know about us is this, law enforcement is another avenue in which you can actually make change. Something that all of you here in this chamber strives for every single day. You can change your community by making it safer. You can change attitudes about public safety. You can change attitudes about law enforcement. And you can actually work to change law enforcement from within. And here's what I want you to remember. Cops are just like you. They are members of the community who care about the community. They go to work each day and do the best job they can. They want safe neighborhoods just like you. And law enforcement is about helping people. 90% of what our troopers do involves helping people. usually on their worst day ever. And I can tell you from experience, there is nothing like the feeling you get when you truly are able to help someone who is having a bad day. It's what motivates us to get out of bed every morning and put on a uniform. It's what motivates all of you. It's not just about a paycheck. So in light of this wonderful recognition, I say this, let's keep it going. Let's continue to build partnerships. Let's continue to build bridges. Let's continue to work together to bring about the change we want to see in our communities and within law enforcement. Thank you. Thank you very much for all you do. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 4th, 2022 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Yes. Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is in front of us, not taking away your right to review something that you may want to review. Majority Leader, do we have any to go out of order? No, you can take it from the top. Can we take then, because we are favored with the attendance of the head of our county legislature for one item, and I think she has to go back to legislating. So if we could take the one item, item 62, out of order. Motion to take item 62 out of order. Second by Councilmember Bowman. You can go ahead and move the motion then if Council Member Bowman or Nowakowski has something they want to say. You want to move the item? You want to move the item? Motion to adopt. Motion is to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. This resolution is important for adoption and advocates for the community benefits agreement that is currently underway between the county and the Buffalo Bills. With the recent extension of the CBA between the county and the bills, this resolution puts an emphasis on the conversation for neighborhoods in the city of Buffalo to not be forgotten in this agreement. The city of Buffalo makes up of one third of the total population of Erie County, with city of Buffalo residents paying county taxes too. It is only fair and just that this community benefits agreement includes and reflects some of the priorities of the city of Buffalo. And I really want to get that down on a kind of a granular view because county tax dollars sales tax. So if you're coming to the city of Buffalo and attending our cultural amenities and shops and groceries, we're all paying tax dollars. So this. large commitment public commitment to the Buffalo Bills is made up of everybody whether you live in public housing or your renter or your tourists that frequents the city of Buffalo and It's important that no matter who you are or where you are in this county that we have elements of this agreement that reflect the priorities of the city of Buffalo and as somebody that represents the the Commodore Perry in in my district whether I We want to admit it or agree or discuss about it over a decade of conjecture and speculation that this stadium would be in that neighborhood and whether consciously or subconsciously the bills are you know in the in a location in Orchard Park and Commodore Perry is still left in the position that it's in and it deserves to be redeveloped and I would like to see a component of the CBA to include Perry but also other cultural amenities and sports amenities like Johnny B Wiley and other Avenues that residents really use here in the city of Buffalo also benefit from that agreement because we are all taxpayers and we all deserve to see the benefits within the agreement. Thank you. Mr. Chair. Thank you. All righty. Thank you. And thank you for allowing, um, working with customer involvement, allowing me to be on, um, as we discussed Johnny B. Wiley. and other places Want to thank our chairwoman for leading this charge for the community benefits agreement and could not And she needs our support in every government body Support the amount of money that is going to be made off of this Probably we can't count and so communities that as you said and you put it perfectly so I won't repeat it. I But there are communities that need it. And so thank you for that, and thank you to our Chairwoman. Council Member Wyatt. Can I be added to this, Mr. Chair? Yes, add Council Member Wyatt to the resolution. All righty, from the top. Item number one, appoint Commissioner of Public Works, Parks and Streets. Motion to send the civil service items one and two. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number three, amend lease between City of Buffalo and Alleyway Theater. Motion to approve items three through 13. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item number 14, report of sale portion of 457 Winslow. Motion to deny. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. The reason why we're denying this is because we have not had success with property managers and owners of properties who do not live in the city of Buffalo whom we can just go visit. So we're denying this for the fact that we cannot guarantee that we will have great success with communicating with the individuals proposing to buy this property. All right. It's been stated for the record, the reason for denial. Next item. Item number 15, report of sale 33 volts. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 17, submission of monthly report September 2022. Motion to receive and file items 17 through 19. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 20, change order, Crane Library Phase 2. Motion to approve items 20 through 25. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 26, food store license 284 Ontario. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 27, food store license 523 Starin. Mr. Chairman, this is a late file deferred to the District Council Member. Is Mark for ledge? 27 oh, I'm sorry Was that you 523 staring approved approved? second by councilmember Here a little item number 28 food store license 1061 sycamore motion is sent to legislation By councilmember no Akoski item number 29 mobile food truck Louie's hot dogs motion to approve items 29 through 31 Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon, and I'm so glad Louise has a mobile truck now. I am thrilled. If they were here, I'd go outside and buy one right now. Next item. Item number 32, approval of 2022-2023 CDBG, ESG, and HOPWA contracts. Motion to send the finance items 32 through 34. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 35, Liquor License Notice 301 Ohio. Motion to receive and file items 35 through 39. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 40, appoint Senior Account Clerk Real Estate. Motion to send to Civil Service. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 41, appoint Legislative Aid. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 42, promotion of Ethiopia peace and democracy. Motion to send the CD items 42 and 43. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 44, Jays, Smoke, and Vapor University Heights Collaborative Consensus. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Thank you. Item number 45, letter regarding the City of Buffalo 2023-2027 four-year strategic plan. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 46, state super fund site reclassification notice 1382 Niagara Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 47. Petition bike path on Forest Avenue. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Fairlotto. Item number 48, special use permit, 1803 South Park. Motion to send to legislation, City Planning Board, items 48 through 51. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Civil service, item number one, appoint director of Office of New Americans. Chairman. Motion is to approve items one through and including four. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item number five, appoints sup of auto supplies. Motion is to receive and file items five through and including 11. By Majority Leader Rivera. Finance, item number 12, compulsory interest arbitration award between City of Buffalo and Buffalo Police Benevolent Association. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 13, HUD funding allocation. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Community development, item number 15, report of sale portion of 15 Shrek. Motion to recommit, please. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. legislation item number 16 special use 47 and sign for recycling facility motion to receive and file item number 17 special use 32 14 Main Street motion to approve item 17 and 18 with conditions With conditions second by councilman wide who has the floor and if I can read the Conditions on the record when the first thing the universe is collaborative I'm the first condition is an automatic sunset for after one year Strict adherence number two to New York State tobacco control policy especially adolescents tobacco use prevention act number three remove of all paraphernalia from the store windows per state law number Number four, eliminate of student discount signs and practice per state law. Number five, remove all FDA approved methanol flavored products per state law. Number six, obscuring the lower half of the store windows with plants, curtains, and other materials to prevent minors from inadvertently seeing regulated products. Number seven, replacing the store sign if a blunt is considered paraphernalia under New York State's law. Number eight, reasonable store hours. Number nine, proper snow and garbage removal. Number 10, no product consumption in the store or loitering in the right of way. And number 11, open lines of communication with the UHC if challenges arise. And we'll file this with the clerk. And, Council Member Wyatt, the sunset, is that sunset for review? Yes. In a year? Okay, so it's not just closing in a year? Okay, so we amend that for that portion? Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 19, special use 53 Riverview for non-owner occupied short-term rent. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Glumbet. item number 20 special use 898 clinton for tavern motion to approve item 20 with conditions and approve 21 through 24. second by councilmember nowakowski item number 52 2022 lovejoy halloween parade i'm sorry 52 52 52 my mistake uh motion to approve items 52 through 55. second by councilmember bowman Item number 56, amend UDO zoning map for Sycamore. Motion to send to Legislation City Planning Board. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 57, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve items 57 through 59. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 60, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt item 60 through 64. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 65 fee waiver for Halloween on Bailey motion to approve Second my councilmember white item number 66 traffic study at Kensington and Bailey motion to adopt the resolves remainder to CD By councilmember white reservoir. Thank you. Mr. President. I'm just wanted to read a small statement regarding this traffic study relative to the proposed use of Hope Hope Wells opioid clinic in the University District Plaza is still a major, major concern. And looking at the traffic impacts is very important. And so we're asking that the public works look into this. The resolution looks at the location. of Kensington and Eggert already has traffic problems that causes traffic congestion at all hours of the day. According to documents published by Hopewell Center, it is stated that they plan to service about 300 patients once they are fully operational with many patients traveling via personal vehicles and vans transported to this location. Given the potential of further traffic increases and traffic concerns in our community, I'm requesting the Department of Public Works to establish a plan to conduct a traffic study at that intersection. We'll be opening to ensure that the local community members are aware of the traffic patterns and the dangers that may be exhibited from that. This is something that again, no one came to the community and to have any conversation i don't even know if there was a traffic study as it should have been done if you're going to do something at this size in our community but again um We don't seem like we care about the residents. We just want to get that bottom line dollar. And from what I understand, this center is based on a Medicaid reimbursement to the Hopewell Center, which again, we have not seen any information that speaks to this community needing an opioid treatment center. No documentation nowhere. It's just assertions. So again, this is something that's going to impact the residents and at this point they seem like they could care less They're moving forward as I see Materials and people moving in and we want to continue to take a strong stand because this is not something that we can reverse Many times these things happen in our neighborhoods and we can't turn the clock back and we just want to stop this So again, thank you for the opportunity. Mr. President. Thank you, sir stands Oh, motion stands. I'm sorry I didn't hear you. Next item. Item number 67, transfer of funds, police arbitration, summary funding. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Nowakowski. Mr. President, I need to go back to item number 11 in civil service. Motion to revisit item number 11. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. I'd like to make a motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. And motion to approve. On item 11? Yep. All right. Seconded by Council Member Fairlott. Yeah. You received their job. I'm sure they appreciate you revisiting it, Council Member. Announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th Floor City Hall, Buffalo, New York. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or councilstaff at buffalonny.gov for more information on how to attend. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, October 25th, 2022 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service, Tuesday, October 25th, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on community... Community Development, Tuesday, October 25th, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, October 25th, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Committee on Police Oversight, Wednesday, October 19th, 2022 at 1 p.m. Thank you. Great job on your first time. Great job. Council Member's Announcements for your District Starting with Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. The Lovejoy District is holding our stakeholder meeting next Wednesday, October 26th. 6 p.m. We're gonna host that at the Schiller Park Senior Center Lovejoy stakeholder meeting next Wednesday the 26th I also wanted to announce our Lovejoy Halloween parade Lovejoy Village Association is hosting the Lovejoy parade October 23rd from 3 p.m. To 5 p.m. You could call my office for any details on that but that's this Sunday at 3 p.m. The Lovejoy Halloween parade and also, we have our Buffalo Main Street's grant applications are now open for businesses on Lovejoy Street in Clinton. You can call my office for more details about that, but we want to get the word out to small businesses that they have the opportunity to apply for this grant from New York State. up until November 18th. You can call my office at 851-5151. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to announce to the residents and the children in the University District our annual Halloween on Bailey event, which will take place Friday, October 28th. 2022 at the Edwards Saunders Community Center from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. We want to thank our sponsors, Wegmans, Community Access, Evergreen, Highmark, and also Dion's Dreamers for participating in this event. We're going to have pumpkin painting, bowling, roller skating, a live DJ, and free food. So we want the children to come out and know a safe, free environment right in their neighborhood. Thank you. Anybody else? Council Member Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Our third annual Senior Bingo Ball. Will be this year October the 29th Saturday at the Delavan Grider Center at 877 East Delavan in the Maston district doors open at 5 o'clock You can park down the street at the OSC parking lot across from where the old American Axel is to be and all of our seniors will be shuttled down in limos from the parking lot to The Delavan Grider Center where they will walk the red carpet They will have so much fun playing bingo dancing and we will have food catered by the Is it manna? No, no, no, no, no. Je ne sais quoi. Je ne sais quoi. So the food will be great. The prizes will be great. The favors will be great. We want to thank our sponsors, Humana, Independent Health, M&T Bank, OSC Manufacturing and Equipment Services, and none, not, And then Thomas Edwards Funeral Home, the renowned Daryl Saxon. So we want everyone to come out and enjoy delicious food and dance with your friends. Of course, we will have security there. So it will be another night to remember in the Mastin District where we will come together and play bingo, eat, and dance. All right. Thank you, Mr. President. October 18th, which is today's Elicus District Stakeholders Meeting at the Dorothy J. Collier Community Center 118 East Utica. There will be several departments there, Department of Public Works, which we know we have questions for as it starts to snow already. Thank you. and citizen services and block clubs. So that will be tonight, October 18th. And the seniors have a lot of places they can go because we also have the annual seniors... Halloween party, first time back all together last year. They had to drive through in their cars, and the line went over a mile. So they will not have to be in their cars. They'll be able to come into the YMCA today. I'm sorry, October 31st, 11 a.m., prizes for costumes, food catered, and Aetna Humana and Centers Healthcare are co-sponsors of that event. Any other announcements? Council Member Golombic. Thank you, Mr. President. In the North District, there's going to be on Saturday, October the 29th, Two events for youth children in the neighborhood. The Little League Football is going to have a trunk retreat between roughly 12 and 3 o'clock along Hodling Drive, that's the road that cuts through Riverside Park adjacent to the football field. And then also at roughly the same time at Northwest Buffalo Community Center, my office and west turtle association and other groups from the neighborhood are sponsoring an indoor uh trick-or-treat uh roughly 12 to 3. we're going to have cosplay people there and as well as i think there's 25 or 30 tables right now that are reserved we started this the year of covid you know so that everybody could be uh spaced from one another and it actually worked out so well um that we received calls from to the office asking are you going to do it again and Also from the sponsors that said, are you going to do it again? That was a lot of fun. So we've continued to do this. I think this is the third year now that we're doing it. So any children that live in the community or the wider community are more than welcome to attend either of these events. All righty. Any other announcements? Hearing none. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Rashid N.C. Wyatt.