and relax. Countdown. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman. Present. Councilmember Farrell-Leno. Here. Councilmember Goldenbach. Here. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here.
 The quorum is present. Let's do our pledge to the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. This past season, I've been talking to
 People I know who own small businesses throughout the region, I know in every council district, business leaders have been massively impacted, as well as lots of people in our lives and districts who are unemployed because of the downturn in commercial activity. And the scripture that I was praying for them was Matthew 11, 28 to 30.
 Then Jesus said, come to me, all of you who are weary and carry heavy burdens, and I'll give you rest. Take my yoke upon you. Let me teach you because I'm humble and gentle at heart. And you'll find rest for your souls for my yoke is easy to bear and the burden I give you light. So for those that are going through it with...
 businesses that are on the brink, on the verge, for those whose financial picture took a massive hit and continue to in unemployment in all of our city. Can we pause and pray for them? Father, thank you for these precious verses. And you've said that if we're weary,
 carrying heavy burdens that you will give us rest father right now we pray on behalf of those that uh everyone on the council knows and uh knows well as they walk the sidewalks and streets and businesses of their community they know the ones that have uh
 suffered the greatest impact, the greatest loss. Some that have already closed and others that are just facing challenges that no one months ago could have imagined or dreamed of. And Lord, for those that are unemployed through no fault of their own, it's just the circumstances around them and that's put them in precarious position. We know that many of them are weary and carrying.
 burdens beyond belief. So, Father, right now, we ask that you, the one who promises rest, would slide your shoulder under those that are hurting. Be with them. Come alongside them. I pray, Father, even now for creativity as people are looking and thinking and dreaming outside the box.
 Lord we pray for an end of what's causing such a downturn but in the meantime Lord we pray for those that are the backbone of our city that Lord you'd give them strength and encouragement today and for those Lord that even now are looking for searching for striving for the next place to work
 Lord, open doors for them as well. And Lord, I pray for this council and for the administration as they look at the things that would help create a resurrection for the economy of our region, that Lord, you'll give them creative ideas beyond themselves, even today as they come together and work. Lord, help your insight and wisdom to enliven their discussions. We ask in your precious name. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmembers, memorials. Councilmember Golomba.
 Thank you Mr. President. The Black Rock neighborhood lost the former City of Buffalo DPW snowplow driver Frank Toczek. His son Darren works in City Hall and Frank passed away after a little battle with an illness. Korean War veteran
 you know, active in government politics and at Assumption Church, just an all around good guy. He's gonna be very, very sorely missed by his friends in BlackRock and at Assumption Church and at the VFW Post. Thank you, Council Member Wingo and then Council Member Scanlon.
 All right. Thank you, Mr. Chair. First, I would like to just pray for the family, ask that we think and are keeping our thoughts and prayers. The family of our assembly member Crystal Peoples Stokes and the passing of her daughter, Rashawn King. She was absolutely a beautiful person to be in the presence of wonderful spirits like her mother. She was
 She was laid to rest this past week at True Bethel Church, and our thoughts and prayers go out to her and her children. And I just want to say that I know that Leah was very, very, very, very close to Rashawn.
 And one of the things that was mentioned is that Leah always would mention how Rashawn would leave her two most valuable possessions in her care, which was her mother and her son.
 And I just want to make sure that we keep Leah Pope in our prayers as well, because right alongside Crystal, who she's with her every day, I'm sure that they're both leaning on each other as they transition through this time. Also, a friend of mine, Liz Holton.
 Liz and I went to school together and she was a year ahead of me. But I have very, very fond memories of Liz Holton. We actually were like really, really good friends. We were almost like best friends back in high school, Liz and I.
 And we just, it's amazing how her brother and I, everyone knows the great saxophonist, Will Holton. This is his older sister, which of course,
 He allowed us to be friends. Will was kind of protective, but Liz passed away. She fought a long fight and she prevailed even in her own way. She still exuded that love. She had an infectious smile. And as you can see her picture here, she was just a beautiful, beautiful person. And she will be sorely missed. Um,
 We're praying for the family, new Will's parents, Will and Liz's parents very well. I ask that we continue to pray for the Holton family as they are laying this beautiful soul and Liz's children. Pray for all of the Holton family. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yes, sir. Council Member O'Beir. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to
 Remember, Eladio Rodriguez, known as Yayo. He was born in Villarba, Puerto Rico in 1933. As a young boy, he loved singing and performing in his community, and even performed on a famous show in Puerto Rico, Tribuna del Arte. Yayo found success by winning the first award in 1955,
 Diageo's career saw him become one of the most popular salsa entertainers of this time, and he played concerts in Puerto Rico, Cleveland, and New York City. Diageo remains incredibly popular in the Buffalo community, and it has fans and admirers of all ages.
 One of his highlights, his last CD, where he dedicated to his wife, Blanca Rodriguez, Te Siempre Te Quiero, that means I'll always love you. He passed away recently. He is a pillar in our community, and we're definitely going to miss Giorgio as he's well-known. So let's keep his family in our prayers. Yes, sir. Did I skip Council Member Scanlon? Did you have your hand up?
 Councilmember Scanlon, I'm sorry, I apologize. Thank you, Council President. I would ask that we please keep in our thoughts and prayers. Mary Clancy, who passed away this past week. Mary's a long time South Buffalo resident, lived on Tuscarora Road. She's the mother of one of our most active residents here in the South District. And she's gonna be sorely missed. She's the mother of five and grandmother of 12. And she's gonna be missed by her extended family and her friends. Any others, Councilmember Wyatt?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to ask for thoughts and prayers for one of my childhood friends who lost his wife. And Bishop, you did a wonderful job eulogizing Levine Dixie. You know, I didn't know Levine, but I knew Tim and I knew his family. And my thoughts and prayers are with him. And also my prayers are with our majority leader, Crystal Peoples-Solokes. And you did a wonderful job in eulogizing Sean Jess,
 You know, it's a tough thing to deal with, especially when you lose your child. But someone to breathe life and celebrate their life is a special gift. And thank you for doing that, Bishop, because I felt it and I understand when you lose a child how difficult it can be. And also to one of our police officers, Todd McAllister, who just had a difficult time. He lost his brother about a month and a half ago.
 and he lost his dad this past week, which I believe was, he was died at True Bethel as well. Just keep them in your thoughts and prayers. Definitely as we go into the holiday season, it's difficult to enjoy that time when you lose the ones you love. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? It has been a very busy season, unfortunately, at True Bethel for so many of these homegoings. As a matter of fact, we,
 Ms. Houlton will be laid to rest, I believe according to my notes here on Saturday.
 November the 14th from the True Bethel Church. So we're thankful for the staff there that has taken on so many of these services. And as we always do, we remember those who have given their life since our last meeting for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of others. We pause now for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 on their special presentations from council, beginning with council member Rivera. Thank you very much, council president. It is an honor for me today to recognize a community leader. Pritch Moran has a history of showing support for our community by investing in our community. Moran is a successful business woman, trailblazer and leader.
 She came to Buffalo in 1996 to restore homes and work as a decorative painter. Moran opened Sweetness 7 on the west side 12 years ago and sparked revitalization on Grant Street. And I know this because I've been in office for 12 years and most of my business meetings and community meetings have
 and events, I hold them right there at Sweetness 7. She has opened her businesses to immigrants and refugees, new wave of folks that have moved into the West Side, and it is a gathering place where people meet. She bought that building, I believe, for $112,000.
 seven apartments, five storefronts. She brought the building back to life at a time where people were disinvesting and leaving the neighborhood. She saw something in the building on the west side and she invested in that community. And since then we have seen further reinvestment and investment as a result of her investment in the community. I hate to see her leave,
 I know that she still, I believe, owns the building and will be under new management. But I just wanna take this opportunity to thank Prish Moran for all she's done for that business district in that quarter that's still coming back. But you were such an important part in the revitalization of Grant Street. And I know even my staff, they meet there as well. I know that council member Mitch Nowakowski that,
 worked in my office and we held numerous events right there at Sweetness 7. So Prish, thank you for all you do. We wish you the best in whatever it is you do. She's with us right now. I don't know if she'd like to say a few words. Hi, David. I don't know if you can hear me. Yes, we can. Wonderful. I want to thank you so much for this great honor.
 I don't want to take your time. I do have so much to say, but in all honesty, you and I started out together and I remember it fondly. You know, it's been a great ride. It's much more than I ever expected. I'm an artist. I'm a painter. I ended up loving the neighborhood and the people, which is why I ran the restaurant and I learned as I went along, but
 In the end, it took so much more time and energy than my nature, my soul could give any longer. I've loved it. I've loved everything about it. And I will stay connected. As you said, I do own the building because I want to keep my feet planted here. But I have so many thanks for even the city itself, yourself, all the council people, everyone.
 any inspector, the patience, the kindness, the direction I was given as I restored that big project. And I hope it stands up for another hundred years and just gives the joy of people entering the West Side on that beautiful corner that we were able to save that beautiful building. But it's because of people like yourself that I stayed so long because to pick up the phone and
 get help, get direction, that's invaluable. And I don't know if I'd find that anywhere else in the world, but Buffalo gave that to me and I'm very, very thankful. Thankful for everything, the public schools, raising my three kids,
 It's been great and I thank you for this honor truly. You're welcome. Thank you. I'd like to just note Councilmember Rivera as a former staffer of yours. I made more meetings at Suite 7. I'd be considered a satellite office. But I do want to also make a note that Suite 7 will still be open. Correct. So please patronize.
 Yes, I sold it to my manager, my longtime manager, who's now going to live his dream and run the cafe. I heard it every single day. When are you going to give me this place? And Rob Fusel and his wife will be running the cafe, so it will be opening soon. Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you, Chris. Thank you, Council Member Revere. Any other special presentations?
 All right. Hearing none, we will go into our meeting. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 13, 2020 are approved. Councilmembers, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the end of the late files that are before you?
 Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda, taking some items out of order. Mr. Majority Leader? Mr. Chairman, can we move to take items 5 out of CD and 41 out of order? All right. So move, seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 41? Item 41, declaring a climate crisis. This item is open. Okay.
 This item is open. Is there someone to speak on this? Yes, Mr. Chair, thank you for the opportunity to bring this out of order. I want to welcome members of the Youth Climate Council here today with us in our virtual chambers. As a group, they began a campaign in 2019 to declare a climate emergency in the City of Buffalo.
 Now, by declaring a climate emergency here in the City of Buffalo, we as a city are declaring our commitment to a greener, healthier, and more environmentally friendly city, while also acknowledging that the time is now to address this as a priority and that we as a city need to select greener and more sustainable solutions as our city continues to redevelop and grow.
 Every city, county, and state need to play their role for a better future, and today we declare that in the city of Buffalo that we will be playing ours. I really want to congratulate the youth council who is with us here today. I'm meeting with council members, drafting items and resolutions, speaking with in committee, and now to the finish line, the approval of this resolution. So if anyone from the council would like to speak, the floor is yours. Thank you.
 Are you asking from the Youth Council? Oh yeah, the Youth Council. So we have two persons on that I see. If you'd like to have brief remarks, the floor is yours. If you'll start with your name. Certainly. Hi, my name is Ilyas Khan. First of all, I'd like to thank you all for inviting us here for this really historic moment.
 We've been working on this campaign now for a year. It's all been youth-led. It's been a really youth-driven effort here, and to see it materialize before us on a computer screen, even though that's not what we were expecting, it's most welcome. And we would like to acknowledge that this is a first step.
 really. This is not an end-all solve-all to the climate crisis in our region and that is not what we want anyone to see it as so we look forward to continuing our work with you guys towards a just future. Thank you. Anyone else from the Youth Council? Daniel, did you want to say anything?
 Yes, my name is Daniel. I've been part of the YCC for almost a year now, and I'm just so excited to see that this resolution finally come to fruition. And I'm excited of this relationship that we're forming with the council. Thank you. And I know there are others who are on. I don't see their hands up. Valerie, did you have a quick word?
 My name is Valerie and I'm also so excited to begin this partnership with you all in favor of climate justice. I think there's no better time than now to begin this journey because of the economic turmoil. This really is a great time to start bringing in the clean energy jobs and to start addressing the racial inequities that come with climate justice. So thank you so much for taking the step with us.
 Thank you. I know I have attended some of your rallies.
 and very, very proud of what you all are doing because I do believe it will be your generation that if this generation doesn't get it right, that will suffer. And so you having a voice, being very organized and really having a goal really helps this council. And I want to thank Council Member Nowakowski for picking this up, running with it. And I fully support it. Council Member Friuletto?
 Thank you. I just want to commend the work of Ilias and the Youth Council. I met with several members of the Youth Council over a year ago, and at the meeting they had a lot of research and facts, and they brought in such a strong presence to this meeting and did so much.
 so much, had so much dedication and commitment to it. And I've seen them have several events since then. And to see our young people be activists and stick to things and see them through and stay on it is just so inspiring. And I just want to let you guys know you guys are doing a great job and keep fighting. Thanks. Thank you. Any other council members? Council Member Wingo?
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just like to say congratulations to the young folks for speaking up and speaking out on the Youth Council. We really appreciate your advocacy and acknowledging that climate change is not a hoax, that it is real. And a very wise book, a very wise person said, we only borrow the earth from our grandchildren. And what we have to do is ensure that the earth is better than how we found it. And it should be all of our duty
 to ensure that we leave this earth a little bit cleaner than how we found it, making sure that we lower emissions and everything else that we can do to lower our footprint so that our young people, when they get older, they will have something to look forward to. And even in the good book, the Bible talks about how a wise man stores up for his children's children and he leaves an inheritance for them.
 And we want to leave them a better, healthier, greener Earth than the one that we inherited from our forefathers who really didn't do the research to even realize that climate change was a real thing. And that we actually, as human beings, are the perpetrators of climate change. So, again, thank you for your advocacy. It's sometimes out of the mouth of babes.
 we get all of the wisdom that we need to press on certain issues. So we really appreciate you guys. So don't give up. I'm telling you now, the fight is not always going to be on your side. You know, things aren't always going to be as easy as they are right now, as far as getting sensible people to hear what you have to say. But don't give up. Don't quit. Just keep on with the fight. And I promise you in the end, you will get the reward and the
 and the benefit of all the birds that you are carrying right now. But again, keep it up. Thank you very much. And I thank you for this resolution to my colleague Mitchell Nowakowski. Thank you Mr. Chair, I'm done. Thank you. Anyone else? All right, enjoy your week. What are we doing with this, sir? What would you like to do, Sadat? Motion is to adopt. All right, I'm sorry. Everybody went off of my screen. If we can go back to where we were.
 Thank you so much. Motion is to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Congratulations. Thank you. Next item. Under community development, item number five, abandonment and sale of portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Motion to open the public hearing. Motion to open the public hearing. Second by Councilmember Scanlon. And Councilmember, did you want to have any opening remarks for the public hearing or would you like to just wait for the public?
 No, we can wait for the public and also the presentation. I'm not sure. I see Mark is on, but I'm not sure if John's on as well. All right. So Mark, are you beginning? Yes. Thanks, Council President, and thanks, Councilman Scanlon. This is the matter that we spoke of very briefly a few weeks ago, and I see Mr. Heffern is on with me as well, which I appreciate it.
 This is a matter involving some environmental conditions on the former ExxonMobil site on really the end of Babcock Street and Elk Street on the Buffalo River. Back in August, we discovered some contamination emanating from an outfall of the Buffalo sewer system. And we began to trace it down in conjunction with the DEC, the Army Corps of Engineers,
 and the U.S. Coast Guard. As a result of those efforts, my clients have discovered or identified a potential solution, which involves building a sheet pile wall around the very old sewer structure that's in this area to prevent any further migration of the contaminants.
 unrelated to this, but we also discovered some old piping in this line and to give some context, this sewer or portions of it are well over 100 years old. Some of it are made of bricks.
 and it has old industrial lines that made its way into it. And given its size, its importance to the city, ultimately the DEC decided when we did the remediation out of the brownfield cleanup program that we didn't want to disturb the line for fear it would disturb, you know, disturb a critical piece of infrastructure.
 Unfortunately, that is going to require some additional work and to facilitate that we are looking to purchase a strip of land from the city. That's about 57 feet wide and we don't know the thickness just yet. It's going to be somewhere between 18 inches and 4 feet. And we'll need that to construct this sheet pile wall.
 And we're working, of course, in concert with all the relative agencies and very closely with Mr. Heffron and very closely with the SOAR authority. So that's the scope of the request. We will be paying, I think, a whopping $78 for that piece of land in 2020.
 in accordance with the previous appraisal we had when we purchased another strip adjacent to that. So pretty much the same process that we followed the last time. But that's the scope of my presentation, but I'm certainly willing to answer any questions that the council may have. And certainly Mr. Heffern has anything else to add from my presentation. Thank you, sir. Mr. Heffern, did you have anything to add? I think John, you're on mute.
 Thank you. Hey, Mark, that was probably pretty good to have me on mute. Thank you, Council President Pridgen, and good afternoon to everybody on this Zoom call. Mr. Romanowski characterizes the objective in the same manner that I would essentially to permit an extension
 of the existing 100 year old bulkhead such that it can be more self contained. And I think that I would not exactly agree with Mr. Romanowski's characterization that the groundwater impacted by petroleum is seeping out
 through or solely through the Buffalo Sewer Authority backs culvert outfall. But nonetheless, there is a 55.7 foot length of bulkhead that does need to be replaced or replaced.
 or not replaced but added to or fortified. And that is the overall objective of what it is that we are seeking approval to do by deeding 55.7 foot long by approximately four foot wide additional strip of riverbed. A few years ago, the city conveyed almost 1500 foot of riverbed
 riverbed length by four foot wide, just adjacent easterly to what it is that we're talking about here. This would be the final 55 foot length and I think approximately
 about 10 to 12 feet within that 55 foot length is where the Buffalo Sewer Authority box culvert outfall goes to the Buffalo River.
 And I am available also to answer any questions. And I have been working with Mr. Romanowski and his client and with the Buffalo Sewer Authority, who in turn have all been working with the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation and the United States Coast Guard and the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
 And the site has been the subject of some attention because it is the former Exxon Mobil site and Mr. Romanowski's client has taken on a large beneficial task, ground field cleanup and remediation there. All right, anyone else? Council Member Scanlon.
 Thank you, Council President. I'm not sure if this is for Mark or for John. This action, if the council takes this action, would this contain, would this put an end to that source of that contamination? Or down the road, would we possibly have to go back for further action by the council? I guess, Councilman Scanlon, I guess I'm probably best suited to answer that. So, um...
 What we've discovered is there's been a historical discharge from this area, and I didn't mean to imply that it's solely from the sewer line itself. It's
 It could be emanating from underneath it, around it, adjacent to it, etc. And we've remediated and, in fact, created what we euphemistically refer to as a bathtub immediately adjacent to this, a little bit to the east on 503 Elk Street.
 And that area, there's a gap between that bathtub area and this pipe where contamination couldn't be reached with remedial efforts because it surrounds this. The pipe, for reference, is six feet in diameter. So keep that in mind. If any of you are six feet tall, this is how big this pipe is. It's six feet in diameter and then has another two feet on either side of it. That's part of the structure.
 So we have something here that's 10 feet in width, just the pipe and its related structure. So there's soils underneath that got contaminated, soil adjacent got contaminated. All of that's areas we can't get to. We just couldn't reach it. So the point of this is to create a barrier between the river and that remaining contamination along the sewer corridor. So we believe it should address it, but...
 I'd be remiss if I were to try to tell you that this is absolutely the final solution. There's just too many variables here that could lead to other. We plug the dam here, it could pop up somewhere else. That's just the reality of the situation. But this is our best estimate on how to resolve the problem that we see today. And Council Member Scanlon, this is John Heffron again. I might add that...
 The Buffalo Sewer Authority box culvert has been there for over 100 years and it was placed on, well beneath it there are vertical wooden pylon
 and those likewise have been there for over 100 years. And although we don't have, you know, all the data in, it is suspected that some of the seepage may be coming from between those 100 plus year old wooden pylons that are forming essentially the bulkhead beneath
 the beneath and possibly even around where the Buffalo Sewer Authority backs culvert and outfall is. The sheet piling, similar to what is already out there, will basically
 replace or fortify what's already out there and should hold in to the bathtub that Mr. Omanowski is describing, the area of land adjacent to the river and should address
 all or very nearly all possibility of further seepage in the future. I think that there is currently ongoing at the former Exxon Mobil site
 a groundwater extraction program that takes the groundwater out of the land side of the former of the land of the former Exxon Mobil site, pumps that groundwater into a groundwater treatment to
 facility on site right there. And then once it's cleaned, it discharges it into, I believe, the sanitary sewer. So I think that part of the remedy that's being discussed now also may involve some extraction of
 additional groundwaters down closer to the area that we're talking about. Although I don't think that that has been fully resolved in the plans and specifications for next steps here.
 Yeah, I'll just to add on to that for clarification. Thanks, John and Councilman Scanlon. That treatment system is within the bathtub area that I was referring to previously and is on almost exclusively 503 Elk Street, which is just to the east. So yes, there's additional pumping going in there. We don't believe that has anything to do with the source of the contaminants that made it to the river, but
 they're doing it anyways as a precautionary measure to address it as well. So the sheet piling, I think John's word was fortify. That's the best way to put it. It fortifies the existing bulkhead with much more modern material, much more sound, deeper, everything it can to try to prevent anything from getting to the river again. Council Member McScannell, anything else? All right. Anybody else from the council?
 And Chief of Staff, do we have anything that has been written into us that needs to be entered into the record since this is a public hearing? No written comments at this time on the subject, sir.
 All right, so we have had the announcement of the public hearing. Also, people were able, if they had concerns or questions, to send an email or call the council member or call the council's office. And we have no other further information for the record. So we're ready to move on this side. Motion to close the public hearing? Motion to close the public hearing, seconded by Council Member Scanlon.
 Motion is to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you very much for the time. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. We need to do a roll call? Yes, we do. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pritchard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Thank you. Next item. Item number one, Declaration of State of Emergency Extension. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number two, Report Assail 203 Chaddock. Motion to approve items two, three, and four. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman?
 Council Member Parallel? Yes. Council Member Glumbach? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number five September 2020 cash flow report. Motion to send finance items five and six. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number seven change order Crane Library phase one. Motion to approve items seven through twelve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes.
 Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 13, appoint coordinator of legislative projects. Motion to send to civil service items 13 and 14. Second by councilmember Scanlon. Item 15, Bola Rapp pilot program communication. Motion to send to police oversight. Second by councilmember Golombic. Item 16, permission to accept grant funds. Motion to approve. Second by councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Bowman?
 Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyeth? Yes. Item 17, permission to purchase tasers. Permission to finance.
 Motion is in the finance second by Councilmember Wyatt. So this will be discussed in the finance meeting on Tuesday and hopefully back to us if there are no concerns financially related.
 Next week, this has been something that we have been waiting on. I think it's very important as we concentrate especially more on de-escalation training even before these type of tools have to be used. I think it's very important to this council.
 but I personally am glad to see this item before us and giving our police department another tool. One of the things I'm encouraged about is the amount of training that has to go into the use of this and the amount of training that will occur as the administration has described how much training and I
 I think we can't have enough training, but we also have to have that de-escalation training so that an officer hopefully will not have to use anything but his mind and their mind and their mouth in order to de-escalate a situation. Council Member Wyatt, you got the floor.
 Did you ask to have the floor? Sorry. Thank you. Council Member Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I have received phone calls and emails regarding the tasers and the Bolo wraps. With regards to the tasers, this is something we had allocated in last year's budget.
 as a form of de-escalation. And I agree with you, whatever we decide to implement, whatever technology we begin, we invest in the police department, it is a last resort. I agree with you. Sometimes it's just common sense. It's just de-escalating. It's just talking your way through things. I'm sorry about that.
 And people think that they're automatically going to resort to the tasers and to the bolo rats. And that's not what it's about. You're right. They're trained. That is a last resort. Any use of force is always a last resort. And I think training has, we have to make sure that all that goes into training, that the use of these weapons or these tools that they have,
 is a last resort. When you can't subdue a person, perhaps you have to use a taser. With regards to the Bolo wraps, there's some concerns regarding the Bolo wraps. And certainly I would like the police department to come back and explain to us how this is going to be utilized. I understand that both you and Councilmember Scanlon were at a demonstration.
 I really don't know how it works. So perhaps we can have the commissioner or somebody from the training academy come in and explain to us how it works and what's the impact that it has on potential suspects or somebody that's going to be, who these tools are going to be used against. So I'd like to have more discussion with regards to the BOLA rep, but I agree with you 100%. This is
 to deescalate and to use when we only need to use it. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Council President. On second thought, I just wanted to say something because I know last night or two days ago, there was a shooting in Philadelphia and it started protests.
 And we are living on a powder keg right now. And whatever we can do to deescalate a situation, especially we can look at least deadly force. Do these deadly force is extremely important because, you know, it,
 it's very difficult to gauge what's happening in our world. And we know that one thing can turn it left. And so whatever we can do to use at least less deadly force, especially when we look at the tasers, I mean, we voted for that last year. It didn't happen. So hopefully it'll happen this year. And the Bola wrap, you know, I wish I would have been able to see the demonstration, but I guess I'm open to it as long as it's something that works.
 will again use least deadly force. As far as I know, I think the Bola wrap was going to be used specifically for those situations where there may be a mental health issue. And if that's the case, that may be appropriate, but we want to look at any other option to use less deadly force than what we're currently dealing with, because it's just, we are at a very difficult time in our world and we,
 you know, another black male was shot by just waving a knife. We got to do better. This is really important. So I'm thankful to the council and the administration for moving forward with this type of measures. Thank you. Thank you. And I know one of the items really doesn't need our vote because it's a trial period. But the administration sent it so that
 together, we can move forward with new tools. And so I appreciate that. And we could have, they can also provide the video of the demonstration for police oversight of the Bola Wrap, which basically is propelled and then wraps, for instance, around a person's leg.
 to immobilize them, but there's a tiny fish hook that sticks into the clothing that keeps this thing together. One of the things that the administration has said is that they're going to create policy that it would not be deployed where it went into anybody's skin.
 So it wraps into the clothing, but we'll have more information. The administration has been open to sending that additional information. I think that probably no matter which way we go, there will be a portion of the community that will say that's the wrong way to go and this is the wrong way to go. But we heard from the community for years about the tasers, not just a month, not just the last six months, years.
 and those are being produced. Of course, the community is concerned about the boulder wraps. We have to get that information out there. But I, for one, am more concerned about a officer who the only thing after verbal commands and physical restraint is not work. The only other tool that is there is the gun.
 And so, you know, we'll take heat regardless which way, but I would rather take heat on this side and keeping someone alive and not shot and not bleeding in our streets. And so I'm sure this will be discussed further.
 But I think it's important that we do this. Council Member White. And Council President, I mean, again, I totally agree with you. And I do have some questions regarding Ebola wrap. And I know this is a trial period in which there will be no cost. But we should know what the cost is if we decide to go that route. And that's where I think we want to have some further discussion, even in committee, about what those costs are. And the other thing is, and I don't know, I wasn't at the pilot, the...
 a seminar in which it was shown demonstrated. But I think a lot of times we still have, we we've missing the boat as far as making sure that we have the community engaged in this. They shouldn't have to find this out later. They should have been a part of it. And I don't know if there were community people there, but I think that could have been a nice,
 platform to really try to turn the corner and for us to really engage the community on the onset and not on the back end because I think that even though they may disagree, the fact is they were included in the conversation from the beginning and not in the end. Thank you. Thank you. And I did say Tuesday that would be discussed, but it would be Wednesday, I'm sorry, this week because of the holiday. Council Member Nowakowski?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Just a quick question on the tasers. So did this, the item that's going to finance, did we just allocate money for tasers and this is just the permission to enter an agreement or did we already enter an agreement to purchase them?
 So the council still has to vote after next week's meeting when it comes back. If it's a financial outlay on the, I believe, and I'm sorry, I'm trying to look at the screen, look over at the notes.
 I believe that the BOLA rapid, anybody can correct me, that there is no cost to that one. So it is here as really as a courtesy to us and as a way of further informing the community of what the administration plans to do. Anyone else? All righty. Did we close that item out? Did we? Is it right? We got a first and a second on it to go. All right. Thank you. Next item.
 Item number 18, appoint camera systems administrator. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Wyatt. Item 19, food service license 1799 Genesee. Motion to send to legislation. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item 20, food service license 357 Ontario. Motion to approve items 20, 21, 22, 23. Can you scroll up please?
 That's it until 23. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Roll call. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 24, approve revised salary schedule, Executive Director of BMHA. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item 25, Notice of Appointment Seasonal. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item 26, Constituent Concerns Regarding School Zone Veto. Motion to send to Legislation Items 26 and 27. Second by Councilmember Golumbik.
 Item 28, monthly city hall incident report. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Temp Scala. Item 29, concerns regarding 2868 Maine. Motion to send to CD items 29 and 30. Second by Council Member Lombert.
 Item 31 police ID recommendations. I'm sorry, Councilmember Golombek has the floor. And again, Councilmembers when we go to full screen with the agenda you just verbally. Let me know because I can't see Councilmember Golombek. I apologize.
 Yeah, thank you Mr. President. This item in regards to the Sewer Authority, I would like staff to have to set up a meeting with them at one of our upcoming community development meetings and I would, I think it's self explanatory, but I have questions.
 that constituents have been calling my office in regards to when they have the insurance with the, um, for the sewer pipes, water pipes, et cetera. And there's been some glitches that have come into play. And I've generally been supportive when people have asked me, you know, what my opinion of it is. I always think you're better off with insurance than not. But in a couple of cases, um, the insurance didn't work out the way that it was promised or led, uh,
 as people were led to believe. So I would like to have them in non-confrontationally, but just be able to find out what exactly does the insurance cover? What doesn't it cover? And, you know, in a more generic, not specifically on a certain address, but generically, what that does so that we can get some answers. Thank you. Not a problem. Anyone else on that item? All right. Thank you, sir. Next item.
 Item 31, Police ID Recommendations. Motion to send items 31 and 32 to Police Oversight. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 33, Supplemental Amendment for Agenda Item 20-1069. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 34, Committee Meetings Transcriptions. Motion to receive and file items 34 and 35. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item 36, letter about City of Buffalo rental registration. Motion to send to City, item 36 and 37. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 38, special use 2464, Maine. Motion sent to Legislation City Planning Board, items 38 and 39. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Civil Service, item number 1, notice of appointment labor seasonal. Motion is to approve.
 Items one and two items one and two second by council member. Why? Yes Come from the glom back. Yes come from the Noakowski. Yes come from president vision. Yes Councilmember Rivera. Yes, how's members gambling? Yes Yes What yes
 Item number finance. Item number three, approval to renew contract Western New York polygraph. Okay, motion to approve with conditions changing the max to 20,000. All right, we'll do number four also to approve. Motion to approve, yes. All right, second by Councilmember Feraletto. Councilmember Buhlmann? Yes. Councilmember Feraletto? Councilmember Glombeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes.
 Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Community Development. Item number six removing Millard Fillmore name from city property. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number seven concerning bail reform. Uh seven eight and nine are to be recommitted.
 Recommit, second by council member Skim. Legislation item number 10, food store license 2577 Bailey. This item is in the university district. Council member Wyatt. This recommit Mr. Chair. Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit. Right motion to recommit second by council member Golombet.
 item 11 food store license 257 niagara motion is to approve with conditions items 11 and approve items 12 and 13. all right uh second by council member noah wachowski mr president i'm sorry hold on council member yeah uh the normal conditions on my first one as well for the store please all right for the record roll call
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Gllenbeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 14, Special Use 549, West Utica. This item is
 This is Niagara District. Is this a motion to recommit? Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Revere. Item 15, Special Use 149, Palmer. Motion is to approve 15 through 17, approve 18 with conditions, and approve 19 through 22. And 15 with conditions too, please.
 and 15 with conditions for the record that will be filed by the district council member. Second by council member Bowman. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Farrelletto? Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt?
 Yes. What is the rest of the motion? Item 23, draft of Carriol's Law. Motion is to receive and file items 23 through 30. Second by Councilmember Fearon-Lewin. I'm sorry, by Councilmember Nowakowski. We're going to see- Item 40, support for Senator Kennedy's request for Toronto Raptors and Buffalo. Motion to adopt items 40-
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Item 42. I'm sorry, Councilmember Fioriletto would like to be recognized. Thank you. I just want to briefly speak on item number 40. This was brought up in caucus yesterday and some of my colleagues were
 were added as co-sponsors. Over the weekend, Senator Tim Kennedy had started a push to have the Toronto Raptors play their home games in Buffalo in the event that the border remains closed. After speaking with Senator Kennedy, we thought it would be a good idea to not only have the state senator from the area, but also
 showing, sending a message that the city council supports it as well. So it's not just one person on an Island advocating for it. You have a state legislator and the common council supporting what the Senator is asking for. So that's why this was brought up. And I just want to thank all of my other colleagues for supporting this and co-sponsoring it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. And can you please add me as a co-sponsor? All right. Me too, please.
 And Councilmember, was that Golombet? Yes. Councilmember Golombet. Am I on it already? I guess to be on it. We'll make sure you get on there. Anybody else? Councilmember Bowman will be a co-sponsor. All right. And we'll see Raptors. Next item. Item 42, rename Columbus Park as Prospect Park. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman.
 Item 43, Commissioner of Deeds, Public. Motion to adopt items 43 and 44. Second by Councilmember Wingo. I believe item number 44, Trailblazing Signs, are usually approved. Motion then is to approve items
 Should we call items 44, 45, 46, and 47 then? Well, let's rescind the motion to adopt in 44. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. And now the motion is? Motion now is to approve items 44, 45, 46, and 47. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just like to speak very briefly regarding the resolution number 44, Dog Man Joe. A lot of people in the city of Buffalo who have owned dogs, they take their dogs in as family members.
 These little guys, they come into your life and they capture your heart. They capture all of your time. So essentially, they send the little guys over to the expert. And the expert is none other than Joseph Myrie. He's known as Dog Man Joe.
 Dog Man Joe lives in the Maston District. He has family who lives in the Maston District. His sister lives in Maston District. They have been committed to the community for a very long time. He has been an advocate. He worked as a canine trainer on the Buffalo Police Department and throughout the Buffalo community. He does a lot of work. I know that he personally takes care of our comptrollers, little guy.
 well, not a little guy anymore, but you know, he has done so much. He had a business of training dogs in the Mastin district.
 as well. And so what we want to do is make sure that Dog Man Joe knows that we appreciate all of his work, even his advocacy, not around our canine friends and family. He has done a lot of work in our community regarding community advocacy and ensuring that people's had a higher level of quality life that they could afford. So Dog Man Joe has been very instrumental in our community. He lives right around the corner from me.
 And I was pleased when it was brought to my office to put up a trailblazing sign in his honor. So with that being said, I am
 I am very, very pleased that this sign will be going up in honor of Joseph Myrie, also known as Dog Man Joe in the Mastin District. And I'm praying that this sign will be a reminder, constant reminder of his contributions to the community, not just in the Mastin District, but in the city of Buffalo. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chair.
 I'm sorry. Mr. Chair. Council Member Bowman. Can we revisit item 33? Can we save the revisits to the end? Sure, because we have a couple items. Oh, okay. We may have a couple items. I have it written down though. All right, next item. We just need to do roll call on the last 44 to 47. All right, roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrell-Lotto? Yes. Councilmember Glambach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. The last item, sir.
 Pardon me, last item? All right, then we have the revisit on one item. It was only one item? Correct, item 33. Yes, sir. Motion is to revisit item 33, seconded by Council Member Cerebello. Item 33. Can you repeat? Who was asking to revisit? It was for a, to change the previous motion was to send to legislation, is that correct?
 And I was, I got a note that it should be receiving file. Motion to rescind the previous motion. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Motion is now to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. All right, announcements. Council President.
 Yes, Councilmember White. I just saw something, and I just wanted to make it clear, because people said that we received and filed Curio's Law. That is not the item. We've already approved Curio's Law, and it's before the mayor. So the item that we had was a draft that we received and filed. It wasn't actually the item that we approved. So I just want to make sure people are clear on that.
 Okay. Anyone else? Announcements? Let me get Bethany's announcements. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com slash BFLOCC.
 Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Wednesday, November 4th at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Wednesday, November 4th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Wednesday, November 4th at 2 p.m. Special committees, Committee on Police Oversight, Tuesday, November 10th at 11 a.m. All right. Councilmember's announcements. Councilmember Wingo, Councilmember White.
 Thank you. So this year we will not be having the Mastin District Halloween extravaganza at the Science Museum due to social distancing. We want folks to be safe this year.
 So there will be an event hosted, co-sponsored by Mastin District Office, but hosted by Pastor Kenny Simmons at the Cold Spring Bible Church, Bible Chapel at 100 Northland. And that will be from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. That'll be Saturday, 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. You'll be able to find the information on the Mastin District website,
 Facebook page, I'm sorry, coming up soon. So again, the Cold Spring Bible Chapel, Pastor Kenny Simmons will be hosting the Halloween event. It's not really a Halloween event. It's a trunk or treat. And, you know, of course, Pastor Simmons is very active in our community, and we appreciate him allowing us to partner with him on this endeavor to ensure that our kids are
 are being safe, our families are being safe, everyone will be socially distanced, and come by the church at 100 Northland and get the candy that is free that we have provided for you. And again, this is in partnership with the Madison District Office and Pastor Kenny Simmons, who was a pastor of the Cold Spring Bible Church at 100 Northland Saturday between the hours of 2 p.m. and 5 p.m. See you all there with your costumes. Thank you. Mm-hmm. Customer, what?
 Thank you. I just want to invite the residents of the university districts to our sweet treat giveaway. We are partnering with Greater Faith Bible Tabernacle at 391 Edison Avenue this Saturday from 2 to 4. We're asking people to wear their costumes. We're going to make sure we want people to make sure they wear their mask and social distance. But we want to, again, give our young people an opportunity to have the outlet to still enjoy the
 the time of Halloween, even in the midst of a pandemic, as long as we are being safe, they can wear their mask, they can wear their costumes and they can actually wear their face mask underneath their costume, but we're encouraging them to come out. We want to thank Pastor Ferrier for continuing to partner with the university district and just meeting the needs of the community. So again, that's October 31st from two to four, 391 Edison at greater faith Bible tabernacle. Thank you.
 Thank you. Any other announcements? Council Member Boland?
 Thank you Mr. President. Yes, we are doing Beggars Night. It's a big deal in my district, especially in Kysertown and Lovejoy on Clinton Street on Beggars Night. So that's Friday the 30th from 6 to 8. We'll be working with the Kysertown Friends Association to hand out bags at Clinton and Weiss. We'll be on Lovejoy. We're working with the Lovejoy Association. Same thing, Beggars Night 6 to 8. And then on Halloween,
 From 12 to 2 at the Schiller Park Senior Center, 2057 Genesee. We will also be handing out bags, socially distant, safe event, wear your mask and more information will be on my Facebook page. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Residents of the Fillmore District are encouraged to come join us for a harvest day at the Central Terminal. We've teamed up with United States Congressman Brian Higgins, Legislator Howard Johnson, myself, and Councilmember Brian Buhlmann, and we'll be having hamburgers and hot dogs, free flu shots, candy, information, you name it. Come on from 11 a.m. until supplies run out at the Central Terminal.
 All right. Any other announcements? Did the council member say they were giving away free shots? Blue shots. All right. Everybody all set? Council Member Revere? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Golombak. We are adjourned.