Councilmember Fransick? Councilmember Glombeck? Here. Council President Fridget? At ease. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum, present. I stand for pledge of the United States of America to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, one nation. Our Council Chaplain, Reverend Al Warner. Different people come to the microphone to open us in prayer and have. In my tradition, I seldom write out my remarks, but because of some of what's happened just since last we gathered two weeks ago, I have chosen to write out most of the remarks for today. I confess to you I am numb and exhausted from all that's been happening. Numb and exhausted. I feel more like a parishioner than a parish priest today. I wrote down our nation weeks since last time we met. The man sent pipe bombs across the country to leaders and institutions with which he disagreed. Outside Louisville, a killer came to an African-American church, but because he was 30 minutes late for the service that it had 70 people, the doors were already locked. So he headed down the street and murdered a black couple at a grocery shop. That was Wednesday. Then on Saturday in Pittsburgh, the killer came to the synagogue during a service in which they were dedicating a baby and murdered 11 parishioners. They gathered at Temple, and there's more. The nightly news is filled with the images of people crying. Every night, people weeping. Our nation weeps today, and our city weeps today. The local news is filled with images of people crying, some my friends and some yours. Some people externalize all that that they see, but some, like me, internalize it. Elisha 6.1 talks about bearing one another's burdens, but sometimes the burden feels crushing in its weight. Romans 12.15 says, Weep with those who weep, but how much more pain can we feel? So I thought that the words of St. Francis were so appropriate. Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Start here. Start with me. I can't always change everybody else, but Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there's hatred... I need to sow some other kind of seed, the seed of love, where there's injury, pardon, where there's doubt, faith, where there's despair, hope, where there's darkness, light, where there's sadness, joy. O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to consult, to be understood as to understand, to be loved as to love. For it's in giving that we're received, in pardoning that we're pardoned, in dying that we're born again to eternal life. During this time of prayer, I'm going to just pause for a moment to let you silently pray for those that you know that are hurting and in grief and lost. The council president will give you an opportunity for a moment of silence with humans, but I want to pause just because I want you to have that up. Lord, for those filled with grief, loss, and pain, we pause. God of all grace, please pour your grace, mercy, and presence out on all those who weep, those with fear-filled eyes, folks. In the name of your precious son, we ask this. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Members? Council Member Dillenbeck? Thank you, Mr. President. For some of us old-timers, and I forget now that I'm one of the old-timers here on the Council, you might remember Kevin Gelvin. He was retired from the Buffalo Zoning Board of Appeals. He passed away this past week after a short battle with illness. He was my Facebook friend and we would always comment on each other's posts. And I noticed that for the past month or maybe a little bit longer, he hadn't been very active. But I thought, you know, there's so many idiots on Facebook, I thought maybe he was just tired of it. And so I didn't think anything of it until I saw the paper the other day and I saw that he passed away and I felt bad because I knew Kevin when I was an intern in the 1980s. I would run into him once in a while since his retirement and like I said on Facebook we would send messages back and forth to each other but he's going to be very sorely missed by his family and friends. And also Patricia Skeevy was not a Buffalo resident, but she was my sixth, seventh, and eighth grade math teacher at All Saints Grammar School. And she had taught at All Saints, I think, from the early 70s until probably a good 30 years, the early 2000s, maybe the late 1990s. But she was pre-deceased by her husband, David. But very, very nice woman, tough woman. I can remember being afraid to get a wrong answer on my math workbook. But I do have to say to this day I don't care when a train leaves Los Angeles and Boston and where they're going to meet if they go at different hours. But that was my fault, not hers. And also, as Reverend said, my heart breaks for the victims of all of the crime, the violent crime, the violence and the senseless acts of terrorism in this country. And unfortunately, we've gotten to the point where it happens so frequently that we don't mention it. You know, 20 years ago, 30 years ago at the dinner table, if one person would have been killed, we would have been aghast. Now it takes 11 Jews in Pittsburgh to be murdered at a worship service, one of whom was a Holocaust survivor. And still there's not the outrage, in my opinion, that there should be. One death is one too many, and all of these victims I want to remember in our thoughts and in our prayers today. Thank you. Any others? Councilmember Fontana. Public Works has lost a member of its community, Syed Ghasemi. Syed was a project manager for the department for many years. WORKED ON MANY PROJECTS. HE JUST FINISHED UP THE BAILEY AVENUE BRIDGE PROJECT IN HONOR OF SHERIFF HIGGINS THAT WE CHANGED THE NAME THROUGH COUNCIL MEMBER SCANDALIN AND MYSELF. BUT SYED, I WAS WORKING WITH HIM RIGHT UP THROUGH THE SUMMER. I COULD TELL SOMETHING WAS A LITTLE DIFFERENT AND UNFORTUNATELY WE WERE RIGHT. HE SUCCUMBED TO A BRAIN TUMOR. WE'LL MISS SYED AND SO WILL THE WHOLE DEPARTMENT. Those persons in Pittsburgh, Irving Younger, Melvin Wax, Rose Mallinger, Bernice and Sylvan Simon, Jerry Rabinowitz, Joyce Feinberg, Richard Godfrey, Daniel Stein, Brothers Cecil and David Rosenthal. And for those who, to their families, this city, entire city and this council, pauses for a moment of silence. thank you on a motion by mr revere second by mr scandler the minutes of the stated meeting held on october 16th 20 2018 are approved gentlemen the late files are in front of you are there any objections to any of the late files bearing no objection we will receive the entire agenda as before as chair recognizes councilmember white council president um could we send a letter to pittsburgh and prayer and letting them know that we're thinking of them with this tragedy. And I appreciate it that you listed their names, but I think that will be a great gesture to send to them on behalf of the city of Buffalo. To the synagogue? To the synagogue, yes, on behalf of them, yes. We definitely can. We'll take care of that. Thank you. And then maybe we'll just get a short note, and then by the time we're out, council members would like to sign it and sign it and get it in the mail today. Thank you. Very nice. And in our chapel. All righty. Thank you all. All right. We're going from the top. Item one, extension of agreement between the City of Buffalo and Zoological Society. Motion to send the legislation, items one and two. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item three, 135 Cleveland Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item four, extended designated developer agreement for Broadway Development and Management. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item five, cash flow report. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. Item 6, letter to CPC Chair Adam Perry. Motion to receive and file to items 6 and 7. Seconded by Councilmember Ferralero. Item 8, changing contract, police and fire headquarters. Motion to approve items 8 through 12. Second by Council Member Freeletter. Item 13, appoint motor equipment mechanic. Motion to send to civil service items 13 through 19. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 20, mass notification system for City of Buffalo. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 21, appoint captain. Motion to send to... I'm sorry, which... Item 21, appoint captain. Item 21, motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 22, amended order special use permit 197 Allen. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Temp Scandal. Item 23, food store license 1799 Genesee. Motion to send to legislation items 23 and 24. say my customer for your love item 25 garbage collector license motion to approve and my customer friends item 26 lodging house license 115 aka 117 Glenwood motion to send legislation items 26 and 27 second my customer friends item 28 secondhand dealer 1217 East Lovejoy motion to prove that condition that it has a six-month sunset plus six months sunset on the license Can we state for the record exactly what that means so we have clarity? I had a meeting in my office with the individual and I decided that at this point it would be wise to let him move forward with his application. However, it's on a short rope. I want to make sure that the applicant doesn't essentially hurt himself by doing something wrong at the business. So if there's something going on that we don't like, six months sunset could help in that situation. He'll have to get it re-approved in six months if he's doing a good job. being a businessman in the fashion of other business people on Lovejoy Street, then that's fine. If not, then his license would be taken away for six months. So is this, just for clarity, it's a year's license though? No, it's a six month license. So does he have to reapply after the six months? We could re-approve at that point through the law department. Alright, you okay with that? So in six months this applicant would have to come back to the council? And then, so he doesn't have to pay another? No. The applicant doesn't have to pay. Okay. Yeah. All right. As stated. Item 29, used car dealer, 2687 Bailey. Motion to approve with condition. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 30, used car dealer, 1054 Grant. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you. JUST WANTED TO MAKE SURE THE CONDITIONS WERE CLEAR FOR USE CARD DEALERSHIP NUMBER ITEM NUMBER 29 AT BAILEY 2687 BAILEY. SO THIS IS, SO THE MOTION WAS TO APPROVE, WAS IT WITH CONDITIONS? YES, SIR. IT WAS WITH CONDITIONS? All right, so you're going to file them, but you can state them for the record also. Okay, I can just file them? You can file them, but if you want to state them, you can. Okay, I'll just state them real quick. Used car dealers will have no more than 15 cars in the lot at a time for sale. Vehicles will clearly display pricing. There will be no snow removal onto Eastern Avenue or Bailey. Property grounds will be maintained regularly, clean, and free of debris and weeds. Used car dealership hours should be posted on the internal inside gate. Entrance gate excuse me interest a and owner a representative will meet quarterly with the Easton Avenue block club. Thank you, sir Then if you give a file to file a clerk Copy to the court next item 132 used car dealer 1423 South Park motion is sent legislation second by council member, Columbia 133 contract extension approval motion to approve motion to approve I'm back second by councilmember friends that item 34 appoint secretary to Commission on citizens rights motion to receive and file items 34 through 38 and my customer friends at item 39 notes of primates temporary provisional permanent motion to send the civil service second by councilmember friends miscellaneous items item 40 defaulting routing for committee item motion to send the rules committee That's my councilmember. We know 41 SEQ our neck deck 445 Delaware ocean to adopt items 41 and 42 say my cousin I feel a little and 43 route 33 expressway maintenance and beautification motion ascended CD and DPW saying my customer Wingo item 44 spectrum to raise prices for cable internet service next month motion to send the finance second by council member Wyatt and 45 fruit belt community land trust update motion to send the CD Second like the councilman front and petitions out of 46 special use 347 East Ferry motion to send to legislation a city planning board items 46 through 50 second by president pro temp scandal committee civil service item one appoint building inspector a Motion to approve items number one. Second by the Majority Leader of the year. Item two, notice of appointments temporary, provisional, permanent. Receiving five. Second by the Majority Leader. Finance Committee, item three, financial management of accounts. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Community Development Committee, item four, Department of Public Service Commission. The motion is to send items numbers four and five to the Finance Committee. All right, so it's being transferred over to Finance Committee, seconded by Majority Leader. I'm sorry, Council Member Fontana. Thank you. Just briefly, I informed Council Member Wyatt of this earlier, but we received word back from staff that the PSC does not want to meet with us in teleconference. They denied our request to teleconference on the topic of spectrum rate increases, issues that Council Member Wyatt has been raising regarding customer service. And instead, they're going to file a letter with us. And have we filed a letter yet? No. They haven't sent it yet? Okay. Well, we haven't received the letter yet, so we're supposed to get it in writing, but for some reason the PSC now will not meet with the Common Council, even if it's just teleconference. The old days, Steve Shea used to come here all the way from Albany, spend a whole couple days with us and bring us up to speed on all the issues. He used to work with Tom Terrapacki. And no more. It's a totally different PSC. Now they don't even want a teleconference. It won't cost them a dime and they won't do it. So we'll see when we get the letter if it's suffice. We'll see if it's not suffice, I think we should push the issue and actually do a council resolution asking for them to meet with this council on teleconference. We don't even know who the people are at the PSC at this point. In the old days we used to know who they are. And as we embark on franchise agreement talks, we should know who our representatives at the PSC are. That's all I have at this time. Keep pushing it, Channel. One of the stations was here today to do an interview about this, about the franchise agreement. And a comment today, you know, when only one company holds the key, I don't know how much of a negotiation that is at the end of the day, because what do you do? They own the infrastructure, they own everything there. Quite interestingly, one of our snowbirds called me or sent me a text about Florida. I guess they have the contract there. But when they took over there, they gave free boxes, all kinds of stuff. So I asked them to get it to us in writing and I filed it. Because I think by the area they do kind of whatever they want to and they can. Thus, rates go up and what do you do? And the next council meeting we're going to have a resolution, if it hasn't been filed already, I don't think it has. They're actually asking the federal government to be able to deduct any services they provide in kind on a franchise agreement from their franchise fee. So we collect 5% every year on them using our right-of-way to do business, essentially. So they're using our right-of-way. They pay us 5% to do that. but if they provide free cable to the senior center or youth center they want to deduct that rate from that at which they spend money on the city of buffalo right away to make money so it's getting interesting but we're going to do a resolution asking the federal government not to change that law because we think it's ridiculous why would you negotiate with somebody where everything you received in negotiations you had to pay back on the other side of the equation i don't know any contracts that work that way absolutely thank you Next item. Item 6, Community Foundation Invitation to the Racial Equality and Impact Analysis Tool Training. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. Item 7, Disposition of Real Property, 240-260 Lakefront. This item came without recommendation. The motion now is to approve. So, and I just heard one condition that was asked about this. did it come from councilman forensic yes that this patio i thought it was from you so i was kind of confused yeah councilman friends i thought because i know you filed a resolution so um what is needed to be is to have this approved if it's approved with condition that with the words that all exterior all exterior patios decks balconies protuberances must stay within 48 by 38 feet for units that are closest to the water, and 38 feet by 28 feet for all other units. It has to have that language. That's it. So we want it in writing and we will put that as an amendment? Now, Mr. Jason... As a condition for the approval. Yes, that's fine. See, one of the things, Mr. Chairman, that the residents are nervous about is that a homeowners association can come in after the developer builds it and start putting those things in. So what they really would need is a deed restriction on something like that because that would... all the work that has happened would be thrown out the window. Yeah. The Corporation Council can give an opinion. Assistant Corporation Council Karen Gordon. As I've said to Council President earlier today, the restrictions would require both parties to meet to the table. That's, in essence, goes to the essence of contract and whatever they would have wanted when they initially agreed to buy the property from the city. At this point, given that all those agreements may have already been made, I don't think we can now impose a deed restriction without going back to the table with both parties. and having them decide whether or not it's something that they're willing to accept or no. At this point, I think we're beyond that. A deed restriction would probably require that the parties meet at a table again. And which parties do we meet? And that would be the city and, of course, the party to whom the city is selling the property. Thank you. And I prefer to do this. I don't want to, this has been going on a while. Yeah, exactly. And I don't think that it is, now we're here, we've had meeting after meeting after meeting. And after every agreement, the last time I've got 11 different things to change. This is not how we should conduct business nor on the floor. If there is a discussion that needs to happen, we just got opinions from it. The difficulty about this is this is, again, kind of at the final hour. We have not had a chance to go back to our corporation council. This is the first, once the email started flowing, that we're hearing about it. Now, every single request that was made on Lakefront, the 240, 260, both council members got in the back room and we worked with the developer, worked with the community, and we did it. Now something comes up that I'm not comfortable negotiating on the floor of the common council after hearing the opinion of our council. If this was something that we heard two months ago, we would have had a chance if the two I want us to hold this for a few seconds, and there's a conversation that happens outside of the chamber, but I just don't think it should happen here during the council meeting when we've had all day to get anything on it. So... you're not supposed to speak yeah they want to go out i don't want to start that precedent because it'll keep going and keep going unfortunately the conversations happen from the public at our committee meetings we've had committee meeting committee meeting if there's a discussion that the two parties want to have outside of the chambers i'm okay with that and i'll hold this but according to our corporation council now we've we've moved the I acted as an architect, moving the building around. We just added the patio. I'm okay with that. Now to go into contract negotiations on the floor, I don't think is right. So if the two parties, we can hold this and obey it. Two parties want to have a quick conversation, I'm okay with that. It just can't happen during the council meeting. That should happen after the meeting. I will make that motion if you so deem. Say it again. I will make the motion to hold this item in abeyance. Okay. Second by Council Member Fontana. Next item. Item 8, Elam Town Homes. Motion is to approve items 8 and 9. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee, item 10, Food Star License 819, Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by the President, Pro Tems. Okay. Item 11, used car dealer 407 South Park. Motion to recommit. Second by councilmember Wyatt. Item 12, use 802 Elmwood. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by councilmember Wingo. Item 13, special use permit 135 Cleveland. Motion to approve. Second by councilmember Faribault. Item 14, use special use permit 445 Delaware. Motion to approve. Second by councilmember Fontana. Item 15, local landmark application 3451 Bailey. Motion to recommit. Second by councilmember Fontana. Item 16, 341 Franklin. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 17, used car dealer 2078 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Fontana, who will provide conditions. Item 18, special use 2277 South Park. Motion to deny. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Scanlon, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I ask that this item be denied based on several reasons. First and foremost, there are several outstanding violations with the Department of Permits and Inspection Services, and also the requested use does not meet the approval standards, in particular numbers 2, 3, and 5, that are laid out in Article 11 of the UDO within the Buffalo Green Code. Thank you. For those reasons, thank you, sir. I'm sorry. Can we follow? Can you follow that in writing also? Sure. So she has it for the record. Thank you, sir Education Committee 19 urban teacher residency program motion is to receive and file item number 19 second by consumer what resolutions item 51 great buffalo jubilee fee waiver and Motion to approve items 51 and 52. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 53, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 316, Mobile Bail Bonds. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 54, renaming LaSalle Park to Ralph C. Wilson Jr. Centennial Park. Motion to adopt the resolves and remainder to legislation. Second by Council Member Little. Item 55, deciding action for disposition of 240 and 260 Lakefront Boulevard. this item is open what would you like you didn't hold this one in the bans do hold it in advance motion to hold it in the danes second by councilman forensic item 56 holiday lighting on niagara street motion to approve second by council member fontana 157 budget and personnel amendment motion to approve second by council member white 158 commissioner of deeds public duties motion to adopt second by council member good lumbin Motion to revisit item number seven in well, they're not back in the room. So Council member Fontana, do you have a little time like to revisit an item? You got a little time I figured you had some time if you got the time I got the beer liquor licenses There we go item number 35 which item 35 out of the city to revisit item 35 second by council member Wingo on 18-19 22 930 Walden Avenue. If we could send a letter to the SLA on this, asking for a hearing to be held. This is a former location of a problem nightclub located right on the front doorsteps of Walden Heights development off of Walden Avenue. I'm sure they appreciate the they would appreciate it greatly if the SLA took a harder look at this location. There was violence there, drugs. At this point they want to add another liquor license to the location. So I'm hoping that they do a hearing and I'd like to send our concern and ask for a hearing on this item. So you want to the motion would remain to receive and file it? Yeah, I think that's the only motion we can really do. But as long as we send the letter, we will be okay. Okay. Our staff has that and we'll accomplish that. In the sake of time, if there are any announcements, make an announcement when we come back to the item from advance. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to announce to the University District residents, now is the time if you are interested in a turkey, I know it's a little bit early, Well, we like to be early than late. We're going to have a turkey giveaway on Tuesday, November 20th at the Kensington Neighborhood Housing Services at 995 Kensington. That will take place again on November 20th. Please call my office to register. These turkeys are for seniors age 60. Please call my office for more information, 851-5165. Thank you. Yes, sir. Any other announcements? Okay. Other announcements? birthdays anniversaries What do you have? Sure, and we need to council members have a Rules Committee. I failed to do that We need to do that probably next week. I sent out a list some last year Some of the changes we need to rescind it will rescind it out again So if we could do that Next week, so we're not adding another meeting on another day. If the afternoon, if we do it 1245, is that okay with everybody? 1245, so add that to your list, sir. 1245 on? Tuesday. Tuesday, 11. Oh, we won't be here. Wednesday. What day is it? Wednesday. See you. We'll dress up for Halloween. Okay. Okay. All right. So we're going to reconvene. Well, we never left out of session. But I want to state it for the record what I've just been informed because I think it's so important. that the public understands what's happening. I like to put it all out there, very crystal clear. So if either, we'll start with the attorney from, what is it, Bureau, who will first give his opinion, our Corporation Counsel, and then we'll move forward. Good afternoon. Scott Billman, General Counsel for the City of Buffalo, Urban Newly. The conditions that we're discussing now, they are more properly within the declaration documents that was established, the homeowners association. The deed restriction of this store is very uncommon. And any changes that were made or anything like that, that has a review process. Look at those design changes or buildings. And that's the proper form of capital relief. Thank you. Pro-President Thompson, do you have, so that and what we've just been told, because you're our attorney. Assistant Pro-President Thompson, Karen Gordon. As I stated earlier, I do not believe that this is the forum for the de-restriction. I think any, such discussion would have had to be something prior to this point in the negotiation. Also, as it relates to the design to the specific patio and buildings, planning board is the ultimate, I guess, the ultimate body that makes the decision as to approved building for the City of Buffalo. That being said, it does not totally mean that we could not put a condition that such patios, you know, may not be larger than XYZ. I mean that could still be a condition in there because we are selling the property to, you know, Simonelli. However, as I said at the end of the day, any design that takes place while through the development of the project, it still has to go through the through the planning process and planning board will be the ultimate deciding body on whether or not the structure or design of the building can go. Councilman Frenzel, did you have anything? Well, I made an amendment here as a condition, but The residents would prefer that deed restriction so that amendment still stands, you know, essentially. With the patio? With the, as I said, all exterior patios, decks, balconies, and protuberances stay within 48 feet by 38 feet for units closest to the water and 38 feet by 28 feet for all other units. Yep, that stays. Yeah. Any other questions, Council Member? No. I do want to say thank you to the residents, to this council for your indulgence, and also to the developer. This was probably, in my time on the council, the second, I won't say the first, I think Miller was probably the most involved, but the second most involved process in which we really did have to dig in there, And at the end of the day, nobody is 100% happy, but we got to a point that made sense for most people. And so I want to thank my colleague, Council Member Franczak, who we're at endless amounts of meetings on this item. And so we are going to now move this item forward unless something else is happening that I don't know about. Anything else new? All right, no, no, nothing new. We don't want to put swimming pools in, nothing like that, right? We're done? All right, motion. Okay, Council Member Franza, with the condition, yes, go ahead. Your mic isn't on. Your mic isn't on. Your mic is off. Motion to approve with the condition set or agreed to with Council Member Frante. Okay, let's put it, motion to approve. with the conditions that would be filed, that were stated and will be filed. And record me in the negative. In the negative? Record me in the negative. All right. In the negative. All right. Everyone else approved? You're in the negative? All right. So I know we've been joined, I think, by, is that Leadership Buffalo? So, and we have a student here. So we are in, this is what government does. So there is a project in front of us. There is discussion and there is new, there are new things on the table. Now my desire today, because we've been dealing with this for four years, was to close this out. I'm getting different opinions from lawyers, not basically the same, but some a little different that need the research. I'm going to suggest that we send this back to committee. But I want to be clear. This needs to come back before this council, unless there is something huge at the next council meeting. Council members, we've been working on this for four years. If there's going to be any more notes or emails, we cannot run a city... not move things forward although I am not 100% thrilled I'm not 100% thrilled at any project and the bright come up with something new on every single project what we cannot afford to do is we have committee meetings we've had community meetings we've had meetings with the meetings meetings with the developers meetings with the community community split so now we've got several different entities that That we're dealing with, but at the end of the day, we're elected and we have to make decisions. And so we've got to make a decision on this. So I'm going to ask that we send the motion to approve. I motion to rescind the original motion to approve. Second by counsel by President Pro Tem Scanlon and that we now recommit. motion to recommit second by councilmember for your item seven from community development yes and then there was one other item that we held item 55 under resolutions uh where was it was under resolution send it to the same committee second uh motion to receive and file which item you want to receive number 55 send it to community development you want to send that to community development Just leave it there. Send it to the CD. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. It's part of what government does. It's not a bad thing. You talk about it, you figure it out. But at the end of the day, nobody's going to be 100% happy. Any other business before this council? Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Wednesday, November 7th, 945 AM. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Wednesday, November 7th, 1 PM. Committee on legislation, Wednesday, November 7th, 2 PM. Rules committee, Wednesday, November 7th, 1245. Any other announcements? All right, motion. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Fontana. We stand adjourned. If the leadership of Buffalo folks