Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Golombet. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Aye. Key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Today, I want to lead us in prayer for the protection of those who work for our city. Psalm 127 speaks of the Lord who guards and protects a city. And here in the chambers, we know what it's like to have someone that's guarding even these august gatherings of our city council or common council. I know the shock waves that go through this building. reverberating floor by floor and through all the city owned facilities. Among all our city workers were the tragic shooting and murder of Buffalo sewer authority worker Kishan Galt, age 22. Younger than either of my sons. Along with the shootings of two other Buffalo city workers. I didn't know Kishan, but I'm taken back to Mike Muscarella who last November was killed in a snow tragic snow plowing accident and I did know Mike. Our hearts break when those who serve us and our city are at risk. I want to lead us now in prayer for Mr. Galt's family, for the safety and protection of those who serve our city every day, and for the rest of those responsible. Would you bow with me? Father, I thank you for Psalm 127 that talks about you guarding and protecting our city of Buffalo. Father, I thank you for so many who work day in and day out to make our city a better place. And Father, this tragic murder that happened. And Mr. Galt gone and family left devastated, friends devastated behind. And Lord, I think of the fact that he went to work that morning like any of us do, without a thought or a care around his safety. Lord, that's normal, but that day was anything but. Amen. So Lord, I pray even now a guardianship and protection over those who serve the city. The council members who move throughout the district. And Lord, when they're there, they don't have the guard that is in this chamber. So I ask that you would protect them. I pray that you protect every city employee that moves around this city. Neighborhood to neighborhood, block to block, and does their job and does it well. Lord, I pray that you would even now... bring to arrest investigations happening even as we gather together today. Lord, we identify those responsible and bring them to justice. And Lord, thank you that in all of this, we can ask you to guard and protect our precious city. In your name we ask these things. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Councilmember Zinni-Mormoz? Councilmember Golubnick? Thank you, Mr. President. We lost Paul Mathewson, city employee, this past week as well. I've known Paul, gosh, I think at least 30 years when he lived in Black Rock, moved over to Riverside. It was a shock for everyone. Some of you might know his brother Kevin who used to work at the kiosk downstairs. He retired about a year ago. But Paul's leaving behind family, friends, and in particular his wife, Annette. Anyone else? Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. I say we keep in our thoughts the family of Patrick Stretch McMahon. a 24 year veteran and retired member of the Buffalo Fire Department who passed away last week. Also a small business owner in the district for a number of years. He's going to be sorely missed by his wife Sandy and their children Missy, Tom, Patrick, and Paul, as well as his number of grandchildren. So I ask that we keep the family in our prayers. Also, I ask that we please keep in our thoughts Camille Brandon and her family. I think all of us are very familiar with Camille and her tireless efforts on behalf of countless agencies and causes throughout the city of Buffalo in this region and She's get those causes and those people are gonna be sorely sorely missing Camille. Absolutely and also last week the Our governor, Kathy Hochul, her father John Courtney passed away. An employee of Bethlehem Steel who rose the ranks through several other corporations and then more importantly was a tireless advocate for countless people and organizations throughout Hamburg, Lackawanna, Western New York. So our condolences go out to the governor and her family as well. Absolutely. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Asking the city of Buffalo to keep in prayers my chief of staff, Sandra Munson, in the sudden passing of her youngest brother, Michael Banks. I know it's really hard when someone passes suddenly, not that they were ill or anything. So if you could please keep her family in your prayers, thank you. Absolutely. Any others? And I echo Camille in this chamber a lot. just a wonderful person, even when you see her out socially. And she was always the same. So it was a shock to I just saw probably many of us just saw her recently doing something for some agency, some organization, and her heart was just into what she did. But she always did it fairly and she would talk to you with respect. And so she will she will be missed and irreplaceable. We pause in these chambers for those names that were called and also for those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and many countries now who are at war or who are suffering. And we pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Okay, up there, but today, especially this month, and you all can come down, come on down. I mean, you skipped work, so you might as well come on down. So we have with us today the President and CEO of Roswell Park Comprehensive Center, Cancer Center. We also have the Chief of Cancer Screening and Survivorship, Dr. Reed. We have the Director of Physician Liaison and Marketing and Corporate Relations, Ashley Snowden and other staff that are here. This is, there is really no way to say thank you to Roswell Park. I tell this story and I did get permission without sharing the person's name. Earlier today, someone stopped by my office who had just had chemotherapy. And who said to me, not knowing that I was gonna see you all today, When I asked how you're doing, they talked about the staff at Roswell and the witness project and how people are walking her through the steps of really not dealing with her cancer but beating her cancer. And I said, I'm going to be with Dr. Johnson in a few minutes. There's a part of this, and I'm not gonna read the whole thing, it's just the two parts I wanna read. It says, whereas Lung Cancer Awareness Month provides us with an opportunity to raise awareness about the critical importance of early detection and prevention of lung cancer, and we recognize the extraordinary efforts made by Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center in our community. And the reason I wanted to read that part is because you truly are in our community. When I was first elected 12 years ago, there was a battle between the medical campus and the Fruitbelt residence. And I understood that battle. And it went everything from parking to building to how you're interacting with the community. There is no longer a battle, and I give a lot of credit to you, Dr. Johnson, and to your team, because the latest building that was redone on Michigan was in our community. And then you added on to it. And then you had an African American architect, who you stole from here, but it's okay, to design the building and the way you interact with this community, not only for cancer, but how you care about the neighborhood. I just want to tell you it has been a pleasure to work with you all. And I want to thank you for giving my son, my middle son, a job so that he doesn't have to come by my house for money. So, and finally, the edibus that you bring out to the community, that you have had at the church where people are able to come and be screened right in their neighborhood. Thank you for what you do. We all salute you. So thank you very much. You know, this is, Eddie is really a wonderful, wonderful thing. Less than 6% of eligible people that should get screened for lung cancer actually do. This is across the country. This is, in contrast, over 90% of women get mammograms. But we don't screen for lung cancer. And lung cancer, if you've ever known anyone that's had lung cancer, it's not a good prognosis. And so if you detect it earlier, you have a chance at this terrible disease. And so that's what EDDIE is all about, early detection driven to you. So EDDIE's mobile, can drive anywhere in the city, anywhere in our community, and offer lung cancer screening where it's really needed most. This screening will save lives, no question about it. And you know, lung cancer is bad, but it's even worse in black men who have a worse prognosis than their Caucasian counterpoint. So we really need to screen, it's important, it's one of our missions. You know, Roswell's been known as a center for innovation and treatment, which it is. But it wasn't until I became the leader and I elicited Dr. Mary Reed and others that now we're screening for anything and everything that we can to try to detect cancer earlier or prevent it. It's really where we're spending a lot of our energy. So I'm thrilled with this honor. It's wonderful, so thank you so much. Thank you. Mike, you're so good. Thank you all. Thank you so, so much. All right. You're welcome. Congratulations. It's item one. All right, from the top. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm already retired. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 17th, 2023 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections to any of the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review something. And we will go from the top. Item number one, 2023-2024 snow plan. Motion to send the CD. Motion to send the CD, second by Councilmember Scanlon. Councilmember White, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. We finally got our snow plan and I'm trying not to be so critical, but I just can't. Just before I came down here, I saw that the mayor had listed or talked about or submitted the two names of the two individuals regarding the Emergency manager as well as the fleet manager. This has been a tough process He's talked about communication. Well, we ain't had a lot of communication We got this snow plan today but I think the urgency of having a snow plan early because of what happened last year it should have happened and I guess you want to follow the letter of the law when it comes to you following the charter, but we don't always have to do that when it comes to the safety and security of the residents of the city of Buffalo. And so again, we can accept this template. We'll have more conversations in CD with the commissioner, but this drip-drip of working with the council on this issue is just insane. It makes no sense. This is not no partisan thing. This is about the safety of residents. i know councilmember bowman introduced his uh plan for regarding this um warming centers as i've talked to the folks at my warming center they have nothing they don't have a they don't have an energy generator they don't have cots they don't have any type of food the snow plan is what we were waiting on but we were also waiting on emergency manager which we've been introduced that the council wasn't giving us i don't know if you were given the information on individuals but it just doesn't make any sense. And so again, I'm glad we have this, but we should have had it in earnest because of the residents. Not because of, count Rashid Reed Wyatt, but for my colleagues, the residents. They don't feel comfortable in just having this plan right now and finding that we had 44 pieces of equipment, snow removal from last year. We only have 30. So if everything goes the way it normally goes, maybe we'll be okay. But if it doesn't, where are we at? And so those are the issues that concern me, especially again, the fact that the American Red Cross has not been consulted. The American Red Cross who this is what they do emergency services. We may not have the extreme situation of last year. But if we do, we should have the information in the partnership with the groups that can help us get out of that situation. So again, when we talk about communication, That didn't happen through this process, and that's unfortunate. Because this isn't about politics, it really is about the safety of our residents. And I don't know if it's going to change. Maybe when we have a new mayor, it'll change. But right now, I'm a little bit ticked off because we always put this other stuff in front of the safety of our residents. It shouldn't be about that. Thank you, Mr. President. All right, anybody else? So we do have, and I haven't had a chance. to review this in earnest, it is going to committee. I do think, and we've had the discussion before about a different date of this, and the date being changed. I agree on portion of the date. Snow today, I saw plows out. Blades weren't on the ground, but it snowed today. And I do think that there does need to be, and we do have a resolution to change the date. And the Department of Public Works, the commissioner said that he agreed with it. Later I heard that it was told that Well, we don't know what it might be, but snow is snow. It's going to snow in Buffalo, so we know that. So I hope that before I leave that we're able to come to an agreement on the changing of the date that the council receives the snow plan. That to me is major. Because then we can work. I hope to be able to say these are the things that I need in my district. Each district, South was hit differently than maybe North. Next time it may be the opposite way. But I think to work together, it always works. And I think the most important thing now is getting, one of the most important things, is getting the date changed when the snow plan will be released. Council member, uh, Scanlon? Yeah. President Plouton. Thank you, Council President. I'm glad that we now have this plan in our hands that we can take a look at it. I've gone through it. I want to go through it a little more in depth still. But I do think there's some improvements there at first glance. But also, I think there's some room for some coordination and some amendments to be made between us and the administration. I'd like to take a closer look at an agreement between us and the schools. I know I've talked about it in the past. I know Council Member Bowman's talked about it in the past, about using some of the school buildings when needed. I want to look at the issue of the residential street protocol. I want to look a little more in depth to that and how they're going to do that. Who's going to be staffing the shelters, the warming shelters when they are open? Talks about community services and those employees doing it, but I want to know which ones those are exactly. So I'd like to have a little more detail when it comes to that stuff as well as the parking areas, the number of parking areas in each district, and some questions about the fleet as well. I look forward to having a conversation with them next week during committee and hopefully making some amendments to it. And as I said, I haven't been able to go all the way through, so I know one of the concerns was about 311. And making sure that during a blizzard or a tragedy that people can call 311 and And get a live body and really be able to connect because we know during the past storm that a lot of the communication really happened through social media a lot more than what we were able to do. So I'm the same way. I want to look through it and see. Thank you, Council President. I completely agree about the communication. It has to be better. And that will help things like the warming shelters so people know where they're at. So last winter during the blizzard we had three two were shut down because they didn't have power. Um, so in this plan it looks like we have nine locations, which is better from three from last year, but I want to see it go further. I think we need. think about the blizzard last year how tough it was for people just to get down the street street we need to have locations accessible so i'm pushing for more than nine and as councilmember scanlon mentioned we talked with buffalo public schools in my education committee they are ready and willing partner in this and they have identified schools that can be used so i don't understand why we're not using and partnering with the buffalo public schools i think that's something we need to talk about more in committee next week so those are the questions i'll be asking thank you absolutely Councilmember Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My staff was looking at it this morning and I got it this afternoon and I agree this is a document that perhaps is going to be amended. I noticed it mentioned schools or listed schools or a diagram of schools but didn't say what functions the school were going to play should there be a snowstorm. So I guess, We're gonna have to go back and take a look at some of those things and what it is that the school is ready and prepared to do. The warming shelters, I noticed they're in different parts of the district. They're not very close to certain neighborhoods. So if there was a storm, perhaps in my district we would have to go to Father Bell, which is way down, or we have to go to North District to S Reese. But we need to make sure that there are places within a certain radius of the neighborhood. So that's something that the emergency manager can discuss. It would have been nice to have the benefit of the emergency management when they were doing the planning, but I understand. But I think this is a document that will change. There's some wrap lots that no longer in existence that are still in the previous plans, so we have to take those out. There are some places. places like Women and Children's Hospital that were primaries. Women and Children's Hospital is no longer there, so we have to make sure that that changes as well. So we have to go back and change some of this, but I'm glad we have received it. I'm looking forward to having meetings and having meetings with the emergency coordinator and what that person's plans are and any changes that he or she would like to see. In the snow plan, so I'm happy we received it. I wish you would have gotten earlier. I agree I think it should change and argue when the snows gonna snow can come anytime. I agree with you But I think we should have these meetings before budget so we can discuss, you know Appropriations for some of the things that we might need to fund some of these things that we're doing so hopefully we'll be able to go back and change the date and to coincide with the budget or even prior to the budget absolutely um you know they'll say you know let's wait to the summer we don't you know we don't need to wait till november to get this plan this plan should be given to us perhaps in may so absolutely thank you thank you all right did you have anything All right, you got a second on that, right? Yes. All right, next item. Item number two, appointments to Buffalo Water Board. Motion to approve items two, three, and four. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number five, extend lease agreement for Dorothy J. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number six, pilot Main Street Lofts Project. Motion to approve item six through nine. Second by Councilmember Golombak, excuse me. Mr. Chair. Council Member White. Just had a question on number six. Is that your district? No, they said no, that's a master. This is a master? Okay. Yes. Thank you. Next item. Item number 10, Seneca Street Special Needs LP and DePaul Property, 1603 Seneca. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 11, Seeker Nagtuck for 172 Goodell Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member White. Item number 12, appoint Associate Tax Clerk. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 13, change order for Ferguson Electric. Motion to approve items 13 through 21. Second by Council Member Scanlon, President Pro Tem. Item number 22, appoint Chief Water Pollution Inspector. Motion to send to Civil Service items 22 through 26. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 27, approval to trade in .40 caliber for nine. Motion to approve items 27 through 29. Second by Councilmember Golombek. Item number 30, appoint assistant corporation council two. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 31, contract with the city of Buffalo and get her done at Western New York 21 Stanislaus. Motion to approve items 31 through 33. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 34, food store license 2215 Fillmore. Motion to send the legislation item 34 and 35. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 36, food store license 1432 Niagara Street. Motion to approve items 36 through 38. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 39, property manager. Motion to send the legislation item 39 and 40. Second by Council Member White. Item number 41, second hand dealer, 1269 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Bowed by the Council Member. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 42, tire handler license, 1657 Broadway. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 43, auction and scrap of vehicles. Motion to approve items 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 45, BSA Board attendance. Motion to receive and file items 45 through 47. Second by Council Member Bolden. Item number 48, notice of attention named Social and Park Athletic Center as Thomas M Smith Athletic Center. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member White. Item number 49, notices of appointment, temp provisional and permanent. Motion sent to civil service items 49 through 50. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 51, appoint senior legislative assistant to. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Temp Scantley. Miscellaneous, item number 52, payroll deduction of union dues authorization form. Motion to receive and file items 52 through 54. Second by President Pro Temp Scantley. Item number 55, letter to National Grid regarding power grid winter preparation. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to have representatives from National Grid here next Wednesday at the community development meeting. If we remember, we had a lot of problems with electrical outages. I had, I think, at one point, jeez, between 12 and 16 blocks in my district that were out of electricity and there were some that went for a full week. I've spoken to Mr. Kujawa at National Grid and invited him to come in so that he can give us an update. I know that one of the complaints that I had in my district was that there were plows that seemed to be going nowhere and they were actually going to transformers. So that National Grid could get to them to get the electricity back on in people's houses. And I'm hoping that they've been able to update some of their equipment so that we won't run into that problem, so that we can get the plows out into the community. So it's not an I gotcha moment or anything, it's just I want an update from them. Because I think I did have them in after the storm last year, and we all asked them for improvements. So thank you. Absolutely. Item number 56, concerns regarding SAS use of force dashboard. Motion to receive and file items 56 and 57. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 58, secret negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Columbe. Item number 59, letter from OSP regarding University District vacant land and infill housing opportunities. Motion to send to finance. Second by Council Member White. Item number 60, street infrastructure and safety. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Bowman. Petitions, item number 61, special use 232 Allen. Motion to send to legislation city planning board item 61 through 66. Second by President Proop, Tim Scanlon. Submission was civil service, item number one, appointment to city preservation board. Motion is to approve items one through four. Second by the majority leader, Rivera. Item number five, notice of appointment for deputy director of real estate. Motion is to receive and file five through and including 16. Second by the majority leader. Item number seven, notice of appointment, engineer in aid. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number eight, appoint consultant five. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. I'm sorry, by Councilmember Bowman. The civil service. Right. So item number nine. Finance. I thought you traded off last week. Next item. Item number nine, Appointing Assistant Corporation Council. Councilmember North. Motion is to receive and file. Second by Councilmember. Including nine. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Finance item number 17, local 2651 collective bargaining agreement. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. You want to call his item? Item number 18, certificate of necessity for salary adjustments. Motion to receive and file. Second by the majority leader. Item number 19, subrecipient agreement with Buffalo Area Niagara Land Improvement Corporation. Motion to approve 19, 20, 21, 22, and 23. Second by the majority leader. Community development, item number 24, notice of attention adherent to rename Broderick Park as Freedom Park. Motion to approve items 24, 25, and 26. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Council Member Rivera. Mr. Chairman, this is something that members of the Quarter Society, the Anglers, a number of organizations including Board of Education have supported. And as it went on, it garnered more support. I had the fortune of meeting or talking to family relatives and I just want to make it clear that they will take part in where area in the park would be designated and in remembrance of Michael Broderick. So I wanted to make that official on the record that they, the family, will take part in the location and the type of marker or what we would do to remember Mr. Michael Broderick. Thank you. And Councilmember, you've done a masterful job pulling together the family and the community. And I think for this community that has suffered so much from divisions of race recently with the top shooting, this is just an example of who Buffalo really is, that the Broderick family would say, you know, We agree with Freedom Park, and so thank you for your work on it. And of course to the groups who were out there who really brought this home. So congratulations on that. Legislation item number 27, Fuster license 975 Broadway. Motion to approve items 27 with condition, approve items 28, and approve item 29 with condition. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 30, special use 28 Cleo. Motion to recommit. Second by council member Scanlon. Item 31, new use car dealer 273 Niagara. Motion to approve with condition item 31, 32, and 33. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 34, special use 44 Allen. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 35, special use 2939 Bailey Avenue. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 36, Special Use 1614, Broadway. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Second by Council Member Nookowski. And 38. Second by Council Member Nookowski. Item 39, new tire handler 2736, Bailey. Motion to send to legislation item 39 and 40. Second by Council Member Belenbet. Police Oversight, item number 41, letter to Commissioner Grimalia regarding Rite-A stores. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Glumbert. Item number 42, Inflory Child ID Kids Implementation in Buffalo Public Schools. Motion to send to the Education Committee. Second by Councilmember White. Resolutions, item number 67, Commissioner Deese, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 68, fee waiver for Native American flag raising. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 69, moratorium on short term rental special use permits. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Nowakowski who has the floor. Thank you Mr. President, so this is an item that has a lot, going on with it. So I want to break down the argument so that's pretty clear and concise. So this moratorium here is for districts that want to opt in. Since I represent Allentown and the Buffalo Common Council, which is a historic district, but it's also a residential district too, I have special use permits that are coming before me. and really getting backlogged because of owners now taking non-owner occupied, I want to specificize that, people that do not live at their property. Because when it comes to regulating Airbnb, people that live at their own property, owner occupied, that's completely what they do on their property is their business. But it's the sheer, Over saturation of air B&B's that are now proliferating in Allentown that is causing a rental source shortage in that neighborhood So what we have here and and the question that was asked to me at a community meeting was this is a residential neighborhood Where are the residents? so we know that through the Department of permits and inspections who has an application to go through all the listings on Airbnb and then a Go back to their records to see which ones are verified and which ones are registered with the city There are potentially almost two thousand unregistered Non owner occupied rentals in my district and so anybody on this Common Council that fights for affordable housing I I need them here because this is Exacerbating the this problem and it's making Allentown unaffordable to renters by completely taking these units off the mark off the market now that also is Points out that a special use permit I'm just never been a fan of a special use for permit the same permit that we would permit In a residential neighborhood for a short-term rental is the same permit that we grant this body grants for restaurants and bars Doesn't make any sense So I know that that council member Scanlon and council member Farrell Edo and and and myself have have worked and been in communication with legislative changes to come up with a to better decipher the appropriate licenses and venues for this. And let's also talk about that when these units are not occupied, how do we know that it's safe for those that are the consumer who is purchasing to stay at these properties when they haven't been inspected? How do you know if there's an ingress and egress and fire exits? How do you know that someone's not renting their attic or a sun porch? We don't. And we have... A lot of folks that are using kind of ignorance is, oh, well, I didn't know. You know. You have to, if you are renting property in the city of Buffalo, you have to go on the rental registry. The room is 301. If you own property, people know to go down there. And if you're to articulate it even to the clerk, they would tell you what you need to know. So I have to push back on that. We need to get people into compliance. And right now, I don't, at least for my district who will be opting into this moratorium, will not be granting any more permits because what I just approve a slew of permits and then have legislative changes and then what happens retrospectively. So we have to talk about this problem in a very complex way because it is a complex problem. And so I know that I did not have a finality in... this moratorium and I would like to amend on the floor and put the expiration date of December 31st, 2023 because after discussing with my colleague Councilmember Scanlon, we are confident that there will be legislative changes before that. So I want folks to know that I didn't just do this without clear and concise action. And this is really to bridge that gap before we have legislative changes so that retrospectively when we go back, in puning or confusing people that have tried to get special use permits. And also, when you think about it, with the housing affordability crisis, we want to make sure that all neighborhoods people can rent and live in and enjoy. I mean, Allentown has a really chartered history of being a funky and diverse neighborhood that people rent spaces from. But if we take all the housing stock and move it to short term rentals, Is it a hotel district? I mean, that we have to really talk about this. When we talk about a residential neighborhood being residential and have to, a combating oversaturation, and I think that that is, What layers on kind of my annoyance because it's it's what we deal with in legislation committee all the time. If it's a vape shop, it's seven vape shops on a street. If it's a hookah shop, it's three hookah shops. It's if it's a food store, there's seven food. I mean, it's just the oversaturation of these things and no proper planning of. you know, healthy and sustainable neighborhoods who have the appropriate classifications so that they all work in harmony, so that they function. And so I think moving forward, I wanna adopt and move the remainder to committees so that they, so folks in city departments can hear from the residents that I hear from. So I don't do things because it's fun, I do things that I'm responding to the needs of my constituency and a problem that we're having. and you know when you look at it you know allentown will be a neighborhood that's so expensive that that you won't be able to rent or buy because what what investors are doing and what some bankers are doing is they're saying the comparables well instead of renting to one two three people at a thousand dollars they're saying well you can get 3 000 for that unit which thus Rises increasingly that housing value which will only make it a right a short-term rental It'll revert it from residential because who could afford to pay a mortgage when they're expected that amount of income So it's complex. I think that we have a lot of work to do and I just want to thank our My colleagues and the Department of Permits and Inspections, who's trying to get their arms around this as well. Countries and municipalities around the country have really changed and overhauled their ordinances since 2008. Airbnb has really lost touch with who they are. Airbnb was a quaint, ornate place where your host lived there and gave you recommendations of where to go. And now it's just a venue for short term rentals that are exacerbating housing stocks and causing disharmony around neighborhoods. So I thank you, I thank for the amendment on the floor. For districts that do want to opt in, they can and we'll go from there. Thank you, Council Member Eskett. Thank you for the amendment. So the amended portion is the expiration for December 31st, 2023. And it goes beyond Airbnb now because you have bookings.com. You have all these other sites that a person can register with and rent out their house. So it is the short term rental market. And it does commend you in trying to get a hold of it in your district because I know you're having a big problem there. Thank you. All right, next item. Item number 70, excuse Council Member Ferraletto from October 31st meeting. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 71, rename Broderick Park to Freedom Park. Motion to approve items 71 and 72. All right, and you commented on it. This is renaming of Broderick Park and renaming of, that is in consideration. So both of them. So I know that the agenda says consideration to rename, but this would be the renaming of Martin Luther King Jr. Park Casino to the Joyce Wilson Nixon Casino, second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 73, local law, intro number 3, article 15, Department of Public Works, parks and streets. Motion sent to legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you Mr. President, and thank you to my colleagues who supported this. I think it's the right thing to do for us to get ahead of what's going on with our winter preparedness so if we do this in April 1st, we have an opportunity to, if we need additional equipment, to have that additional equipment, as well as if there's significant snowfall. I mean, we have snowfall from October in some cases up to, and sometimes including April, but we don't have significant snowfall in April. So it does give the, administration and public works to an opportunity to really do a good response to why we should change or what things we may need to change from the previous snow year so i just think it's a smart thing to do and again thank my colleagues for their support we know it has to age before we can approve it so it is an age absolutely somebody you know you're sure I want to revisit an item, so. Okay, I agree. This is what we just talked about and hopefully this will, I know it has to age and hopefully it will either be signed or not signed. My hope is that it will not be vetoed and that we are able to get a hold of that next year as we just discussed. I think it is wise to do this. I think that it snows in Buffalo and we just gotta get ready for it. Hopefully it'll go through. All right, that's the last item? Yes. Revisit? Yeah, Mr. President, could we revisit item number 37, please? Motion is to revisit item number 37, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. The original motion was to approve. I'd like to rescind that, send it to committee. There's something, I got a text message after we approved it. Okay, somebody's watching. The motion has been made second by council member Nowakowski to rescind. And now the motion comes from the gentleman to send to CD's? Legislation. Legislation. To legislation, second by council member Nowakowski. Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees. Please take note in observance of election day, Tuesday, November 7th, 2023, all committees will be held on Wednesday, November 8th. Committee on civil services, Wednesday, November 8th, 2023 at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Wednesday, November 8th, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on legislation will be Wednesday, November 8th, 2023 at 1 PM. Committee on Community Development will be Wednesday, November 8th, 2023 at 2 p.m. Council Member, is there any announcements? Council Member Scala? I would actually like to make a motion to review item 27. 27? Yeah. Second by Council Member Golombet. You want to announce it just so the public knows? I had a couple questions I was waiting for answers on, so if we could send it to committee. For the 40 calibers? Yes. Okay, so this is for the approval to trade in 40 caliber for nine millimeter side arms. Now you have some questions, Council Member? We had this item in police oversight and I understand, and the police department, Reason behind this is time-sensitive because they have a class going into the Academy and they want to outfit the new recruits with this new weapon which is a 9 millimeter that will replace the 45 Glocks this weapon has a a a chip in the holster that triggers the camera. Whenever the police officer takes the gun out, it automatically turns on the camera. It also has a flashlight, so the officers don't need to hold the light with one hand and the gun. So it has a light in the bottom and it has a chip in the holster, It's being used currently by the state police. And the reason they came to us is because it's time sensitive. They want to outfit the new recruits with this weapon as well. And it's being funded through asset forfeiture. All right. Thank you. Yeah, I paid attention to the police oversight meeting. I got all that information during the meeting, but I had some additional questions I'm looking for answers for, and I'd really appreciate it if we could send it to the committee. We've had items come in front of this council all the time that are, quote, unquote, time-sensitive from multiple different departments, and I'd like to ask a couple more questions if we could. Chairman, police oversight. Well- And it doesn't have to go to police oversight because it would be a while until we have that committee again. I don't care if it goes to another- Certainly, I wish I had the police department, but that was the reason Commissioner Romaglia came in and dropped off information regarding the weapon itself. I would move that we approve it because of the time sensitive nature of it. We did discuss it at length in police oversight. They did drop off information to us. So I would move that we approve it. That's fine as long as that's the standard we stick to moving forward then I guess. Because I have questions and I have sat here time and time again when other colleagues ever brought up questions about time sensitive issues and agreed to send it to committee. So as long as that's the standard. So what I just was asked Corporation Council because it came out of the committee, the committee voted to take it out, you'd have to have a majority then. of council members right now who would want to send it. So in the past, the only reason we did it is because nobody objected to sending it to committee. So I don't know the, I guess we can poll. Yep, so we have the motion that is before us to rescind the motion. We have to start there. So the motion is before us to rescind the motion to approve it. Is there a second to that motion? Second by Councilmember Golumbac. Now the motion is before us to send to committee. Is there a second on that, Councilmember Golumbac? And now we're going to take roll call. And the roll call is for the item to now go to committee. And which committee did you- And that's what I was just going to ask for clarification, which committee you would, it doesn't matter to me. Okay. I would say one that would meet next week for, because- To me, it's not community development. It would definitely be, maybe it could go to finance because- Because there's funds associated with it. Because it's a cost, and then we'll take the role. Council Member White. Mr. Chair, and I understand what Council Member is saying. However, we had an agreement with the police department. They came before us. The information that, because I asked for some additional information, they gave it to us. I don't like that we're going to change our mind now. And you can change your mind, but we had an agreement with them because they came before us. We had questions. And so they gave us the information. So now for us to go back, because you know I'm good with that if we got to go back. But I don't like that we made an agreement with them and now we're going to change it. Because if you had questions, you should have been here during the committee to ask those questions. That's fair. But I don't like that you're going to say it after the committee meeting and now they're going to look at us like we reneged and we didn't. Mr. Chair. Council Member. If we could get someone, but you'd be okay with someone from the police department coming, even if we had to hold it up. I would be good, I just think it's a bad precedent. We've gotten a good relationship with the police department. Having these conversations, because again, we had some questions regarding those new weapons, and they got us the information that we requested for that so that we could approve it today. Council Member Scanlon. We can go to the vote. Okay. All right. So let's roll call. And again, this is to send it to committee yes or no. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. The votes are there. Council President Pridgen. I'm going to say no, it's going to pass, but I'm going to say no only because I wasn't here and I understand the chairman is saying that it's time sensitive and it's about the classes. So I'm going to say no only because I think that if there was an agreement and they really need it for the classes that we should be sent it to the class. Hold on one second. Finance. Finance. No, we did finance. So it's not going to police oversight? No. Okay, then I vote- It's going to finance. If we had an agreement, then no. Pardon me? Then I want to vote no. I didn't even know what committee we're voting. I'm sorry, okay. I'm going to finish the roll. Majority Leader Rivera? No. President Pro Tem Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? No. All right. The majority on the vote was a no on the call. But I want to make sure that you get the information, and if I could figure out a different way, and I wasn't here. So I just don't want to hold up the class if there was an agreement. Council Member Hinojosa. So I'm a non-voting member of the Police Oversight Committee. I came here because we needed quorum. So I was appointed a temporary committee member to move this item forward. I understand the chair. This is ridiculous, and I'm going to voice that I think this is ridiculous. And I think that when we have measures that come to the floor, and when we have to recommit an item, we properly have to state what committee we're sending it to. Because if the item was voted on to get out of police oversight, but then we take a vote to send it to another committee, it just doesn't make any sense. Do you know what I mean? If it was- I hear you. If it was germane and important to the police oversight committee and that voting committee, whether temporary, seated or not, votes to set something out. And for the motion to be either to go back to that committee which was voted, properly voted out, but then to vote to go to another committee just doesn't make- Yeah, it's happened in the past where something was brought and it was felt that it would be better suited in a different committee. So we have done it and the item didn't pass so. Pretty much mooped. Did you do all the announcements? Council members, any announcements for your districts? Council Member Joseph Golombek Jr. Thank you. It's North District, but it's also several other districts. The Buffalo Common Council has our winter preparedness series. The first one is going to be November 2nd from 5.30 PM to 7.30 PM in the North Councilmanic District, Northwest Buffalo Community Center on Lawn Avenue. I want to invite people to join the Buffalo Common Council for our first annual winter preparedness series. A free event hosted at five locations throughout the city of Buffalo. Registered attendees will receive a winter kit, one per household, and essential tips and takeaways from local organizations to ensure we are best prepared for the winter season ahead. We're going to equip ourselves for winter challenges, and there is also a chance to win a prize. Registered attendees will be placed in a raffle for a chance to win a grand prize. Don't miss out. The first one November 2nd at Northwest Buffalo Community Center. November 8th at the Bell Center. November 11th at the Central Library. November 14th at the Delavan Grider Community Center. And November 16th at the Tosh Collins Community Center. All righty. any other announcements before we leave we have to revisit that item because we just because we rescinded it we now have to do the motion again to approve was it approved yes announced item item 27 approval to trade in 0.40 caliber for nine millimeters to cider motion to approve second by council member wyatt all right i think that's all the announcements i do have one announcement council member wyatt did have a uh I had one today and he couldn't climb the wall at his event. So you can go back and look on Facebook and see that he could not climb the wall at his event. It was like one of the walls like that, so that's my announcement. Motion to second by Council Member Nowakowski. We're adjourned.