OCO. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Fontana. Councilmember Franzick. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At key. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Present. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Forum present. Stand for the pledge. Please. Thank you. the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. Ecclesiastes 3 reminds us there's a time to cry and a time to laugh, a time to grieve and a time to damn. So I'm going to start with a couple of the laughter things. The first is so that my stock will go up. Happy birthday, Dad. Very important. That was important. Mr. Council President, I submit to you, a very important thing. Wife of 39 years, I'll make sure you do that. The second would be a point of contesting whether this is laughing or crying, Mr. Golombek. Today is the 500th anniversary of Martin Luther nailing up 95 theses on the Wittenberg door, and that's viewed very different by different people, but every so often the church needs reformation. So I think that's just something to recognize and remember. I think all of us on the other side of front never forget two weeks ago today when we were in session and during that session our precious Buffalo Police Officer Lehner's body was recovered and as they said he was brought home and all of us in the chambers will have that etched on our memories it was a sacred moment as it took place the city has been I think in mourning and for that for some time When I look out of my house to the north and south at night, I see blue-lit porch lights. And remember, and I'm thinking that every police officer that drives my neighborhood reflects on their service and that we say something pretty powerful to them as we step into this time of grief. And I ask myself the question, can a city grieve? Can a city mourn? Can a city weep? Psalm 84 verse 6 says, when they walk through the valley of weeping, It will become a place of refreshing springs. The autumn rains will clothe it with blessing. Almost all of us were there for the funeral. I saw, Deb and I stood as chaplains with 11 other chaplains with probably 1,200 or 1,500 Buffalo Police Department officers outside in the cold rain along with many of you. And it felt like not just our city was weeping, but that the heavens were weeping above us. A city can come into a time of mourning, but The scripture says that they can come refreshing from the valley of weeping. And I want to suggest to you that I believe that's absolutely true, that's absolutely something that can happen. They asked the 11 chaplains to cover 16 hours of viewing at the funeral home. I've never heard of 16 hours. 12 to 3 for the police, 3 to 8 for the public on both day. It was a sacred opportunity, a sacred assignment for Deb and me as we represented you We were the only non-police and fire department that had to do that. We represented you, but there were a lot more tears than laughs. Sometimes I believe that crying can be healing, and in this case I think it's meant to be. The funeral itself was so incredibly sacred. And I'll never forget the words of his partner, Tommy Campion. They're etched into my memory and mind. He called out the best in our city, the best in all of us. And then Delaware Avenue lined with people. in pretty bad weather conditions, to say that they were coming alongside the loss of this family and all three families that Officer Lehner had, the National Guard, the Buffalo Police, and his physical family. So as we pray, I want us to recognize the weeping of a city, the tragedy of what happened. I want to certainly pray for safety, but I want to continue to pray for healing for all of those who experienced this loss that some of us can move on from, but for them the healing will be much closer. And especially for those who are part of his family, including the Buffalo Police, who are going through, as you would know, Mr. Rivera, better than most of, what it feels like to have had that family stolen from you at 34 years. Father, The valley of weeping is used in Scripture in some remarkable ways, and I feel in some ways as though the heavens have reflected the heaviness of this city's heart. Lord, you know the pain, the hurt, the loss, the sense of vulnerability. You know what's happening in individual minds and hearts of those first responders. I thank you that you are the God who moves into our time of weeping and can bring refreshing, and I ask you to do that today. I thank you for this time when we as a common council recognize the value of those that serve. And we ask you to be with them, protect them, keep them safe. For our precious friend Chris and her husband Mike right here at City Hall, we lift them especially to you and everybody else that's part of this family. Come alongside them, we ask, in their time of hurt, pain, loss, and grief. And be as only you can be, the one who stands beside us. when it feels like we're all alone. Thank you for your powerful presence. In your name we pray, amen. Amen. And I want to recognize the Buffalo News supplement that was done, that was handed to us as we left. I want to thank them for helping us keep this thing. And at this time as we ask council members for memorials, obviously the first name has already been mentioned, Officer Lane. Any other memorials, council member? Council Member Glumbeck? Thank you, Mr. President. A little bit of trivia, more so for the Delaware District. There used to be a baseball card store on Hurdle Avenue called the Seventh Inning Stretch in the 80s, 90s, and up until about five years ago. The owner was a fine gentleman by the name of Paul Holbrook. um who befriended a lot of people in that neighborhood businesses children uh young adults uh myself when i was uh collecting stuff when i was a kid um sadly he passed away a couple of months ago but his funeral was just recently i'm 71 years young he's going to be very very sorely missed by his brother and sister-in-law and by his innumerable friends that he made while owning the seventh inning stretch Also Frank Cardos passed away, the son of Lillian Cardos. She's one of our more active block club leaders, community leaders from the Grant Amherst Black Rock area. Our condolences to her and to her family as well as the Holbrook family. Council members, any other? I also want to recognize the Reverend Gary Michael Titus, who for years was a principal, assistant principal at McKinley, teacher of English in Buffalo Public Schools, pastor of St. Paul African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church on Eagle Street, and who also was over the London Midland Conference in England, which I had the pleasure of going to speak for recently. And he passed rather suddenly, and people from all over the city was there. Glad to see so many of my colleagues who knew him, Councilmember Wingo, I was there, Councilmember White, and others who knew Pastor Titus, and so he will be sorely missed. And also two soldiers from our United States Armed Forces, have given their life for the freedom of our country and for the freedom of others across this world since our last meeting. Dedicating this meeting to the officer who we all rallied around the entire Common Council and this city. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. You may be seated. There are three special presentations, two of them, one for the United Way. Thank you everybody who's here from the United Way, come to the floor. And all of us know in these chambers and in this city the work that the United Way does. I'll read just a little bit of the resolution. But whereas Angely Wilcox and other community leaders came together and formed the Joint Charities Campaign, which later became the United Way, whereas the United Way of Buffalo was created in 1917 to support the families that had a loved one go off to war, whereas the United Way champions for the health, education, and financial stability of every person in the city of Buffalo and in Erie County. United Way has partnered with people and organizations of all backgrounds to make a collective impact that extends beyond the traditional grant making. And they have funded programs such as Buffalo Center for Arts and Technology, Buffalo Urban League, Compere of Greater Buffalo, International Institute of Buffalo, I could go on and on and on, Penny, Early Literacy, there's a whole list of them. The United Way is celebrating their centennial anniversary of serving the city of Buffalo. I hereby proclaim, we proclaim, as the United Way Day of October 30th in the city of Buffalo. The first United Way campaign was in 1917 in October, on October, it was October 29th, And so this is not a Halloween joke. This is for real. You all have helped so many organizations, including organizations that I've been a part of, that could not have been sustained without the donations of people all over this city and Erie County. And the first time I was introduced to United Way was when I was working at the post office. And it was a big deal. We wanted to be a big deal in the city of Buffalo. And so we hope a lot of people get involved, fill out those little forms and get them back because a little goes a long way. And thank you for everything that you do for every side of the city of Buffalo and in Erie County. So we can give them applause for everything that they do. Thank you so much. First, I want to say, this is really exciting for us as an organization. How many not-for-profits do you know or even businesses in this community that are celebrating a 100-year history? It really is pretty impressive. And this was the vision of Hansley Wilcox and a number of philanthropic leaders 100 years ago to not promote competitive charitable giving. It was wartime. Families were in crisis. Men were going away to war, and families were struggling, whether it was putting food on the table, supporting your family, your children. These were challenges that United Way really was the organization that brought that together and allowed us essentially to bring quality of life to families that were struggling. There were three charities at that time. Anthony Wilcox encouraged these charities to work together and do a one-ass campaign. That was 100 years ago, a $120,000 goal. And in that first year, they generated $159,000. So it's been a legacy. We continue with the same principle to work together. We don't provide any direct services. We support the not-for-profit sector to provide critical services in those areas where the needs are the greatest. And we want to celebrate today. We really want to congratulate the Common Council and the leadership for all they do on behalf of this city. And we want to encourage everybody in the community to continue to support our work, because by supporting us, you in turn are supporting those most vulnerable. unfortunate because of poverty, because of lack of a good paying job, because of kids who are struggling in school, because of addiction and mental health, and the list goes on and on, as Darius has indicated. But I want to thank you for recognizing us. We are excited. We're going to celebrate, but we're also going to be thinking about the next 100 years. Thank you so much. Council Member Wingo has a presentation. I would like to call up Ms. Gina Davis from the Just Breathe Block Club. Gina, stand up. Let everybody look at it. Let's step out and look. Gina is not just a beautiful person, she's a beautiful spirit. And ever since I met Gina the first day, she's been an asset to the district. She's kept us informed of what's been happening in our MLK area. But Gina Davis is also a cancer survivor. And she wanted to ensure that everyone in the city of Buffalo understood that breast cancer, although we have rallies, although we have all of these different events to try to promote the awareness of breast cancer, she wants everyone in the city of Buffalo and across the world to know that your cancer matters too. So she's launched several campaigns to try to ensure that the city of Buffalo and people across the nation are aware of what can be done for preventative care, number one, and number two, to also make sure that you're being healthy after you've recovered and are in remission from cancer. But I'm thinking of, I was just sitting there next to Councilman Franczak, and his computer had frozen. I'm thinking to myself, if I could just get this computer to restart or to reset, it'll have a fresh start and maybe it'll boot up. And that's exactly what happened. We reset the computer, gave it a second chance, gave it a restart, and next thing we know, here it is. He has what he needs to help us run the city. But just thinking about what Gina has gone through the last several years that I've known her, and I don't mean to be too long, Council President. Thank you. But just thinking about some of the things that she's gone through the last several years that I've known Gina Davis, I'm reminded of an old mule. Not Gina, not Gina. But I'm reminded of an old mule who fell into an old empty well. The well had run dry and the old mule had fell into this well. The owner had found his mule at the bottom of this well and he figured himself, well, there's no need of me trying to go rescue this mule. So him and a friend went and got a couple shovels. So they figured they'd just go ahead on and bury these mules alive. So they began to dig up the dirt, they put the dirt in the well. And at first the old mule was upset, because he started looking up, he thought his master was going to save him, but after a while he realized all they were trying to do was bury him alive. So here he is at the bottom of this well. Every time they throw dirt on him, he gets even more upset. More upset. They kept throwing dirt on him, but then he had the bright idea. Every time they threw dirt in him, he would shake the dirt off and step on the dirt. They kept throwing the dirt to bury the mule in the well. Hello, brother President. They kept throwing the dirt in the well to bury the mule, but the mule just kept shaking the dirt off and stepping on top of the dirt. And after a while, They threw enough dirt in the whale droll that the mule walked on out and walked away. And they gave that mule, even though they tried to bury that mule, they didn't know they gave that mule a second chance. And even though Gina ain't no old mule, she's a beautiful woman, a beautiful person. Even though we know that she has been faced with adversity and all types of trials and all types of tests in her life, even though people who are suffering with cancer go through these tumultuous times, Gina is here to let you know, you can shake it off. Step on whatever adversity you're going through and walk on out of that situation. I'm done now, Brother President. I promise I'm done. I think that was your Sunday morning sermon. Or at least mine now. Exactly. But on behalf of the Common Council. We would really like to recognize Dana Davidson and all the work that she's done to bring awareness to all the cancer survivors. Even though you may be going through your treatments right now, you are still a survivor. Even though you have to go and get chemo and go through your radiation treatment, you're still a survivor. And this is on behalf of all of us in recognition of the work that you are doing on behalf of all of those survivors and the work that they're doing in the Madison District. Thank you, Dana, for all that you've done. I just want to say thank you to the entire council for recognizing the work that I do in the community. You know I love MLK Park and the city of Buffalo, and I just want to thank you all so much. Great. Good, good. Good stuff. Did you get a picture? Did you get a picture? Did you get a picture? Okay. We got a good one. Get them looking right in and not talking and all that. Put it on the record. Okay. always good even in the city's business to recognize those who are contributing and helping. In our city. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 17, 2017 are approved. Gentlemen, the late file is out before you. Are there any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections to the late files, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to object to the late file that you may not have had time to review during this meeting. We have one item that we have taken out of order. Mr. Majority Leader. Motion to take item 26 out of order. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Motion open to public hearing. Let's make the announcement of orders. Public hearing naming Dortmund Park. All right. Motion has been made to open the public hearing, seconded by Council Member Wingo. We would ask that those who are going to be speaking at this public hearing, I don't believe that we'll have hundreds, but we'd ask that you limit your remarks to three minutes so that if there are several people here to be heard, that all of them can be heard on this item. We ask that when you come to the mic that you state your name and address for the record. First speaker, unless you work for the City of Buffalo, you can just give us your office. Emerson Beyer, executive director of Buffalo Arts Commission, mayor's liaison to International Sister City. All right. Whatever. You can just turn it on and let it go. OK. I'm here to speak on the item of the naming of Dortmund Park. Dortmund, Germany, is one of the city's oldest and most active sister cities. This is the 40th anniversary coming up in 2018 from the founding in 1978. They have a magnificent Dortmund buffalo plots in the city of Dortmund. I actually have pictures of it for the Common Council. And it's all lit up and it's very magnificent. And we are having the Burgermeister, the Lord Mayor of Dortmund, come to Buffalo in April. And to reciprocate for what they've done, we decided to take an unnamed parcel of land that's a municipal park and we asked the Sun will body to name it Dortmund Park in honor of our sister city and it's being improved as part of the ongoing improvements to Niagara Street and essentially we're in negotiations to bring over some art from Dortmund Germany and then to add signage to say Dortmund Park that's it for my presentation what are we looking at here? that's in Dortmund Germany councilman Okay. That's what I'm looking like. Which part of Buffalo is this? I've never... So, but the move is for the park here, right? Yes, I was just showing that in Germany they have a magnificent buffalo plot. Oh, this is Buffalo there?
 Yeah.
 That, um, okay. Okay, so my apologies. So to reciprocate what they've done in Dortmund, we're making a Dortmund park here. Anybody else? So many people lined up to speak on this item. Council Member. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad. That's parcel land near the Peace Bridge. I didn't realize that was a little part. I'm glad to see that the city is going to not only name it Dortmund Park, but they're going to do some improvements to the parcel land as well. And the improvements just aren't anything else besides art. Well, it's part of the ongoing Niagara 4 improvements, the streetscape around there, and improvements to the actual park itself, the landscaping, trees, and so forth. Well, thank you very much. It's good to see you. I don't know, how many sister cities do we have? 19. 19 sister cities. Good to know. Maybe we should know the names of all the sister cities. I know there's sister cities in Japan, and I don't know after Japan and Dortmund. I don't know the other sister cities. Well, I won't name all 19, but we have them in Europe, in the Caribbean, in the Middle East, in Africa, Asia. Motion then is to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing, seconded by Council Member White. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Fialetto. Are you going to be coming back for the other 18? No. Sister cities? Or are we going to just take one park and just kind of like name some trees? This tree is... That's a good idea, Council President. Maybe we can combine all of our sister cities in some nice place and figure out a way to honor each one of them in the future. If they're really sister cities. I mean, I think that's important, especially because I think... Did you meet with someone, one of the sister cities, or that wasn't last week? That wasn't one of them. Because I know some of them do come into town, and I think it would be nice to have a place that is already set up where we recognize them and you're able to take them and they're able to see the rest of the family. Yes. All right? Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. All right. From the top. Item 1, Buffalo Crossing Guard Association Collective Bargaining Agreement. Motion to send finance items 1 and 2. Second by... Council Member Scanlon. I'm the staff of the motion. Item 3, report and recommendation landmark status 224, Plymouth. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 4, Frederick Douglass Phase 1, pilot agreement. Motion to send to finance items 4 and 5. Second by Council Member Fairlawn. Item 6, appoint financial operations administrator. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Golombet. From the Department of Public Works, item 7, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Majority, I'm sorry, by President Pro Temp. Item 8, change order street cut repair. Motion to approve items 8 through 15. Second by Council Member Franzeck. And if you could bend your mic towards you just a little bit so they can hear you in the back. I'm bending the mic a little. Oh, bend the mic? Yeah, there you go. Thank you, sir. Item 16, lodging house license, 3 St. John's Place. Motion to send to legislation item 16... through 21. second by councilwoman wingo item 22 appoint laborer 2. motion to send civil service uh second by council member for your letter item 23 request to use funds summer reading challenge program motion to approve items 23 through 25 second by councilmember fontana item 27 item returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval motion to receive and file items 27 28 and 29. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 30, notice of appointment, Council intern. Motion to adopt items 30 and 31. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Miscellaneous items, item 32, DEC brownfield cleanup, all in comment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontan. Item 33, request to speak affordable housing editorial. Motion to send the legislation, items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 35, appropriation regarding international border ball. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Burr, Columbia. Item 36, notification City of Buffalo employer requests user ID to access secure connection. Motion to receive and follow items 36 through 40. Second by Council Member Freeland. Petitions, item 41, use 91 Dakota. Motion to send to legislation City Planning Board items 41 through 44. Second by Council Member Franczak. Committee, civil service, item 1, position allocation maintenance. Motion to approve item number one. Second by the Majority Leader. Item two, Residency Waiver Report. Alan Spina. Number two, I want to approve with a condition. Once the waiver term is ended, to be notified by Human Resources that this individual is a resident of the City of Buffalo. I know he had a situation where he's going to the auction to purchase a home, and I don't know if that worked out, but at the end of this extension, I want to make certain he lives in the City of Buffalo. So there's an expiration on the extension, right? 60 days. And so you're asking for the appropriate department to report back to this council? In resource, yes.
 Okay. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 3, appoint senior production editor. I'm the next one. You got four. You're still adding four. No. Motion to approve. Received and filed. Thank you. Is the receiving filed? Yes. All right. Receiving filed, seconded by Council Member Fairlawn. Item 4, notice of appointment temporary, provisional permit. Motion to receiving filed. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Finance Committee, item 5, agreement for sidewalk snow removal. Okay, this item came to the council with an approval motion. I'll be voting in the negative, so if you want to have somebody else make the motion to approve. All right. Motion to approve by Council Member Glumbet, second by Council Member Majority Leader Revere. Council Member Fontana, you have the floor. Thank you. Just for the record, there's $480,000 roughly between the last three years, inclusive of this year, that we would be spending on this type of contract. And at the end of that period of time, after spending half a million dollars, we really don't have much to show for it. The snow has melted. People have been kept safer, which is important. But I'd rather see this type of money being spent on equipment that could be at our disposal at any time for many more years into the future as well. We could spend, I don't know, $1 billion. $100,000 on some good equipment, the proper equipment to get these shoveled sidewalks done. This is a hop, skip, and a jump type of approach. They're going to do a piece here, a piece there, a city-owned parcel here, a city-owned parcel here. And it doesn't really give you a full stretch of shovelable sidewalk to walk down. In fact, people could be left... on a sidewalk, and then the next block up, the next sidewalk up could be not shoveled. I think it would be more effective if these people were actually going down the whole block and shoveling the whole sidewalk. So today I'm voting against the way we're doing this, not the purpose of the contract is to shovel sidewalks. I wouldn't vote against that. But I am voting against this hop, skip, and a jump approach. Half a million dollars in three years, which is a lot of money to spend on a city budget to do, what, four, five, six streets? And not even do the whole street. I'd rather see us buying equipment. So I'm calling on the Department of Public Works once again to look at buying equipment similar to what Rochester has, putting that equipment into the neighborhoods, into the CBOs. Into the neighborhood groups so that they could plow these sidewalks and use these sidewalks we could pay somebody A very good living wage. It's a hundred sixty thousand dollars to do this work now We you know I get a salary what fifty five thousand for the whole year and I have to work every day Forty hours eighty hours a week. I don't think this is that type of hours I don't think these these hours are inclusive in this thing and in years past I I noticed they went out four times to shovel, four in a winter. That was the one winter that was very light. Now, in some years, they might go out more often. I understand that, and it does even out a little bit, but I still think we're paying way too much per occurrence, and we're not paying per occurrence. We're just giving them a flat rate. So if this year we have a very light winter and it doesn't snow much, it's another big profit year for this contract, and I have a problem with that with the taxpayer money. So I'm voting no today just on that principle alone. Thank you. all right any other comments on majority thank you very much mr. chairman I I would like the city to have the capacity to shovel every sidewalk in the city of Buffalo and so there wouldn't be sporadic shoveling us know this contract is for city property not public property the commissioner looked at this last year and he looked at it this year as well because we had the same conversation last year regarding the contract and his explanation is he wanted certainty he wanted to make sure that he had the capacity to deal whatever the weather may be. We've had two good years of good weather and perhaps we say, hey, you know, we're spending money here. However, I'd rather side on the side of public safety and knowing that if we do have bad weather, we have the capacity to get out there in full force and that is something the city doesn't have right now. So unfortunately, we'd like to get to that point where we can build up our capacity in terms of manpower and equipment, where we can go out there But heaven forbid we have a storm and we don't have the capacity and we don't have this contract. So I'd rather side on the side of public safety and making sure we have the equipment, the personnel in place to deal with whatever weather may be. This year we may be fortunate to have another good year. And I'm hoping for a good year. Nobody's hoping that it snows. But you never know. We could have a November surprise or an October surprise. And we find people yelling and screaming at who? the first people they call would be us saying why weren't we out there in full force so i think i rather side on the side of public safety and making sure the streets are plowed thank you council member wingo and then back to council member fontana thank you mr chair i want to just acknowledge publicly that i do agree with my colleague councilman fontana for giving regarding his reasoning behind not voting for this. But I do have, I would like to say for myself, in agreement with Council Majority Leader Rivera, we share the same sentiment. One of the lessons my mother taught me growing up was it's better to have it and not need it than to need it and not have it. So we want to make sure that we always are on the side of caution and to make sure that we can provide services to the city. And again, just to amend, I know it was a Freudian slip, but Councilman Rivera said that this is for city property, not public property, but it is for public property, which is city property, not private property. So I just want to make sure that we make that clarification. Other than that, that's all the commentary I have, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Councilman Fontana? Thank you very much. Good points, and the safety is important. But when they pick that plow blade up and stop and leave lot after lot after lot that we don't own, and then they go back and then start again where the people walk to where are they actually walking to uh they're gonna walk over two or three feet of snow that's been left on those other lots now those other lots might get ticketed and you know put through the system but they're not getting shoveled and if we don't own those lots we're not essentially plowing them with this contract i always said why not have this contract do a certain length. Like Mr. Rivera said for public safety, they're going to do Bailey Avenue. I want to know that I could walk from Bailey and Seneca down Bailey to Elk. I want to know that I can do that. With this contract, I can't do that because there's lots in between that aren't getting shoveled. And any person that gets onto that sidewalk is going to get hit with a wall of snow when that address ends. And that's not as safe as I want it to be. I want it to be safer. And it doesn't cost them a penny more to plow from Bailey and Seneca to Elk. It doesn't. But when they stop, go in the street, come back up, they're driving the same amount of space. They're doing the same amount of stuff. So I think they should leave that plow blade down and do the whole stretch. And if we had stretches, of sidewalk on this list, nice long stretches that we know will be done and know that if your mother or grandmother got onto that block she could safely walk from A to B then you'd probably have my vote. But with the hop, skip and jump nature of this process I can't do that because I know what's going to happen. The senior citizen is going to get on the sidewalk at the corner, walk up, oops, now I'm stuck. Got to walk all the way back into the street and then walk all the way back up. We've all done it. We live in Buffalo. We know it. and that's what's going to happen so i think this should be a more holistic approach do the whole run i said at caucus at the council meeting actually at the committee meeting if we do the whole run and there's owners in between bill them know the owners they didn't shovel it bill them i have no problem with that that could be a revenue generator but the safety is important but this contract does not address uh far enough the safety that i'm concerned about thank you anybody else all right i think we took the motion so motion stands Yeah, I think we went through the approval before we had the discussion. So the motion stands. Yeah, I appreciate it. Approved with one abstention. Council Member Wyatt. Can I go back to civil service after the motion? Yeah, we're going to grab it at the end, if you don't mind. Oh, sure. We'll just keep going through with the, and we'll come back to that. Community Development Committee, Item 6, open buffer request to speak at CDE Committee. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 7, report of sale, 35 Howard. This item is open. Is that delicate, Mr. President? Yeah, can we recommit that? I don't know. Did the gentleman, I don't know if he came to speak. I missed that meeting. He did come to speak. Then we're going to approve it if he came. Let's approve it and move it along. Okay, motion is to approve. Second by President Proxen. Legislation Committee, item 8, food store license 314, aka 318 Hampshire. Items 8 and 9, motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member, let's give it to the majority leader. Item 10, property management license, JMN property management. 10, motion to recommit. Motion to recommit, seconded by Council Member White. Item 11, property manager's license, managing for a friend. Items 11 and 12, motion to approve. Speak of my council member, Wyatt. Item 13, secondhand dealer, license 3124, Bailey. This item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Speak of my council member, Wingo. Was item 11, was the name managing for a friend? Is that what you said? It's an interesting name to the management company. All right. It was just a... Chuckle moment. All right next item 14 use car dealer license 2480 Delaware This originally came without recommendation the motion is to approve with conditions second by council member for your letter under 15 short environment assessment form 1029 1043 Clinton motion to adopt Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 16, Zoning Map Amendment 1029-1043, Clinton, from D1H to D1L. The motion is to approve with conditions which are the configuration of the property to be analogous with the store, which was built at 909 Jefferson Avenue, to include the corner entrance. It says side, but it should say corner entrance, proper fenestration and material that is used. All right. Those conditions. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 17, use 3144 Main Street. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Education Committee. Item 18, diversity in city honors in Olmstead. Motion is to receive and file 1819. 18 and 19 second by councilmember white who has a floor was it on this side Thank You chair Just want to address this particular item. I know that there's some folks from the community that are here Regarding this 3144 which has been a lightning rod for some reason I just don't understand but I just want to say a few things because I think when I became Council member a couple years ago one of the things that was so important to me was bringing our community together and You're referring to item number 17? Yes. I just want to make sure.
 Yes. Let me do this. We finished up 18 and 19, right? We'll come back to 20. Just so that the public understands that you're not referring to 18, you're referring to 17. Right, number 17. And one of the things that I thought I brought to the table is how do we work together? And I know when I came into office, we weren't talking to UB. UB was the enemy in all these different things. And I think I bridged that. I think I shared with people that, you know, we're a community. How do we make our community more vibrant? How do we make our community more desirable? And I think that we've done some things. UB has been a better friend to us. We've gotten students to volunteer. We've gotten them to reduce the buses. And even though that's sometimes an up and down issue, but the fact of the matter is we still work together. We've got some positive momentum on Main Street with the rails to trails. We got the Parkside Candy, you know, done some redevelopment. And we have some positive momentum, and all of a sudden we get an issue that divides us. And that's so frustrating because when you want to get... people to come into this community and they see this type of polarization, they don't want to do business because they think that I'm going to have to go through all these hoops, people are going to be angry with me. And that's something that bothers me a little bit. Because by nature, most of you know me, I'm a peaceful guy. I try to work between those issues that pull us apart and bring us together because at the end of the day, it's one community, it's one district, and I want the best for my district. I'm doing my best to get more businesses to come in, but we have this type of polarization. We got people who kind of divide folks based on one against the other. It's not good because it's in the public sphere and people see this and they're like, oh, I'm not doing business on Main Street because of this issue. I don't want that. So you try to do the right things for the right reason. And I told somebody, I told the news, I said, well, if this was just for the public opinion, I would probably have to vote no because I got so many emails and phone calls from people, some very nice and some very mean, that if you vote for this, I'm not going to vote for you. Well... I'm sorry. I have to do the right thing. And I have to base it on the law. And I'm working with Corporation Council to see how we can do it. I really want us to come together. I want us to work together because it's our community. And what helps one helps the other, I believe. And so right now I had to recommit it because there's some other things that we had to have the applicant do as part of our process with the green code. So I want to make sure I had every I cross every T dot, every I dotted, every T crossed. But at the end of the day, I want a better community. And I think I've done a very good job of helping us to work together. And I want us to work together. And I want these businesses to recognize that we can't have a monopoly on our business and have other businesses kind of work around us. This is America. I'm not Donald Trump. I don't want to divide us. I want to bring us together. I want us to make sure that we work for the best interests of the residents and for our community. I can't tell a business how to run their business, and I don't want to. But within the guise of the law, when an applicant comes forth, they put forth an application that goes through the proper protocol through the city, I have to honor it based on that. So right now we still have an incorporation council. They're advising me. We got some additional information. So right now I'm recommitting it based on that. But once we get that information, then we'll make a decision. But I have to follow the law. So for residents who are watching and say, Councilmember, you're not listening to us, I do listen. but I can't go against the law. That's not what you put me here to break the law. You put me here to follow the law. And in this particular case, we have to make sure that the law is being followed because it's just not my decision or just public dissent in their decision. It's about is this appropriate based on the green code, based on these other factors, and then we have based our decision based on that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Thank you, sir. I think at the end of the day, regardless of what decision to make, especially, you know, I mean, we're in a time in Buffalo which there's a lot of big decisions to be made. Some of my council members have a big decision almost every month. The purpose, one of the greatest purposes of government, if I remember correctly, I know I have these scholars, is about order, keep order. And so if there was no chaos, there would be no reason for government. There would be no reason for you. There would be no reason for the other eight of us who are here. But at the end of the day, one of the teeth that the government still has, even after you've made decisions, is if an establishment is open and it is not operating within the confines of the law or the conditions, you also have the opportunity to grab that license or to have to work with the administration to shut it down. And Council Member Frenz, I can tell you, on Chippewa and the areas that we share together, There have been establishments that opened one year and were closed down the next year because they did not honor the spirit of their license. And they disturbed the peace. And they had shootings. And they had underage drinking. And they had all of those things that some of the people said they were afraid of. And so sometimes even when you can't say no, You say yes, but you make sure that there is enough oversight that if that establishment is disturbing the peace and going outside of the bounds of the law, that you utilize that law to your benefit of the people. All right. Thank you. Next item. item 20 buffalo news article student sues buffalo schools motion is to receive items 20 21 and 22. second by council member columbus do we wish to revisit civil service what's the item item number four item number three i don't know uh majority motion to revisit item number three second by council member why And item... And as before, Councilmember White. Item number three, I just wanted to make sure... Reverse my... Resend the motion. Resend the motion. Seconded by Councilmember Frioletto. And then this one I want to... Approve table.
 Table.
 Table? Yes. It has to go back to committee. Okay, so we'll recommit that.
 Recommit. The motion is to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. And number three is to approve with the condition that with... excuse me no am i correct under number three number three the appointment is senior production editor why don't you give us the spirit of what you're doing because if you if you're recommitting you're not doing anything number three i wanted to i wanted to approve with the condition that after the 60 days that i know that this civil service is notified that this individual met the requirement of living in the city of buffalo we already did that did you do that we Well, that was the position. Okay, let me try to sort this out. Number two, you put on the condition of coming back upon expiration. That was the waiver, correct. Right, so that's not in front of us right now. We're only dealing with number three. The actual appointment, which is number three. Right. So let me ask you, what should I be doing? Because I want to make sure this comes back to us. I want to make sure that this person is satisfied. Because it's the position, not the waiver. It's the position. The position would have to be approved. Okay. Correct. You have to approve the position or else they can't work. So you're approving the appointment, but then number two, you are putting a condition on the residency required. Thank you. That's what I want to do. So number three, we have received and filed. You rescinded the receive and file and you're now approving the item. That's all you need to do there. Okay. And you can just make note. If you want to for the record so you don't have to put a good but make note for the record That you have asked for that to come back in the motion of item number two. Okay, so yep Everything you just said Thank You mr. Wyatt and I know it could be rather confusing but you handled it we got we got the gist of what you're saying and I And I think everybody agrees needs to come back. I Next item. Resolutions, item 45, request to name West End Paving of Coit Lake, Herb Segal, Landing, and Walkway. Motion to adopt items 45, 46, and 47. Okay, is the remainder still going to legislation on 45? We need the remainder, so we just need to do 45 because it has to go to legislation? Motion to adopt remaining... All right, so we'll just deal with 45. The motion by the majority leaders to adopt with the remainder going to legislation, second by Council Member Wingo. Now we'll bring Item 46. Item 46, invest Buffalo Billion 2 into Central Terminal. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Franza, who has the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Earlier this month, the prestigious International World Monument Fund announced which picks only 26 cultural heritage sites in the world. They pick them all over the world, which are put on a watch list. This is an organization which is paid attention to by the entire world internationally. And one of the sites as a world heritage site from the World Monument Fund for a watch list was picked the central terminal. that they believe needs to be revitalized and renovated, and shouldn't be allowed to lay fallow. This council believes that. We had hoped that a train station there could have helped jumpstart that Eastside landmark and city landmark and helped as a also economic development tool for the Eastside, but failing that, there were other leaders in the community that believed that another organization needed to become involved, to help jumpstart a building that in 100 years will be thanked for for saving because it cannot be replicated. It's like our, I call it our pyramids. You know, what the Egyptians built 4,000 years ago, we developed structures like this which can be reused into the 21st century and beyond. They can be retooled and reused. And the World Monument Fund says the same thing. So what I'm asking to happen is is that Governor Cuomo's Buffalo Billion program, there's a Buffalo Billion II. And also we have Mr. Howard Zemsky, is the executive director of the New York State Economic Development Office, and he is an individual that has great influence over the ULI, which is the Urban Land Institute. which is another very well-known organization throughout the United States that was commissioned and paid for through Mr. Zemsky and others, largest in the city of Buffalo, to do a study on the reuse of the central terminal. They had a preliminary report, and there's going to be a more comprehensive report coming out very soon. So the designation by the World Monument Fund, I think, was very, very fortuitous in lieu of the pending report from the Urban Land Institute. And this is something that needs to remain before our eyes. It needs to remain a state priority. Because before a developer is going to go in, what the Buffalo Billion 2 could do is do the prep work of stabilization, the mechanicals, the plumbing, whatever structural work has to be done, so the building can be as near to turnkey as possible. As near to turnkey as possible. Because a developer first has to put the millions in first. and then the developer can go forward with the project they want to do. With Buffalo Billion 2, it's a perfect project in the Eastside neighborhood. We need to have these funds committed to the neighborhood where the greatest need exists, and it's a tremendous opportunity for the governor and our state delegation to, and the use of these funds to help restore this building to a condition where then a private developer can come in. And this companion resolution that I'll just mention now is the next one, because it kind of folds into this one, is that we need to make sure that the federal tax credit program stands and stays in the federal budget. We have a state tax credit program, but the feds are coming up with budgets that are incomprehensible from my point of view, that to fund from 35% to 20% tax cut budgets for corporations, they take it out of the 401k program where people are... You see, the 401k program started in 1980 in Texas from a government and also a private sector that said, we're not giving you pensions anymore. The defined benefit program is gone. So we're giving you a 401k. So now you're going to undercut that? And are you going to undercut the federal tax credit program? Because without the federal tax... credit program throughout this country, but more particularly in the United States. Lafayette Hotel would be a hulking, rotting, ready-for-the-demos ball. The Mentholatum building, which is being done. You look around the city with all of these rehabs in the hydraulic district, taking these massive, giant industrial buildings, and developers are taking the chance to go in there and investing a lot of their own equity and their own money, but without the federal tax credit program, the cobblestone district, you name it. This city's renaissance or this city's turning around would not happen. Would not happen. So, you know, if the terminal gets the shot of Buffalo Billion 2, and a developer will come, they need the federal tax credit program just like they've needed it in this companion second resolution that Congress cannot remove that program. Because that benefits those developers who want to take a chance in cities. They want to take a chance in buildings that others have written off and can't be done. And they've turned them into beautiful showcases of success. and permanency that makes the city like Buffalo so desirable. So it's a two-part, you know, the first resolution, the second go together, and I thank this body for being supportive, and I think we need to put out a very strong message on both of these fronts. Thank you. Thank you. And as you know, I've been with this whole council supported the central terminal and wanting that train station, but you're totally correct on the historic tax credits. Thank you for taking the lead. All right. Next item. 147 key federal historic tax credit. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item 48, Trailblazing Resolution, Reverend W.L. Jones. Motion to approve items 48 and 49. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item 50, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to approve items 48 and 49. Motion to adopt. Stand by. Council Member White. Announcement of committee meetings. With Tuesday being an election, regular committees. Committee on civil service, Wednesday, November 8th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. Committee on community development, Wednesday, November 8th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Wednesday, November 8th, 2 p.m. Special committee, committee on education, Thursday, November 9th, 530 p.m. Council members, any announcements for your district? otherwise councilmember wingo thank you mr. chair today at 5 o'clock at the Buffalo Museum of Science we will host again our yearly alternative the trick-or-treating for all of the residents of the city of Buffalo we'd like for you to come out and enjoy all of the wonders of the Science Museum and also get some candy while they're at it and we've been doing this forever and a Mayor Brown has been very instrumental in assisting with the success of these programs at the Science Museum, and also the Science Museum has different programs for families if they would like to register. So we would like the community to make use of these assets that we have in our city, particularly in the Mastin District, right off the MLK, the Martin Luther King Park. That's today from 5 to 8, and there will be tons of activities for our young people to get engaged in as well as the famous, what is it, treasure hunt for all of the little things so they can get their big bucket of candy at the end of their treasure hunt. Okay. Then on the 22nd of November. And for the record, today is October 31st for anybody who's watching the playback so they won't come. Oh, yeah. So if you're watching today, that's right, Mr. Chair, that's right. Today is October 31st. So if you are watching this, you've already missed it. If this is a rerun. You're watching the playback. If you're watching the playback or the rerun version, yes, you've already missed it, unfortunately. But we'll be here again next year, October 31st. Also, this month, instead of hosting our monthly stakeholders meeting, we will be giving our annual Thanksgiving brunch. So if you are a student in the city of Buffalo, if you are visiting and you're here on business or whatever the case is, and you may not be home for Thanksgiving, stop down at the Delavan Grider Center at 877 East Delavan at 11 a.m., And we will feed you a very, very well-prepared, home-cooked, down-south, family-oriented meal. And I promise you, you will leave good. My family can say, if you come, I promise you will leave plenty good. So come on down to the Delavan Grider Center, and we promise you, you will leave full. And then enjoy the fellowship with food and friends as well. Thank you. That's all we have, Mr.
 Chair. Wait a minute. That's on the 11th of November. Did I say that? 11th of November. The 11th of November at 11 a.m. at the Delavan Griders Center Thanksgiving brunch with your council member and all of our beautiful residents and neighbors. Thank you. Any other announcements? Councilman White? Just want to announce to the residents in the University District, again, we're going to be giving away turkeys. So we need you to contact our office. And this is for 55 and up, I think seniors, for 55 and up. So please, it's for the needy people. who need. So please contact my office at 851-5165 so that on the date that we distribute them we will let you know. You already know who's coming. Thank you. Also today on the 31st Westminster House Community Meeting at 421 Monroe and the Ellicott District sponsors with WBLK Safe Halloween Cans for Candy. 6 to 8 p.m. at the William Emsley Y and on November 6 Monday November 6 is the elegant district stakeholders meeting at 530 at 585 William William Emsley why anybody else all right well sounds like motion to second