The second, God draws close to hurting cities and hurting people, and for years, Buffalo has qualified. Third, God wants to heal what divides us as a council and a city. Fourth, this council has worked together for a better Buffalo. It's been my privilege to serve a council that has constantly had on your radar screen how to make Buffalo better. And last, we are God's instruments in this. So what came to my mind for our prayer today is actually a prayer that was written a very long time ago. It's a prayer perhaps second only to the Lord's Prayer in terms of its use in lifting people, lifting places, lifting spirits. It's the prayer by St. Francis of Assisi. Here's the danger as I let St. Francis of Assisi open us in prayer today. As I read his words, you've heard them too often. And you may just let them roll on by and you'll be caught up in whatever and you'll miss how powerful these words are. I've already prayed them over each of you. And I believe that God today is calling you all to be instruments of his. You human hands activated by God to be used for peace. So let me pray the prayer that so many of you have heard. Bow your heads, close your eyes, and let St. Francis of Assisi's words go deep into your heart and spirit. Lord, make me an instrument of your peace. Where there's hatred, let me sow love. Where there's injury, pardon. Where there's doubt, faith. Where there's despair, hope. Where there's darkness, light. And where there's sadness, joy. O Divine Master, grant that I may not so much seek to be consoled as to console. To be understood is to understand. To be loved as to love. For it's in giving that we receive. It's in pardoning that we are pardoned. And it's in dying that we're born to eternal life. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council Members, any memorials? Council Member Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. Helen Ferris, a longtime Black Rock resident, passed away this week. She was pre-deceased by her husband, Al. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her daughters, Jessica and Jennifer. She was a worker and volunteer at the Habitat Reuse Store over on off of Amherst Street near Wegmans. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by many, many people. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Bowman, then Wyatt. thank you council president the lovejoy district lost one of our great advocates mr douglas kopp he lived on doge street not too far from bailey avenue and uh you know he was really a spark club for that corridor and a lot of great things are happening now because of him you know we have a we just completed phase one of a nice mural mural on doge street um we had the charter school move into the monastery which is another big win for that corridor uh so you know but he was you know the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the spark that made all those things happen, tireless advocate, very passionate. So our condolences to his family. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to ask for the prayers of one of my strong black love leaders, Lisa Harrison. When I first got in office, there was a shooting in her district, on her street. And she stood for leadership after that. And she was under illness for most of that time and recently succumbed to that. So I'm asking for prayers for her and her family and just thank her for her sacrifice. You know, sometimes people who are well don't do much, but people who are ill do a lot more. And so I thank her for her sacrifice to making the university better and Fenimore Avenue better. Thank you. Council Member Wendell. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to ask the City of Buffalo and all of you, my colleagues, to keep in prayer the family of Mrs. Ida Robinson, who went from labor to reward last week. She was very well up in age and she was still a soldier. She was a very strong-willed woman, one that I was privileged to see grow up from a very, very, very, very young little boy up until the most recent days of her life. where she would still like to enjoy barbecues and everything else that she enjoyed when she had full faculty. So I'm just asking that we keep her in prayer. Her passing dramatically affects some of the staff in my office. So I'm just asking that we keep that family in prayer. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any others? We ask we remember Lynette Allen, who is the wife of Don Allen Senior and Don just lost his son within the last year, I believe, and then his wife yesterday. Yesterday, yes, yesterday. And so we ask that you remember Don at this time when he loses two of the closest people to him in his life. Everyone in City Hall who's been here for any amount of time knows Don Allen, Sr. And thank God for the opportunity to share those last moments with him and his wife. She'll be funeralized from the True Bethel Church, which is still making arrangements for her services. For all of those who across this world who may have given their life for the freedom of any country, any persons, no matter where, we pause for all the names who have mentioned for a moment of silence. Thank you so much. There are no presentations on a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mrs. Scanlon. The minutes of the stated meeting held on October 19th, 2021. I'll approve. Council members, late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting to review an item that you may not have had enough time to review. Majority Leader, are we going from the top? From the top. The Majority Leader says we're going from the top, so we're going from the top. Item number one, 2022 Capital Budget and Year 2023-26 Capital Improvement Program Recommendations. Motion sent to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Council Member Feraletto. Item number two, amend report of sale 395 Ontario. Motion to approve items two and three. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number four, Pilgrim Village Family Housing Development Fund Company. Motion to send to CD items four and five. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. On item number five, there will be a public hearing on November 16th. I want the public to know. for this project and it is basically the city abandoning the street, what's called abandoning, giving, basically giving the school the street in front of city honors. We'll be putting forth a resolution. We need a traffic study, a serious traffic study for that area because at dismissal and arrival Traffic is all over the place. So we got to figure out how that traffic is going to flow if that street is abandoned and where the traffic that is now allowed to park on that street, where they go into that neighborhood. So I just want residents to know that that is important to me not to just abandon the street and then we don't have, because right now we have people parking all the way down or blocked down Maston. That'll push it into the neighborhood, so we really need to plan. So public hearing on the 16th, but we will file a resolution requesting a very detailed traffic and parking study for that before it can move forward. Item number six, report of cell 41 and 47, Barthol. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number seven, report of cell 253, Hagan. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number eight, report of sale 23, Hoff. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number nine, report of sale 188, Hutchinson. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 10, report of sale 12, Myers. Motion to approve items 10 and 11. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 12, report of cell 47, Shirley. Motion to send the CD items 12 and 13. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 14, Seeker Nag Deck for 107 Delaware Avenue. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Ferraletto. Item number 15, cash flow report for September 2021. Motion to send to finance. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Item number 16, certificate of necessity for city hall improvements. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 17, a system support analyst. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 18, notification serial. Motion to receive and file items 18. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 19, encroachment on city right of ways for 505 M Wood. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number 20, permission to enter into agreement with City of Buffalo School District. Motion to send to CD. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 21, reported bids for 2022 block pruning. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 22, snow plan for 2021 and 2022. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number 23, status change for water meter mechanic. Motion to approve items 23 and... 24, 25, and 26, 27. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 28, property manager license for real Capity Group. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member White. Item number 29, second hand dealer license, 1942 aka 1950 Seneca. Motion to recommit. Second by President Pro Tem Scala. This is going to send it to Ledge. Ledge, motion to send to legislation. Yeah, it's coming out of permits and inspections, not at a committee. All right, so rescind the motion, previous motion seconded by Council Member Bowman. Now as it's in the led, seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 30, purchase, auction, and scrap a vehicle. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item number 32, liquor license notice. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Wait a minute, is. 32 was the Senate CD or receiving file? Wait a second, 32 is receiving file. Rescind the motion to- Send an extra page. Everybody's sleepy, it's okay. Rescind the motion to- To receive and file items 32 through 36. Okay, so we rescind the motion, the previous motion seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. And then the motion now is to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 37, notice of appointment lifeguard seasonal. Motion to send the civil service items 37 and 38. Second by council member Wai. Item number 39, appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt items 39 through 41. Second by council member Wainer. Miscellaneous item number 42, letter regarding 485 Michigan. Motion to send the legislation. Second by council member Wai. On this item, this is a a letter regarding a request for a liquor store in the African American Heritage Corridor, around the corner from a present liquor store on William. And now they want to move, I believe, to 485 Michigan, which is a lawyer's office, but it is right I'm going to say this as we move this process forward so that whoever the applicants are know that at this point, I'm totally against it of having a liquor store right near the archway or in that corridor. The liquor store that's already there gets complaints every single night. There's a store, there's a liquor store, there's loud music, there's neighbors. And at the end of the day, as we try to improve an area, I think the last thing we need is in the tourist area. I want to know, I mean, they didn't go down the canal side and try to open up a liquor store. And canal side wouldn't allow it, and they shouldn't. In the same way I hope that this community sticks together and does not and holds our feet to the fire. Send these folks somewhere else, you're already where you're at, but trying to come into the corridor is disrespectful. And personally, any vote that I have for it, I don't care if they're selling fine wine and the best cigars and Sorry, Joe, at the end of the day, my vote is a no and it's going to remain a no unless all of the neighbors over there want it, and I doubt it. This is from the corridor who does not want it. And so I hope my colleagues, as you're getting the calls, because you will get the calls, I say scram, get out of town, go somewhere else. Stop trying to come in areas where we're trying to improve and now you want to bring a liquor store. I want to thank the corridor for their letter, so we'll be hearing much more about it. Item number 43, support for Buffalo Stadium. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 44, letter of opposition to 191 Allen. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number 45, M153, surplus funds. Motion to send the finance items 45 and 46. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 46. Last the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to let the people know for the city of Buffalo that we're going to be having a public hearing on November 9th at 530. And I want to invite them to come out and let their voices be heard. We've gotten some information from the state through their company that did their research and gave us some very interesting facts. And all I'm asking is that we have the facts. No innuendo. Let's have the facts. Let's know what it is. But some of those facts speak to what we've been talking about, how a downtown stadium will be more impactful for the residents and the Erie County as far as sales tax and those things then it will be in Orchard Park. So those are that's the information that we've gotten. We're gonna hear more information from some groups that have done some other analysis. But let's just hear the facts so that we can make a really sound decision. I know it seems like there's been a decision made. I hope not because at the end of the days what we've been hearing is that let's not do this again. Let's not make another mistake that we have to live with for 30 years. Let's make the right decision, but let's have all the information. So I invite the residents to come out on Tuesday at 530 to let their voice be heard. We're going to have some presentations from folks who have done the analysis, so I'm looking for a robust conversation. Thank you, Mr. President. And I know it's been said that is Buffalo going to put up any money? I want to know why that same question is not asked of Orchard Park. Why is the only question is Buffalo going to put up the money? Is Orchard Park going to put up the money? And at the end of the day, I think because this is a big project and we're going to spend a lot of taxpayer dollars regardless whether it's coming out of the county, whether it's coming out of the state, or whether anything is coming out of the city, there should be at least here the people. Now, I agree with Councilmember Nowakowski when he talked the other day, because I see some folks have a plan out there. I think it's in your district. And if I'm not mistaken, and if I'm wrong, tell me, in the Perry Projects area. And my greatest concern, and it's just conversation, but at the end of the day, that facility sat vacant. And people who needed affordable housing, I know I'm a Perry boy, so I'm a little in a different spot. When they begged for that place to be redone, and now it's like, let's find the money to put a stadium there. Not saying I'm for it or against it, it is Councilmember Nowakowski's district, and I would yield to however he felt with still wearing my Perry hat. But at the end of the day, I believe the conversation is necessary. Because I've already heard from people who are still living in the Perry projects. There are people still there to this day. But they abandoned almost that project, that housing development. And now it's being looked at by one group. And I think we have to be careful about specific places over the conversation of downtown. Or else people who need affordable housing in that area that's there will be just put out. councilman milkovsky yeah and for instance uh for information's sake i have spoken to bmha and in regular discussion with them because i of the marine drive and perry being in my district and talking to the executive director regarding issues there and developments and and in those preliminary discussions is that they do have a plan to redevelop the the Perry Perry Commodore Perry and the parcels around it so I think it's imperative that BMHA comes out and adds um to the conversation to state what their intentions and plans are because I think a lot of folks have the notion that it's just going to remain there and that there's no plan for it and it's well documented that there are you know a designated developer um already looking at coming up with how to redesign that entire area and to make it a still an affordable area for residents in the Paris to live, but also living in a mixed income neighborhood and making sure that we are, we're building on that, those parcels of land. So I think it's really important that I've been in discussions just even this morning with Gillian Brown that he should come and even attend the meeting and talk about That parcel of land because we have a lot of people that are either oh, well, let's do this at the central terminal Let's do this here without speaking to the representatives that actually own or in control of those lands And I think that that's the conversation that we should have first instead of just you know going by what we think Especially when it comes to you know in areas that are very distressed. I think it's I Nothing about, you know, about against the Buffalo bills. But I mean, I represent the old 1st ward in the Perry projects. They I represent them. They come 1st. In my in my thinking to that, and I've been open with my colleagues about it. And of course, I want to have the discussion about the overall discussion about having the Buffalo bills. Um, come into the city of Buffalo, but this is my district. I represent these people and what does that mean? And so that will always be paramount before. um discussion of having the bills come into the city of buffalo but um i will have uh uh gillian brown reach out to the common council and and to share the plans that they have absolutely good councilman scam i'm sorry all right thank you thank you for the hearing also Next item. Item number 47, special use for 797 Broadway for tobacco sales. Motion to send to legislation city planning board items 47 and 48. Second by council member Nowakowski. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint seasonal labor two. Motion is to receive and file items number one, two, and three. Second by council member Bowman. Community development, item number four, approved land disposition agreement for 321 Olympic. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number five, reported cell 107 Cloverdale. Motion is to approve items five, six, and seven. Second by Councilmember Rivera. Item number eight, request to speak for NBCDC contract concerns. Motion is to receive and file items eight through and including 13. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 14, report a sale for 2874 Bailey. Motion is to approve with conditions. Conditions are written in the record. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 15, Incidental Hurdle Avenue with Peaceful Protesters. Motion to receive and file items 15 through and including 21. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 22, BMHA Oversight Task Force. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item number 23, petition to request fee humps at Park Ridge and Hewitt and Comstack and Hewitt. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Legislation item number 24, special use for 445 Rhode Island. Motion to deny. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Rivera, who has the floor. Mr. Chairman, this address 445 Rhode Island is a short-term proposal. Non owner occupied rental. The applicant put together an application that was deficient, incorrect. The applicant is not an agent to the property, so that person cannot do that. This person will be filing a new application as an agent to the property according to corporation council, is that correct? Okay, so we're going to deny this for that reason, it's incorrect and they will be filing another application. And on this item, we had this discussion a couple weeks ago of the new movement of people renting houses and then as a renter across the country, turning them into Airbnbs. So they're renting multiple houses. And if the municipality isn't... clear that that can't happen what we would end up in Buffalo is a renter who then turns his apartment to Airbnb and you got Airbnbs all over the place and a friend of mine called me who was in town this week And he said guess what I'm staying at an Airbnb down the street from you And I said there is no Airbnb down the street from me, and he said now there is and And so we got to be careful about it. So thank you, Majority Leader. Item number 25, special use permit 2227 South Park for tobacco. Motion to recommit items 25 and 26. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 27, zone and map amendment for 9 and 11 City Ship Canal. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 28 special use 1450 Michigan Avenue motion is to approve item 28 Approve with the condition of a one-year sunset item 29 Approve with condition item 30 item 31 in the Ellicott district I'm sorry approve is also an approval and items 32 and 33 approved with conditions second by councilmember Wyatt Resolutions. Item number 49, fee waiver for Italian Heritage motorcade. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Ferriero. Item number 50, theater of youth debt abatement. Motion to adopt items 50, 51, and 52. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council member no Cosco you have a floor. Thank you I did want to speak on a resolution item number 50 just to set state for the record on the theater of youth is a Tremendous asset in the Fillmore district in Allentown and it's in a city-owned building That was the theater youth actually came along to almost save the building and give it an occupied use in 2005 this body of abated the utility costs that had occurred and grown under the theater of use lease. What we're dealing with now is in 2005, the lease was never appropriately amended that they wouldn't pay the utility costs moving forward. And an audit caught a significant amount of funding that they owed the city of Buffalo. This council is taking in fact that the theater of youth has spent significant amount of dollars in capital improvements to a city-owned building. So it really is just making sure everyone is whole and that we move forward with amending the lease so that everything is congruent moving forward. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 53, transfer of funds, city hall improvements. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Oh, that's sitting here. I'm sorry. I was looking at something. That's the last item? Yeah. Last item. Council members, any announcements? No announcements? No breakfast? No lunch? No bingo? No nothing? Nothing? I got announcements. I'll have announcements. Council member Wingo? Just want to say that we are grateful for all the folks who came out this past weekend and enjoyed a Halloween celebration at the Museum of Science, which was a grand occasion. We do every year. It's tradition. It is not just fun and candy, but it's also... educational and that education component excites children about science. And we would really appreciate parents taking advantage of this free day at the Science Museum, which again creates a sense of appreciation for science. Additionally, our stakeholders meeting that we have every month on the second Saturday of every month, that's coming up next week. And it has been customary for us to have Thanksgiving servings on our stakeholders meetings in November. So I wasn't going to say anything because I know we have a pretty faithful crowd that comes out. But given the recent climate here in the city of Buffalo, I think it's important for all of us to understand that these stakeholders meetings are not just Places where we come together to eat breakfast and just to talk to 1 another. The stakeholder meetings, it gives everyone who attends them an appreciation for what actually happens in these offices. It actually educates constituents on the job. of council members and what we actually do and what we don't do. It gives council members, myself particularly, an opportunity to tell my constituents what exactly my job is and what my job is not. And how we use our role as council members to influence other areas in government that go beyond our charter mandated scope of work. I think that's vitally important because you have tons of people who think that we are mini mayors and we are not. I cannot say it enough. The Facebook posts are all the time when something is not right with the city, they'll say, forget the mayor. You need to talk to your council member, but that is not under the purview. Of the council member, a lot of things are not so I may say things in jest. I may say things facetiously when I'm announcing the stakeholders meetings every month, but at the end of the day. In the words of our council president, at the end of the day, the bottom line is, it is an educational moment that we can have with our constituents to help them understand exactly what it is we do and what it is we don't do. So I'm encouraging everyone who is looking to get more involved in your community or in government to please, if your council member is hosting a meeting, a stakeholders meeting, a community meeting, a black club meeting. Go to those meetings and learn what it is we do and do not do. Because often times, too many times, we are encountered with situations that we have nothing to do with. But yet because we care for the people, we leverage our relationships and the titles that we have to get things done for them. You gotta excuse my voice, I'm sorry I'm a little hoarse from last night, but anyway. At the end of the day, we want to make sure that people are aware of what is happening in the community. So we have these meetings available to them every second Saturday. I did the math. We've done almost 70 meetings in Mastin. 70. We've done almost 70 meetings in Mastin. And we still have people criticizing, and they've not attended one of them. So we want everyone to come out because you will get fed, number one. And number two, I think we even pay people. We have a little drawing that we do too. So there's a lottery at the end of all of our meetings. So come on out, you can get some food and you can get paid because they have all these creative ideas to elicit participation. Other than that, you all, thank you for the announcement opportunity and I'll see you all next week. Thank you very much. Any other announcements? Council Member White. Thank you Mr. President. I just want to invite folks to our monthly e-district meeting hosted by our e-district chief, Carmen Minza. This is how police reform takes place and we have it every month, every second Wednesday of the month. So next Wednesday, 995 Kensington, please come out here, discuss your issue, whatever you may have on your block club. meeting. So if you have issues regarding police, regarding housing, whatever, they do a fantastic job. So please come out at 530-995-KINSEY next Wednesday. Thank you. All right. Any other announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. You do have an announcement. I do. I do. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, November 9th at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service is Tuesday, November 9th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, November 9th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, November 9th, 2 p.m. And Special Committee Meeting on Finance will be Tuesday, November 9th. 2021 at 5.30 PM here in council chambers. All righty. No other announcements, majority leader? Motion to adjourn. That's the announcement. Second by Councilmember Bowman.