Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. I. Key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Forum President. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, the institution republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Our council chaplain, Reverend Al Warner. One of my favorite events in the New Buffalo took place this last week with 43 North. Deb and I were there. Biggest attendance yet for 43 North. Chase is such a spectacular location. To see the entrepreneurs represented on the stage and their age, the winners, one was 24 and one was 26.
 who won a million dollars, reminds me that in the New Buffalo we need some entrepreneurial creativity. We need people who have unusual ideas, outside-the-box ideas, creative ideas, and they need to be big enough ideas to be able to create jobs in the New Buffalo. Proverbs 8.12 says it this way, God speaking, and he says, I'll give you knowledge of witty inventions. I love that, knowledge or insight into witty inventions.
 Sometimes you need that knowledge and insight here on the chamber floor. But we've got a generation that needs it growing up in the city and the region. And I'd like to pray with you for them today. Father, thank you for you, O God, the creative one. We see your creativity at the very first chapter of the very first book of the Bible. But Lord, you weren't done creating in Genesis 1. You've
 continue to create. Thank you for witty inventions and the knowledge and insight. I pray, Lord, for divine downloads to the youth especially of this region. Lord, they're represented at 43 North, but Lord, we need hundreds and thousands like that coming up through every school.
 Buffalo Public Schools and charter schools and parochial schools, every school system. So, Lord, we pray now that in the new Buffalo you give those creative, witty inventions. And, Lord, it would lead to job creation in our city. Bless now this group, this body, as it stores the agenda today. And we welcome you now in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Members, any memorials?
 Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm praying for the family, the Jameson family and the passing of Annie Jameson. You may know her, Pastor. She was a member of St. Luke's for about 64 years. Recently passed, and we're just praying for her. She was a faithful woman of the church and of her family, and we're just praying for her. Annie Jameson as well. And our community, anybody else? Yes.
 Council Member Golomba. Thank you, Mr. President. Black Rock lost Helen Osadlo this past week. Wonderful, wonderful woman. She's going to be sorely missed by her children and grandchildren. You know, it's going to be just another hole in that Black Rock Assumption Church community. Thank you.
 And our community law's two attorneys, both were former chairmen of the minority bar, both graduated from the University of Buffalo Law School. Last week Julian Johnson was laid to rest and he was also a keyboardist. A lot of people didn't know with TaylorMade Jazz and he had his own group, Living Proof, so it will be missed. Very active in the community, part of
 James Lewis Church Miracle Mission, and really worked in so many different places. These were attorneys that when they got their law license, they did not turn from their community. Like, I was running for their letter, I was working in this community. These folks kept working in their community. Also, Jerry McGreer.
 Jerry also graduated from UB. Jerry was a part of so many things. He was at the District Attorney's Office at one point. Both of these guys really stayed connected to the community and kept giving back. So it's odd to lose two people from the legal community who were both very active, and his wife Doris, I'm sure our prayers are with them.
 Any others? Council Member Fontana? You told my memory with the legal community. Our thoughts are with Judge Penny Wolfgang, who lost her husband this week. Michael Wolfgang, very active in the community. And Penny, of course, has been a long-term friend of our family and a great judge here in West New York. So, Judge Wolfgang, you've been our best. Absolutely.
 If there are no others, to force those persons who have given their life for the freedom of others in the United States and across this world, those both civilians and military, we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 On a motion by Mr. Riviere, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of our state meeting held on October 18th, 2016, are approved. Just for the record, the Elmwood Village Charter School was to be with us. They were here. They arrived a little early. We'll put them on the city record.
 The fifth grade class and Ms. Ann was chaperoning them so we'll make sure their names are entered into the city record as being our guest today. All of the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files?
 Hearing no objections, we will receive the entire agenda, which does not take away your right to object to late fouls when they come before us. We have not had time to review them. If there are none, the problem is solved. Item number one for the mayor, 2017 Capital Improvement Project Budget. Motion is sent to finance. Seconded by Council Member Gale-Letta. Item two, appoint Buffalo and Erie County Library Board of Trustees. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Golombet. To continue planning, item 3, BGBEC Entity Formation. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Forenza. From the Comptroller, item 4, Audit Report of Overtime and Police Department. Motion to send to Finance and Police Oversight. Second by President Pro Tem Scalin. From the Council President, Recommendation Inclusionary Zoning. That's number 5. Number 5. Sent to Ledge.
 Second by Council Member Fontana. I just want to comment very briefly on this because I know this council has been talking about the inclusionary zoning. We're waiting for a study from the mayor's office. But again, the reason I think this is so important, if you look in the newspaper today, there's another project being planned for downtown Buffalo, all market rate.
 And the more I think about this, how important this is to have inclusionary zoning where when you're building residents, residential units to make sure that people can afford, at least a portion of them should be some affordable housing.
 Because I think what we're doing, what we hear right now is in certain areas you have subsidized housing and you have a lot of that. You know, we do a lot of ribbon cutting for housing that is for low income in certain areas. And then we do a lot of ribbon cutting for houses that's just market rate.
 And so we are concentrating at times poverty. And I think that was the model of the past that has us in certain situations right now. So now when you look on certain parts of town, all of the new housing is market weight. And I think that that's a dangerous precedent to set if there is no, but right now we have no policy. And the reason I bring this one up and not
 signaling them out because I don't even know what the developer is, I just remembered the article, is because they're asking for a tax break. So giving tax breaks on the ECIDA side
 but not having any requirements of any kind of zoning within the city of Buffalo that would ensure, if we're going to be building all these new units, there should be some affordable units in downtown Buffalo. And that concerns me, that without a policy in place,
 There is nothing, we have no hammer to say you want tax credits, you want money from the city, you need land from the city. You've also got to include housing that is inclusive of working class or whatever that...
 legislation ends up being. So I think that that's very, very important that we continue to keep it on the front burner. And as Ducey, I have a speaker. Okay, I'm cooking with butter here. Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I totally agree with you. It's unfortunate that we didn't do this in the very beginning as we started to develop.
 But certainly we can change tomorrow by putting in legislation today. That's why I think I'm so adamant, since you brought that forth, about it being put in the green code. Because I know that there's a lot of other things going on, but if we don't change the culture now, when will we?
 we'll continue to have this pockets of poverty and it's pretty much the same areas that is impoverished. And I know my area is all over the verse. There's areas of poverty that I wish I could change. When we talk about inclusion, if we don't do things like this, there will be no inclusion. We'll be seeing the same culture
 the top 1% of those who are well-to-do and those who aren't, just have to struggle. We're looking at opportunities and things right now so that we can create additional housing stock for those who are being displaced in many cases. Again, I go back to what's going on on the west side and the housing that's being developed and these people being pushed out, and no one really having a heart for them. Not no one, but seemingly people don't have a heart for them. So I think this is something that's important.
 I think we should work very, very diligently to see that inclusionary zoning is added to the green code because we can't change yesterday, but we certainly can't change tomorrow, and I think that's so important. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I'll come right to Mr. Revere. In the last bureau meeting, there was a consultant that was brought on board, and one of the things that was said in Council Member Scanlon, President Pro Tem Scanlon was in that meeting,
 is that the inclusionary zoning is the first part of that study. They have made it very clear. This first finished the rest of this housing study later. And so that is showing the commitment that was made to us that it would be the inclusionary zoning first. And as a matter of fact, and I don't want to be wrong in this, was it a date of like January, February that they were talking about? Or am I wrong? Is that on something? I think Mark.
 in March. So, you know, whether, you know, that balancing act, we've got to figure out because we know that, you know, some people would love to move this forward tomorrow. We've got inclusionary zoning. So somewhere I think we have to push the consultant to see if we can get that done as quickly as possible. And then I think we'd be taking care of all sides, a little bit of all sides.
 Thank you. Council Member, Majority Leader. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad you brought up the resolution, and certainly we've seen in the recent past where people continue to be displaced. Even before Shoreline and Pine Harbor, I was getting calls in my office by people that were being displaced out of the neighborhood because of the high cost of rent. And certainly the development community tries to maximize its investment in terms of returns.
 uh...
 We want them to understand that this is going to be codified. I think what we need is to put this in our zoning. We should have done it from the very beginning. There was a move early on to do this, but for some reason it never picked up momentum or support for it early on during the green code. And towards the tail end, we kind of say, hey, why isn't this in the green code? We can put it in our ordinance if we have to work.
 Certainly we're giving OSP an opportunity and we ask them that it run parallel to the Green Coal. That things should be happening at the same time that we're moving the Green Coal. We should be working on this and we certainly don't want it studied. And sometimes we have all kinds of studies and these studies take on forever. So we certainly need to make this a priority and we need to hold their feet to the fire on this one. Because if not, we're going to continue to see people displaced out of neighborhoods.
 like the Elmwood Village, like Larkinville, like downtown, perhaps like the medical campus,
 Shoreline, Pine Harbor, Westside, Eastside, different parts of the city. So we have to do something and you're right. These folks are asking for incentives, asking for credits and asking for all kinds of help from the government to build these market rates. So the government should say, well wait a second. We want to make sure that everybody comes along and certainly
 We're going to continue to push this every opportunity or every time we have an audience to talk about inclusionary zoning. I thank you for the resolution. I support it wholeheartedly, and I hope that the administration moves this along quickly. Thank you. The business community, oddly enough, that the majority I thought would be against, have requested a meeting to talk about
 how they can be involved in the beginning. And so that really encouraged me, the partnership, reached out and said, we'd like to talk about possible ways to be involved in it because in other municipalities when this has gone forward,
 at times there's been this big fight between developers, council, advocacy groups. And my hope is in Buffalo, it's not a fight, it's a working together to figure out how we continue to grow and not leave a segment of the community out of the new developments that we are seeing. One of the reporters mentioned something called
 that they use in some areas of New York called corridor, where there is development and they have the inclusionary zoning, but they'll put up a door, for instance in a unit, where the lower income units are.
 And that's just horrible to me. If you're going to put up a unit, you're getting government money, you're getting government land, everybody should walk through the same door. You might not be paying the same rent, I might not have marble countertops, but I shouldn't have to go through a door in the back. I think we've gotten over that.
 or on the side. And I think that this council has showed its commitment for inclusionary zoning, at least to this point. You know, I think everybody's waiting on the study and then the final product. So thank you for your support. All right. Next item. Department of Public Works, Item 6, Notification Serials. Motion to receive and file.
 And waive the 45 days. Pardon me? And waive the 45 days. And waive the 45 days. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough. Item 7, Parks EPF Grant. Motion to approve items 7 through 17. Seconded by... That's items 7 through 16. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 17, appoints Senior Engineer...
 Motion to send to civil service items 17 through 23. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 24, North Buffalo Ice Rink. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Department of Fire, appoint fire lieutenant. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Fontana.
 Operation Council Item 26, Claims Committee Agenda. Motion to send to the Claims Committee. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Permits and Inspections Item 27, Collector License Guard Contracting. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 28, Food Star License 2724 Bailey. Motion to send to ledge items 28 through 31. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 32, appoint Chief Combustion Inspector. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Fairletter. Administration, Finance, Policy and Urban Affairs. Item 33, approval to auction scrap various vehicles. Motion to approve items 33 through 36. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Item 37, application for restricted use permit 1031.16. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Piroletto. Item 38, restricted use permit 11.5.2016. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item 39, mayor reported out of state. Motion to receive and file items 39, 42, 13,
 all the way to 42 second by council member franzette item 43 appoint intern eight motion to adopt items 43 and 44. second by council member the lombard and 45 notes of apartments temporary provisional permit motion is sent to civil service second by council member golomb miscellaneous items item 46 college simulation experience motion is sent to education committee
 Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 47, concerns tractor trailers on Godfrey Street. Motion to send to CD and DPW. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 48, request redesign intersection of Shoshone and Hurdle intersection. Motion to send to CD and DPW as well. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 49, and...
 NLS letter to BMHA. Motion to send to CD and Mayor's Executive. Second by Council Member Fairley. Item 50, 149 Weston Avenue. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golomba. And also PDPI. PDPI.
 Economic commitment. As corrected. Item 51. Item 51, concerns about permit fees for community center use. Finance, mayor's department, and public work. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Petitions. Item 52, use 3288, Bailey for a sign. Motion to send items 52 and 53 to lead in the city planning board. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 54, concerns 149, Westland. Motion to send to CD and EBPI. Second by, I'm sorry, Wheeler. Wheeler.
 Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Committee, Civil Service, Item 1, Appoint Principal Auditor. Motion to approve Items 1 through 8. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Item 9, Appointments Temporary, Provisional, Permanent. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Finance Committee, Item 10, Claims for Payment, Unapproved by Auditor. Further side under the Claims Committee. Claims? Claims, sir. I'll violate that.
 Say goodbye, Council Member Farrelletto. Item 11, Arbitration Award, Old-Time Workers' Compensation Benefits. Over to our Law Department. On this one, there's a concern that we needed some language drafted. Has that been recommitted? Okay. I'll go with our South District Council Member saying to recommit. Say goodbye, Council Member Scantle. Item 12, Buffalo Niagara Film Commission.
 Well, I guess we're recommitting 12, 13, and 14 for more comments. Second by Majority Leader Rivera.
 Community Development Committee, Item 15, Challenging Understanding. Motion to receive and file Items 15 through and including 18. Seconded by Council Member Freelander. Legislation Committee, Item 19, Mobile Food Truck, cater to you. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 20, Rezone 51-55, Rhode Island. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Golombi.
 Item 21, use 423, Elmwood. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Fairlip. Item 22, use 1050, Niagara. Motion is to approve. Second by the Majority Leader, Rupier. Item 23, use 2058, Delaware. That item also originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve with conditions with a maximum of 25 people. All right. Second by Councilmember...
 Your left. Item 24. Use 3444 Bailey.
 There are no objections. Items 24 and 25, motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 26, quality of life for residents in the Northland Corridor. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 27, use 250 Delaware. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Fierlito. Resolutions. Item 55, Child Care Resource Network. Motion to adopt items 55 and 56. Seconded by Councilmember Golomba.
 item 57 udo review motion to send to lights and the city planning board item 58 ordinance amendment 399 smoking motion to send to lights items 58 and 59 second by president pro tempos and item 60 budget and personnel amendment motion to approve item 60 and 61. council member wyatt now committee meetings
 Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Wednesday, November 9th, 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Wednesday, November 9th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Wednesday, November 9th, 2 p.m. Special committees, Committee on Education, Thursday, November 3rd, 1.30 p.m. Special Committee on Finance, Wednesday, November 9th, 5.30 p.m. for capital budget. And also public hearing on Green Code, Monday, November 14th at 6 p.m. House Member White has the floor.
 Did we go over item number 59? Did we mention 59? Motion to revisit item number 59. Motion to revisit item 59. And by Council Member Friar-Leto, it's... What was the motion on that one? Central legislation. Okay. I just wanted to speak on that one.
 You want to speak on that one? Yes. Yes, sir. This is the property manager's ordinance amendment that we're asked, that we asked law to draft up. We're going to have corporation counsel along with permits and inspections to come down so that we can try to finalize this. Again, this was a thing to...
 Council member Pro Tem Scanlon for at least holding these property manager licenses up because I just felt very strongly that we don't want to give people licenses who are going to be slumlords.
 So we've gone through this legislation, and I think it's pretty tight. We just have a couple of ends that we need to kind of tighten up. But I think this will be strong legislation to make certain that folks who become property managers are responsible, and they're just not slumlords. And I think I had a perfect example by seeing the individual who applied, came to this council, and told us that the work that we requested and have done was not done.
 And I did a little bit more digging and finding that a lot of the residents who have been run by property managers have been just kind of, what, to the wayside. So I think this legislation will make sure that these property managers are going to do their due diligence and do the job properly or not be licensed. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Mr. Fontana. Part of our ordinance also, I think, should revolve around the renter. A lot of renters now are being charged $30.00.
 for an application fee to come see an apartment. And they can only pick one person. So the property managers are holding, I guess, an open house where they have 10 people come. They're making $300. They only pick one of the people. Can't pick them all. And they're saying, well, if you're picked, you'll get your $30 back. But the other nine people come into this event are not getting their money back.
 And I think that's terrible that they're charging an application fee. If they want to pick somebody and then charge them for a background check, whatever, that's up to them. If it's legal, it's fine. But they're actually charging now to come and put a deposit, essentially a $30 application fee in. And I think that's wrong. I talked to a friend of mine that told me he's looking for an apartment. And he said, I spent over $120 this month. I go, on what?
 background checks. He goes, no, application fees. So he goes and he has to put down 30 bucks on the counter. They take the money. They give him the application. He puts the application in. Then they don't hear nothing. They'll call and say, oh, we picked somebody else. I think that's unfair to residents. So we might have to have something in the
 That speaks to these new fees that are out there. It doesn't cost the management company a penny to take an application. You know, I mean, a couple cents for the paper. So I think residents are being unfairly treated in this situation. We probably should address it in the ordinance.
 And I wonder, Councilmember Fonsi, first of all, it's the first time I've ever heard of anything like that. And if it's occurring, I think it's horrible, especially when you have lower income people seeking an apartment. So now if I need an apartment and I look at 10 apartments that could cost me $300 that I need for the security deposit and the rent. Okay.
 I wonder if it just needs to be a separate new ordinance because in this one it's dealing with property managers. So which means if it's just in this portion, if I'm a private renter, I can still charge the fee. And I think that charging a fee to show an apartment or to consider someone for an apartment should be illegal in the city of Buffalo. So I wonder if we just need to draft a...
 different law as it pertains to charging fees for being able to view a resident. Maybe I could ask the Corporation Counsel to reach out to home, maybe Mr. Gell before he retires and ask if there's a policy on this already to see where we're at. Maybe we could draft something if we need to because I understand it costs money to send someone out there to do, you know, and to take the applications.
 But it just seems like people are now spending a lot of money because property managers are always looking for a way to make some money. And this is becoming more and more prevalent. I talked to a guy named Anthony. He stopped by the office and was complaining he can't find an apartment, and he's spent $120 so far. At this rate, he's going to spend, like you said, his whole security deposit just on applications. Absolutely. It should be illegal if it's not illegal. And obviously right now it is not illegal. So I think a total separate standalone policy is important.
 Thank you. All right.
 We've had the announcements. Councilmembers, any announcements for your districts or any councilmember friends? Just a reminder for those who are ardently watching progress of the Green Code that Monday, November the 14th at 6 o'clock in these chambers there will be a public hearing on the Green Code. All and anyone that is interested in attending this hearing are welcome to come to chambers at that time. And then our committee and the legislation committee
 will have a follow-up hearing on November 22nd at 2 o'clock. But the big hearing will be Monday, November 14th at 6 p.m. in the Buffalo Common Council chambers. Yes, sir.
 Thank you. Any other announcements, council members? Council Member Wyatt, your hand is moving. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to announce that for university district residents, if you're in need of a turkey, you can call my office at 851-5165. We're giving away the turkeys on November 22nd at 995 Kensington from 4 to 6. 4 to 6. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. Of course, I'm going to make my usual announcement on November the 12th, the second Saturday of this month. Come grow with us in the Madison District as we have our stakeholders meeting every month, disseminating information that is helpful, you know, informing our constituency of all the opportunities that are available. So come on out the second Saturday of every month this month. It will be Saturday, November 12th at 830. We'll be there until about 1030. Come have breakfast with us and just fellowship.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. All right. Thank you. On Friday, November 4th, Councilmember in the Community Day, I'll be at
 893 Jefferson at the restaurant there, 1 o'clock to about 5 o'clock, and constituents can come. No appointments needed. Staff will be there and will be able to take care of any concerns that you have. And Ellicott District, and then on Monday, December 5th, community stakeholders meeting at the Bell Center, 105 Maryland.
 I was remembering Fontana. You picking up checks? Pardon me? You picking up the checks? Are we picking up checks? Nah. You can pick up some chicken while you're there. It's je ne sais quoi, where I'll be. Everybody, please see Vernie before you leave the chambers. We have a resolution for Irv Weinstein that we're making an extra copy for, so I need your signature on that. The original was sent out to Irv in California, but we're doing an extra copy for this patient. All right. Thank you. Okay.
 Anything else, council members? All right. Council Member Revere, motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Golombek.