I want to be helpful to them. So I want to help them out with the property. They're thinking about doing something else there. It's recent in power, according to Karen. Five, four, three, two, one.
 Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Cormac present. The staff .
 that. They are council chaplain dealing with the health issue that just came up. So we are praying for help. Let's pray. God bless us in our meeting. Council members, good morning.
 Hearing none, we always pause for a moment of silence. Those who have given their right since our last gathering together have been treated with fire pressure and other tensions. Right now, remember those who have made the point. And pause and please change your support by signing the present. Thank you.
 A motion by Mr. Greer second by Mr. Stanley to meet so the state of meeting held in October 18 2022 approved once members like I was actually for you I've been in Jackson City. I've seen no judges in his lake house to hear the entire agenda that is before us um and I believe we are taking
 Oh, the commissioner's appointment so they can get back to work. What item is that? It's coming off the submission list. Civil service item number one. Item number one from civil service. Second by Council Member Joe. Item number one, appoint Commissioner of Public Works, Parks and Streets. Motion is to approve. Motion is to approve.
 council member bowman yes council member faroletto yes council member columbia yes council member noah kowski nathan martin council president prigent yes majority leader roberto yes president pro tem stanley yes council member wingo council member wyatt
 Mr. President, I know during the appointment hearing, we talked about the condition. Can I have that condition put on the approval that he will give us a summary of what he's heard from council members on what we're requesting? I think what we could do is just having the test too. It has been a record here. All right, yes, it's unanimous. Congratulations.
 So since he's gonna be living in city hall for a little while, I just wanted to make sure now.
 I make the mark, I need the light. You solemnly swear, you solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States of America and the Constitution of the State of New York and the United States of America.
 and that I will faithfully and faithfully discharge the of the office of the Commissioner of Public Works, Commissioner of Public Works of the city of Brooklyn, according to the best, according to that of my vote. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 It's official. We have a new snow time. All right. Considering it's going to be 70 degrees this weekend and then probably the week after will be, you'll be put to the test.
 But there is some other good news and maybe we take one other item out of order. And that way while the commissioner is here to get to see some of the first work that is coming out of his office as far as the snow plan.
 Oh, it's number one. Let's take number one out of order and make it. Idle number one 2022 2023 snow plan. This item is going to CD but there's something that we'd like to present today. So this item is going to CD but for the public and for the council members. We wanted to show.
 um one of the things that was most important uh to the council and one of the things uh besides snow removal the transparency to the public with what is known as a front-facing system and i'll pause to give um now i don't even call you yeah uh i'm gonna give this short presentation for us
 for the invitation. Council members, Don Orobade, before you today, the Department of Public Works would like to demonstrate the front-facing GPS system. Are we ready to go, Jim? We're good? Yeah, we are good. So typically the front-facing the public shall be able to go into the URL. Enter www.buffalony.gov forward slash
 Snow Fleet and following snow plowing status screen will come up on your laptop as well as your mobile device. What you see in front of you is our great city map of Buffalo, New York. And to your left on the screen, you will see a snow plowing status bar or search address. You can enter your particular address. Today we will enter 65 Niagara Square.
 and you will click on that and it will zoom into the area of the address that has been entered. The color scheme as you can see will dictate again this device GPS public facing is for the snow plowing services for the City of Buffalo. So the colors that you see on is in preparation of that.
 So as you can see, the legend will dictate the services on the streets. So green will be serviced within the last six hours. Blue will indicate service within the last six to 12 hours. The yellow will service within 12 to 24 hours. And the red is service more than 24 hours ago.
 In conjunction to as an added bonus, we have the Nitech cameras that are not City of Buffalo cameras, but also utilize for additional information should the residents need such technology or wanna see that event. So, I'll take in, Council President, any questions or? Colleagues, Council Member Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'm assuming that you will be here next week for more in depth. OK, I am going to have more questions about the GPS and the interactivity between not just residents, but also between different departments, because the biggest problem that we had in my district, this Martin Luther King storm and beyond was congregations.
 cars that were parked illegally. And there needs to be a better coordination of getting those cars when they are illegally parked, you know, off of the streets. So I want to make sure that this is something, you know, that we're able to do with this GPS system.
 And then I'm actually gonna ask another question about will the GPS be with the sanitation as well, because I've been getting very frustrated. There are certain streets in my district that are missed on a regular basis. And it just seems it's ridiculous in the day and age of technology that we have today that I'm having the same streets and the same houses missed on a regular basis. So no answer now, but just be, I would like to know that for next week. Thank you.
 Councilmember Winkle. Thank you, Mr. President. I have two quick questions. I noticed that the legend shows streets that were serviced, this is our pastime, within six hours, within 6 to 12. Is it going to show the map ahead of the schedule when people can anticipate their streets being plowed or just showing where streets have been plowed? Correct. This is where the streets have been plowed
 Okay. All right. So that's number one. Number two, we brought up a concern during committee regarding the illegal parking. And when we are, you know, in a snowstorm mode, we do have seniors who don't have driveways, who do have cars parked on the streets, who cannot uncover their cars and
 in enough time before the plow comes down the street. And sometimes this even results in the street not being plowed because the plow can't get down the street. Are we considering seniors who cannot move their cars
 for those plows as well. We will always consider seniors in the city of Buffalo that cannot move those vehicles. So we can discuss that further during our CD meeting. Okay, cause I'm just hoping that there is something again, just to echo the sentiment of my colleague regarding this technology and the age we live in, there has to be something that we can do where, you know, the plows or the parking enforcement, I know parking enforcement,
 can do it. I know police department can do it. They have access to our registration information and the registration information, uh, gives out our age, but it doesn't tell a person whether or not this individual has different abilities of their ADA. If, uh, they, they have any type of, uh, you know, situation that would impede their ability.
 to remove the snow so i want to just make sure that there's something in place to make sure that folks are not penalized who aren't intentionally leaving their cars on the street but literally cannot uh get their cars off the street and there's some type of leniency and uh
 If there's any other type of program, this may be asking a lot, but I know that since they cannot do it, is there any kind of way that if we have a registry of folks who are on this ADA list or the senior citizen list who should not be moving snow, where we could offer some type of assistance so that the cars are not impeding the ability for the plow to come down, which, again, further handicaps.
 the rest of the street from moving their cars. Yes, council member. I think those are great, great comments, great ideas that we can engage with. Definitely we will work with the Department of Inspections, with the Department of Parking, and we can look to grow that idea into a solid idea that we can incorporate senior citizens that have vehicles on the street. Definitely it's a very valuable input that we can take into consideration.
 I'll acknowledge everybody, but I want to remind you this is going to committee. We will be discussed in depth. I just asked that they show to the public the front facing, but because we've already started, I would just ask that you're limited so we can go on with the council meeting because this will be in committee. Councilman Wyden, Councilman Rivera. Mr. Guzman, the number of plows that we have, it says 44. Are all those 44?
 Each of those plows have the GPS? Correct. So all the equipment regarding, relating to snow will have the GPS? Correct. Last question, are we testing this right now? And are we in a phase that we can test it that see how this is working? Well, the GPS units are on the plows. We can definitely run a test. The system is up and running.
 So we can definitely look into that. Okay, thank you. Thank you very much. I looked at both plants to see the difference. Besides the GPS, you know, we're trying to figure out what's the difference between last year's plan and this year's plan, but one of the things that drew my attention was the snow removal.
 contracting work that you're going to use. And you had an amount for that. I think it was $260,000. Is that sufficient? I mean, how much did we spend last year during the snowstorm? Last year, we spent $800,000 in the last snow event of last year. The $260,000 that has been earmarked in the snow plan are dollars earmarked to get the contract started.
 And we have the ability and in the snow plan, should the events, no event dictate is unpredictable. We have the ability to seek further funds. Okay. That's what I wanted to know. So it was $800,000. Approximately. Approximately. And you so far budgeted 200. 160 that allows us to begin those contracts. When we need to call those contracts active without contractors. Well, I think this council, um,
 is doing everything to make sure you have the technology, the capacity and the funds to make sure that our neighborhoods are cleared of snow and that we don't have a repeat of what happened last year because people were buried in their homes for,
 More than a week after the snowfall so we just want to make sure that the neighborhoods are cleared a lot sooner. And so we're looking to make sure the Commissioner has all the resources he needs to make sure the streets are clear. Thank you very much. Thank you, Council Member. Quick question. Do we have enough drivers. Are we at capacity for drivers, we at capacity for drivers we have the adequate.
 Drivers at this time. Yes. Okay. Thank you. All right. And again, to the public, this will be discussed next Tuesday in depth. So if you have any questions, council members, you can reach out. All right. Ready to go. Ready to go. Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. Motion was in the CD motion to send the CD second by councilman Fairlady. Item number two, Austin get wreck pilot motion to approve.
 Second by council member, no council. Item number 3, DDA, 887, 891 Michigan Street. Motion to send the CD. Second by council member, White. Item number 4, DDA, extension for 225, 227, 229, 231, 235, 237, 239 Gray Street.
 Motion to approve items 4 and 5. Second by Council Member Bolton. Item number 6, designated developer agreement for 224 Vermont. Motion to send the CD item 6 and 7. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 8, four-year strategic plan. Motion to send to finance.
 Second by Council Member Wynne. Item number 9, Pan American 2633, Delaware. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tempston. Item number 10, regarding abandonment and sale, portion of parcel 7, the County Council District, Fillmore. Motion to send legislation items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 12, report is sale 252, Breckenridge.
 Mr. Chairman, I have to recuse myself from this. So I'll ask somebody else to make the motion. I'm the person that's purchasing this property. Motion to recuse. Motion to recuse, Council Member Ferrer. Second by Council Member Bowman. Motion is to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 item number 13 reported sales 77 hill motion to send the cd second by councilman wingle item number 14 september cash flow 2022 motion to send the finance my councilman white item number 15 change order for buffalo fire department engine 25 new belt motion to approve items 15 through 28 second by president pro temp scan
 Item number 29, notice of appointment for fleets coordinator. Motion to send the civil service item 29 and 30. Second by Councilman Freeland. Item number 31, asset forfeiture wire. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilman White. Item number 32, appoint battalion chief. Motion to send the civil service items 32 and 33. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 34, food store license 1799 Genesee Street.
 Motion to send the ledge items 34 and 35. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 36, parking department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 37, appoint coordinator of youth. Motion to send the civil service items 37 and 38. Second by Council Member Wingman. Item number 39, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval and disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 39 through 41. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 42, notice of appointment truck driver. Motion to send the civil service items 42 and 43. Item number 44, bicycle and pedestrian advisory board for September meeting. Motion to receive and file items 44 through 48. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 49, arts of learning for Western New York. Motion to send to the education committee. Second by Councilmember Lundgren.
 Item number 50, 38 Tremont zoning map amendment, supplemental public comments. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fairlawn. Item number 51, concerns construction project at Jasper Parish Housing. Motion to send the CDE items 51 and 52. Second by Council Member Bolton. Petitions, item number 53, special use 502M, Woodford-Tamber.
 Motion is sent to legislation city planning board items 53 through 60. By council member Noah Komsky. Submission was civil service. Item number two, appoint special assistant to mayor. Motion is to approve. Second by majority leader Rivera. Item number three, appoint senior account clerk real estate.
 Motion is to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Finance, item number four, approval of 2022-2023 CBG, ESG, and Hopewell contract. Motion to approve items number four and five. Number six also. Well, number six, we had a question on it. Someone was supposed to come back to us, but we were...
 we someone was going to get back to us regarding number six all right four and five second by customer for a little item number six focus occupational services candidate employee medical and drug screen services yeah because there was a question regarding the the um cannabis in that process but we were okay with so can we approve and leave the rest in cd
 Well, in finance, I'm sorry. No, no, no. Excuse me. I'm sorry. We're supposed to have an item in CD. It's disgusting. It should be sent requesting. We do. So we have something already sitting in CD to address this. So this is just fine. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Legislation. Item number seven, Fuster License 284, Ontario. Motion to approve item seven and item eight with conditions. Second by Council Member Golombek, who has the floor?
 Thank you, Mr. President. Item number seven is 284 Ontario Street. That's a new grocery store that's going to be coming into the Riverside section of the North District in the old...
 David McGoldrick, Ph.D.: Riverside Drug Mart. I'm aging myself. But it was the old Riverside Drug Mart building years ago. It's been shut and closed for three or four years right now, and one of the things that we've learned over the past several years is that there are quite a few food deserts, if you will, in the city of Buffalo, and one of the areas that's been
 I don't want to say it's been overlooked because we're sort of close to tops and we're sort of close to Wegmans, but they forget that 30% or more of the people that live in 14207 don't have automobiles. And so getting from Riverside in particular to tops Wegmans or the other tops, it's about a mile walk to get there. And it's almost, you know, impossible. I'm looking forward to the Buffalo fresh opening up there. I met with a,
 Abdul Adam, the owner on Friday, he gave me a tour. We walked around, gave me his vision for what he wants to do in the neighborhood. And if two thirds of what he wants to do in the neighborhood comes true, I'll be very, very happy. So I'm hoping that this will be and I'm anticipating that this will be a good addition to the neighborhood as I get more information. I will let the residents of North and Riverside in particular know. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Next slide. Item number nine, zone and map amendment for 38 Tremont from N2R to N2E. Motion is to receive and file items nine and 10. Second by Majority Leader Rivera, who has the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to thank the applicant, Matt and Kate, whose attorney called me yesterday and decided to withdraw their project after,
 considering considerable complaints and concerns of the residents. I certainly want to thank the residents who for many years have fought
 um to improve their neighborhoods uh this goes back over 10 years ago when council member joe golombic was the council members and they were having problems in their neighborhood with regards to students from above state fraternities and parties the neighborhood for years fought against that and they improved the neighborhood as a result they had concerns regarding this project and they shared it with us in private meetings through emails and in council hearings
 Certainly we have listened to them. I want to thank Matt and Kate because they don't want to have that relationship with the residents. They want to work with the residents and I'm hopeful that we can develop or we can put forward the project on that property that the residents and they would look favorable on. We're looking forward to moving forward.
 On this piece of property and engage in the community once again. But thank you to the residents that are here that have talked to most council members and have lobbied. We're here to listen to you and I think that's exactly what we've done after we went through the process. Sometimes people get frustrated.
 at the process, but there has to be due process and due diligence and making sure that we mitigate as much as we can before we make a determination. And I think they appreciate it. And I'm just so grateful to the attorneys, Jonathan Spector, Schecter, and Corey Aubach for their work as well on behalf of their clients. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item number 11, special use 207th Street. Motion to approve items 11 through 18. I give back to Councilor Nookowski. Item number 19, local landmark 1443 Clinton Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilor Mojave. Item number 20, referring to the east side as East Buffalo. Motion to receive and file items
 21 and 20 and 21. Second by Council Member Wynne. Item number 22, Fuster License 557, Hurdle. This item was sent without recommendation in the North District and it is a motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 23, Co-Mingling Amendment. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Resolutions, item number 61, set public care for abandonment of sale. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 62, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479, Traffic Ordinance. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Farrell.
 Item number 63, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt item 63 through 66. Second by Council Member Noah Custy. Item number 67, set public hearing for abandonment and sale, a portion of Scott Street. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Noah Custy. Item number 68, request update on the status of COVID premium pay for the city of Buffalo.
 Thank you, Council President. As we started to face the COVID pandemic, and in particular during the height of the pandemic, we saw a shift in how people were working. A lot of people working from home. However, Buffalo police officers, firefighters, employees in public works, and other front-facing employees were working every day in their field despite the great risk to their health or well-being.
 One of the stipulations within the American Rescue Plan is the possibility of municipalities providing premium pay to those front-facing employees. Everyone I've spoken to, whether it's council members within the administration, everyone agrees that we owe a debt of gratitude to those employees that kept those departments running in the face of incredible challenges.
 times and drastic times. So this resolution is just asking the administration for an update on where that stands. Again, I've had conversations with council members and with the administration. Everyone agrees that these employees have gone above and beyond, and I'm just asking them for a written update on where it stands. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Glumbet?
 Thank you, Mr. President, to have my name added to this. I agree with Mr. Scanlon. I've had city employees that have approached me and asked me the same questions. And, you know, they've gotten very frustrated, I think, over the time and the lag that has been taking place. And I'd like to have the answers for us and for them as well. Thank you. And I totally agree. You know, our office was open. We still had to do birth certificates. We still had to do death certificates.
 um and so i i totally agree and thank you for this resolution customer my name to it as well add my name to it please councilmember wyatt councilmember bowman councilman wingo councilmember norkowski councilman frialetto everybody wants to be at it as we should i think it's a good resolution mr chairman can we revisit item 61 and 67. second by councilman frialetto
 motion to rescind the previous motion second by councilmember nowakowski motion is now to adapt item 61 and 67. second by councilmember why
 Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in the Common Council Chambers, 13th floor of City Hall. Meetings may be attended virtually as well. Please contact 716-851-5105 or council staff at buffalony.gov for more information on how to attend. Committee on Civil Service is Wednesday, November 9th, 2022 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service.
 is Wednesday, November 9th, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Wednesday, November 9th, 2022 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation is Wednesday, November 9th, 2022 at 2 p.m.
 One announcement for Ellicott and Isabel Fostick Street will be temporarily closed starting November 7th. Public Works did a great job with Flyer that will be coming out to houses in that area. It is really to look at the proposed permanent closure of the street in front of.
 of city honors. It is important that residents call our office with any concerns as this trial is going on or suggestions at 8 5 1 4 9 8 0. Council members, council members can. Just a question out of curiosity more than it's not my district as you said, November 7th. Yes. And for how long? Two weeks. Okay.
 That's a really good question. Two weeks is what we're proposing. If something either goes wrong that we have to stop it, you know, for safety, we'll stop it. Or if we find that we need to make some changes and continue it going, and we'll notify the residents. Thank you for the question. Thank you, Mr. President.
 held its senior bingo ball event last Saturday. It was a raving success. Folks, the seniors came out in mass and really enjoyed themselves, the fellowship, the fun, the laughter, the bingo, the food. Everything was just fantastic. We had a lot of folks come out to support the event. I want to thank all of our sponsors, but I want to particularly thank the staff
 of the Mastin district office who worked diligently to ensure that event was successful. And I want to just say, especially thank you to Viola who came in from her vacation from Israel, to make sure that this
 event was successful. And then of course, also to all of the other staff in the office, words cannot express how much I appreciate their hard work, because it made my heart smile to see all of our seniors have such a great time. And the gymnasium did not look like a gymnasium, it looked like an evening conference place where you would host
 balls and events and things and it was just beautiful. But then also, of course, we have on November the 12th, the Mastin District Monthly Stakeholders Meeting and Breakfast. Of course, that's at the Delavan Grider Center, 877 East Delavan at 9am. We're going to have a different menu.
 We know that it's Thanksgiving coming up and we will be serving some of the things you will have on your Thanksgiving plate. So this Mass in District stakeholders meeting on November the 12th at 9 a.m. at the Delavan Grider Center will be a particularly special meeting because you will absolutely leave full. So we're encouraging everyone to come out and get the best food that you will probably have.
 in the month of New York from the Madison Stakeholders Breakfast. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Just want to invite the residents of the University District who are in need for turkeys. This is our annual turkey giveaway. And it will begin, well, we'll be doing a giveaway on Thursday, November 17th. But they need to call our office because we have a limited supply. And they can call our office at 716-851-5165 to get on the list.
 This is something that we do annually and I want to thank DASH for always supporting us every single year of this turkey giveaway. I know we've heard more and more about food deserts and we know that there are people in need and we just want to help in that way. Thank you.
 Councilmember Rangel. Mr. Chair, I appreciate my colleague for mentioning the turkey giveaway. I forgot to mention that we are giving away over 100 turkeys at the Delavan Grider Center during our stakeholders meeting. So if you are.
 you know, looking to have a turkey, to cook a turkey for Thanksgiving, come on down to the stakeholders meeting where we'll have that again. That's November the 12th at 9 a.m. Turkeys will be giving away at the end. And that, of course, is sponsored by Tops. So we want to thank Tops again for their generosity and for collaborating with us on that. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Any other announcements? We have one item we have to come back to.
 The last item we just didn't get a motion to adopt. Was it a motion to adopt? Motion to adopt, seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Yep. Next motion. Motion is to adopt. The next motion is to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member McNaughton.