For these council members, we pray that your fresh anointing would fall upon them in this hour. Give them wisdom, give them understanding. Father, collectively give us eyes to see and ears to hear what you're doing in our midst. And Lord, as you move, we celebrate you. We celebrate what you're doing and how you're doing. Now let your glory fill this chamber. Lord, your will be done and not ours. We pray this now. matchless name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and we all said amen amen pastor Al is gonna be disappointed you didn't give us a little sermon there but councilmembers memorials customer Fontana Dear friend of ours in the Lovejoy community for many years. Mr. Dan's egg and you know passed away Dan And I were just together this past summertime He went in for surgery had some complications, but he leaves behind a great family in Lovejoy he we were able to attend his funeral mass this week and We're really miss Dan. So we'll all love it and Anyone else comes from Wingo? I know that this has been a very difficult time for one of our colleagues and our brother. Damon Palmer lost his father last week. He is very private in that kind of way. He did not really want to publish it or publicize it. But we don't want to do more than what we know he would be happy with or displeased with. So we would just like to keep the family of Damon Palmer in our thoughts and our prayers, because losing your father is unlike anything you'll ever experience as a son. but we want to make sure that we're keeping him close to our hearts and our thoughts and if there's anything that uh damon and or his family should need i want him to know personally that we'll be there and that i'm praying that all of us will uh continue to keep that family lifted and when they make arrangements if you could share with council members who may be available thank Any others? For our men and women who have given their life in many different ways over these last few weeks, some through some great tragedies, maybe not for the freedom of our country, but thank God that they live in a free country. Let's pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mrs. Scanlon, the minutes of state meeting held on October 30th, 2018 are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. One of them is going to be withdrawn. It was not supposed to be coming before you. And that one that will be withdrawn is number 66. It will come up on the agenda. Other than item number 66, are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing and seeing no objections to the late fouls, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety, not taking away your right to pause this meeting if the late foul is in front of you that you have not had a chance to review. Mr. Chairman, a motion to take item 65 and resolutions out of order. 65 and resolutions. it's just 65 yes second by councilmember columbia 65 discharge item concerning 407 south park motions without the discharge uh second by council member columbia we're not going to proceed and comment that's fine all right i need a motion on withdrawing that one no so when we come to it i'll just say all righty Thank you much. Run the top. Item 1, 2019 Capital Budget Recommendations in 2020-2023 Capital Improvement Program Recommendations. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. All right. Second by Councilmember Franze. Item 2, appoint Chief Diversity Officer. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 3, Appointments Board of Commissioners, BMHA. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. If we could just pause. Will these... Do these commissioners appear before the council at the committee meeting? They should, right? Or at the committee meeting? All right. It sounds like we don't have an approval on this. If we did, I would want them to appear. If we don't have an approval, then I think that they have not been appearing. So I'll just say it for the record because I know both of the commissioners. However, what I want to be clear about is as these commissioners are going to BMHA, that they understand what their role is as a commissioner. So that this, we're talking about the BMHA commissioners. So they will come before us? All right, then I'll reserve my comments for that, but I would want to see them come before us because we're spending too much time on BMHA issues that the BMHA board should be taking care of. So I don't want to confirm anybody whether I know them or not if they're not going to get in there and they're not going to do the work that BMHA should do and not this council. We'll do it when we need to, but it should not be. We don't sit on BMHA. Next item. Thank you. Item 4, Local Landmark 209 Forest Avenue. Motion to send items 4 and 5 to legislation. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 6, Community Centers Lease Agreements. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 7, Permission to split 294 Louisiana into two parcels. Motion to approve items 7 and 8. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item 9, Report of Sale 13 Grider. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Wingo. We have a statement for the record. none of this time i'll prepare a second for you in two two seconds but we can revisit that okay so we probably need to come back to that item because we'll need a statement of the reason for the denial motion to hold in advance motion to hold in advance second by council member wingo next item item 10 report of sale 40 and 44 ada motion to send the cd saying by council member white item 11 reporter sale 91 good year motion to approve saying my councilman fontana item 12 report of sales 691 east utica motion to approve That's issued to the motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 13, report of sale 1553 Broadway. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 15, appoint Save Our Streets Coordinator. Motion to receive and file items 15 and 16. Seconded by President Pro Temp Scandla. Item 17, audit report of eligibility for health insurance benefits. Motion to send to Finance. second by councilmember fontana item 18 documents regarding the capital budget motion to send finance and committee of the whole second my councilman front end 19 enter fund loan improvements to the broadway market motion to approve saying my councilman friends item 20 appoint assistant auditor motion to send the civil service to my council member white item 21 appoint edward herndon board of assessment review motion to approve items 21 and 22. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item 23, position allocation maintenance. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Item 24, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 25, contract renewal of sidewalks and no removal. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Weill. Record Council Member Fontana in the negative. Next item. Item 26, Naval Park Lease and Liberty Hound Sublease. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fioriletto. Item 27, Permission to Accept Grant. Motion to approve items 27 through 31. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 32, appoint Laborer 2. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 33, permission to enter into MOA with Bureau of ATFE. Motion to approve items 33 and 34. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 35, Claims Committee Agenda. Motion to send to Claims Committee. second my council member wingo item 36 appoint building inspector motion to send the civil service and my council member columbia item 37 first quarter gap motion to send the finance second by councilman free letter item 38 engineering department obtaining towed vehicle motion to approve items 38 through 4033 second by customer for your letter and 44 mayor brown out of town second customer what motion received and follow items 44 through 47. SECOND, MY COUNCIL MEMBER WYATT. ITEM 48, NOTICE OF APPEALMENT'S TEMPORARY PROVISIONAL PERMANENT. MOTION TO SEND TO CIVIL SERVICE. SECOND, MY COUNCIL MEMBER WINGLE. MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS. ITEM 49, SEQ ART NEG DEC 346, CONNECTICUT. MOTION TO ADOPT ITEMS 49 THROUGH 53. SECOND, MY COUNCIL MEMBER WINGLE. ITEM 54, NOTICE OF APPEAL PRESERVATION BOARD DECISION 500, FRANKLIN. MOTION TO SEND TO LEGISLATION. SECOND, MY COUNCIL MEMBER FERENZAT. ITEM 55, BUFFALO WAT The MHA audit motion to send finance signal my councilman Fontana 157 fair housing report Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Freelon. 158, Department of Public Works, response to Council Member Fontana. Motion to send the finance. Second by Council Member Fontana. Petitions, item 59, special use permit, 195 grant. Motion to send legislation, City Planning Board, items 59 through 61. Second by Council Member Ferenczak. Item 62, request naming of dog park in honor of Lieutenant Craig Lehner. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member, President Pro Tempstam. committee civil service item one appoint motor equipment mechanic motion to approve items one two three four five six seven eight said my councilman fontana item Item 9, notice of permanent temporary, provisional, permanent. Receiving file. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Finance Committee, Item 10, cash flow report, August 2018. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Community Development Committee, Item 11, extend designated developer agreement for Broadway Development and Management Group. Motion to approve. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Item 12, Fruit Belt Community Land Trust Update. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Revere. Item 13, disposition of real property, 240-260 Lakefront. This... Alright, so what we're going to do is so that people understand, we will approve...well, I'm moving...I want it to be approved on 13, but on 14, there are some restrictions to be read into the record. okay okay so first of all 13 is in front of us and that i'm asking that that motion be to approve okay motion for 13 is to be approved yes second by council member why Now, 14. Item 14, deciding action for disposition of 240 and 260 Lakefront Boulevard. Motion would be to approve with conditions that are going to be attached. So I'll read them into the record so that there's clarity. Motion to approve the transfer of 240 to 260 Lakefront Boulevard by the City of Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency subject to the following conditions to be placed by Bureau into the land disposition agreement. and by purchaser in the declaration of condominium for the project. Looking at all heads going, yes, this has been four years to get to this point. Number one, parking in the fire lane is prohibited. Number two, construction of additional residential units and parking structures in the green space between Marina Park's tennis court and the townhouses along Lakefront Boulevard and Ojibwa Circle is prohibited. Snow number three, snow storage in the waterfront access area is prohibited. Number four, exterior balconies extending from the second and third floor levels outside of the 48 foot by 38 foot footprint for the townhome closet to the water and 38 foot by 28 feet for the remaining 19 townhomes will be prohibited. Landscaping within the 120-foot waterfront setback and around patios will not exceed two feet in height. Number six, the installation of permanent awnings and pergolas will be prohibited. However, the option of the homeowner to install automatic retractable awnings to code or use a patio umbrella will be permitted. Now, the last part of this came up in discussion of a possible 12 by 12 foot patio. That will not be included in the Council's motion. And I'll say the developers said they want the option. I am of the opinion at this point that we have not really had discussion. That came on later. If the developer wants that to happen, they can go through the processes for that to happen at a later date. So that portion is not included in this motion of the patios. Council Member Francis. Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chairman. So this was like that came up almost literally as today's caucus, but. So this approval with the conditions with Ms. Gordon is that the developer, there's no matter of right for them to put up patios at all. They can't do that, correct? Assistant Corporation comes with Aaron Gordon? That's correct. And so every decision relating to that property moving forward is going to be subject to this agreement that we've just read on the record, and it's going to follow whatever development that takes place from now until eternity. Yeah, and they can't put them in is the bottom line. Right, exactly. Of course, the balconies was the big deal. Yeah, that's something separate and not included in this. That would be determined by the planning board whenever they go before the planning board on whether or not they want to allow it. Right. But this body does not want this to be that. Yes. Okay. And again, and I hope that, you know, last week when I made this little speech, it went back to committee. So let me say, there won't be, this won't be going back to committee as long as we have five votes that's getting voted on today. But I do, again, want to thank not only the developer, but I want to thank the residents, and I want to thank my colleague, Councilman Franczak, and then, of course, all of my colleagues who will support this. Or not. At the end of the day, this is the process. And we worked and worked, and probably in all of the time I've been on the council, this is the longest process that we've gone through. But I will say this, in speaking especially to the person who stepped in from Simonelli and returned every phone call. moved every building except to just say we're not going to do the project. And hopefully the project will make money because the city does get a share of that in the agreement. But at the end of the day, they have moved heaven and heaven to make this happen. And I know that there's still at the end of the day will be some people who will say there should be nothing there. The fact of the matter is, is that it is land that belongs to Bureau that was going to be sold. and Simonelli has worked with them by request. The first hope was that this was going to be done in like, I don't know, eight months. This council held it up. I asked for a hold up, Councilman Franczak and you all supported that hold up. Bureau worked along with the developer and the community, and so that's where we're at. Nobody is going to be 100% happy, but at least hopefully everybody is only about 10% unhappy. And then we work from there. So that's before us. Motion is to approve. Motion to approve. With those conditions that were read on the file. I'm sorry. With those conditions that were read on the file. Next item. Oh, second by Councilman Frenzik. Would you second that? You want me to pass it on? We'll pass it on to the President pro tem. Thank you all so much. All right, next item. Legislation Committee, item 15. Four years later. Special use 347 East Ferry. I think we're back to you. Oh, yes, sir. I was so enthralled with that four and a half year issue. It originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. All right. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 16, you use 346 Connecticut. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Frioletto. Item 17, special use 220 Terrace. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 18, reuse 57 Howard. Originally came without recommendation. Motion now is to recommit. And that was by the request of, I just couldn't remember why, they asked for that, right? To recommit it. All right, second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 19, special use permit 555 Elmwood. 19 and 20, if there are no objections, motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 21, request partial exemption from living wage reporting of full-time employees at the zoo. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item 22, food store license 1799 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 23, secondhand dealer 1553 AKA 1555 Hurdle. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto. Item 24, used car dealer 1423 South Park. Originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve. All right. No conditions on it? No conditions. Councilmember, second by Councilmember Fontana. The fire department will set the maximum number of cars. I had a private conversation, told no junk cars, no tires. Right. Thank you, sir. We'll be able to enforce that. All right next item. I'm 25 local landmark application 3451 Bailey if there are no objections item is 25 through including 29 motion to approve No, right second by councilman front side item 30 special use print 1210 Broadway motion to recommit second by a customer window and 31 restaurant dance license Club 1210 motion to recommit all right let me let me finish this motion is to recommit 31. uh 30 and 31 yes 30 and 31 is to recommit all right second by council member wyatt the last one before which one did you want 26 what did we do with 26 was approved all those were approved the bail bonds yep Next item. Item 32, Fine Hands Community Association Letter. For no objections, item is 32 through and including 36, motion to receive and file. second by councilmember Scanlon 37 landmark application 57 tilling has 37 and 38 receiving file saying by councilmember for your letter. I'm 39 food store license 553 East Amherst 39 40 41 motion to approve saying my councilmember wife and Mr.. Wingo says for 39 approved with conditions all right, so we are proving up to 38 and Let's approve up to 38, and then we'll do these. Yeah, let's take that one second by Councilmember Wyatt. Call item 39. Item 39, food store license 553 East Amherst. I'm assuming that's a motion to approve the conditions. All right. And you'll file those, Councilmember? Yes. Okay. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo, we'll file the conditions. Item 40, food store license 3154 Bailey. Oh, recommitment. recommit second by council member fontana item 41 used car dealer 407 south park motion approval conditions uh south park's um president pro temp scan second no that's film who's that that's film or oh all right well you can't you can't second yours anyway close enough to your line next item rules committee item 43 defaulting routing for community items that's just a receiving file receiving file second Yeah, this is still coming out of, oh yeah, seconded by Council Member Forensic. Resolutions. Item 63, stop sign at Seward and Fenton. This is a late file. I defer to Council Member Fontana. I'll only send this over to Legislation and Public Works. All right, seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 64, transfer of funds to Michigan and Jefferson Avenue Arch. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Motion to approve. 65 has been done 66 has been withdrawn 67 ordinance member chapter 316 peddling and soliciting motion to approve item 67 and 68 second by council member glumba I'm 69 commissioner deeds public duties motion to adopt item 69 and 70 got a second by council member Wyatt No, we have one Item number nine second by council remember why I think that when we need it be report of sale 31 13 Grider I that that motion was to deny the new motion is to approve the reason why this motion was submitted to deny is based off of the recommendation of our community liaison as they had been following these individuals current property and how they did not keep up with the current property but since then the property owner has kept up with their current property and has also been in communication with my chief of staff to ensure that they'll keep up with the current And they've made certain assurances regarding the upkeep of said property so that we feel comfortable at this point in approving the sale of 13 Ryder. So we have to rescind the previous motion. The motion now is to rescind the previous motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Motion is now to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Announcement. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service Wednesday, November 20th, 9 45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil civil service claims committee Wednesday, November 20th, 11 a.m. Committee on community development Wednesday, November 20th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation Wednesday, November 20th, 2 p.m. Special committee committee on education Wednesday, November 20th, 12 p.m. Council members any announcements for your districts? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate it. Next month, December 15th, Mastin District will have a Mastin Christmas brunch. We would love for anyone and everyone to come out and dine with us in the district that has the best food in the city of Buffalo. I'm not done. So that will be from 10. I was waiting for any contentious arguments that may result from that statement I made. That was just a pure fact, Mr. Chair. Anyway, it will be from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m., so please come out and fellowship with us as we share information and just share great stories with each other. And again, that will be December 15th at the Delavan Writers Center. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? House Member White? My apologies, Mr. President. We wanted to do a special presentation for Rita Hubbard, Howard Robinson, who a couple of days ago had a healthy store initiative promotional to get us more excited and being more healthy. and we had a Jeopardy event in my district, and myself and Councilmember Fontana and Councilmember Wingo were a part of it. We just wanted to bring her up to acknowledge on this initiative, which is very important in our districts that there are many stores who in many communities that are food deserts that do not have the vegetables and fruits, and this initiative has been growing, and we have, I believe, five stores that are participating. We just wanted to acknowledge her and bring her down. All right. Once mentally our brains are at the end, we're at the end. So we've got to get it in there. No, brother. Obviously you've never been the true best. We're out in an hour. Much higher energy, though. I know that for sure. Hey, well, it was a great event. And me and Rasheed today, we wore our aprons. Kind of brought us back to the restaurant business. And it's just... Same color suits. Yeah. Hey, Rita, we just want to thank you for holding the event. You know, too many people nowadays walk into these stores, and all they're eating are pop and chips. They don't realize that they're on a food roller coaster, too, at least. And there's not enough fresh food tonight in stores. And Mr. Franczak has talked about this for many years in his Buffalo school system. But when they go into the corner stores, not much. So we really appreciate your efforts on trying to bring real, whole food into the local supermarket. convenience stores. Because we don't really have the old fashioned supermarkets anymore, we have these convenience stores. Convenient is one thing, but healthy is another. So we want to bring you up and bring up the microphone. Thank you so much, council members. President, it really is a blessing to be here. Thank you for the acknowledgement. Really, just to underscore some of the work of the Healthy Corner Store Initiative, we are involved actually in seven stores with plans to go into another four stores in the coming year. We have some funding from the General Mills Foundation through the United Way that we've been able to do a number of events focused on community engagement. Just because you build it they may not come. So the idea is to get people excited about and understanding what really is going on. We have zip codes in our area where people are dying 12 years prematurely for health issues that we know could be prevented with better diet. So we're really thankful to the council members and working with us and our team. We've got a number of organizations that are working with us. Certainly, Cornell Cooperative Extension is a key component to that because nutrition, If you don't have the nutrition right, you can exercise all day long and just be, yeah, yeah, all day wrong. And you'll be sick. You know, you'll look fit, but you could be sick. So we're really grateful again. We want to turn these stores around, make them less beer, pop, and lottery ticket shops. But we want to make them a destination for your health. So thank you so much for the recognition and your participation. I'll go to Councilmember Wyatt for the final score of the Jeopardy game. Councilmember Fontana won. All right, good deal. Thank you. Thank you much. Thank you, sir. Very good initiative. And thank you for those one-hour services. Very good initiative. Very good initiative. Councilmember Colombo. As we all know, we've reached an end to one of our favorite employees who was too shy to come down here today from the clerk's office. Oh. Christine Lehner. For those of you that are watching on television, Christine is usually sitting where Jerry is sitting right now. I've known her for quite some time. I think that I first met her back in the 1980s when I was an intern in Dave Rutecki and Gene Fahey's office. And I don't remember where she was working. It wasn't in the clerk's office, but she was working in City Hall, and I remember meeting her back then. And then, you know, off and on I was teaching high school, and I would be active in things in the community. And then when I was first elected many years ago, Chris was here in the clerk's office. And she was one of those, you know, stable guiding forces for, I think, all of us, but I can especially say for myself. Always was very helpful. I would always give her a call. She would come upstairs. She would help me out. She would be right there at my window in my office, you know, looking to see if I was available so that she could come in and help me with whatever it was that I needed. And that's been the thing, Jerry, under you and your dad, under Charlie Michaud, The clerk's office has always been outstanding, you know, whenever I've called down there for anything. But Chris is going to be very, very sorely missed, I think, by all of us, you know, and especially by me. I'm going to miss her looking at me through the window of my office. every now and then. But just a great woman, and I wish her well in her retirement, and good luck with a long, long, happy, healthy retirement in life. And I believe her boss has tried to get her to come down. She refuses to come down. I guess she said, what are you going to do, write me up? You can't give me a direct order. But we graduated from high school together. And I graduated a year early, so I ended up graduating with her class. So I am really, really jealous that that being at about the same age, she's about to not have to get up and go to work every day to such a wonderful council every day. Council Member Winkle? Council Member Pridgen, I don't think that you would know how to retire if you wanted to retire, number one. But number two, when I first got to City Hall, Chris Lehner was one of those people who immediately established herself as one of those mainstays here. And she was one of the people who I always depended on when I needed information about what it is I did here and what my actual parameters were. So she was very helpful. She's going to be very, very, very, very missed. We lost her sidekick, Laura, last year. So they were just a dynamic team I told Sean and Beth that they had some huge shoes to fill. They've been doing a great job so far, and we're looking forward to all the great things that they can offer. But we definitely will miss Chris, and just like we've missed Laura so far, I just wish her all the best of luck in her future endeavors, and that if there's anything that we can do in the future, just please let us know. She always has. connect here at City Hall as long as I'm here. We love you, Chris, and happy retirement. Congressman Pranta. Thank you. Oh, Darius, I thought you were so much older than Chris. I look at her and she still has her hair. Anyway, what the gentleman here said today is absolutely true. Chris was indispensable to our office. We called her on many, many things. Constituent service, people needing birth certificates, people needing information, my office needing information. So you're going to lose some institutional memory. She'll be sorely missed. So wish her many happy returns. Yeah, we tried just now to get her down again. But comes my wife. Just want to commend her. We tried to coach her before the council meeting and told her about this opportunity that we wanted to share with her because she's just a tremendous person. She is truly a servant leader. um someone that just serves gifts and not looking for anything in return and i appreciate her humility but we just want to let her know that we hope her wish her nothing but the best um in her retirement and that she will be sorely missed and thank you for her years of service here at city hall and if we don't get her down here those of you who want to run down to our office we'll all run down together and make her cry as I was just saying we could subpoena her to the chamber. She would cry, and that's not our objective at all. But I can tell you this. I don't know how many council members she's served with over the years. There's got to be many, many council members. But there hasn't been one that has ever not liked Chris Lehner. From the newest council members here today to... anybody served in the past. I don't want to say the oldest because Dave will hit me later on. But Chris has been there like a rock, and just such a hard worker. You can call her on the weekends. It doesn't matter when. But we thank Chris. We love Chris. And we will see her at all the parties. All right. And that's all. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Fontana.