And we're live. Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Here. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Here.
 Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyant. Here. Former President. I stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for
 Thank you, Council President. It's my joy and privilege to bring to the Council for prayer today my good friend, Pastor Bill Clark. We've been journeying together for probably a decade and a half now. He's been here, pastor of New Bethel Community Church up next to University of Buffalo's downtown, not downtown. So,
 South Campus, South Campus for 23 years. His network that he oversees is Kingdom Rain International. And as I've walked with him, I've learned to learn from him. And as we journey together, I think we've learned together well. So I invited him to be our guest invocator for today's session.
 Thank you, Raminal, and to our council president and all the council members. God bless you. It's great to be with you again. This is one of my more joyous assignments. Thank you all. Just briefly, I want to share with you a passage of scripture, and then I will pray and step aside. 1 Timothy chapter number 2, just a few of the verses, beginning with verse number 1 says,
 And please hear my heart as I read this word to you. Please know that there are gatherings all over our city, men and women who are praying for you, praying for your wisdom, praying that God would lead you and guide you on behalf of our great city. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and for all who are in...
 High positions that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life godly and dignified in every way. This is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God, our Savior.
 And I'll just stop reading there. And I would just say to you, council members, please know that we are praying for you, praying that God would give you all that you need to accomplish the task before you. In a climate where political spirit would rather win than serve and where the religious spirit would rather be right than love, we need leadership.
 and we are looking to you, but we're praying for you. We stand alongside you, we have your back. And so know that all over our city, men and women are praying for you as we are doing right now. Let's fall together. Father, we do thank you for this day. It is the day that you have made. We choose to rejoice and be glad in it. We thank you for this hour. We thank you for this council. We thank you for our president and the council members. And now Father, I pray that
 the eyes of their understanding would be open, that you would touch their hearts and their minds. I pray that you would give them eyes to see, ears to hear, and hearts to perceive what you desire to do in our great city. And Lord, I pray.
 that they would be willing and obedient to you, Lord Jesus. I pray for boldness. I pray for courage as they step forward, as they lead us forward. Father, I pray a fresh wind of heaven to fall upon each and every council member. This is our prayer, Lord. And we ask it now in the strong and mighty name of he who was and is and is to come, our Lord and our Savior, Jesus Christ. We all say, amen. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you both. Very, very appropriate words. Councilmembers, are there any memorials? Councilmember Wingo and Councilmember Golombak. I would ask the City of Buffalo to keep in their hearts and prayers the family of Uriel Bivens as she was one of the faithful members of the Antioch Baptist Church. She was laid to rest last week. Please keep them lifted as they mourn her passing. Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember Golombak.
 Thank you, Mr. President. The family of Tim O'Brien lost him this past week. A former constituent of mine before the district shrunk in the last census. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by his family and his friends in the Elmwood Village area. Patricia.
 Comstock passed away. She and her husband had been very active in the Club 49ers, which helps give children a little bit of hope during the Easter season. They do the Easter egg hunt and the chocolate for the kids and everything. Young man
 Mac Daniel O'Hare, former Riverside resident. He was living down in Texas. His grandmother lives down the street from me and his family, extended family lives in the Riverside area. He is going to be sadly missed as well as Scott Walters, Black Rock resident, who's going to be very sorely missed by his parents, his family and his friends. Thank you. Thank you. Any others? Yes.
 All right, seeing and hearing no others, we pause in these chambers also remembering men and women who may have given their life for our country, for the freedom of our country, and the freedom of others since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have no special presentations that I'm aware of, so we will move through.
 on a motion by Mr. Rivera second by Mr. Scanlon the meetings of the stated meeting held on October 27 2020 are approved council members you have the late files before you are there any objections to any of the late files before you hearing no objections we will hear the entire meeting and I believe we are starting from the top majority leader chairman motion is to take item 49 out of order all right we're getting to it motion is take item
 49. Keep going. Motion to take item 49 out of order. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Discharge item 20-1299 from legislation. Motion to discharge and adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Now we'll go from the top.
 Item number one, approval message, CCP 20-1207, Pridgen Local Law Intro number one, the duty to intervene. Motion to receive and file. Motion to receive and file second by Council Member Wyatt. And just so that the public will know, that does not mean we have, the law is done and it has been signed. And so that's why it's being received and that item is being received and filed.
 Next item. Item number two, 2021 capital budget recommendations and 2022 to 2025 capital improvement program recommendations. Motion to send to the Committee of the Whole. Second by Councilmember Galambe. Item number three, report of sale 80 Andover. This item I defer to the Councilmember. Yeah, we can approve. Three and four. Motion to approve items three, four, five, six, and four. And approve seven too, Councilmember. And seven.
 What about 8 also or no? 460 Moselle in Mastin. Is that in Mastin or is that in Fillmore? It's in Mastin according to the- Yeah, approve that as well. So approve all the way up to 8. Right. Second by Councilmember Wingo Roca. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrell-Leddle? Councilmember Golombic? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes.
 Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number nine, report of sale for Western New York Veterans Housing Coalition including for 57 Howard. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 10, resiliency services contract. Motion to approve items 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15. Can you throw up
 16, 17, and 18. Second by Council Member Bowman. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 19, approval.
 Snow plan 2020-2021. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Fear Little. Item number 20, point fire captain. Motion to send to civil service items 20 through 21. Second by President Pro Temp Scanlon. Was that through 21 or through 22, majority leader? Through 22. Item number 23, food store license 671 Fillmore Avenue.
 This is a late file. I defer to the district council member. Mr. Chair, can you please send this to legislation? Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 24, secondhand dealer 3077 Maine. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nolkowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 25, appoint inventory clerk. Motion to send civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 26, appoint inventory clerk.
 Corrected salary schedule executive director. Motion to send to finance. Second by council member White. Item number 27, liquor license notice 223 Allen. Motion to receive and file items 27 and 28. Second by council member Bollman. Item number 29, appoint assistant legislative aid two. Motion to adapt. Second by council member Fairlough. Item number 30, concerns regarding school speed zone law. Motion to send the legislation to item 30 and 31.
 Second by Councilmember White. Item number 32, support for lead-based paint abatement legislation. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 33, committee meetings, transcriptions. Motion to receive and file items 33 and 34. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski.
 Item number 35, concerning segregation and gifted education. Motion to send to education committee. Second by council member Bowman. Item number 36, November school zone comments from public. This item is open. We just want to committee? Yeah, committee please. You want to send it to CD or?
 Well, where's the legislation, I think? The legislation. Yes, thank you. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 37, special use permit 1264 hurdle for tavern and outdoor dining. Motion to spend legislation on the city planning board. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Submissions by civil service. Number one, appoint camera systems administrator. Second by Councilmember White.
 Motion is to approve items one, two, three, and including four. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowkowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyant. Yes. Council Member Kite.
 Committee on Finance, permission to purchase tasers. Chairman? Oh, thank you, Mr. Chair. Okay.
 Okay, we didn't get the information that we were requesting as far as the additional tasers. Our meeting went so long, we didn't get that. But I know that we need to do something. I know that people are now back and forth with tasers versus BOLORAB. Well, we know we want something less lethal. And I don't think anything is perfect, but a taser is definitely less lethal than a gun.
 and so i want to approve this but i still want that answer regarding the additional tasers because i wasn't comfortable that of course we can't entire we can't outfit the entire force but to the extent that someone in the officer can be on duty and go out to me and deal with a particular situation and not have a taser um does concern me so i ask that we can purchase some additional ones just to make sure every
 uh battalion or whatever morning shift or evening shift has a taser i know they're rotating them i'm not every officer is going to have them but at least the officers who are on duty the patrol officers who are going to be going to these scenes we would like to have a taser so if they can get back to us and let us know about that but i'm okay with approving it right now so motion to approve motion to approve member fair little that's got some member ballman yes
 Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number six, approve revised salary schedule. Motion to recommit. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Rivera. Community development. Item number seven, rename Columbus Park as Prospect Park.
 motion to approve second by council member Lyle that's member Bowman yes that's a member Ferraletto yes that's a member Golombek yes council member Nolkowski yeah
 Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Council Member Rivera, I apologize. We probably should have let you make that motion since that is a big deal and I just looked down and you are the sponsor of that. So you'll be the second on it if you'd like it to switch Council Member Wyatt to the third.
 Thank you very much, Council President. I want to thank the Federation of Italian Americans for all the work they did engaging the community, including Honorable Judge Frank Caruso and many of the Black Club members that came together. Thank you. Thank you.
 It wasn't an easy decision to make. And I want to also thank Council Member Farrelletto that was with us at our first meeting. It wasn't an easy decision to make on behalf of the communities, but they did come together and they considered each other. And I want to thank the Italian American community for that. And I'm honored to say that right there at Prospect Park, we'll have a monument dedicated to...
 the Italian American community of a family that's going to be placed right there where the Christopher Columbus statue was. So I want to thank all of the members of the Italian American Federation for their support on this. Thank you so much.
 Councilmember Rivera and Fioriletto, you've done a tremendous job and I agree with you. The Italian American community has stepped up to the plate and where many people thought that this would be a fight, it became a kind of operation in cooperation. And that says a lot about the city, but it also says a lot about you too as leaders who sat down and got this done with the Italian American community and other communities.
 And Buffalo is probably rare in that, that this has been handled in such a way that it actually brought greater unity and not division. So congratulations to you both and to all who were involved with this. Next slide. Item number eight, notice of intention, request to rename Columbus Park as Prospect Park. Motion to receive and file items eight and nine. Second by Council Member Riviera.
 Legislation item number 10, food store license 1799 Genesee. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski who has filed conditions. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes.
 Item number 11, Special Use Permit 549 West Utica for Tavern. This item was sent without Rack and is in the Niagara District. Majority Leader. Thank you very much, Chairman. We did have a community meeting yesterday over Zoom and motion is now to approve. Approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombic. Sorry. Council Member Bowler. Yes. Yes.
 Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 12, Veto Message, CCP 20-355, Wyatt Ordinance Amendment Chapter 479.
 This item was sent without recommendation and was supposed to be voted on today. Earlier today, the bill sponsor and the leadership of the council had tried to have had some communications with the administration about this specifically and about possibly making changes to this.
 At the request of the bill sponsor and leadership, this item is going to be tabled for today and voted on in a special session next Tuesday. Now, when this is in special session, the council will either vote to be up or down on the veto and potentially at the special session next Tuesday, there will be an amended...
 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 The plan is there will be a special session next Tuesday at 11 where this veto will be voted on and there possibly will be something else filed that may have the support and signature of the mayor to be signed for immediate passage and go into effect immediately next week. Nothing has been filed so we don't know if that will happen or not. So that's why this item is being tabled today and voted on next Tuesday. Thank you.
 Thank you. So it's being recommitted second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 13 special use permit 726 Jefferson for assembly. Motion is to approve items 13 through 15. Second by Councilmember Wengel. Councilmember Bowman. Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto. Yes. Councilmember Golombek. Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item number 16, Special Use Permit 2505, Maine for Tavern and Outdoor Dining. Motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 17, Food Store License 2577, Bailey.
 motion to approve with conditions second by councilmember white who submitted those conditions that's a member Bowman yes councilmember Ferraletto yes that's a member for Golanbek yes that's a member Noakowski yeah Council President Pridgen yes Councilmember Rivera yes Councilmember Scanlon yes Councilmember Wingo yes customer why yes resolutions
 Item 38, ordinance amendment chapter 415, small business social distancing strategy. Motion to approve. Second by council member Ferraletto. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombek. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Yes. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 39, non-city of Buffalo utility company shutoff notices. This is the late file. I defer to Council President. Um...
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. This came about late last night, and the reason it's an urgent need is because an entire neighborhood was alerted last night after 4.30 that the power would be off in their neighborhood the next day. Our office did contact the power company and found that it was a private contractor that
 who made that decision. The power company was not aware. The reason I'm asking for immediate passage of this is because our children are in school and they're doing virtual learning. And many students are penalized if they are not on regardless of what the reason is. Trust me, I've heard it myself.
 And so at the end of the day, this is kind of urgent because had they not contacted me late last night, the power would have been off in that area. Hundreds of students would not have been able to be in school, which they can least afford to be. And many people who work from home would not have been able to work.
 So this basically gives a timeframe in which those companies, and I don't know, we always talk about this state law, federal law, and all that, and that's why it's going to our representatives also outside of Buffalo. But I think that the power company, the gas company, the water company, everybody has to realize the amount of people we have at home right now, and especially our students.
 and I've been on this soapbox before to talk about ample notification. What we found out that this was not an emergency situation. This was about line maintenance in case of a storm.
 line maintenance in case of a storm can happen on Saturday, it can happen on Sunday, it can happen on many days, but whatever day it happens on, it needs to happen with at least a 72 hour notice to the people so that they can move to a different location. For some families who have three, four children online, that it takes time to figure out where they're gonna relocate to, that they can have internet access for all of them. So I would just ask for them,
 immediate, what is this, an adoption on this? Am I right, adoption? Resolution showing support, so for immediate adoption. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Senate Number 40, right to know law in the City of Buffalo. This is another late file.
 This could go to committee. It came out of discussion earlier today about Syracuse right to know law, which we heard about, which requires a police officer to show some to give a card to a person after they've stopped them and to immediately identify themselves. So I think we need that. We said we'd have discussion. I didn't want it to get lost in the sauce.
 um so if you want to send it to police oversight or legislation um i would prefer it go to legislation since police oversight only meets you know quarterly and that way we can move on this item waiting of course hopefully the policy committee will meet and make this one of their agenda items for immediate movement but just in case that does not happen to be before this council so that some movement can happen swiftly
 Motion to send the legislation. Motion to send the legislation, second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Mr. Chair. Yes. Councilmember Wyatt, Wingell. Councilmember Wingell, you're muted. I'm sorry about that. Is it possible for me to be named on that resolution as well, I would like to make sure that I co-sponsored that with you. Absolutely, me too. Wyatt, Wingell, anyone else? Rivera, all righty. I didn't miss anybody. Nowakowski, Bowman, right.
 oh is that a golembeck so is that almost all of us all right thank you very much appreciate it we'll move that forward item number 41 ordinance amendment chapter 242 housing standards motion to send legislation items 41 through 45. mr president can i speak for a moment on this absolutely uh second by council member nowakowski who has the floor
 Thank you, Mr. President. The city of Buffalo has a lead problem. Three of the highest zip codes with lead poisoning are found in the Niagara and in the Fillmore District. The two highest impact zip codes are found in Broadway-Fillmore on the east side in my district.
 For many years, advocates have sought requirements for rental inspection similar to those in the City of Rochester. This legislation will provide proactive rental inspection for singles and doubles in the City of Buffalo. These inspections will focus on ensuring rental properties are free from health hazards, including deteriorating lead paint.
 Healthy and sustainable housing starts with lead-free housing. Councilmember Rivera and myself are co-sponsoring a series of reforms by introducing new legislation amending current sections of our housing inspection standards as well as rental registration standards. These items will be heading to the committee on legislation next week where this body will discuss them further. This policy change will prevent lead poisoning and improving housing quality for all renters in the City of Buffalo. Thank you.
 Thank you. Council Member Wyatt. And thank you, Mr. Chair. Please add me. I think I want to commend my colleagues on this, the great work they did in this legislation. When I saw it, I'm like, okay, I definitely have to be a part of that because I think we do need a robust review process for rental properties. I've given many complaints from residents who are renting from these absentee landlords, these property managers, landlords,
 who don't do a good job. They're just a figurehead for the landlord. So we need to put more stringent standards and to make sure that people who are getting a dollar, make sure that they maintain their properties because you're getting rent. And so you need to take that rent money
 and you need to make sure that that house or that apartment is in good order, in good condition. And many, many people have been taken advantage of. And so I definitely support this legislation and thank my colleagues for their efforts in putting forth to make sure that we're looking out for the citizens of City of Buffalo. Thank you. I'd like to be added. Council Member Revere. Chairman, thank you very much. I just want to commend Eric from my office who has been involved
 in advocacy regarding lead poison. He took this on, not only has he taken this on, he's worked with our water department with regards to lead. And as council member Nowakowski says, anybody that registers in the city of Buffalo has to demonstrate that their properties are lead free. We know, I'm sure that many of us know or have experienced problems with lead in properties or we've received complaints.
 So this is one other tool that we have to make sure that we are lead free and particularly those homes that are in substandard conditions. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? All righty. Mr. Chair, can we revisit item 16 and less, please? We'll come back at the end. So we put all the revisits at the end and we'll come back to it. Council Chief of Staff just put down 16. Make sure we come back.
 And anybody else, right at the end, I promise we'll revisit anything you need. Next item. Item number 46, a recommendation Erie County Health Department hold individuals, not restaurants, responsible for face coverings. Motion to send to CD. Second by President Pro Tem Scantling. Mr. President. Yes, Council, President Pro Tem, sorry.
 Thank you, Council President. As we know, the COVID pandemic has taken a tremendous toll on the business community. In particular, the restaurant industry has been hit hard. As was noted yesterday during our caucus meeting by some council members who've been out dining in some restaurants,
 We have noticed that these establishments have been taking the necessary precautions to keep both their staff and their patrons safe, whether it be the proper amount of distancing between tables, dividers, or other initiatives that have taken place in their establishments.
 However, despite all their efforts, I've heard and I know some other people have heard from some operators who have received warnings or citations from the health department for as little as one patron may be taking a mask off on the way to the bathroom or something of that nature.
 These restaurant operators feel it's unreasonable and I would tend to agree with them that they're being held responsible, possibly to the tune of a five-figure fine, when they cannot possibly keep an eye on every single person all day long in their restaurants. You know, owners, managers of these restaurants are doing things all day long. They're in the front of the house, they're in the back of the house. So it's very difficult for them to keep an eye on everyone all day long.
 And I'd hate to see these establishments, which have already been harmed by this pandemic, harmed further by a large fine like that, just because one customer forgets to put their mask on or quite frankly refuses to wear a mask. We have people in throughout our community who quite frankly refuse to wear them. And I know we talked about yesterday, a terrible incident that happened in Western New York, where someone actually lost her life over an argument resulting from these masks in a restaurant.
 Now don't get me wrong, if the health department were walking to a restaurant and see a large group of people gathering, standing there, talking, no face masks, I 100% believe the responsibility in that situation falls on the restaurant. But to hold them responsible, as I said, for someone maybe getting up and going to the bathroom, I'd hate to see that happening. So
 We've got this resolution where we're asking a representative from the health department to come to our community development meeting to have a conversation to determine what sort of discretion they have when levying these fines. The other thing we talked about yesterday was the increase in the numbers in the daily positivity rate of COVID throughout Western New York. And perhaps if there's a...
 perhaps there's the onus is put on these individuals, there'll be a little more a little bit more self responsibility taking place. I saw the governor recently speaking about self responsibility when it comes to face coverings and I couldn't agree with him more. So again, hopefully
 if we put the responsibility on these individuals, they will comply with these face covering laws, and we can hopefully turn back the numbers in a positive direction, and hopefully it would aid with that as we move forward fighting this pandemic. So again, I look forward to a wonderful conversation with the health department at next week's community development committee. Thank you, sir. Anyone else?
 All right, next item. Item number 47, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 47 through 49. 47 through 49, second by Council Member Wingo. We now have end of the agenda. We go to the revisited items, and the Council Member has requested item number 16 out of legislation be reopened. Revisit item 16. Second by Council Member Wingo. This item is before us. Special use permit 2505 Maine for tavern and outdoor dining.
 items open. Council Member Wingo. All right thank you. Just want to make sure that the community understands that we are going to have a meeting with the applicant as well as with some of the surrounding businesses in the community to ensure that everyone is aware of what the plans are. Apparently there was a walkthrough that was scheduled that I
 did not know of or was I guess it's a claim that I was invited to but I never received invitation. So hopefully we'll have another opportunity to have a walk through as well as some of the neighboring businesses to ensure that this item gets treated with the same diligence all of the other items get treated with as far as making sure the community is aware of what's happening. And again this is one of those bordering
 situations where Delaware district is right across the street. So we want to make sure that all residents that we'll be meeting soon, there will be a community meeting as well. I'll be meeting with the applicant, I believe Monday next week and subsequent to that will be a community meeting of which we will invite all and
 interested parties from both Mastin and Delaware. I'm hoping that Mastin and Delaware districts offices can coordinate and make sure that that happens as it relates to making sure that the community knows that this meeting is going to happen. Other than that, I wanted to make sure that the community know that I'm not ignoring it, that we are taking care of it, it is being handled, and we will be meeting with the applicant. Thank you. All right, the motion stands. I'm sorry, Sean, any announcements? That's it, announcement of committee meetings.
 The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, November 17th at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service, Tuesday, November 17th at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, November 17th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, November 17th at 2 p.m.
 a special committees committee on education tuesday november 17th at 11 a.m council members announcements council member bowman and then council member why it's sean that last announcement though instead of education it's going to be the special session so we're going to reschedule that for this there will be no education next tuesday due to the special session right councilman bowman if you still want to do it it would be okay because that meeting shouldn't be long
 I think it's okay. I think we'll regroup and go for it next time. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt.
 Thank you. Just want to invite the residents of the University District for our virtual e-district community meeting. It's going to take place on the University District Facebook page at 6 p.m. tomorrow. So again, if you want some updates regarding the University District and with Chief Carmen Menza, and I'm sorry I didn't get a chance to let you know, Councilmember Bowman,
 about the virtual meeting. We're trying to make sure we do it every other month. And I know you attend regularly, so my apologies for not notifying you. But if you wanna let your residents know, we'll have that at 6 p.m. on tomorrow on the Buffalo University district page. Thank you. Okay, we'll get it out. Okay. Any others?
 I want to say happy birthday, 90th birthday to Edward Herndon, the head of our human resources and also still serving on city boards and who knows how many other things and up until our chambers close would often come to chambers to monitor the meetings. So we say happy 90th birthday to him. Anything else?
 All right, Majority Leader. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Fioriletto.