Oh, yeah.
 Hi Frank, how are you? Okay, this is... Alright, wonderful. Good to see you. All done. Thank you. Hi, sir. Hi, I'm Frank. I'm Frank.
 I'm going to go ahead and start the recording.
 I wonder what John...
 We'll start. Go get the ball. . . . . . . . . . .
 Thank you.
 Hello to everyone and welcome to the Common Council Chambers this fine evening in these beautiful ornate chambers which belong to you. And we're delighted to see so many people interested and giving their ideas for a possibly impending change that will
 have a tremendous impact on the city of Buffalo's built-in natural environment. We hope for the better, protect our neo-traditional neighborhoods. The first thing the council must deal with is the final generic environmental impact statement. We use that big term. And after that is the unified development code. After that, we want to hear from you. We will not be voting on this code tonight. We want to hear your ideas.
 Some of you have already imparted your ideas. Maybe some of you have not yet. We'd like to hear them. Your opinions matter. They're very important. Because we have a very large group of people at this public hearing tonight,
 We've asked folk to sign in upstairs. And Chris here from the clerk's office will call two names, and you can have one person can go to either microphone, make sure the green light is on at the microphone. And we would ask people to keep it to about two minutes. It's probably not a good idea to read long, prepared statements. It's better to say it, you know, just speak it.
 Just to capitalize what's in that writing. Don't dream it, be it. You know, so just say it. That's from the Rocky Horror Picture Show, in case you didn't know. So just say what you mean, as opposed to reading long statements. We'd like to keep people down to about two minutes. We would ask people not to tend to repeat themselves.
 and we're going to be in for a very interesting evening. So thank you once again for coming. And Chris will read your names as you've signed in, and you'll be called in that order. And then so folks can come down to each of the two microphones, and the first name will speak first, and then the second name, our staff will be holding up a two-minute sign. After two minutes, we would ask you to relinquish the microphone to the next person. So thanks, and we will now begin.
 Steve Fitzmour, Harry Sennon. So Mr. Stinson here and Mr. Fitzmouris, if you wanted to sit for the next microphone right there at that chair, unless you're going to follow Mr. Stinson. All right. We're just going to let Mr. Stinson speak. Very good. And please, everyone, would you please state your name? I know Chris is calling out your name, but just state your name for the record again so we have the right person. Okay.
 Go ahead, sit down. My name is Harry Stinson, and I'm here as a developer currently working on the Buffalo Central Terminal. I support the need for affordable housing, and I understand the need for affordable housing, particularly in the east side. We just have a suggestion because for the affordable housing to actually be built, it also needs to be affordable on the builder's side as well.
 All I'm going to suggest is that, and we've brought examples here, by the way, of affordable housing that is family-oriented with multiple bedrooms that we can build that would actually fall below the standards that have been suggested in terms of square footage, minimum lot size, depth, et cetera. So all we're suggesting is to set aside the mathematical limitations
 interpretation of what affordable housing is from a proportion and allow it to be built, allow the developers and the builders to create it. I'm used to building housing that is efficient and can create a two or three bedroom apartment that would be 11 or 12 hundred square feet. The current standards that are suggested require them to be at a size that really wouldn't even be affordable.
 So we're just here to suggest and support the concept and say let us build it. Very good. Thank you. Next speaker. Thank you, Mr. Stinson. I think he was alluding to probably inclusionary zoning, I think. I'm just interpreting. Oh, two more. Martin Smith. I'm sorry. Martin Littlefield, Laura Smith. Thank you.
 Go ahead, sir. Thank you very much. My name is Martin Littlefield. I'm here as chairman of Councilman Faralletto's Elmwood Village Working Group, and we have submitted numerous materials to the council. We're very impressed with the work of the council and the Office of Strategic Planning on the green code and how far it's come, and the good things it's done for the Elmwood Village.
 Obviously, this is a citywide issue. The code does break it down into various districts. I want to first speak to the Elmwood Village District. We achieved what we thought was reasonable, a scaled back of development, development that will allow the character of the Elmwood Village to continue. Thank you.
 I would add specifically that one of the things that it limits is buildings and developments, the three storage and the limitation of destroying properties more than two lots. In other words, if a developer wants to come in, they can only combine two lots for that development. With that in mind, I want to emphasize, I think I was the only person in the Elmwood Village that probably said we shouldn't tear down that Sunoco station.
 at Elmwood and Delavan simply because it reminds us of the type of character and of the mixture of the neighborhood that we are. There is a lot of affordable housing in the Elmwood Village and a lot of it could be torn down if the present plans that we see that have been proposed by both Ciminelli and Chasen, they want to tear down affordable housing.
 We support affordable housing. The Elmwood Village Group supports affordable housing. We think there should be a separate ordinance passed by this good body that defines what affordable housing is throughout the city, including the Elmwood Village.
 We would ask though that that be a separate issue, maybe a resolution passed by the council saying within six to eight months we will have inclusionary, we will determine what affordable housing is and how it should be done. Our point here and our point today is the green code is a good thing for the Elmer Village. It limits the height.
 the scale and character that is necessary and in line with the findings of that this is proposed for this honorable group from the Office of Strategic Planning, the community has input over 650 people that have told this council what we want in our community. We would only ask that we not, that the transition language which has been 1.3.4 be changed.
 Because as of right now, the Chasen Project, which is five stories and 300 feet long, consisting of up to, I understand, 50 units. I'll be real quick. And the Simonelli Project, which consists of 90 apartments and two blocks, carrying down property, would the transition language be changed
 that only those projects that have been fully approved by the Common Council and construction has begun should be grandfathered into the Green Code. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Hi, thanks. My name is Laura Smith, and I'm the Vice President of Economic Development for the Buffalo Niagara Partnership. And thanks for the opportunity to comment. And congratulations to the City of Buffalo and the Office of Strategic Planning for their efforts on drafting this really great, innovative, new approach to the city's zoning law long overdue. Some thoughts on the green code and its connection to smart growth in the One Region Forward Initiative, which is a two-county regional planning initiative, which is –
 has run over the past couple of years. The two tie together really nicely. The green code is meant to provide a blueprint for fostering new growth and investment while protecting the character of what surrounds it.
 Our organization, the partnership, has had the privilege of working with the Greater Buffalo Niagara Regional Transportation Council and the team at the UB Regional Institute on the One Region Forward Plan, which is, again, a sustainability plan for the region. That plan engaged, much like the Green Code, thousands of people throughout Western New York Division how we should grow over the next 40 years.
 And what we learned was unambiguous, that we need to grow where we've already grown in our cities and villages. And that means reinvesting in infill projects in the communities where we have infrastructure services, et cetera. Connecting people to jobs and places that we should be growing in a compact way, making sure that people can walk or use transit to get from their homes to jobs, retail, and entertainment.
 And just since the 1990s, the region has built more than 500 miles of new roads while our population sank. That costs an additional $26 million in annual public maintenance expenses. That's a lot of money that this community, the residents have to pay for.
 rebuilding the tax base was right in line with that last recommendation out of the One Region Forward initiative. And recently a company called Urban Free, which is going to be back in the area on December 3rd, did a report based on a municipal ROI, the return on investment, developing this way to a municipality, which is something the Common Council is concerned with.
 They've discovered that modest density is critical to creating a healthy municipality. This is not skyscrapers or enormous structures. This is context-appropriate infill development. And the tax revenue per acre on a one-story single-use building is $8,000 per acre.
 If you get to a three-story building that's mixed-use, it goes up to $120,000 per acre, and a five-story mixed-use is up to $325,000 per acre. Taxes that those developers, property owners would be paying, and that's return on investment through a city. The lower the density, the lower the return to the city. The greater the density, the higher the return.
 So some specific comments on the regulations in the green code is that these recent revisions to the code reducing building heights is going to have a significant impact on that ability to capture the return in the city's bottom line. That lost revenue is going to have to be made up by residents like all of us in this room. Appropriate density for a city is exactly what's required to achieve sustainable growth for the city and all of its residents and businesses.
 And we want a healthy municipality and a vibrant city, but we need it to be affordable and accessible for everyone. And how we grow and where we grow is critical to that. And we're not going to get another chance to get urbanization right. And by the middle of this century, 70% of humanity will reside in a city. We must ensure that they are the cities we need and that our future is going to be. Thank you very much. Jay Bernie, Althea Davids. Jay, right there.
 Hi, David. Forgive me. I am going to use my notes. Thank you for holding this meeting tonight. My name is Jay Burney, and I'm speaking on behalf of the Friends of Times Beach Nature Preserve regarding zoning on Buffalo's Outer Harbor. Times Beach Nature Preserve is on the Outer Harbor, just across from downtown, just across the canal side. In general, we appreciate the great effort that went into this tremendous rewrite of how zoning affects the potential for Buffalo to develop in an appropriate and inclusive manner.
 I also wish to note that in the past, the City of Buffalo, through the Office of Strategic Planning, has been very responsive to our concerns that include building design codes that reflect issues such as bird building collisions and lighting standards. However, we find that one foundational issue remains outstanding. If it is included in the final zoning, it will create irreversible harm to the Times Beach Nature Preserve.
 Specifically, we request that the City change the Green Code designation of the publicly owned Otter Harbor and Ipah Waterfront property immediately adjacent to Times Beach from N-3E urban neighborhood edge to DOG open green space. As you may know, Times Beach Nature Reserve is the gateway to the Niagara River globally significant important bird area.
 The IBA is a critical area and flyway for hundreds of species of birds a year round. Its designation and functionality continues to bring international attention, ecotourism, and ecotourism dollars to our region. Times Beach, located in downtown Buffalo, is a vital part of this corridor. Over 240 species of birds depend on Times Beach as a migratory stopover, as a food source, and nesting area.
 For instance, during migration seasons in the spring and fall, hundreds of thousands of neotropical birds travel here with many flying through and along the outer harbor and use the Times Beach Nature Preserve and its neighboring lands, shorelines, and waters to stop, breastfeed, and stage for the long migratory journeys that they're engaged in.
 The nature preserve is designed to protect wildlife and wild spaces. We cherish our ability to share this nature preserve with visitors. It's a connector to the wilderness that stretches off the shore and acts as a buffer for the urban density of the city. It protects wildlife and offers educational and scientific opportunities to reflect on conservation efforts throughout the region and in the Great Lakes.
 The Great Lakes are in trouble, ecologically speaking. They are 20% of the world's fresh surface water, and like many of the world's water resources, they are in decline. Given our recent political misfortunes, we need to do everything that we can to resist exploitation and development that will further compromise our fragile environment. Waterfront zoning counts. Thank you.
 Housing at this location will be consequential for a number of reasons. Unfortunately, residential neighborhoods and nature preserves present conflict. They are often resolved in the interest of the powerful humans, including property owners, and may be more interested in the profitability of the view rather than the conservation value that nature preserves represent. This creates a short-sighted economic impact that will be borne as a burden for future generations.
 Inappropriate development throughout our region threatens both the conservation of declining bird numbers and biodiversity. Biodiversity is one of the cornerstones of fighting climate change. Our region and in particular our waterfronts, the outer harbor and the Times Beach Nature Reserve are critical places that provide existing but vanishing conservation opportunities. This affects our ability to help ensure a more sustainable future, this includes negating
 appropriate economic development that focuses on conservation, tourism, education, science, and the quality of life that will benefit future generations. I'm almost done. I'm almost done. I'm almost done. Mr. Chair, if I could, Mr. Chair, just to be fair to all of the speakers on the floor, we have a long list.
 We have set the time at two minutes. We need to be respectful because if we allow this gentleman with very great words to say to continue on, then we have to give the next person, and fair, the same amount of time. We set the limit to two minutes, so we need to adhere to the two-minute rule. Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. I'm sorry. We're going to have to move to the next person. Okay. Well, I'll stay. I'm going to have some of my time, half of my minute. Okay.
 Thank you, but I'll just submit this, but I appreciate it. We have some of the... Good evening, Aletha Davis. I am a resident of the Fruitbelt residential area, and I have been for several years. I can recall several years ago when Dr. Taylor had come through the community with...
 focus groups and what have you. We had maps on what we wanted to see in the community. And some of those things were dry cleaners, uh, grocery stores, and delicatessens. We do have some delicatessens, but they don't really provide, uh, the essentials that we need. We have a grocery store, but as we well know, we live in a food desert, so most of the food that we get are, is not, you know, good for our nutrition.
 So I think that perhaps when we do all of the planning, and especially in the urban neighborhoods, perhaps we can have at least two really good grocery stores so that we can have some healthy food for our children and dry cleaners and laundromats for those who don't have washers and dryers at home. Plain and simple. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Joanne Kahn, Dan Leonard. Thank you. I'm Joanne Kahn, co-chair of the 21st Century Park on the Outer Harbor Incorporated, and we're grateful for all the hard work that's been done on the Green Code. We especially appreciate changes made to the draft to the Green Code on reducing the building and paving coverage on the Outer Harbor from 50% to
 10 or 15 percent. I'm not sure which that is. But it's greatly reduced and we're grateful for that. We're concerned with the current designation for the NYPA site, the site that Jay Burney just talked about. We strongly recommend that its designation be amended from N3E to DOG for the following reasons.
 One, this land is the gateway entry from the very successful and busy, of course during the warm weather, inner harbor to the outer harbor. Residential buildings will impede the development of an approximately 150-acre park on the outer harbor. The park will be an incredible asset to downtown, the adjacent east, south, and west side neighborhoods, and the new medical campus.
 We've seen that nearby residential development like River Mist, et cetera, joining a park, has hampered activity at parks like LaSalle, nearby LaSalle Park. Number two, residential development will have a serious negative impact on time speech, as Jay Burney suggested.
 And three, residential development on this site would represent urban sprawl, since it's located at the furthest point from city services. And that is the opposite of smart growth, the concept which the city, the mayor, and the governor have been promoting.
 And number four, this land can be a valuable buffer for the city when future climate change storms intensify. It will also assist in stormwater collection, lessening the impact on our combined sewer overflows. And we are at two minutes. And it will improve the quality of our water. Absolutely. That's it. Thank you.
 Good evening. Dan Leonard, Senior Director of Economic Development with the Buffalo Niagara Partnership. Thank you very much for the opportunity to comment on really what is foundational legislation that's going to shape our city in the future. The Green Code began with a lot of optimism, a lot of diverse input, and really most fundamentally it was a process in which people came together and said, what do we want to be?
 And what do we want our city to look like? It was a departure from traditional Euclidean zoning, which we currently have, which is really all about the opposite. It's all about what are we afraid of? What do we want to regulate out? What are we worried might happen? And that's exactly how our city and most American cities have been governed for 80-plus years.
 And that's why we have cities that have holes in the parking lots and vacant sites, because we literally made it so that it was illegal to rebuild the pieces of the urban fabric that we would lose.
 So this shift to the green code is critical. It is forward-looking, and it speaks to growth. It speaks to what are we going to do next, not what are we afraid might happen next. Growth is really important. We're a city that is half the population that we were. We have a tax base that's been absolutely decimated. You take a look at our streets and our public spaces and our public entities, we struggle to pay for them.
 The streets are crumbling, curbs are crumbling. If you look at the steps in front of the Albright-Knox, then they're crumbling. So the code is imperfect. It'll be adjusted over time. I think there's two fundamental shifts that have happened recently. The reducing of the building height with an N2C from five to three, and restriction on parcel combination. That fundamentally changes everything
 our code from being one that looks forward to growth and what's possible to one that's just afraid of what might happen. And what I would suggest is that these changes have come after 230 public meetings in six years. People are exhausted. I haven't seen this diverse of a group at a green code public meeting in probably three or four years.
 These changes have been driven by a very, very small percentage of people, and I would urge the Common Council to make sure that you're respectful of the process that's been happening for six years and for all the people in your city, not just the select few. Thank you. Thank you very much. Frank Lysiak, Mark Flint. Go ahead, Frank. My name is Frank Lysiak. I serve as the Executive Director of the Waterfront Village Advisory Council.
 And the Waterfront Village is a community located within the city of Buffalo, consisting of about 380 residential units with about 700 residents. The Waterfront Village is also in close proximity, if you would, to Erie Basin Marina, LaSalle Park. Certainly is part of the...
 development going on on the waterfront and we're part of the shoreline trail, which makes it a popular destination for walkers, bicyclists and the like, just to enjoy the waterfront. Our goal in coming to this meeting is really simple.
 We're looking for continuity and in keeping with the existing structures within the waterfront village. We accommodate all, mid-rise, high-rise, residential units, two, three stories. And what we're saying is that all we're looking for is in the future that development follows that pattern of the success of the waterfront village. We've got three areas of criteria. Okay.
 Real simple, okay. The first one is the setback. We're looking for a minimum of 100 foot setback from the waterfront, and that's the break wall.
 We're looking for a 50-foot setback from the streets. And again, that's part of the walking path, part of that public access, if you would, as well as to the waterfront. A 40-foot building elevations for the quote-unquote traditional residential two or three-story units. And in those areas where we have high rises, keep them the same height as the existing high rise.
 And last but not least, we're looking for our population density to remain constant, really just continue to do what we're doing today, okay, with neighboring communities. So, again, if you're familiar with the waterfront village, it's a popular spot, and we certainly enjoy living down there. And, again, thank you for this opportunity to speak to the Common Council. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Mark Flint. I'm also with the Waterfront Village Advisory Board. I also happen to be president of the Breakwater Town Home Association. It's one of the 11 pre-existing developments in that area. I wish to bring to your attention a serious concern that I believe has existed in the Green Coast classification of the Waterfront Village area. We are classified such that anything goes.
 any height, any density, and whatever. That is clearly not what the waterfront village was, is, or should be in the future. We have but simply two impartial left out of the entire density from Erie Boulevard to the park.
 And as Frank has mentioned, what we are asking is that the development be limited to that which is around the two remaining parcels out of what was probably 13 or 14 parcels. Unfortunately, the green code that has been assigned to the waterfront village area, and I emphasize village, gentlemen, because we didn't give us that name, you guys did,
 that we be allowed to keep the structure that is currently in place and fill those two parcels with things that are consistent with the neighborhood. Unfortunately, the green code designation of residential campus does not do that in the slightest. In actuality, it opens up anybody to do anything without any restriction.
 I appreciate this is a gift to the developers, but please, gentlemen, this is a 30-year-old community that's 90% completed. And we respectfully ask that somebody goes back to the drawing board and considers us a residential community and not a retail company. Thank you. David Morrow, Derek Payne.
 I'm very nervous speaking in front of people, so I'm going to read a very brief statement. You're great. Thank you, members of the council, for the opportunity tonight to address this very important policy issue with you. My name is David Marcoux, and I'm an architect practicing here in Buffalo. I've had the privilege to be involved with the review process of the proposed green code over the last three years in my capacity on several local organizations and committees, and less formally as a member of the design community at large.
 I'm here tonight to urge you to reconsider the late stage revisions being proposed to this green code. The green code originated from a long and deliberate process which involves several community input meetings and workshops, input and guidance from hired consultants, as well as many accumulated hours of review and input from local experts with a highly invested interest in creating the best possible future for Buffalo, such as myself and several other architects and urban planners here tonight.
 A substantial amount of time and money has been invested in this project. Many people have worked very hard for a very long time to ensure that we have done our due diligence and have put forth a green code that promotes our future prosperity while maintaining our community's core values. The proposed revisions to the green code, which seek to impose further arbitrary limitations on construction projects, are driven by the wish of some to protect what exists at the expense of a potential better future that they cannot yet imagine.
 While I can empathize with this position, I must respectfully disagree with it, as it is not born of careful consideration and documentable evidence. In fact, several of the restrictive provisions proposed would not even allow many existing buildings to be considered in conformance with the new code. That alone should be a major indicator of the problematic nature of these provisions. We, as a community, paid a team of experts and engaged in a process to ensure against this exact type of subjective 11th-hour rulemaking."
 The new green code should be forward-thinking and allow for continued growth of our city and all its neighborhoods over time. The idea that if it's not broke, don't fix it is not only inherently regressive,
 In this case, it is potentially dangerous to the long-term vibrancy of our communities. Therefore, I would urge you all to advance this ordinance as it was drafted by the consultants and the community over these long many years, and to respect the immense value of the input and the process which bore it. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Right on time. Thank you.
 Hello, my name is Derek Hain. I'm getting oral angiitis, so bear with me. I've been involved with the Green Code for over the last six years. There's been over 240 odd meetings, and I also want to speak of the late revisions that I feel like undermine the Green Code itself.
 As I've stated, I've attended many of these meetings and one of the things I've constantly heard is that people agree with 95 to 98% of the Green Code and they're hung up over the last 2%. Please don't provide us with a plan that doesn't present all of the citizens of Buffalo reducing height and undermines walkability and core aspects of the Green Code.
 As I said, I was involved with it from early on. I just want to give you a little perspective. I started in attended meetings because of class assignments. I subsequently went on and interned and assisted with the Green Code in two separate years. Now I'm a planner myself and have taken and implemented aspects of the Green Code before it has passed itself.
 It seems that there's been a lot of foot dragging for the minor interest. There's talks about providing affordable housing and prevention of demolition. The thing about a zoning code is that it can't be a brush to fix all issues. I urge that the council adopts
 plan that speaks to the heart of what it was envisioned. But then it is immediately followed up by adoption and revision of the preservation ordinance and then looking into inclusive zoning so that affordable zoning is provided.
 If you try to loop everything in, you're going to provide once again a zoning code that doesn't meet all the needs and becomes muddled and becomes only being able to be navigating the select few.
 The code speaks about is over a thousand pages and has reduced itself. The problem with codes is often that they become too onerous. So I wish that we could pass a plan that speaks for all citizens. Thank you. Thank you very much. Bruce Sanders, Joel Berneski. Good evening, members of the Common Council. Ladies and gentlemen, my name is Bruce Sanders, and I have lived in the city of Buffalo for
 I don't know, at least 45 years now. A couple of days ago, I drove to New York City with my wife and did kind of an ancestry tour of where my mother grew up on the Lower East Side of New York in 1913. Then I went to my old neighborhood of Bensonhurst, where the renowned landscape architect Calvert Vaux drowned.
 On the way back, driving to Buffalo, I turned to my wife and said, Thank God I moved to Buffalo. I can't imagine what our lives would have been like or our children's lives would have been like had I stayed in New York City. Now let me cut to the chase. A few months ago at one of these hearings, I referenced the New York City architect,
 from the early 20th century who said that a skyscraper was a building designed to extract the maximum amount of profit from available land and airspace. I am opposed to the Simonelli project and the Chasen Affinity project if they insist on five stories.
 Three stories doesn't really bother me. Five stories bothers me. The other aspect of this is the demolition of probably 25 or more buildings that were subject to demolition by neglect.
 And Chasen, excuse me, Simonelli says that those buildings are not really savable. Maybe the facades are. And that's because over the years they were allowed to decline. So please, I urge you to remove the clause from the proposed green code that grandfathers the Simonelli and Chasen affinity projects. Thank you. Applause
 Hello, my name is Joel Bernoski and I'm here representing Buffalo Niagara Riverkeeper. We have a vested interest in the green code and the shoreline protections that are built into the green code and sections of the code. And I just wanted to go through four things that are really important that we think should pass through the green code and through this council.
 The first is shoreline protections for waterfront development are established in the CW zone. We think that's really important. The scale of development on the outer harbor seems to be limited in a realistic scale. The creation of an outer harbor review district, review area, pardon me, protects the regional asset from development. And a clear and limited definition of a water dependent use is in there and that is also very important.
 There are a few things that are pretty glaring for us, though, however, that we would like to see addressed. The first is that, as others have mentioned, the Outer Harbor Parcel Zone N3E on the city's ship canal should be rezoned to GOG. This supports the city's and the community's vision for an Outer Harbor for All program.
 Please strengthen the CW100 language to include protecting shorelines where, quote, plans exist to reestablish them. This was in prior drafts of the Green Code, and it was taken out in the most recent iteration, and we're not exactly sure why. Okay.
 Please make sure public walkways and access to public trust resources mandatory rather than suggested and encouraged as it currently is. And please reduce the scale of building size and impervious surfaces on the zone parcels, the N1S zone parcels on the Outer Harbor. Thank you. Adam Walter, Sam McGibbon.
 Thank you, Council Members. Sam McGovern from the Partnership for the Public Good. We unite over 240 community organizations in Buffalo, and I want to speak to two aspects of the Green Code. The first is our support for inclusionary zoning.
 As you know, the poverty rate in Buffalo has been going up, not down, rising to 33% this year, at the very same time that the housing market has been heating up. This trajectory is not sustainable, and our research and best practices from around the country suggest that inclusionary zoning is a very valuable tool to address that problem.
 The second is the NYPA parcel on the Outer Harbor. We strongly encourage rezoning of that to keep it green. We think that housing investments should be targeted to existing neighborhoods, fixing up old buildings, fixing up old neighborhoods, not creating new housing in a green area on the Outer Harbor. That parcel will make a beautiful gateway park to the Outer Harbor, and that's what we think it should be.
 And then lastly, we just want to endorse the recommendations of both Buffalo Niagara Riverkeeper and the Elmwood Village Working Group. Thank you. Thank you.
 Good evening. For the record, my name is Adam Walters and I'm a land use attorney here in Buffalo. I have about 20 years of experience appearing before the city's planning and zoning boards on development matters. I am not here tonight on behalf of any particular clients, but as a private citizen who lives here in the city of Buffalo. I have followed the green code process closely from day one.
 To start out, I'd like to start out by saying that as someone who deals with the current zoning code just about every day, I think that green code is long overdue, and I strongly support the adoption of green code. I believe that it will be a significant improvement over the current code. I'm here tonight because the latest version, which was issued in September, went in a new and somewhat troubling direction.
 This draft added a number of provisions based on vocal opposition to specific projects that have been proposed. Many of those folks are here tonight, and I certainly respect that process. But if we start sticking things into green code designed to torpedo specific projects, we are doing things today that will hurt us tomorrow.
 Green code is designed to assure good quality development for the future generations of Buffalo. And I particularly want to suggest to the council that it reconsider two provisions, which I know Mr. Littlefield highlighted earlier. One is the prohibition of combining more than two lots in the Elmwood Village.
 This provision was clearly added to try and place a roadblock in front of new developments, many of which involve more than two tax lots. In my perspective, it's inappropriate given that the new ordinance already limits the size and scope of a project based on lot size, building height, et cetera, and these limits are now being artificially reduced through this recently added lot combination provision.
 The other thing is the height restriction in N2C was dramatically reduced from five to three. We should at least keep it at four, which is consistent with surrounding development in many of the N2C community. Thank you. Thank you. John Kaminski, Linda Schneepa.
 Good evening. My name is Jennifer Kaminsky. I'm the Director of Planning and Community Development at Push Buffalo. We are, among many other things, an affordable housing developer. So we see every day the crisis of affordable housing in this city. Our waiting list for the affordable apartments we develop at this point is close to 400 households. And every day people are coming in, filling out applications, wondering what their status is, and telling stories about their being displaced from their neighborhoods.
 So we strongly support inclusionary zoning within the Green Code, and we hope that the final version of the Green Code includes an inclusionary zoning provision. Just to give you an example, the median income of a renter in Buffalo is around $22,000. So if you use the standard affordable housing definition of paying no more than 30% of your income in rent, that's a rent of around $600.
 The new development that we're seeing across Buffalo, and we're in support of new development, but much of that new development is luxury housing with rents of $1,200, $1,800, $2,500. That is not affordable to the vast majority of this city, and in addition, that new development
 leads to increases of rents and home prices in the surrounding area, again, furthering displacement and lack of affordable housing in this city. So inclusionary zoning directly goes to mitigating the impact of new development, and we hope it is included in the Green Code so that the new Buffalo is an equitable city and provides opportunities for all of us who live here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Good evening. My name is Linda Schnicklaff, and I'm here speaking tonight on behalf of the Western New York Environmental Alliance, an organization of over 100 environmental organizations representing thousands of people in Western New York. The alliance protects the ecological and environmental fabric of our region on which our lives depend. The alliance defends the public trust and the right of the public to access resources
 particularly waterfront lands. And thirdly, the alliance stands for environmental justice for all people. And therefore, we are arguing tonight that there should be no housing on the public lands on the outer harbor, meaning specifically the NYPA property. This has been public lands, and to privatize it or to turn it into a privatized use is irresponsible.
 Secondly, we also support the inclusionary zoning policy to ensure environmental justice is throughout our larger community. We know from Mother Nature that diversity means stability, and if we want our neighborhoods to be stable, they should be very diverse, and this is one strategy that we could use to do this.
 I'm going to talk specifically for a minute about the no housing thing and give you a couple reasons. Already it's been mentioned that it's really, it violates the smart growth, walkability, sustainable principles of the green code itself.
 but also in opposition to the comprehensive plan for the city of Buffalo and the One Region Forward regional plan. It would be ridiculous to put housing three and a half miles from the city center. And it would be particularly dangerous to do this because if the people are located there, they are that far away from services, from fire, from police protection.
 And I'm sure if we put housing there, it wouldn't be very long before the citizens rightly should be demanding that. So therefore, we can avoid that entire issue. Secondly, it reduces public access. I can't imagine anybody looking and saying, oh, I want to go visit that neighborhood across the waterfront. So I thank you for the opportunity to speak. Thank you, Linda. Tim Tillman, Nina Ruth Wright.
 Good evening, my name is Tim Tillman, I'm representing the Campaign for Greater Buffalo History, Architecture and Culture. First, you know, some topical and then general issues. We endorse the comments made by Jay Burney and Bruce Sanders.
 I'd like to add that there should be no housing development on brownfield or greenfield sites on the outer harbour. It simply doesn't make sense with all the developable space we have in other areas of the city. And there certainly shouldn't be grandfathering in of any projects that are nowhere near the necessary public approvals.
 the Green Code is adopted, everyone should be subject to those rules. But I do want to say that I've been involved in historic preservation for over 30 years in this community. Since day one, the thing that has thwarted historic preservation, the thing that has gotten outlawed,
 our city into the dire straits so many of its neighborhoods are in, is this 1953 zoning code.
 It is an agent of the devil. Had we had the green code that is being considered now in place since 1953, so much of our historic fabric, so much of our transit supportive communities, so much equitable housing and access to downtown services would still be here now.
 The task of our generation is to rebuild those services, rebuild those opportunities, and the best shot we have is this green coat. It is a parallel universe better than what we've been laboring under for almost 70 years. Thank you. The little green light, make sure that's on, Mammon.
 I'm Nina Ruth Wright. I live in the Elmwood Village area. And I'm here tonight because I still believe my voice matters. I voted this past week. I've spoken here before. I've sent emails. I've talked to neighbors. I've written letters. And I appreciate the fact that the Common Council continues to provide opportunities for everyone to speak.
 650 members of the Elmwood Village District contributed to an online petition urging the Common Council to make certain changes in the Green Code. And those changes, to my point of view and many people's point of view, thankfully have been made. The two proposals by Simonelli and Chasen are outrageous in the sense that
 They take no notice of the style and the character and the scale of the Elmwood Village. To argue that the developers are looking ahead and not backward as the residents are is ridiculous. If you walk in the Buffalo Parkways, you enjoy the beautiful nature and the beautiful parks that Olmstead gave us.
 To him, the parkland serves a democratic purpose. It's for all the diverse citizens of Buffalo. Five stories of expensive condos and apartments and expensive retail places are not for all the diverse residents of Buffalo. If you're there in the Elmwood Village, you can walk, you can enjoy the trees, small business owners.
 average or lower than average, or it doesn't really matter. Whatever the renters are, they're comfortable there. And so what's there now is terribly important, and unless the language is changed and all that Mr. Littlefield's language and the Elmwood Working Group make it more specific, those two developers should not be allowed to
 scoot in and continue their projects without honoring the revisions that have been proposed for the Green Coat. Thank you. Thank you. I would only say that prolonged enthusiasm just delays more people coming, no matter how exuberant you may feel, and maybe I feel too. Next speaker. Catherine Faust, Gary Miliband.
 Hi, my name is Catherine Faust. I'm an architect and a long-standing resident in the Elmwood Village. I just wanted to point out that many of the comments that have come recently criticizing residents of the Elmwood Village for opposing the five-story limit. Many of these comments were spoken by people who do not live in the Elmwood Village. And
 I think the reason why these may seem like last-minute comments is because people didn't realize what was really going to happen until these projects all appeared on the scene. And I don't want to criticize particular developers, but if they're going to come to the neighborhood,
 They need to respect the existing character of the neighborhood. I'm not against infill projects. I'm not against contemporary design. But I think they need to respect the scale of the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. I see my admonition has fallen on deaf ears.
 My name is Jerry Millar. I live in the Elmwood Village as well. I appreciate having these meetings and seeing as many people show up as they have today. It's great to see. I was driving down Main Street the other day going from Fertile downtown, and I know Main Street is about
 twice or one and a half times the size of Elmwood. And most of the buildings along there are between three to five stories high. Most of them are set back from the road. They look appropriate. They look like they belong there. They blend into the age of the street. Something five stories on Elmwood just does not. I can't understand how that you can't put a building that's appropriate, that you don't have to set up a building.
 necessarily a limit on things, but did you put in an appropriate building in the plot? And there seems to be this big issue with bigger is better. Progress is the most important thing. I always think about Robert Moses and how he was held up as the gold standard for development, and look what happened. I don't really care if someone has a degree in something. It doesn't mean that they're right.
 And it doesn't mean that the people don't have a voice in what should be done. I don't see why this isn't a proposition on a vote that the city, the people develop. I don't see why the residents of the city don't have lobbyists in the city hall as well. That the lobbyists, the developers have lobbyists. Why can't the people? Thank you. Thank you, sir. Applause
 Just for the gentlemen, the lobbyists for you are the council members here. If there's a concern, always call your councilman, explain it to that council member plainly and calmly. And if there's something that you don't like in this, let us know. I just read something now. I just saw something about signage, and they want us to keep a message on a signboard for five minutes. Well, that doesn't work for the sign industry. We have to change that. It wouldn't work for any signs. But if there's something that you want, the lobbyists are right here. You talk to us. Thank you.
 Thanks, Rich. Linda Stevens, Larry Brooks. Hang on, no talking from the floor. Go ahead. Linda Stevens, Larry Brooks. Obviously, I'm Linda Stevens. Thank you for the opportunity to speak again. I am...
 quite firm in my belief that the outer harbor should be as publicly owned land should be reserved strictly for public use, no private gain, no housing. Instead, public access with active public use parkland with some amenity. I like that. No housing. Okay.
 I also support inclusionary zoning. I think we need to be creative in order to ensure that there's affordable housing in our city.
 I don't think this is appropriate probably for the Green Code. It's a little too late. But if you could get with some of the state officials and consider a new tool, perhaps rent control, as they have in New York City, for some of the emerging neighborhoods that will help mitigate gentrification. Thank you. Thank you, Linda.
 My name is Larry Brooks and I'd also like to talk about the Outer Harbor. I'd like to ask also the Common Council to consider changing the M3E designation to DOG. Residential development on the Outer Harbor constitutes fraud. And that hurts the city in so many ways, but I'd like to give you two examples. The first of these is that new residential development will require new infrastructure. And the construction of that would cost all ratepayers, not just the people who live there,
 While north of the Buffalo River, we have underutilized infrastructure that once served twice the population it serves today. Add new rate payers there, and we reduce the cost for all rate payers.
 The second reason is that the Trust for Public Land does a city park survey. And this year they reported that the city of Buffalo, among the top 100 cities in the United States, has below average percentage of their acreage devoted to parks than the average city. In fact, it's one-third the percentage of acreage devoted to parks that New York City had. Now, if we develop the outer harbor, we'll use the opportunity
 to add a choice piece of land to the city's portfolio of parks. Thank you. Thank you. Susan Davis, Bill Ware Pub. Oh, sorry, I must have signed the wrong piece of paper, but that's okay. I'm a resident of the Elmwood Village. I get really irritated hearing architects and lawyers who are often shills for the developers
 tell us that we are a small group of disgruntled, backward-thinking people. We are in favor of growth and modernization. We just don't think that one size fits all.
 We think a 23-story tower downtown might be good, but not on the waterfront. We think five-story buildings might be good downtown, but not in the Elmwood Village. And we appreciate the fact that our city councilmen have been our representatives, and they have amended this green code to bring it down to the appropriate scale to maintain the fabrics of our neighborhood. And thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you for the opportunity to talk. My name is Bill Walker. I'm a private citizen in Buffalo. I have three things I'm going to talk about today, so I'll do it in two minutes. The first is the Elmwood Village project.
 Well, it was the green code in relation to the revisions that have come as a result of the Elmwood Village Working Group that I think came thanks to Councilman Faralletto. I agree with those changes, and I'm a little distressed to hear that there's something in Section 1.3.4 of the revised green code that permits some kind of grandfather transitioning, and I would ask you not to adopt that.
 In a relatively short period of time, seeing the old green code that allowed for five-story buildings and creating long and larger structures, I think somewhat over 650 people in the Elmwood village signed a petition that opposed that, and essentially the new green code reflects those changes to allow somebody to come in and develop projects that are not consistent with the new green code now
 as a part of the Green Code would, I don't even know how to describe it, would not be in the spirit of anything that respects the people in the Elmwood Village. Somebody mentioned that torpedo-specific projects and that Four Stories is consistent with the Elmwood Village. Four Stories is not consistent with the Elmwood Village, except for several churches and now a new building on Delavan and Elmwood Avenue that's Four Stories.
 It's all three stories. There are maybe a half a dozen if you walk from forest down to maybe summer that are taller than three stories. And it's not a question of being negative. It's a question of preserving the character and scale of one of the 10 best neighborhoods in the United States.
 Secondly, affordable housing. I think Buffalo has a chance, and I don't know how this relates to the Green Code, but to get away from a city in which people, because they don't have enough money, are constantly pushed from one area to another, you know, into Buffalo because people are moving out of Buffalo into Chihuahua and then back into the suburbs because now people are moving into Buffalo. We need to get away from that. Okay, and the third thing is, real briefly, a high-rise –
 23-story building where people can see it looking out towards Lake Erie is a travesty. When they built the Marine Midland Building, when I came to Buffalo in 1968, you could drive down Main Street and see Lake Erie in Main Street.
 And I don't hear anybody talking about this, but they built that building, and it was like putting a structure in front of the best picture window in your house or something. Let's not start doing that in the view of Lake Erie. This really affects all citizens of Buffalo. And to do it for a few people so that they can have a great view of Lake Erie is... Thank you very much, sir. Yeah, thanks for the time. That gentleman had a wonderful disposition. In our lives, we always see a lot of lost people, but this gentleman really is...
 It's been my day today. Chuck Banas, Old Beth Parman. Hi, my name is Chuck Banas. I've been involved with zoning reform just as a community activist for over 10 years now. Some of you may remember that I was involved with the AIA and the former New Millennium Group, a couple other groups too, in identifying the need for zoning reform starting in 2005.
 This official process, of course, for the Green Code has been going on for six years and something like 250 public meetings. Thousands of citizens have given input. There's been thousands of changes, hundreds of
 compromises, both large and small, and it's been a remarkably open and inclusive process. Certainly not to say it's been a perfect process, but it's been one of the most open and invigorating projects that I think the city's ever engaged in. I'm sure most of you agree with that. Of course, the Green Code is based on the recommendations of the Buffalo Comprehensive Plan, which is the result of the involvement of thousands more citizens, dating back even further.
 So after all the meetings and all the input, it certainly is not a perfect document. No document that's this big ever is perfect. Even much smaller ones are certainly less than perfect. But it is far, far better than the current system that we are currently living under.
 It fixes virtually all the fatal flaws in the existing 1953 code. It's arguably the most progressive and forward-thinking zoning and planning document in the country right now. It's a remarkable piece of work that we've engaged in here, and I hope the council does recognize that.
 We should certainly seek to revisit and improve the code on a regular basis, something like Rochester does and a lot of other cities that have engaged in this type of reform. Every two, three or four years we should have a regular process by which we can fix some of the problems, tweak a few things so it doesn't become the ossified document that our current code is.
 But as of today, neighborhoods are getting left behind because the 1953 code is still in place. Thanks, Chuck. I guess we're done. Time's up. Thank you very much. My name is Olga Cameron, and I'm speaking for concerned residents of the Waterfront Village, in my case specifically Admiral's Walk.
 Roughly 700 of us live in the village, and we believe that any further development in our established neighborhood has to be in harmony with what already exists. And we request that the proposed green code protect our neighborhood as outlined below, including, if necessary, a variance for the waterfront village. Here are our concerns.
 We are concerned about any population density increase that overcrowds Waterfront Village. We are against any out-of-scale development that shoehorns itself into the small green area left in this part of the City of Buffalo. We are concerned about any future construction that comes right up to the people's right-of-way.
 We are concerned about excessive elevation of any new construction. Because we value the quality of life in the village, we request that the Green Code ensure us that the height of any new construction be no more than a total of 40 feet, that the population density be no more than 8.7 units per acre,
 that the setback from the water be 100 feet from the break wall and 40 feet from any and all people's right of way. I think our concerns are the concerns of many of you here.
 It has to do with density, with buildings that don't fit, with trying to preserve what little green we have over little walking areas we have. Time's up. Thank you. Thank you all very much. MS. Anthony James, Tony Thomas. MR. I'm Anthony James, an architect in the city.
 connected with a number of different groups, but tonight I want to speak just from my personal viewpoint. I would like to encourage the Council to pass the Green Code. There are a number of issues that need to be addressed. Some of them should be addressed before you pass it. Some of them should be addressed afterwards because it might take too much time to try and figure them out first.
 One thing I would like to give my support to is changing the grandfather clause, Section 1.3.4, to make sure that the green code is not bypassed by projects that are trying to get through before it gets passed. Another issue that I'm concerned about is the –
 Porter Avenue between 4th Street and 7th Street, where there is what I consider too intense a designation, an N3C, and the reason is because this is the front park area, and that N3C is too dense,
 to be bordering one of our worldwide recognized historic resources, so I suggest an N3E. I would like to...
 include my support for inclusionary zoning, but if it sets back passing the green code right now, I suggest that that would be something that you work on right away and prepare to include to a passed green code. It's the same with some of the preservation issues that have been raised during the green code process. Thank you. MR. Thank you.
 This was for Thomas here. Tony Thomas. James Rumpola, Daniel Zach. My name is James Rumpola and I'm here to talk about the Elmwood Village. First of all, Buffalo is known for its rich architecture. The Simonelli and Chase and Affinity Project do not appreciate the rich history that Buffalo has. We should not try to make Buffalo into a city that neglects its history, but we should
 be proud of our historic buildings and enhance them, not to demolish them. If these two projects are allowed to go the way they are now, it will destroy Buffalo's gem, the Elmwood Village. These buildings will also encroach on the life of the people who live behind them, and these buildings are too mammoth for the area. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Franczak. My name is Daniel Sack. I live in Buffalo. Hello.
 I have a few problems with the Green Code. One is it doesn't include requirements for the planning board, which are included in the code and are included in New York State law, which is that planning board members have training. The people on the planning board are good people and mean well, but New York State law requires them to have training, and they don't. I wonder if that legally means that decisions they make,
 are ineffective and we really can't have approval for projects because of the planning boards,
 because the planning board's lack of training. Specific problems with the green code. Materials. The Elmwood Village Design Standards has a section about materials. The green code is much worse than that. And if you have good quality buildings, you have to use good quality material. The green code has to do better. Internally illuminated signs. Elmwood Village Design Standards doesn't allow them. The green code allows 50% of lettering being illuminated.
 I don't know how the Department of Permits and Inspections would judge 50%. Right now, they have allowed several rear illuminated signs in the Elmwood Village. Without permits, I call it to their attention, they do nothing. Which leads me to tell you that, maybe not part of the green code, but the city charter, permits and inspections needs to be reorganized. Right now...
 Right now, they choose to enforce what they choose to enforce. There are square footage violations. There are signage violations. There are materials violations. And the council, as you gentlemen unfortunately know too well, are powerless to enforce the enforcers. And that has to change. You do have the power, I believe, to reorganize Dexon City Hall. So I hope you can do that. Thank you. Thank you, Dan. Thank you.
 Robbie Butler, Kristen Parra. Hello, my name is Robbie Butler and I'm a resident of the Elmwood Village, have been for most of my life. I'd like to support the changes to the green code proposed by the Elmwood Village Green Code Working Group. They make sense. The large scale development project benefited few
 developers and high-income residents at the expense of many. I've lived in Buffalo my whole life, but if I were attempting to buy my own home right now or even rent it, I couldn't afford it. And it's surreal to me that this is happening. So I think that the recommendations of the Elmwood Village Working Group are right on at preventing further imbalance in our system. Thank you. Thank you.
 First thing I would like to say is this is great energy in the room and this was a big number that actually showed up and this is good. I'm a community organizer for Push Buffalo. I basically canvas four days out of the week, knocking on 400 doors a week, trying to get people aware of the programs that Push is doing. But one thing I wanted to say was a story about a lady named Kiwanda.
 She lived on the west side and she lived in a house that a slumlord owned. It was crazy when I first met her. I knocked on her door. She said, what are you doing here? And I basically explained to her what push does. And she said, well, what do you do about slumlords? I said, what do you mean? I walked in her house. There was water falling from her ceiling. So we got through the process to call 311. And next thing you know, the city inspectors come to her house.
 Then she has nowhere to go. She has five kids. She's actually here with three of her daughters. And where did she go? She had to go to the east side because the city inspector told her she had 30 days to leave. What are we going to do about making more affordable housing? She was crying literally that she had nowhere to go with five kids.
 We need to step up and actually build more affordable housing, inclusionary zoning, so that people can actually have a place to live that is actually nice. PUSH can't create the amount of affordable housing that we need.
 We actually are trying with School 77 doing solar panels and trying to invest into our city. But this should be happening throughout the whole entire city. Even the land trust for the east side and the money that's going towards North Star, just to basically the shorelines, that $22 million should go towards the east side so they can redevelop what they need to do over there.
 It's just sad when you hear these stories because Nakiwanda lives on the east side and she's not part of the community of the 14213 that I'm representing right now. And there needs to be more affordable housing. That 30% should be mandatory if anybody develops. Andrew Graham, Paul McDonald.
 Good evening, everyone. My name is Paul McDonald. I'm Director of Facilities for the Buffalo Public Schools, Chair of the Buffalo Preservation Board, but I'm here to speak on behalf of the Buffalo Western New York American Institute of Architects. The American Institute of Architects is a chapter that has 250 licensed architects and emerging professionals, most of which live in the city of Buffalo.
 And we have vested policies that govern Buffalo's smart development and extended urban growth. In fact, it was back in 2007 that we provided the seed money for the green code that we see before us now. Much of Buffalo's renaissance has been due to the appreciation of Buffalo's outstanding architecture, its authentic neighborhoods, its walkable communities, and its charm. This code ensures that all these attributes are supported and encouraged in a clear and understandable manner.
 Recently, Chris Hawley spoke at the New York State AIA Convention in Saratoga Springs. Chris is very active in the Green Code. As part of a roundtable presentation with the deputy mayors of Philadelphia, deputy mayor of Troy, Chris stole the show with his passionate presentation that demonstrated to the audience how progressive and daring Buffalo is.
 As Daniel Burnham said, Daniel Burnham is the architect who designed the Ellicott Square building, make no little plans. They have no magic to stir a man's blood. This is no little plan, and I really encourage you to pass this with great alacrity. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thanks, Paul.
 Good evening. My name is Andrew Graham. I've lived in the city of Buffalo for just about 30 years. And throughout that entire period, for purposes of transparency, I've been a customer of First Buffalo River Marina. I want to speak
 hopefully briefly, about one little strip of land that sits on the west side of the inner harbor and goes down the city ship canal and basically is the first Buffalo River marina now owned by Erie County Harbor Development Corp. So it's NYPA. Prior to that, Harold Gansert. Prior to that, Davis and Edwards. Been there for all of them. And southward to the RCR yacht.
 Taken together, this area is now proposed to be zoned N3E, mixed-use neighborhood center.
 I spent hours trying to figure out how many, how we came to this conclusion. And as far as I can see, it's just arbitrary. The documents are self-contradictory within themselves as to trying to justify this. But I'd like to speak a little bit to some of the economic issues that this provides. The combined number of boats that are in these marinas,
 is about 300, which generates about 500,000 in rent. The waiting list for the docks in these two marinas is in excess of 400 customers. 300 additional docks now being added to Small Boat Harbor, now Buffalo Harbor State Park, won't meet this demand. The combined number of boats that are stored at these marinas over the winter is nearly 600.
 This service is vital to the success of other marinas, small boat and area basin, as well as local yacht clubs, because not only do these marinas have the necessary space, they have the specialized mobile lifts that can move boats weighing as much as 20 tons to and from the water and placing them in their storage cradles.
 Travel lists of this type are very expensive. Mr. Graham, if you could move with some of the equity. Running over, okay. There's 25 full-time employees in these marinas. Rick Leonard, who's one of the top salesmen, notes that, you know, the people who buy boats from him are 9 to 5. They're not 1%.
 So I think this area fits the designation of the DIL, which is light industrial, as opposed to open green space. And I'm only speaking about the strip of land along the shore. The storage is vital to everybody for winter. Without it, we lose thousands of people.
 dollars in sales tax revenue. And we are finished for now. So. You can file your remarks, too, with the council. I will. All right. Thank you. This is a five-page document. Thank you, sir. Thanks. Thank you. India Walton, Viviana.
 Good evening. Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is India Walton, and I am here on behalf of Community First Alliance, as well as every poor and marginalized person in this community, because oftentimes we can't find our voices in situations like this. It's been said that a rising tide lifts all ships.
 But what if you don't have a ship to be lifted? So for many of us, our home is our ship.
 I think our city government has a great opportunity to make a very progressive move in adding inclusionary zoning to the green code. What it will do is secure affordable housing for the people who live in this city. I want to give a shout out to my council person, Darius Pridgen, who has taken the information that we've provided
 and has seriously considered how this could benefit our community. But I implore you to consider that 10% is not enough when we live in a city that is 35% poor.
 of our population is below the poverty level, we need to bolster that number of closer to 30% to ensure that people have a decent, safe, and affordable place to live. And I think that that is basic, it's necessity. And the only way that we're going to get a better Buffalo is if we improve the condition of the people who have been here, who've stuck it out over all of this time. So thank you for your time. Thank you.
 Mr. Chair, I just want to, for the record, state that the council has unanimously approved the study for inclusionary zoning and the 10% was just numbers until the study is done
 It could be 30, you know, it could be 20, it could be 25, but we have to have the numbers from the study of a lot of different information that has to come together, especially so that this can stand up against scrutiny and court, if it went to court, that we can prove why we went with those numbers. So I know that people have heard this.
 the number 10%, but it was just a number of trying to use as an example. There is no number at this time, but I think that there have been a lot of council members in this entire council that actually passed the study of it and many of who support it. And we, many of us are holding strong to ensuring that inclusionary zoning happens sooner before later. Thank you.
 Lynn Williams, Gretchen Cerrone. Lynn Williams, Gretchen Cerrone. Gretchen. There we go. Hello. My name is Lynn Williams. Thank you all for being here. I'm going to start with a question
 How exciting it is to see so many informed citizens. I'm sure some people had to go home and walk their dog and feed their children, but the fact that we filled this room tonight, I hope, lets all of our council people know how much we are paying attention. And it's not just one neighborhood. It's all of the neighborhoods, even if they can't be here tonight. And who knew we'd ever know what N3 and N2 this even means, and the fact that people are spending that time figuring that out.
 It's just astonishing to me as well as so important.
 I will submit more detailed remarks in writing, so I don't want to take up the rest of my time with details. But to hear some representatives of the development community here tonight essentially diminish individual opinions from folks who have built equity and worked hard in our neighborhoods for so long is really frankly insulting, and I hope that the council remembers that it's not the job of you or of any of us to subordinate any of our neighborhoods to the
 to the profits of a few. It's the responsibility of all of us to protect and enrich our neighborhoods for all of us, not just for a few.
 So with that, I would say I'm really happy with the revisions that were made to the green code so far. I don't think that those are in any way undermining a long process, but rather a natural part of public process as people learn more about what the code says. They develop more informed opinions. And giving those opinions at any time is completely appropriate.
 I would also ask that you echo the comments of a few others, that you remove any grandfathering language. The community has been clear. The Green Code is a very good thing. Any document is flawed, but it's an excellent document. I would also echo the Outer Harbor comments. And last but not least, the billboard language in the document has to be dramatically changed to reduce the expansion of billboards of any kind. Thank you. Thanks, Lynn. Thank you.
 I am Gretchen Serfone. I was part of the Elmwood Village Working Group, and I feel like half the people in this room I see more than my own children, including Councilmember Faralletto. So I appreciate the time that everyone's put in. And I would say that to characterize the efforts of citizens as torpedoing –
 developers' intentions. If these projects in the Elmwood Village had economic diversity, if they had respected the work of the Green Code, this was not a secret process, as many people have said.
 a design that flagrantly disregards so many of the important aspects of what we've worked to change, that deserves to be torpedoed, in my opinion. Until we have something that is respectful of the work of the citizens, then that should move forward. I really appreciated the council member's statements tonight that you are our lobbyists.
 There are not residents here tonight that I have heard saying that they are in favor of grandfathering these projects in. So I hope that you take that very seriously and act on our behalf.
 I also just want to echo Mr. Sack's comments about the planning board. That is an area that needs improvement. Almost anything is getting approved without the adequate revisions and review process. So we need to address that right away. Thank you.
 In summary, I support, obviously, the rejection of any grandfathering language that's currently in the Green Code, and I would ask that specifically the project that will permanently impact our neighborhood be asked to comply with the code as it is written at three stories and not combining the plot so that we have a building the size of a city block in Elmwood Village. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Regarding the 1.3.4, just for the record, for those that are here in
 the folks in the Elmwood Village, Councilmember Farrell-Lotto and myself have requested OSP to change the language there, the transition language. We want to make sure that we use the green quote as the measure going forward. So certainly we have decided not to approve any demolitions in the Elmwood Village.
 If any of them come before the council, at least Councilmember Parralotto and myself, we agreed not to support any demolitions. And we've also supported many of the recommendations of the working group. And I just want to say that this has been an open process, a transparent process.
 and it's a threat, and changes were going to be made. We know even from now until it's complete, changes are going to be made. So for those folks that say, hey, let's accept it as it was back then, that is not happening. Each council member has a constituent that he has to, or in this case, all-male, we have to get back to and make sure that they're happy with the results and that we're feeling what they're concerned. So as far as
 language itself we have we have asked OSP to amend the language and certainly we support it and council member Farrell little has worked tirelessly on behalf of the Elmwood village upper parts of the Elmwood village I can tell by the response that people that are here to his credit in the working group that has worked hard and for all of those including OSP
 They have been to every single meeting. We have held numerous meetings throughout the whole city, and we continue. The fact that we're here today in the evening is so that you folks can be here. So we are listening to you. When you talk about the lobbyists, they're right here. And so we are listening carefully. We want smart growth. We're not anti-development.
 But we want development at the right place. And so we've listened carefully, and I just want to say this because we're going back and forth regarding the language, the 1.3.4. If Council Member Farrelletta wants to chime in on that, you're more than welcome.
 Mr. Folletto? MR. Thank you very much. First of all, I just want to thank everyone who's here tonight that's commenting on the green code, people that are still here and people that left before. There have been a lot of comments about transition language or grandfather clauses that's in the green code. So the green, what's proposed right now in the green code states that any project that
 The current zoning would be in place, but if a project applies after the green code is implemented, then it would be reviewed under the standards of the green code. I've been working with Council Member Rivera, the Office of the Strategic Planning, and projects that are either in the green code or the green code, and I've been working with
 either currently pending or going to be applying would be reviewed under the green code because we're not going to have projects sort of apply at the last minute to try to not conform with what is proposed
 in the green code. So we thank everyone for coming and then as we're not addressing any specific properties but the projects moving forward will have to go under the review of the green code. You don't want anybody circumventing the green code once it's there by last minute submissions. Absolutely. Thank you, thank you gentlemen. Annette Lott, Bradley, Bethel, Jr.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak. My name is Annette Lott and I am the chairperson for Fruit Belt United. I'm part of the Community First Alliance and also the advisory council of the Fruit Belt
 I'm sorry not to say anything because we've had so many people who have supported the inclusionary zoning and I would just like to show my support behind that as well. The thing that I want to say is this. We want development. You know, we know development is coming. We want it and we need it.
 Because our hope is that with development that there will be community improvement and enrichment and jobs in our area and all around the city. However, we do not want that development at the expense of our communities and the displacement of our people. And we in the food belt, we've already seen what happens when development is done and
 The residents and the needs of the residents are not taken into account. How do we see that? The Niagara Medical campus.
 where we can't even park in front of our homes, where that was not even considered. And I'm sure that there had to be some studies on the number of parking spaces that were needed. But the needs of the community for parking was totally ignored. And as a result of that, we found ourselves in a situation where people who have lived in the Fruitbelt, and I've been there over 60 years, all my life,
 could not even park in front of their homes. Healthcare workers who come to see our elderly could not park. You cannot get your groceries into your house. You can't come home for lunch because there's no place. So that's what happens when the needs of the community are not taken into account. I'd like to thank the Common Council and our community.
 of council president because they have listened to the things that we have wanted in the green code as a result of our meetings with them the new some of the new development is going to have to take into account things like parking when they submit plans for their buildings or whatever it is
 the three stories, keeping our neighborhoods in alignment with the character of communities and enriching our communities and not over towering them and overpowering them. So I'd like to thank them for having those many, many meetings. We'd like to thank you. The time is up. Thank you. You stated very well.
 Yes, sir. Hi, I'm Bradley Bethel, Jr. I'm here tonight to speak on behalf of the city at large, and this is concerning the number of dollar stores that have sprung up in our neighborhoods within the past several years.
 As of tonight, yet another family dollar is being built on Jefferson Avenue and High Street, meaning that within the next year, there's going to be three family dollars within close proximity to each other within the same council district.
 These dollar stores are somewhat disgraceful and disrespectful to our communities because they discourage planning for local businesses not limited to just the east side. And they blatantly ignore urban density planning instead reinforcing sprawl development where it is not welcome. And the fact that we keep allowing this to happen speaks to a severe lack of respect for the city's integrity.
 So what I'm hoping from the green code is for a set of plans that will encourage commercial investments that will encourage not just small businesses but local shopping. Everyone in this room right now I'm sure is familiarized with the city's unique and vast history.
 And a lot of you were lucky enough to experience part of the city in its heyday. So that's how we need to start planning for the city in the future. We need to stop settling for less and start planning for what the city is most capable of. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Sage Green, Larry Behan. Go ahead, Doctor. Good evening. Good evening, sir. Larry Behan.
 I represent the 2300 Western New York members of the TR Club Niagara Group. We are an organization of citizens devoted to the preservation of a sustainable environment and equal justice to all our citizens for their enjoyment of it. We have followed with great interest the development of Buffalo's proposed green code
 And for the most part, it promises fulfillment of our view of what the City of Buffalo should be. There is, however, one element of this Green Code, and its present rendition poses a severe threat to a sustainable environment and equal justice for all.
 And that is the designation of the New York Power Authority land on the Buffalo River and the city's ship canal as N3E, an urban neighborhood. This valuable, publicly owned waterfront immediately across from Buffalo's amazingly successful Inner Harbor must always remain in public hands.
 The N3E designation would permit sale to private interests for the development of homes and apartment buildings unaffordable for most of our citizenry and would most unjustly deny them access to this now public waterfront treasure. Most important of all, this publicly owned piece of waterfront
 contains the landing site for the ferry from the inner harbor. It's a natural gateway to the outer harbor. It should be developed as a magnificent gateway to welcome all to the outer harbor. It should not contain a wall of buildings denying access to all but the wealthy. Sierra Club Niagara Group entreats you legislators of the Buffalo Common Council
 Change the green code designation of the publicly owned Outer Harbor NYPA waterfront property from N3E Urban Edge to DOG Open Green Space. Give the people of Buffalo and of western New York a sustainable and a just Outer Harbor. Thank you. Thank you, Larry.
 There we go. My name's Sage Green, and I grew up in the Elmwood Village back when it looked a lot more like the West Side. I went to City Honors, a school in the Fruit Belt, and I studied Urban Studies at an Ivy League school. I'm now the solar energy advocate at Push Buffalo.
 I'm here in support of the inclusionary zoning ordinance. It's something that's clearly progressively and thoroughly outlined in a proposal online. So everyone here and who left at some point should go online and read it. It's incredible. I'd also like to say that a study is not the same as action. And so I'd like to urge our council members to not wait for academics to tell you what you already know.
 I'd like to say there's a lot I could say about the green code and how the green in it isn't really green, that it doesn't address renewables and it doesn't address energy efficiency. It's green only in the sense that it addresses density and walkability, but even there, state-funded, developer-driven density without affordable housing is the exact same thing as the builder and car-centric driven density.
 suburban development that our planners demonized today. So what's the difference? More than anything, I want to lift up a couple of comments that were made at public hearings that really validate a lot of the concerns of people in this room. One of them is that at a public comment period on the west side, when asked about inclusionary zoning and the childhood poverty rates in Buffalo, the study had just come out then. Chris Hawley stated, he's one of our planners.
 But since we are not LA or Boston or San Francisco, we don't have to think about or worry about that yet. Further, when asked if he could name a fair price for affordable housing in the city, he didn't have an answer.
 Secondly, I'd like to, in a meeting in Allentown, Chris Holley made a statement that during the 1950s we saw some of the most vibrant communities in American history. There's a really big flaw in that statement if you didn't see it right away. So when pressed, if he wanted to build on that, he didn't have anything else to add. So when asked what was so vibrant about those communities when the Civil Rights Act was passed in 1964, Chris said, and I quote, I've never thought about it that way.
 Planners who don't support inclusionary zoning are suspicious beyond belief. If planners believe that suburban sprawl and all the downfalls were created by bad planning, then they have to take responsibility for their impact on the socioeconomic and cultural homogeneity that we see today. Thank you. Thank you. And just for the record, I don't think I heard Mr. Hawley said he's opposed to inclusionary zoning. I never heard him say that.
 the council members are right mr chair and also and i'm not good to back and forth this council has to have the study because there is a lot that goes with inclusionary zoning there is no not even a draft right now for that to go forward so i just want to make sure we hear comments like we don't need to study we do we need the numbers we need to know so that we can stand by the numbers because we have to convince nine council people and this community why it's important
 Thank you. Andy Goldstein, Jose Pizarro. Andy, still here? There he is. Come on down. Go ahead, Andy. You've got time. I don't have a third statement. Andy Goldstein, Pennsylvania Street, Fargo State Neighborhood Association. Thank you, David Fronzek and Councilman Rivera. I'm still scared that... I worry a lot, so sorry about this. That
 We're going to still see demolition and developers taking down our historic houses in the name of the green code and progress and density and it's still wrong. I live on the lower west side and if you asked any of those developers to do something on the lower west side 20, 25 years ago, they would have laughed at us and now our neighborhood is one of these emerging neighborhoods.
 houses worth well over $200,000 and I think I gain $1,000 every week, I think. I don't know. It's crazy. But
 So I fear that, you know, get these developers out of these neighborhoods that are successful, Elmwood and such, and get them off these main streets and back onto Connecticut Street and onto the east side, Jefferson and Fillmore districts, and expand themselves because that's where development is needed. Let me say, they must follow the select few because that's where we are and that's where they follow. So follow us throughout the city.
 I also worry greatly about New York State development along the Peace Bridge area. They have taken down numerous houses, and they've taken down historic buildings, the old Episcopal home, all in name of progress, and the city can't do anything about it, and they –
 It doesn't matter what kind of code you can have, the city can come – the state can come in there and demolish what they want, when they want it, and now we're going to be building – they're going to be building a big box duty-free shop with tax dollars being – subsidizing that development for a private developer. So I worry a lot about that.
 So good luck on the green code. I think it's a good code and I'm glad you amended it. I think density is not the issue as much as it is spreading development out throughout Buckle City. So thank you very much. MR. Thank you. MR. Jose Pizarro. I'm the co-chair of the Puerto Rican Committee for Community Justice. I came to this meeting by accident.
 Because I thought it was centered around gentrification, but I did learn a lot from listening to the people here.
 As you know gentrification was brought to a head by the whole shoreline apartments situation and I hope that more is being done in that area. But I did come across something today that fit right in with what was talked about with the green code.
 talking about how many stories should be included in a neighborhood where people have new development going on. Well, today I was going around the city of Buffalo taking pictures of redevelopment throughout the Lower West Side and Upper West Side, and I came across on Forest and Niagara Street,
 There's a whole field of homes being built, okay, that are four stories high, and they must have, or they will, when they're finished, bring hundreds of people to this certain area. I mean, talk about gentrification. I mean, I don't know what kind of...
 development it is, whether it's, you know, luxury apartments or what it is. But I don't see many people in the community knowing what's being built next to them. So that's one thing I would really like the council to address, okay, is the density of the population that's going to be in that area. Okay.
 Okay? Forest and Niagara Street. So please, maybe next time I come here, I may ask the question, whose other district it is, what's happening with the density in that area? And also, are they building these developments that would include affordable housing?
 Okay, that's another thing that we got to look at and we're saying in the community should be about 30% of The residents there should be low income residents. Okay. Thank you My name is Mary the 11 Dietrich and I just wanted to voice my opinion in the outer harbor I
 My friends think that I'm addicted to the Outer Harbor, and I am. And I can be there three nights a week. I'm down last night looking for the moon. And it's a wonderful place, and I've talked to people down there and kind of studied the people there. And if that's taken away from us, it's all gone. If you look from here to Silver Creek, it's gone. Here to Niagara Falls, it's gone.
 And one thing I saw that, in fact, I got my last ride on the ferry free because the guy told me I rode it more than anyone else in the city. Because I take my bike and ride it around to come back. But I went down to the Marine Drive one day, and when my mom lived down there 25 years ago, take her to lunch, go to the hat. People lined up from downtown waiting for their lunch. Buy your child a hot dog or hamburger and a chocolate milk for $4.00.
 And I saw that line gone, and I saw about nine seats inside. Outside, there's a bar on this side, so people fill up the tables. And on this side, there's now an expensive restaurant. Next to it were the elderly people used to drive their cars in the parking lot, walk across the street, put their chairs out to watch the sunset. It's all fenced off. And the restaurant took away all the seating from the hatch, and
 And I just don't want to see condos come into the Outer Harbor and restaurants and places where four or five people, four or 500 people are going to be happy with their expensive condos at the expense of the bikers and the walkers and the people that are enjoying it. And thank God the state took part of it because at least that's preserved. And things like...
 not asking the people what they want. They covered the beautiful bike path with marble or something that they got, and they built the Tiff Street, whatever it is, pier. Nobody knows what it is. It hasn't been used in two years. No one's questioned it. It probably cost $5 million. So leave that for the people. It's the little bit we have left. It's our water. It's our waterfront, and we want it to be there without housing. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.
 Now that concludes our list of people that signed in. Is there anyone here that has not spoken that wishes to opine on this? Ma'am, come right up and take the microphone and state your name for the record. My name is Sandy Hedala. I live at 726 Linwood.
 My comments refer only to the R2 zone, which is heavily impacted in a negative way by the Green Code, which allows for attached houses and stacked units on the smallest lots in the city, lots that are 18 feet wide with zero space required between buildings for attached houses. So visualize that. Picture how small 18 feet is. Picture your house next to it with no space between, and I don't think too many people would be very happy about that.
 If the Office of Strategic Planning insists on calling this the green code, then leave small empty lots alone. Let them be green. There's nothing wrong with, and everything charming, about 18 feet of flowers or a fountain, a sculpture, a playground, or just grass. There doesn't have to be a building on every available inch of land. That is merely a handout to developers who build cheap cement buildings and flip them.
 Small parcels will rarely be built by and occupied by owners, but they are a developer's dream. Just because a lot is tiny doesn't mean there's a tiny house on it. A developer would try to build as much as he can to make as much money as possible, and I have personal experience with this. The 23-foot lot next to me will have two two-and-a-half-story townhouses that are very narrow and out of proportion to the neighborhood, but they will total 3,000 square feet.
 So it's not tiny. Tiny lot, huge house. The stated purpose of the current zoning law, and of most zoning laws in a nutshell, is to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare, to provide for adequate light, air, and convenience of access, to lessen congestion on the streets, to secure safety from fire, panics, and other dangers,
 to prevent overcrowding of the land, to avoid undue concentration of population, and to facilitate adequate provision of transportation, water, sewage, schools, parks, and other public requirements. One of the reasons the zoning laws were changed in 1953 is because what was allowed at that time was dangerous.
 The building was dense. Too many buildings, too close together. Not because people thought it was cute, but because they were poor and had limited access to public transportation or any transportation. And it was dangerous. There were a lot of fires in the city. And our time is up. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else that hasn't spoken? Yes, sir. Come on down. State your name for the record. My name is Joseph Crap. I work for Crap Walk.
 As today we spoke briefly about inclusionary zoning, I'd just like to make a quick comment. First of all, I have worked for HUD. I was a fellow for the New York State Association for Affordable Housing, and I have a startup whose application to the IRS is pending in order to provide affordable housing. I'd just like to make one thing clear. When you look at inclusionary zoning,
 you need to be careful when you're looking at renting versus homeownership. Other communities in this area have discussed homeownership. I know, Council President, you have looked at homeownership, and so has the mayor. It is important to focus on affordable homeownership rather than affordable renter because homeownership allows you to close the wealth gap. It is the most efficient way for people to build family wealth
 And that's just the nature of how we've written our tax code, federal government. So it is not that we do not need inclusionary stuff. We just must pay attention to which tools we are using at which time. Community land trusts have been discussed with various individuals. Most of the people who are behind that have already left, unfortunately. That is a homeownership tool. Some of the cities that they discussed, Chicago, Boston, have both tools.
 So I just ask the council, please bear in mind that there is a significant difference in how it affects the individuals that they're serving between homeownership and rent. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Yes, sir. Come on down. State your name for the record. Thank you. My name is Lori Polina, and...
 I just wanted to point out a couple things that we haven't talked about. I live in the Elmwood Village, and there's parking problems on my street. I live on Granger Place, and there are bars lining Elmwood Avenue, and all night long, before in the morning, there are drunk people parking everywhere. The residents of Granger Place have nowhere to park, and there's –
 You know, you can't leave at night for fear of losing your spot, and if you park around that area, it gets broken into because of all the trunk activity. With the Simonelli and the other project going around the corner of Forest and Elmwood, it would add such density and parking problems.
 that I think we need to look at traffic in that area. Going down Elmwood Avenue, I live there and I walk every day, and the traffic, the dangerous elements of turning, parking, crossing streets, it's prohibitive at this point
 let alone adding two major structures to that area. The outside regions of the west side are empty lots here and there, all over Grand Street and Niagara and other streets around there can be built, and Elmwood Village can be an artery that works and is healthy rather than
 crowding it because it's a moneymaker like the waterfront. These people want these cherished spaces because they're moneymakers. And the citizens want a warm, unstressed environment.
 environment to live the way they've lived all along and built these areas up and there is no aesthetic Oversight on Elmwood Avenue. There are dead trees. Every other tree is dead All the buildings they let the people just let go of the properties. They're falling apart There's no aesthetic a
 mandate, like you have to paint your house or you have to make it look nice. So there's a lot of things that can be done with the Elmwood Village to improve it besides selling it off to the people whose financial stomping ground is our home. And we thank you. Thank you very much. Anyone else? Go ahead and state your name for the record.
 My name is Matthew Kaufman. I am not a resident of Elmwood Village. I have no comments on the Outer Harbor. But in all seriousness, I am a resident of the West Side, and I do appreciate some of the recent comments that have been made about spreading development around. Some recently drafted changes along Niagara Street that allow for some mixed-use development along some of the first blocks off of Niagara Street. I would just
 thank thank the council for including those and support those those changes that help bring and help you spread some of this development around not just the nomad village but into some of our other neighborhoods at the same time i share the same
 the same concerns as many of my neighbors about gentrification in that neighborhood and so the inclusionary zoning with proposals and study are something that i would be very much in support of but as that development takes place in our neighborhood that would also not be displacing our neighbors but providing a place for them to benefit from the development as well thank you yes sir
 I'm a land use and zoning attorney here in the city of Buffalo. I'm not here to pick up any clients. I'm here as a private citizen of the city, living at 600 Main, corner of West Capone Main Street.
 We've heard a lot of great concerns tonight by residents who really, truly love their neighborhoods, which are completely understandable. I love this city. I moved back here after going away to law school because I saw the potential for the city revitalizing itself and booming. And I think young professionals and younger students who go to school here and live here go away and then come back. I think that's the exact demographic we need in the city to revitalize itself as we continue to do that.
 And the Green Code is an incredible undertaking, and it's very, very important. And this is a document that's a culmination of within five or six years of hard work, which I helped with when I was at UB Law School. So I just ask the council to be mindful that the decisions made moving forward during this last year
 discussion period and after this public hearing on the 1 and the 22nd, irrespective of the exact provision or the exact neighborhood that it impacts, that this code will impact an entire city, not one particular or two particular neighborhoods. And I just ask the council to recognize that. Thank you, sir. Anybody else? Only once.
 One, two, three. Three times? All right, very good. So we thank you all very much. The council members will assimilate your information very well. Everyone that spoke, I wrote at least one or two sentences from what everybody said.