Council Member Ferraletto. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. I stand for the pledge of allegiance to the flag, the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, invisible, and with liberty and justice for all. We're going to stand in our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner is with us. He's been ill and we're glad that he is well again and with us. Thank you, Council President. It is good to be back. Deb and I both ended up. down quite sick and I ended up two courses of antibiotics and steroids and what the doctor called a wicked ear infection and it felt that way. So it is good to be back. I will make a note on the record that I had to cancel Deb's birthday and everything so she says I owe her big time. Luke chapter 17, I know it seems hard to imagine but we won't gather again until Thanksgiving Day has come. And so I want to look for just a moment at a quick Thanksgiving scripture. Luke chapter 17. It's the story of Jesus traveling through Samaria, starting verse 11. And he encounters 10 men who have leprosy and they call out for his pity. And so he loses a word of healing. And as they went, it says in verse 14, they were cleansed. But one of the 10, just one. When he saw he was healed, came back praising God in a loud voice, threw himself at Jesus' feet and thanked him. He was a Samaritan. Jesus asked, weren't all ten cleansed? Where are the other nine? Was no one found to return and give praise to God except this foreigner? Probably it's just because now I'm a grandfather, but I sure love it when my kids and grandkids say thanks. Maybe it's just me. Ha! For a lot of years, that was a pretty foreign word on their tongue and lips. Hopefully, as they age and mature, they'll be more thankful for the kinds of things that we as moms and dads and grandparents do for that next and next and next generation. But Jesus himself was moved that one took time to say thanks. So let me encourage you with all that's happening this year and even what they're forecasting for the weekend now, that this is still a season in which giving thanks is appropriate. And Jesus himself is drawn to the one ten are healed, but only one said thanks. So I encourage you to make this a thankful year beyond just yourselves, but to the one who's given us so many things, so many blessings, to thank him as well. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you that these ten all had an encounter with you, but one paused. and reset his words and language to thank the one who made the difference. Father, today, I, on behalf of many of us in this chamber, thank you for your goodness to us, for your goodness to our city, for your goodness to, with all the craziness, for your goodness to the world. Lord, I pray that this would be a season where as you touch us and remind us and restore in us, that just like I look for my kids and grandkids to be thankful, that we ourselves will be thankful to you. And Lord, now bless this gathering. I pray wisdom on each one represented here today as they do the people's business in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Glad you're well, Chaplain. Council Members, any memorials? Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. President. We are here today to ask the city of Buffalo to pray for the family of Leona M. Daniels, who is also the sister of Eva M. Doyle, Mother Eva Doyle, Dr. Queen Mother Eva M. Doyle. Leona Daniels was a member of the Antioch Baptist Church for several years. She served as an usher and believed that it would be more beneficial for her to be a doorkeeper in her father's house than to spend a thousand years in paradise. So she is going to be sorely missed. She was also a member of the True Bethel Baptist Church, where she again served as an usher. And she was preceded in death by her parents and a couple siblings, but we ask that the City of Buffalo keep that family lifted in prayer, And then also we want to acknowledge and ask the city of Buffalo to pray for the family of Don Allen Sr. Don Allen Sr. was a retired deputy sheriff's reserve officer. and he worked for the Division of Community Services. He helped so many people throughout his life. He was a beacon in our community. Just not long ago, he lost his son, Don Allen Jr., and the city of Buffalo felt that impact and that void. Now we have another huge void, and he will be sorely missed in the city of Buffalo. We ask that you please keep those families in prayer. Thank you. Council Member Scanlon. Thank you, Council President. South Buffalo and the City of Buffalo and an incredible family lost one of the true gentlemen of our community. George Gould, a retired Buffalo firefighter and longtime director of Buffalo Memorial Auditorium, passed away last week. Mr. Gould is the father of Permitted Inspections Deputy Commissioner Kevin Gould and the father-in-law of Common Council Staff Member Siobhan Gould. I never have and I don't believe I ever will know a better man than George Gould, a civic-minded family man who epitomized class. A humble man who accomplished many great things and helped many, many people. It was an honor to have a front row seat to Mr. Gould's life. And if you ever had the opportunity or the pleasure to spend any time with him, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Through example, he taught you how to be a man, a gentleman, and a provider. And through his loyalty, his humbleness, and his kindness taught you how to be the right kind of man and he's going to be sorely missed by his wife kathy his six children his grandchildren and countless friends throughout the community so i said we please keep his family in our thoughts Thank you, Council President. Lovejoy District lost a great community advocate in Tony Pavlak. He was a president of the Kaiser County Coalition for many years, hosted many great events. We did a toy drive, several community cleanups. Tony was someone who I knew very early on working as a staffer and I consider him as a mentor, so he will be sorely missed. We also lost John Craig, who was in the Walden Park Tenant Council and an active member in that community off of Walden Street. Always made sure his voice was heard in the community meetings. He pulled me aside to make sure I knew his point of view on the issue. Also, Rosemarie Cannon was a resident in the Lovejoy neighborhood, and she lived off of Central Ave. The same thing, very active in the community. So we lost a lot of active residents. And also Don Allen Sr., as Councilmember Wingo mentioned, everybody kind of knew Don, and he was a friend of the Lovejoy district as well. So all those names we'll remember. Thank you. council member white thank you council president um want to ask the city of buffalo to pray for reverend ray harper's family reverend harper had a radio show for a long time always informative to the community so we're praying for his family and also a special prayer to those individuals in virginia the virginia football team i just happened to see something these three young men who were football players and just outstanding young men were killed And I just want to say their names, Deshaun Perry, Devin Chandler, and Lavelle Davis, Jr. Young men just from every account were just good young men, but unfortunately lost their lives to a gunman. Just keep them in your prayers because this is something that, again, continues to happen. Hurt us and it seems as though we have not made the proper things Decisions to change this that it happens that we lose people every day from gun violence So again, let's keep them in prayers as well as the Harper family. Thank you. I was remember no counselor. I Thank you, Mr. President. This is a broad memorial, but this week is Transgender Awareness Week that ends with Transgender Day of Remembrance this week on November 20th, which honors the lives lost due to violence against the transgender community. Last year, in 2021, was the deadliest year on record for this community, with the Human Rights Campaign recording 50 transgender and nonconforming people killed. Sadly, this year in 2022, we already have seen 32 transgender people fatally shot or killed, or by other means. I say at least because too often these stories go unreported or misreported. In previous years, the majority of these people were black and Hispanic transgender women. These victims, like all of us, are loving partners, parents, family members, friends, and community members. They worked, went to school, and attended houses of worship. They were real people who did not deserve to have their lives taken. Dehumanizing rhetoric has real life consequences to the transgender community. So in our memorial section today, I ask that we remember all of the lives lost due to violence and respect their existence and accept their existence as human beings. And when we talk about diversity, equity, and inclusion, we have to remove the word tolerate. You tolerate bad food, you tolerate your disagreeable uncle at Thanksgiving. You don't tolerate somebody's existence as a human being, you accept it. So, and we may remember the words of Muhammad Ali, if you love God, you can't love only some of his children. Thank you, sir. Councilman Golombic. Thank you, Mr. President. I too wanted to just mention George Gould. I knew the Goulds for gosh, 25, 30 years. George and Kathy worked for the council when I first came on. And here I was a rookie council member and the two of them were very, very kind to me, helping me with all sorts of issues and questions and concerns and as Chris said I just want to say you know he was a he was a gentleman and my condolences to his wife and his children thank you we also talked about Don Allen His son was on our radio show for many years as a co-host and then Don went on. At one point, Don and I, Don was considering Ellicott, I was considering Ellicott, and I prevailed. At the day I prevailed, he came up to me and said, now I'm going to help you. And he always did and was always in my corner and... advised me, you know, politics sometimes can get in the way of great friendships. Don was a gentleman and he knew how to separate the two. He wasn't running against me, he was just running for an office. And so he's going to be Mr. Whitefield. just passed a year ago to almost to the date of his death, of her death, he died. And then the son is mentioned the year before, I believe. And so they are going to be missed in the Ellicott District, but in our city, just served our city and served Jimmy Griffin and others. So to hear about these two public servants, it is, we do thank God for them. Hearing none other, we also remember men and women who have given their life for the freedom of our country and the freedom of countries all over this world since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scala, and the minutes of the State of Meeting held on November 1st, 2022 are approved. Council Members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda. As before, it's not taking away your right to pause the meeting if there is something that you need to review that you have not had time to review. There are some items out of order for public hearing. Mr. Chair, motion to take item 17 and 18 out of legislation, out of order. Second by Councilmember Golombet. item number 17 abandonment and sell portion of 7 scott street motion to open the public hearing second by council member fair little this public hearing is open is there anybody to be heard on this item sir if you'll state your name yes good afternoon council president pridgin council members my name is john heffron i am assistant corporation council in the city's law department i have familiarity with the subject property then did you start with parcel seven Yes. Parcel 7 is a 5,000 square foot, that's like 1 9th of one acre sliver parcel of land at in front of the courtyard Marriott. at Scott, Maine, and Washington. And the city would plan to convey that to Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation, who I believe is scheduled to convey it in turn to the people that own the Courtyard Marriott. And I think that because it was part of, or because it is currently part of a right-of-way, a public street, Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation identified and procured about a million dollars to move all the utilities out of there, and that has occurred, and that informed the one dollar purchase price that we're selling it for. And I think initially the Hofbrau House was going to go there, but because there was gonna be some delays associated with the utility relocations, the Hofbrau House has probably, everybody knows, moved somewhere else. But it is identified as a parcel for redevelopment. And if there are any questions, I can probably answer them. All right. Is anybody else to be heard on this? Council Member Nowakowski? No, all my questions are answered. Right motion to close public hearing second by councilmember. No, I'll motion to approve second by councilmember. No, I'll thank you, sir Header number 18 a bend a minute sale portion of trestle alley motion to open the public hearing second by Councilmember why the public hearing is there anyone to be heard on this item? Good afternoon again everybody. My name is John Heffron. I am an assistant corporation council in the city's law department and Trestle Alley is an 1100 foot long, thin by 20 foot wide parcel located behind 268 Central Avenue. The owner of 268 Central Avenue is Experienced Brick and Stone. And what they do at that location is they recycle and reuse bricks, pavers, stones, and things that They have an office in Chihuahua. This office is at 268 Central. They also have some other offices around the region, but it is a Buffalo ownership company. And they assembled acquisition of properties all around this. And you say, okay, so it's Trestle Alley. It's 1,100 feet long. As near as I can tell, at one time it was a railroad spur, but it is owned by the city of Buffalo now. And Experience Brick and Stone, also known as Fugawi Properties LLC. has acquired most of the property around there and the acquisition of this long thin parcel will not cause any parcels to be landlocked and The price is it was an appraisal price $4,900 and I don't know if anybody has any questions. It hasn't been used it is covered with debris or railroad embankment and It really hasn't been used as a right of way as long as anyone can remember that has any knowledge of this. It's overgrown. All right. I believe we have somebody on Zoom. We have Larry Gottesman on Zoom. Yes, thank you. Thank you. Larry Gottesman here. I get a little nervous when I hear things like railroad sidings, although my best understanding is there is still remaining an abandoned railroad right of way that I'm not sure if it's under the city's ownership or under the or still under owned by CSX, but I would like to know that there's a process by which uh whether it's an alley or or any city property uh that it doesn't gets run through the the bicycle and the pedestrians committee and other relevant things to make sure that we're not giving away land that would be relevant for any expansions of our either greenways parks Or a bike paths. I know that there's a proposal in the university heights to extend the rails to trail farther to the east to the east side, which is a very underserved area for bicycle and recreational trails. And that could link up with this general area, I think, with the railroad siding that is separate as far as I understand from this street. but uh or this alley rather the other thing relates to alleys and and right now the city gis that the public can see does not even identify this particular parcel explicitly as an alley owned by the city it just shows up as part of the rights of way and you have to basically infer that this unlabeled a long length uh is is a city-owned alleyway and i think what we should be more transparent about making the public aware of these critical alleyway infrastructures. I think they're going to become more and more valuable to us as we become a denser city. So that would be something we should be working on for the future so that people can see these parcels. Likewise, the application that shows the actual site plan or, if you will, a survey, It doesn't really show any of the context. And that bothers me that I appreciate Council Heffern here giving us some of the context, which was not really at all provided in the documents. And I think it would be nice to have maps that do the diligence that zoning board applications and others do when they go through real estate that we get a better survey that gives all adjacent lots and so on. In fact, the particular survey was so devoid of any context, I had to go to the property description to figure out where exactly what section of this alleyway was because, again, there's very few references to it in any real coordinate section in the GIS. So, again, reiterate, I'd like to see that we have more input from other participants that would make use of possible rail to trails and other kinds of uses. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Council Member White. JUST A QUICK QUESTION, JOHN. HOW IS IT THAT WE CAN CONVEY A PIECE OF PROPERTY FOR $1 BUT WE CAN'T DO IT IN OTHER INSTANCES? THAT GOES BACK TO THE PARCEL 7, THE FIRST HEARING THAT WE HAD HERE TODAY. The $1 is the sale price to Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation, which is, for lack of a better word, one of our sister agencies. We've worked with them a lot down there. But in this particular case of Paracel 7, there had been an appraisal and an agreed-upon price. However... Erie Canal Harbor Development Corporation did identify and procure public monies from the state at the city to relocate the utilities that were within that portion of the public right-of-way and it was about him it was I think was north of a million dollars and at that point That informed the the price of the the one dollar and Because you said there was an appraisal done? There was. I can't remember the price. I'm sorry. But there was an appraisal done. This property has been under discussion probably for 10 years. Okay. And there are some other properties in and around there that were associated with... the initial conveyance with respect to the former Buffalo Memorial Auditorium properties. And so there, probably there will be some other properties come before the Common Council in the not too distant future after we wrangle with some of the utilities there. And these other sliver parcels in and around that area. But that informs the highly unusual uh consideration or sale price of one dollar okay thank you mr president all right anyone Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to speak with regard to the Trestle Alley purchase. And just say I walked the property with the purchaser, experienced brick and stone. They've been good neighbors so far. They've made an effort to clean up the property surrounding. I'm confident that they'll be good stewards of this land. So I'm comfortable with this sale. All righty. Motion to close public hearing. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Council President. From the top. Item number one, 2023 capital budget and 2024-27 capital improvement program recommendations. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item number two, appoint assistant auditor. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Nocouse. Item number three, permission to enter into agreement for street level imagery services. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Freeland. item number four notification cereal to repeal no parking on aliquot street motion to receive and file second by councilmember bowman item number five change order for jfk roof improvements motion to approve items five through twenty one saying that councilmember Item number 22, appoint fire lieutenants. Motion to send the civil service. Second by Council Member Fairland. Corporation Council, item number 23, Mohammed Ismail, 37,500. Motion to send the claims committee items 23 through 31. Second by Council Member Wingo. Permits and inspections, item number 32, food store license 217 North Street, aka 214 Elmwood. Motion to approve items. 32 and 33. And just 32 with conditions. With conditions. Seconded by Council Member Friar Leto. item number 34 fiscal year 2022 2023 first first quarter gap report motion to send the finance items 34 and 35 second by council member fairland parking item number 36 animal shelter obtaining tow vehicle motion to approve items 36 and 37. my councilmember nowakowski item number 38 bsa board attendance motion to receive and file you want to keep you want to do 39 and 40 39 through 40. second by council member scanlon item number 41 appoint open data and analytics project coordinator motion to send the civil service items 41 and 42. second by president pro temp scanlon item number 43 appoint legislative aid motion to adopt items 43 and 44 second by council member window miss Miscellaneous item number 45 ZMA and special use permit withdrawal for 38 Tremont motion to receive and file by councilmember Nowakowski item number 46 update on government education and public assets moved to lower channel numbers motion to send the CD my councilmember why do as a fool Thank You mr. president just want to speak on this item briefly because we as you can see from the email that we got from the representative from spectrum He kind of misunderstood what we were talking about and thought we were just talking about one station moving. That is, of course, absolutely not true. We want all stations moved. And the other question I want, and I guess this question is for Corporation Council. Did Spectrum have the authority to move these channels without any approval from the Common Council or any entity that I'm aware of? They've been collecting PEG access money from 2018 when they moved these channels, and the public has not really been able to access. And so, again, you know, they're drawing this whole thing out because they want to negotiate with us and are saying that, Any part of this negotiation has to have some conversation about how do we move these three channels when they were initially just talking about one channel. You know, this is just absurd. Here we are going into a situation where we may have a great deal of snow that people could be on public access and hearing from our public works commissioner about what's going on with this new tracking system, and we don't have that available to the residents. And so again, Spectrum wants to continue to increase prices, reduce access to the residents, for their own reasons, none whatsoever. So again, if we could look into that, because I don't know how they just all of a sudden were able to move the channels. I know that they said something about some side agreement. Well, is the side agreement even an agreement? If we did a side agreement initially, how were they able to move it without any type of approval from the Common Council? This is something that, again, is impacting our residents. And I know that the producers were very upset. that these are people who have been producing and doing shows for several maybe a decade and all of a sudden they were displaced and weren't given any warning and here we are coming up on possibly i don't know what the snow situation may be it may be a crisis i don't know but it would be really nice to have this public access channel that we could stream live that we can let our residents know especially our seniors what's going on especially with the new technology that would be a good tool to present to our residents. So again, spectrum of playing these games in part of the negotiation, but that shouldn't be on the table because we never gave you authority to move it. It should not have been, it shouldn't be a part of a negotiation. It should be, you should put it back because you've taken money from residents every single year or every single month when they pay their cable bill And they've not been able to use it. So I think there should be a couple of tracks. We should be looking at how do we refund a residence for something that they were getting that they didn't have access to. So again, I look forward to this gentleman meeting with us. I guess he's supposed to be meeting my colleagues and talking to us about their negotiation or whatever they have. At this point, I'm just kind of fed up, and I want to see is there a way that we can get this done without waiting for negotiation, because that's the tool that they're using. They're saying this is part of the negotiation. Well, if there was no agreement from us to move it, how did you just move it arbitrarily, and now we have to come back and renegotiate it? Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Item number 47, special. So the Corporation Council will get back. Item number 47, special use 830 Abbott for additional information and letters and signatures of support. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Phelan. Petitions, item number 48, special use 138 Peter Street for non-owner occupied short-term rental. Motion to send legislation items 48 through 51. Second by Council Member Glumbach. Submission list, civil service, item number one, notice of appointment, fleets coordinator. Motion is to approve items 1, 2, and 3. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Item number 4, appoint fire lieutenant. Motion is to receive and file items 4 through and including 11. Second by the Majority Leader, Revere. Community development item number 122022023 snow plan motion to receive in file second by customer. No, we had a brief from our commissioner about the snow plan. Of course, public has been informed of the new GPS system. And I met with the commissioner this week, so he is considering some of the items that we discussed here. He was very well briefed on the limitations of 311 and possibly. if possible, finding some solution there, especially for people coming in from work late or getting up early. I don't know what will happen, but at least he has made note of that. And as it looks, he may be tested very soon in the next few days, so we wish him luck. I don't know. I'm sorry. Councilmember White. Mr. President, I know that on the news, and maybe I missed it, that the news had talked about there were some lots that residents can use in the city. Were we aware of that, that there were lots that were available to residents to park their vehicles? I don't – me personally, I'm not aware of it. Okay. Because I don't know where that came from with the news. Well, it was an interview with someone from the administration that said it's one in every district. So we'll have the clerk's office reach out to the administration, send out a list of whatever they have. Thank you. Yeah, that would be helpful. Council Member Wendell. Do we have a list of the items that we have requested that they are actually going to consider for the snow plan? because the snow plan that we have is the snow plan that was Presented that we approved so that we would have a snow plan But I'm curious to know which items we submitted they actually are going to consider If we can ask them to come back, but he didn't give me anything to write it. Okay. Okay. Yeah, and I don't I We can't ask him to provide. And what I said to him the other day, anything that he is going to do additionally to send it to every council member because he met and, you know, wanted to know, should he send it to individuals? I'm like, the better we communicate across the board so that he doesn't have to send you one, you, you know, so. he's been pretty proactive in meeting and wanting to know um how to get out information so no he doesn't have to go through anybody else send it right to the council members next item item number 13 designated developer 887 891 michigan street motion to approve second by council member wyatt and on number 14 designated developer agreement for 224 vermont llc Motion to recommit. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Revere. Item number 15, construction project at Jasper Parish Housing. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fiala. Item number 16, reported sale portion of 15 Shrek. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Legislation item number 19, food store license 1799 Genesee Street. Motion to approve with conditions 19 and approve item 20. All right. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 21, local landmark 1443 Clinton Street. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Glumman. Item number 22, ordinance amendment chapter 479, traffic ordinance. Motion is to approve items 22, 23, 24 is sent without recommendation in the North District. North District. Okay. 104 how? Yeah, that one can be approved. 24, 25, and also approved 24. Council Member Golombik on the second. Item number 25, special use 414 West Elephant for not owner occupied. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item number 26, a May UDL for zoning map for Sycamore. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. resolutions item number 52 call him for a traffic study for Genesee Street and Bailey Avenue motion to adopt and remainder to CD second by councilmember Bowman and a number 53 Christmas decorations on Lovejoy Street motion to approve I miss 53 and 54 by councilmember Bowman Item number 55, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt items 55 and 56. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 57, Trailblazing Signs for Arthur and Marianne Kowalski Way. Motion to approve items 57 through 61. Seconded by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Any business? Announcements? Any business? Announcements? Announcements of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Service is Tuesday, November 22, 2022 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance following Civil Service is Tuesday, November 22, 2022 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, November 22, 2022 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, November 22nd, 2022 at 2 p.m. Special Committees Committee on Claims will be Wednesday, November 16th, 2022 at 1 p.m. I just wanted to make sure that we included 58 and 59 in that last motion. The motion was to approve items 58 and 59 as well. Oh, no, it's 60 and 61. we didn't do 60 and 61. motion to approve item 60 and 60. there we go all right um approved by councilman uh second by councilmember wyatt or else he wouldn't have any christmas decorations on bill Any announcements for you? Councilmember no, Kowski. I just want to do a general announcement for all of us So the it's a we're assuming that the snow plan will be tested this weekend and it will only be effective If we can get parking compliance in the city of Buffalo So we need to encourage all of our constituents to please adhere to all parking rules and regulations Look at all signage and even encourage the office of the mayor to even send out a buff alert so that we can get into compliance for parking regulations so that we can get plows down streets. I know that parking can be tough sometimes on some blocks, but we have those rules for a reason so we can get city plows down them. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to make sure the residents of the University District are aware we're doing our annual turkey giveaway. Please call the office. The number of turkeys are limited, 716-851-5165. Our turkey giveaway will be taking place at 995 Kensington on November 17th at 5.30 p.m. Thank you. All right. Any others? Motion? Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Golombet. We're adjourned.