The motion is to take item 66. Is it 66? 66. 65. Is it 60? I have the wrong agenda. Is it 65? OK, the discharge is 65. Hold on, sir. Motion to take item 65 out of order. I have it marked 66. All right. On my page 8, if you're in the hard pages. All right. Item 65, discharge. Item 17-1561 from legislation committee. Motion. Motion. Go ahead. Motion to adopt the discharge. Motion to, oh, motion to adopt discharge, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. No. No, that'll be, no. All right. So that'll come out of legislation. It's been discharged, so yep. Yes, sir. I might have a problem with my event. Okay, we can pause. If the majority leader has a problem, we all have a problem. Because you'll be calling off the wrong items and approving the wrong stuff and giving people stuff away that we shouldn't be. I had 60. I had 66. I had 60. This guy. So we're off by one. Mr. Chairman, I'm going to work off. Are you okay? All right. Majority leader is okay. Proceed from the top. YES. ITEM ONE, CAPITAL BUDGET RECOMMENDATIONS. MOTION TO SEND TO THE COMMITTEE OF THE HOLE. SECONDED BY COUNCILMAN GOLUMBECK. COUNCIL, YOU MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT. NO, GO AHEAD. NO, IF YOU WANT TO MAKE THE ANNOUNCEMENT, THAT'S FINE. WE'RE GOING TO HAVE A WORDSHOP NEXT WEEK, THE 21ST, AT 11 O'CLOCK, RIGHT AFTER FINANCE. IT'S GOING TO BE A WORDSHOP IN ROOM 1470. IF WE'RE HERE, WE COULD PROBABLY HAVE IT HERE. ABSOLUTELY, WHEREVER YOU WANT TO BE. YOU WANT TO DO IT RIGHT HERE? Right after finance, 11 o'clock. It's scheduled for 11. Or immediately following finance, we can have it right here. All right. Are the council members available for that? Just want to make sure. All right. So immediately filing the finance committee will be the council's workshop for the capital budget right here in this room. And public income, they're always invited to their house. Next item. Item 2, submission of monthly report, October 2017. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item 3, amend sale for 12 Goodyear. Motion to approve items 3 through 16. I'm sorry, item 5 is going to need an amendment on it. Oh, there's an amendment to item 5? Yes. So if we could just do 3 and 4. Motion to approve items 3 and 4. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 5, extend designated developer various items in Monroe-Lops. Okay. So the motion, well, Majority Leader, is to prove, but it needs an amendment. On the item, it says that it will go until commencing until December 7, 2017. So this should be, let me pause for a second. Alright, so what it right now says is commencing on December 7th, 2017 and expiring on June 7th, 2019, which would give this project almost two years on designated developer, and that's not something we do normally. So to write that, it would go from December 7th, 2017 to December 7th, 2018. That would be the amendment to this contract. So if we could approve it with motion to approve as amended as amended second by council member franzak Thank you. Mr. Chair, and I apologize. I didn't get that to you Item six reporter sale 32 good year motion to approve item 6 through 16 Second by council member feroz leto 117 appointed market manager and food enterprises coordinator motion to send the civil service Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 18, Certificate of Necessity Transfer of Funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. From the Council President, Item 19, Fruit Belt Update. Motion to send Items 19 and 20 to CD. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. On Item 20, the According to federal regulations for the post office, when they are searching for a new location, they have to share it with the city government and be heard at a meeting. So I believe they're scheduled to come to our next CD meeting, the representative from the United States Postal Service, to meet the requirements of looking for a new post office. next item i'm 21 changing contract motion to approve items 21 through 29 uh second through 29 second by president proxon item 30 appoint production assistant motion to receive and file second by council member why item 31 appoint traffic signal specialist motion to send the civil service item 31 and 32 second by council member wingo item 33 approval to renew contract with health works Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 34, food store license 2594 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation item 34 through 37. Second by President Prokosan. Item 38, property manager license. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Lombard. Item 39, tire handler license 1677, a.k.a. 1675 Seneca. Motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fontaine. Item 40, reports of attendance. Motion to receive and file items 40 through 44. Seconded by Council Member Fontaine. Item 45, notice of appointment, council intern. Motion to adopt items 45 and 46. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Miscellaneous items, item 47. Motion to receive and file. 67 North, a.k.a. 10 Linwood, conversion of existing structure to residential. Motion to receive and file items 47 through 49. Second by Councilman Freeland. Item 50, concern spectrum, $5 fee for local government station access. Motion to send the CD and DPW. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 51, opposition to proposed landmarking 980 Ellicott. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golumba. Item 52, SEAF 3144 Main Street. Motion to adopt. Items 52 and 53. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 54, 3083 Main Street, agreement to food store conditions. Motion to receive and file items 54 and 55. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 56, Mid-City Station Post Office Reestablishment Project. Motion to send to CD items 56 and 57. Second by Council Member Fontana. Council Member Goulabakir, you have the floor. Thank you, Mr.
 President. I just wanted to mention item number 57, local Western New York curmudgeon Paul Wolf and his organization did a study on all of the different governments here in Western New York. And I think that this does kudos for this council because we were one of several government entities that that actually understands the open meetings laws and knows when and when not to go into executive session. And as a matter of fact, we've probably erred more times on the side of open government and transparency than we have to the other extreme. I forget what we were like in the single digits, the numbers of times that we've ever called for executive session. So this item, I'm going to ask for it to go to community development. I'm going to invite somebody from Mr. Wolf's organization or Mr. Wolf to come in and actually share. explain what it is that they do and why it is that we did a good job because, you know, we deserve to get beat up when we do something wrong, but, you know, we've been doing the right thing for more times than I can remember, and so we deserve to get the credit for that in my opinion as well. Absolutely, and I think that, and thank you for that, Mr. Golombek. You know, this council and almost everybody was here when we went live on Internet, Of course, the system that we have now that allows people to go back and look at our council meetings, we're on government access. I said to someone today, you name a council in this area that is as open as we are and accessible as we are, and I'll bet you the Super Bowl on it. And so I think that that's so important that people know this is a council that is open. We might have some rules and just some points of order, but other than that... I don't know of another government body around here that almost every council member, when they need to find them, they can. All of our meetings are open. We just talked about the caucus or the capital budget and said, come on in, participate in your government. Thank you, Mr. Plummer. So you're inviting them this week? Mr. Montour, I believe, has already sent out the invite. We're just waiting to hear back from him. Absolutely. Thank you. And there's a board member waiting to speak. Council Member Frantz, I'm... Thank you, sir. Joe brings up a great point, Mr. Golombek does, and this is a pretty well-drafted... white paper here as far as how many times it actually has us listed as zero going in for the time period. So I think that's about right. I don't remember one. We do a claims committee and sometimes we have to for the claims committee. So that's a little different. But if you're interested, the interesting point, the takeaway here is West Seneca. And I Talked to all three of the officials out there in West Seneca all the time, so this is not a slam. But they only have three elected officials in West Seneca, two council members and the supervisor who's on the board as well. And they were on the news last night, you saw them on the news. But since they can't talk to each other in twos, it's just really, I can't sit here and talk to him. There's different things they can talk about they can't talk about. It becomes such a problem that they have to hold these executive sessions so they can just all talk. And I don't know if that's – it seems like it's not as open government as people were hoping for. So I think their five number that they used to have was better. I voted to downsize this council to nine, which has been a fine number for the last, you know, 10, 15 years. But too small, though, is the concern here. And too small is seen showing to me that you're going to have more – of a, you know, less of an inclusive government if you're too small because two people can't talk. It would be very, very hard for you to do business as council president. You only had two of us you could talk to, and every time you talked to one of us, you were trying to not violate an opens meeting law. Pretty interesting. Very interesting. All righty. Thank you, sir. Next item. 158, use 3223, Bailey. Motion to send to legislation a city planning board items 58 through 60. And now I've got a picture. Okay. My agenda switched. All right. I think we had a problem with printing. All right. Next item. I mean, second by Councilmember Wingo. Item 61, concerns business at 3144 Main. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Committee, civil service. Item 1, appoint financial operations administrator. Motion to approve items number one and two. Second by President Prokofiev. Finance Committee, item three, Buffalo Crossing Guard Association Collective Bargaining Agreement. Approved three, four, and five, as well as six. Second by the Majority Leader. Community Development Committee, item seven, South Buffalo's exclusion from Solar City's workforce outreach. Motion to receive and file item seven and eight. Second by the Majority Leader. Legislation Committee, item nine, report and recommendation landmark status 980, Ellicott. Well, that one just is a point of information. You've got a resolution on that, so we can do that. We already did the discharge. Yes, sir. so is this the one we we just we discharged it already so that's before us yes okay uh i'll defer to the council president to make a motion all right so the the motion on for this is to deny and i'll read some of an extensive uh writing of why that i will file with the clerk one of the main reason portly stand alone building on this property as associated that is associated with this area significantly altered over the years and has little architectural integrity left. All other existing structures were built between 1970 and 2000, should not be considered an application for landmark status and are further not worthy of landmark status. In addition, the amphibian car company located at 980 Ellicott did not create quote, as was quoted, the world's first amphibious car. Evidently, there were several inventors prior to the 1940s, such as Peter Prell of New Jersey, who in 1931 created one of the first vehicles to operate successfully on both land and sea. Finally, it appears that most of the attributes to this site were occurrences that happened in the site's elementary stage and never developed into viable economic business ventures. Therefore, based on the above facts, information provided and considered at the public hearings, I move to deny the landmark status of the Brum Coach Company 980 Ellicott Street, including the site parcels as its building, and the full report is filed with clerk. Uh, second by Council Member Wyatt. In the negative. Council Member Franczak, Council Member Golombek in the negative. Please record. All right. Thank you. Next item. Item 10, Lodging House, St. John's Place. 10 through 12, motion to approve. Uh, second by President Proctor. Second by President Proctor. Item 13, second-hand dealer, 3124 Bailey. 13 originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to recommit. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item 14, used car dealer, 116 Merle. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by President Pro Temp. Item 15, use 91 Dakota for electronic message center sign. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 16, use 26 Virginia Place. That also originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. All right. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 17, property manager, licensed JMN property management. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 18, use 3144 Main Street. I'll defer to University District Council Member Rasheed Wye for the purposes of a motion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to let the residents, because this has been a long, drawn-out issue. We've got her in this bar, and I understand the residents of the district. And I can tell you that the number of letters that I received, that if it was just for my decision from the residents, it would have been denied. However, we have to follow the law. As lawmakers, we can't be lawbreakers. And I've been advised, working with Corporation Counsel, that this applicant meets all the standards that are drawn up regarding the Green Code. And even from the persons who were opposing in their letter from their attorney, They made some assertions, but many of them were things that they looked at and put on the applicant as if the applicant was open. He hasn't been opened. We don't know what the outcomes may be. So we have to give him opportunity. This wasn't an easy decision, but advised by Corporation Council, it would be unfair for me to deny it based on just the dissonance from the residents. I've been in this thing for a couple years. I've seen the Main Street and the University Heights area turn around, working with the University of Buffalo. But in all those situations, their council member has been very much engaged. I've been a part of every step, so I certainly don't want us to see us go backwards, but we must give the applicant the opportunity as applied by law. State Liquor Authority has given them a license. They were approved by the planning board, and they do meet all the requirements regarding the green code. So I just want to read a brief statement from Corporation Council, which I should have had tuned up already. So the motion is to approve. Thank you. and I have reviewed the application of 3144 Main Street, and I've read the opposing comments by the public. It is my opinion that the proposed use of 3144 Main Street is consistent with the spirit and intent of this ordinance and that all opposition of this application, while extremely relevant, does not meet the standard and warrant denial. So we approve it based on that Mr. Sardetto, who is the applicant, will be under the same authority as any other applicant or any other bar. He'll probably have more scrutiny because it's been in the public, but he's made some commitments that I hope that he will stand by. He said he will be a member of the Main Street Business Association. He said that he would attend the University Heights collaborative meetings. Those are things that he said that he would do in good faith So hopefully you'll follow through with those things other conditions that I'm adding to this is that he must remove the tent from the windows Of the establishment. I don't think that's allowed by SLA I'm gonna make sure that we can see inside there that the public and the police can see in there no market to other age drinkers the underage youth and That's something that's been a bit of concern because again, we have a lot of underage shrinking in the district because of the students. However, I'm concerned that he will be appeasing or marketing towards those under 21, but based on the fact that he doesn't have a kitchen, he has limited resources as far as food. So I'm asking that he does not market to those underage and also keep us abreast of the kitchen. He made him a commitment that there would be a kitchen. When he first had the conversation that I brought him into the council, he talked about a kitchen, and we expect us to keep us informed and hope that a kitchen will come soon so that he can do with the expansion, and the community would be happy with that. These are fair things that we're asking for. I don't think it's out of the line. It is something that he stated, not something I'm enforcing. But I'm trying to make sure that he keeps true to his commitment. Because I think one of the things that he's going to have to earn is the trust of community. The community doesn't feel that trustworthy. However, In my peer view, in my responsibility as a lawmaker, we must follow the law. We must approve this as any other applicant. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So, okay, and I'll come right to Ms. Fritz. So are you approving it with those conditions? With those conditions, yes. So we want to make sure that the clerk gets those conditions in writing so that they are on his license to operate. Yes, thank you. Mr. Chairman, you know, I'm wondering why these items come before us if they need to be approved as a matter of rights. Um, the police department investigates this individual, inspectors and fire department go out to their property, they say the character is good, they're not denying it for some reason. Then it goes sometimes to zoning, sometimes in planning they approve it. And then it comes to us, and what I heard is, is if, um, We have to approve it basically so unless there is something that Our charter state law says that we can't approve it because you know mr. For little councilman for letter, and I just had a discussion about Saturation of bars in Allentown will come up again, and I'm going it was similar thing that mr. Wyatt went through and although I think there's a section in ordinance that I vote before that's not replaced by the green code that talks about over saturation and If what Mr. White said, the law department said is true, these things shouldn't come before us. So why are they coming before us? If we under the charter, we're not breaking any law. It's just a matter of interpretation of the charter. So it's not us being lawbreakers. It's us. It's us. under what conditions does the council have a right to disapprove this? We can disapprove this, and the applicant can always do an Article 78, go to court, and the court can overturn us or what have you because we went through that with various delis. So what powers do we have? Why is this before us is my question. I don't know if we can get an answer. So we'll have Corporation Council to answer that question. Thank you. Karen Gordon, Corporation Council. So it is not correct that we do not have the authority to disapprove or approve. In fact, special use permits are discretionary permits that can be approved by the Common Council since we are the lead agency for the special use permit. Or disapprove. Of course, based on that, there are standards. And when an applicant meets the standards, then there's no reason to deny him if he meets the standards. There might be other issues that might come up, and as... Everyone know, if you're familiar with the neighborhood and you have that insightful information that you can weigh in on the decision-making process, that's fine. But the court would not be satisfied to say that I've made a decision based solely on the public opinion with no evidential facts before us and not weighing in on the standards that were provided for us. So we have to weigh in on the standards that are provided under the special use permit under the UDO. I think it's 11.3.3E. We have to approve based on that. And if at the end of the day, after reviewing it, our decision is denied, then we do so. But we cannot just outwardly deny if the applicant meets the standard. Now, that's the standards under the special use permit. How do you define the standards? It's written there, but how do you define it? But you say, how do I define it? I mean, I could define it. How do you define standards? Well, the yardstick. The yardstick that is used to measure every applicant when they come before the council. That's a centilla or more that is going to determine whether or not we can say yes or we can say nay as it relates to granting you that you sperm it, that we have the discretion to deny or approve. So it's basically, it's the yardstick that's in my terminology, the best way I can put it. That measuring instrument that's going to determine whether or not we deny or approve. a special use permit in this case or in another case it might be something as might be a variance or so well i i would recommend one thing i don't know if mr white wants to entertain this is that uh could you not put a condition of a one-year sunset and then see how they do excuse me I'm just throwing, that's not up to me, that's up to the councilman. I'm just saying that could be a way to go back and see if they're doing everything they're supposed to do. And there is an option for that? You, when you, because it's a discretionary permit, you you can put conditions. You have an opportunity as the council, as the lead body to put conditions on that and permit so you can say, which I think Councilmember Wyatt has done, laid down some conditions under which this license is going to continue and if you break those conditions then the council has the authority to come back and revoke that special use permit. And remember, the special use permit runs with the individual. So if this establishment eventually ends up to be a terrible establishment and the person goes, he cannot go and just reopen a bar anywhere else. He would have to apply again for another special use permit. And then you would have a character of our organization. a bag of evidence to be returned to and say, okay, you've had a special use permit before. This is what we've found. You've done this. You did that. Your last establishment did not meet up to your promises. And so now we have something that we can judge him by. So if we give him an approval with these conditions, which is ad infinitum, meaning that it could last forever with this guy, Can we at any time call it back to us and examine him without saying there's a sunset? Well, a better thing to do would be to put a sunset if you want to do that, but remember the council has subpoena powers, so the council can always call in whoever that's within our jurisdiction and ask a question. Now, I have seen on rare occasions the mayor has executive authority to close a bar down for a period of time, probably not forever. But in the case there was a shooting, I thought it was in Chippewa or wherever it was, the mayor actually gave an executive... hookah lounge but I thought there was a bar too maybe it was just it was a borrows he had a bar that also he gave he gave an executive order to close it as a public safety risk which is probably limited on the amount of time you can do that as far as state law or however you know the courts or what happens so I don't know if there's a you know what the limitation would be on that but of course did anything that relates to public health and safety That's a grounds for making a lot of forward legislative decisions, and the court will stand by that if there's evidence enough, substantial evidence, to prove what it is that you're claiming. I just use that as a friendly amendment or suggestion that if you wanted to do that sunset, I'd certainly do that and come back and do this at the court. Thank you. And I'm going to go to Council Member Wyatt was next. And then did you, were you repeating? All right. The mayor has in the past, even in the Ellicott District, I think twice shut down two bars that did not open, reopen, if my memory serves me correct. Yeah. with that executive order when there was problems at those establishments. And I don't think that there is a time frame that he has to do that after it is open, do it at any time, that there is a risk to public safety. And so that's good to know. Councilman Frillard? Thank you. I just have one quick question about – what Council Member Fronzek was talking about with putting the conditions on it. It's my understanding that, say for instance, Council Member Wyatt wanted to put a condition on it that they have to come back in one year or these conditions are valid for a year, the owner would have to agree to it. And if the council member put those conditions on without the owner agreeing to it, then they wouldn't be valid or the owner could challenge them. So if we're doing conditions, it's better to consent or to have the owner agree. Is that correct? So if we just put them on and they disagree, then they wouldn't be valid? Is that right? Karen Gordon, Corporation Council. My best response to that would be, It would be best if you can get a consent from the owner, because now you know that he's coming to the table in good faith. I mean, you don't want to make the, you don't want to say approve, because then he can just go say, well, regardless of the condition, I'll do whatever, and then leave it up to us to police him. And that wouldn't be the wise thing to do. So yes, you can get the consent of the owner and put him to the table. speak to the fire, as they would say. That would be a wise thing to do. But the conditions on the approval, I think it's still okay because then he cannot operate unless he still says yes to the conditions. So I think Councilmember Wyatt still has an opportunity to speak to him. Maybe the council may want him to come back. It's all up to you. You have the authority on this issue because it's common council alleviation. And as the representative, I think whatever you choose to do, you would have full authority to do so.
 Okay. And I will get the consent from the applicant and then file that because I don't think that he wants to disagree with me at this point in time because we've been through this long enough so I will make sure I get that and forward that. But the other thing that I want to just bring up is that it's another issue that is not and our responsibility as far as the liquor license. And I think that process needs to be vetted a little bit more. Not that we want to have any authority in making a decision, but we wanna make sure it's very much transparent where the community is very much well aware of the applicants who are applying for liquor licenses. This is something that has gone under the radar. We get a receiving file item for most often for things that have already passed. There are very few times in which the public is notified of these situations, but I want to make sure I work with the State Liquor Authority. I've asked council staff to invite our local... SLA rep to come and speak to us to make us more aware and look at how we can work collaboratively in notifying the public. It's nothing more than making sure that the word gets out that there's a liquor license applicant in the community and that the community is very much aware so that they have a dissent. It doesn't have to come to the council. They can go to the SLA before the license is approved before it comes to us. And it's pretty much a done deal when the case, the applicant has met the, threshold of responsibility for any other applicant because I think the word I have to use is unfair. We don't want to be unfair in making our decision for one applicant versus another. Karen, I would just suggest too, after speaking to the Council President that if for whatever reason after you've placed the conditions the applicant does not agree, you have the authority to rescind that approval. So you have 62 days from the public hearing, and I'm not sure when the public hearing was. No, I can't remember. But you have 62 days from then to make the decision, and so I think you're well within that time, Bill. All right. Council Member Wingo? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm not comfortable really admitting this, but I'm lost. Okay. I understand and then I don't because I'm hearing, I don't know what I'm hearing actually. So the Common Council is a lead agency. We ultimately either approve or deny the application, which means they can't operate until we approve them.
 Okay. If we... approve them with conditions, whether they consent or agree to those conditions or not, those conditions are still established. Okay. Now, there's a 62-day window that we have to operate within to rescind our approval. If... Karen Gordon, Corporation Counsel. The 62 days is just the period during which we have to make a decision. So we have 62 days from the public hearing to make a decision. Okay. So picking up from there. So we're already at the point where we're making approval, where within our 62 days to make that approval or denial. Now, after we've approved them with these conditions, what I'm hearing is because they're approved... they can operate legally, and should they not comply with those conditions, we only have subpoena power to bring them in and question them, but we don't have the authority to revoke their license. Karen Gordon, Corporation Counsel. The opportunity to put the conditions on it basically says you can operate legally, providing that you operate within the confines of these conditions. So yes, we can pull the license. Because if they do not operate within the confines of the conditions, the grounds under which they have been given that license, then they are in breach of the agreement. and they're not complying with what it is, or the grounds under which they received the license, or the opportunity to operate. As it relates to, we don't want to police every bar in our district, and we don't want to police every food store in our district, and we don't want to police all the property managers in our district. All of these applications that come before the council to get approved, we can approve these applications with conditions, and these conditions... based off of whatever yardstick we're using to imply that they've met the standard to approve them with, these conditions are what we use to either revoke them later or to deny them at the point of this council session. Karen Gordon? Yes, I would say so. Just like we do it with a food store license, there are discretionary permits that we give, and we have the opportunity to place conditions on them. So just as we do there, we can do here. As you said, it means that do you want to take up the opportunity to kind of monitor or police them? Maybe not. constituents complain enough that there is something that's happening that should not be happening at one of the establishments as they often do, we can bring that person in and if we're not satisfied, we can deny them continuation to operate. So the food stores come before us every year to get re-approved. I think some of them do. Some of them that have the yearly approvals or some of them have sunset, I'm not sure. Okay. So I'm aware of the sunset rule and I'm aware that they do come before us every year to be re-approved. Do the liquor stores and some of the other applications that come before us I do not believe so, no. So these conditions are what enable us to bring them back for us to the subpoena power? The subpoena power would allow us to bring them back if we have any questions, if they're not operating the way they're supposed to and the way they promised according to the grounds or the conditions of the approval. Yes, our subpoena's power that the council has will allow us to send a letter out to them and tell them You have to report here or we can send a court officer out and find them and bring them. And what if they don't show up? Well, I think the subpoena powers allow you to get a court officer to go get them. So if we can't find them then I mean there's nothing you can do. You cannot find them. So if we can't find them, we can't shut them down? That's a good question. I don't know how to answer that. Can I say this? And I'm not an attorney, but just not being able to find the owner is not a reason you can't shut them down. Because when the mayor shuts down the club, he's not asking to meet with the owner. They go and they placard that building. And it is not necessary to have a conversation with the owner because it is a decision of the government body that we're saying having a license is not a right, it's a privilege. Once you have abused that privilege, the government can come in and say, We're stopping this. Now, they have appeal rights. They could go to court. They could do. But right then and there, when when the mayor shuts it down, it's shut down. They can't even they're not supposed to open up that next day. So they wouldn't need to necessarily. So the mayor is executive branch for the legislative branch. We're we all have our balance of power. So if the mayor has the ability to shut down a business or someone who's applied for the privilege to operate, The council also has some type of power to ensure that we can shut down businesses in our district that may be operating nefariously or egregiously. Or we have to send inspectors. What is it? What do we do? Aaron Gordon, Corporation Council. Well, as a legislative body, we establish laws and regulations. We approve certain things. The mayor is the head of it all. In a situation like this, I would say we go to the mayor as a legislative body. You probably go to the mayor. Something like that, it might be public enough that we have a lot of public opinion or... neighborhood support for it. There might be evidence, like in the case of a shooting, in the case of, I don't know, excessive drunkenness or lewdness, there might be those evidence and it might be sufficient enough to bring to the mayor and for him to make a decision to move in and shut it down. Alright, so this last and final question, it may seem a little naïve at the end of the day, if we have discretion to approve Do we have discretion to revoke? Within the confines or within the parameters that we've set, we have the same authority or the discretion within that authority to revoke. I don't like the idea of saying you have discretion to revoke, because then we have to start thinking about what's our standard for revocation. Well, it's the same as saying we have the discretion to approve, because at that point it's... The revocation standard could be public safety, health and safety. Our standards for approval is a lot more, it's more extensive, like about six or seven. We can have one reason that can be good enough to revoke and we probably need to go through six, seven reasons before we determine an approval or a denial. Yes, we have the authority to approve or deny when it comes to revocation because we will be giving that person a property interest. Now we're getting into a whole set of more murky parts of the law because if you give a person a property interest, of course, if it's based on conditions and they break the conditions, then yes, we can revoke it. But if it's not based on conditions, or even when it's based on conditions, you must have substantial reason to go in and revoke it because you have given them an interest in what it is that they're doing. And so the law says you can't just come and revoke that interest without some kind of, you know, so we'll either be saying that because of health and safety you're not operating in the confines of the law, people's lives are being jeopardized, and so we have guns to shut you down. But we can't just go back and say, well, we're in discussion. We can't just go pull the license. Yeah, I don't think – I'm not suggesting that we're just going to arbitrarily pull a license just because we feel like it one day. That's not what I'm suggesting. It's more along the lines of – If we've given you these parameters to operate within and you are not operating within these parameters, we have the authority to pull your license. Now, again, if you go above and beyond that and do something that is a detriment or compromises the safety or even the quality of life for the residents around the business, then we also have some leverage in revoking that. that license okay thank you no mr and and i i totally understand the question of of councilman wingo is well when and what what's the what's the procedure and i heard like a procedural question i'm not sure if that was answered for you of what exactly would do it is procedural and you're absolutely right mr chair the the the point okay so can we oh So is it by right? Okay, so the procedure would be that we draft a resolution to revoke the license. Is that the only avenue that we have to execute a revocation of a license? Gordon and counsel, don't. I'm not sure. It would be something I would need to look into a little bit more to see if there's other avenues other than the resolution. So I don't want to, you know, say because I'm not sure. But for what we are sure of, though, right now is that we can send out an inspector and they can go out and either take eyewitness of the account and then at that point either issue some type of suspension or revocation. Right. And then even with the revocations, we would probably, we would have to bring them in. I'm assuming we may have to bring them in. We may have to question them. We may have to put them on the record because again, as I said, you can't just go and just pull the license because now you've given them some property interest here. And so before you can deny them of that, you have to give them an opportunity to be heard. So we would have to bring them back in and the process. All right. So Council Member White. Thank you, Mr.
 Chair. Okay, so to make it clear, and I think this is fair, because of the concerns, I would like to put... two-year condition on this license and that's consistent with the liquor license from what I understand as well as the lease on that way it gives the applicant full enough time to show what type of business is going to run and fairness to make sure that you know it's no impact I'm to be honest I don't expect to have any impact I think the previous Establishment that was in that particular location had no problems. I talked to the police chief as well as There was no documented incidents to my office or To the city that I'm aware of so if we could put a two-year condition on it. I think that's fair sunset all right, so the so the motion Because we didn't get a second. I didn't do a second yet. So the motion is to approve with the stated conditions and a two-year sunset of the license. All right. And I'm going to ask you, when you are in these chambers, we have the quorum. The one thing I'm not going to allow is there's been public debate, and you have not only been given the opportunity at the caucus, and not only the opportunity, but you were told you were also given a courtesy. And you were given an opportunity when we were here in the committee meeting. And unfortunately, sir, this is how the council runs. You can speak to your council member afterward, but it will not be allowed in these chambers. All right, so I'm going to give this to Corporate Council because I do want your answer. I mean question answered, but we're going to finish the motion and then because I think we found the answer. Second by Council Member Cronin. Councilmember Fialetto, you okay with that? I don't know if you want to be on the record. Councilmember Fialetto, we do have a clarification, at least by the law. By the time we end this, I'm going to make that clarification public because I thought it was just one person that could do it. So I think the debate is, and the questions are great, because it just lets the public know what we can and cannot do. You ready to opine on that? All right. We'll finish it up with this. Okay. So according to Article 2, closing of taverns, Section 313-3, direction to close. It says here, the mayor is hereby authorized to direct the proprietors, keepers, or persons in charge of any salon, bar, or place where intoxication, intoxicating liquors, wine, ale, or beer are sold, offered for sale, or given away to close and keep closed in times of dire emergency for so long as time as he shall be necessary. So it shows here, it gives Mayor the authority to close any bar or tavern that, in his opinion or based on facts, it's an emergency to do so or public health and safety. That's what it does.
 Yep. All right. I think we've taken care of that. Next item. Item 19, you request to name west end paving of Point Lake Herb Segal Landing and Walkway. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 20, adoptive reuse permit 243 Sears. That originally came without recommendation. Motion is now to approve. Second by Majority Leader. All right. Item 21, special use permit 1000 Furman Boulevard. Motion is to approve. Second by President Brunson. Item 22, zoning map amendment 1764, Hurdle. Motion to receive and file items 22 and 23. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Resolutions, item 62, Herb Siegel Landing and Walkway. Second by Councilman Columbo. Item 63, fee waiver for Gallagher Ramp. Motion to approve items 63 and 64. Second by Councilman Franza. Item 66, United Way proclamation. Motion to adopt items 65 and 66. Second by Councilman Fontana. Item 67, denial of level 3 application. Motion to approve items 67, 68, and 69. Second by Columbo. President Proetzel? Item 70, home rule request William J. Cooley, New York State Retirement System. Motion to adopt item 70 and 71. Second by President Proetzel. Item 70. Oh, 71 was already. Item 72, waive special event fees for various events. My numbers are off, that's why. 71, that's Commissioner Deeds. 71 is Commissioner Deeds, 72 is... Yeah, that's an adoption. Sorry, my council member Wyatt. Next one. 72 is an approved. 72 is an approved. Yep. That one is seconded by Council Member Black. Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, November 21st, 945 a.m. Committee on finance, following civil service. We'll also have our Committee of the Whole meeting regarding the capital budget, following that. Committee on community development, Tuesday, November 21st, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, November 21st, 2 p.m. council members indiana council member rivera thank you very much mr chairman uh due to the holidays uh next week's holidays uh thanksgiving holidays the filing date uh for the november 28th meeting will be wednesday the 22nd at 10 a.m and we'll all be late no just kidding that's on time councilman franz yes thank you mr chairman for those who enjoy the fruit of the vine responsibly The Broadway Market will have the wines of the greater western New York region on Friday, November the 17th, and Saturday... November 18th is the weekend that's coming, and that's all from wineries and vineyards from our western New York area, from wine country and local vendors, and so that's the good thing about it. Thank you. So Fruit of the Vine in your district, and Joe has the Fruit of the Barley? Is that what you would call it? Council Member Fioriletto? I don't know. Thank you very much. Saturday, November 25th is Small Business Saturday. So for the third consecutive year, myself and Council Member Rivera are sponsoring a free shuttle on Elmwood Avenue. We did a resolution today to waive fees in the city ramp. at 499 Elmwood Avenue. So people can park for free at the Gallagher ramp at 499 Elmwood. Every 10 to 15 minutes, a shuttle picks you up. Every two to three blocks on Elmwood Avenue, all the way from Forest to Allen, from 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. on Saturday, November 25th. thank you cool councilmember why thank you thank you mr um just want to invite the community out to our grand reopening of the edward sanders community center gym on tomorrow at 3 p.m i'm really excited about this i'm really looking forward to having the young people come into a gym that's well taken care of And we're going to take care of it going forward and have many, many activities regarding new business development, job fairs, things that really is necessary and needed in that community. So I'm looking forward to that. So I'm inviting the community out at Edward Saunders on Bailey Avenue at 3 p.m. And also our turkey giveaway is taking place on November 21st. 5 p.m. 995 Kensington. It's not too late. I'm inviting all the seniors. If you live in the district, give us a call at 851-5165. Get your reservation in early because the turkeys are limited. But it's something I'm really excited to be able to do for seniors and low income at a time when sometimes people just don't have. Thank you, sir. All right. Hearing no others. Say goodbye.