Five, four, three, two, one. Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Farrelletto. Here. Council member Golombet. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Thank you. Jason Walker, a 12th grader from Health Science Charter School will come to the floor. He can come down and he will lead us in the play. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, thank you, Jason. Our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. With Thanksgiving so close, it's an easy tie-in for our session today to reflect for a moment on giving thanks. Thanks. The scripture that came to mind in Luke 17, Jesus encounters 10 lepers, heals all 10, but one of the 10 comes back seeing that he was healed, praising God in a loud voice. And Jesus asked the question, we're not 10 cleansed, where are the other nine? And then says to the one, rise up, go, your faith has made you well. It's interesting how easy it is. to take things for granted and not to be thankful and not to thank people who need to hear the words of Thanksgiving from our mouths. History also gives us interesting reflection around this day. As most of you know, George Washington himself, first president designated this day for the people of the United States a day of public Thanksgiving. But when President Lincoln revisited it in 1863, In the middle of the Civil War, he called for a day of thanksgiving. Strange timing, it would seem. And I've just pulled two sentences from his proclamation in 1863. The first sentence, a normal length sentence. The second sentence, none of you in political office would write a sentence as long as Lincoln's second sentence. Here it is. This be a day of thanksgiving and praise to our beneficent Father who dwelleth in the heavens. And I recommend to them that while offering up the ascriptions justly due him for such singular deliverance and blessings, they do also, with humble penitence for our national perseverance and disobedience, commend to his tender care all those who have become widows, orphans, mourners, or sufferers in the lamentable civil strife in which we are unavoidably engaged and fervently implore the interposition of the almighty hand to heal the wounds of the nation and to restore it as soon as may be consistent with the divine purposes to the full enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquility, and union. He saw a nation divided and asked for God's help and assistance on a day he declared to be a day of Thanksgiving to heal the land, to bring enjoyment of peace, harmony, tranquility, and union. Some of that strife, different than the Civil War of the 1860s, is certainly among us today. And I want to call us in this season to be thankful, and especially at this time, to pause as we do. Would you bow with me? Lord, as I read the words of those who'd been in political office a century and a half ago, I was reminded that the nation needed you then and that we need you today. I pray for these that represent nine districts here in the city of Buffalo and all of the needs, all of the issues, all of the strife, all of the divisions, And I pray, Father, that we'd have words of reconciliation, words of healing, words of, as Lincoln said, peace, harmony, tranquility, and union. And Lord, we pause today to say thank you. We come back to you and we say thank you. Thank you for your goodness, your presence. Thank you, Lord, that you lead and guide us as we lean into you. And Father, today, bless this session, this time of deliberation, I ask in your precious name. Amen. Amen, thank you Dr. Warner. Council members Moritz, Council Member Golombet, Council Member Wingo. Thank you Mr. President. Anthony Shug, young man with connections to the West Hurdle neighborhood passed away this past week. His mother, Diane Swick, runs the senior programs at Northwest Buffalo Community Center, as well as the center on Sanders Road, she sort of bounces around between both of them. But only 42 years old and it's heartbreaking for her and the family and I want to keep her in our thoughts and prayers. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm asking the city of Buffalo keep in your thoughts and prayers the family of Ina Ferguson, who we lost too soon. You cannot be involved in East Buffalo politics and not know who Ina Ferguson is. You cannot be part of any organizing community and not know who Ina Ferguson was. She inserted herself in a lot of community social justice initiatives, and she was a person who did not mince words. Ina said what she felt and whatever she felt she said, and she was unapologetically herself at all times. She will be sorely missed by this community. Her and all of her personality will be missed. The services will be at True Bethel this Saturday at 10 AM, Wake, at 11 PM funeral. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Council Member Bowman. Thank you, Mr. President. Lovejoy District, we lost Gerald Trotter. He was a member of our Academy St. Mary's Block Club. Great person. He really cared about the community he lived in, and he was always very kind in this business. We do a lot of walking door-to-door, especially when it's cold out, and he was always the person to offer you a coffee or a warm, step into the house. And he actually helped set up a very important connection in the community between our Buffside Charter School, the chapel, and the block club. And they're doing great work, so his legacy will last on. Thank you. Thank you. Councilmember Milkovsky. I want to piggyback off of what Councilmember Ringo said. Ina Ferguson was everything he said and more. And just on a note of levity, because she was a very funny lady, there was a candidate that was going before the union that she worked for their endorsement. And before that candidate left, she said, if you get on the council, you have to be nice to my babies. And the candidate said, who's your babies? And I later found out that it was Council Member Bowman and I. So I wear that as a badge of honor and surely certainly missed. So Ina and I grew up together, we went to each other's birthday parties. So there's a picture that she had and that I had. For some reason, I was acting like I was Jesus on the cross. And so I'm standing there in front of my birthday cake, Ina's standing to the side. When she, her last hours we were there, the room was full of community people, leaders in the community, like 20 people if you can imagine in one room and spilling out into the hallway and as she transitioned. And so, of course, she thanks her council members, and so many were considered her council members, and she will be missed. As Council Member Wingo said, we'll funeralize her this Saturday. So for those names who are called and all others who have given and others who have given their lives for the freedom of our country and so many other countries across this world in such a very difficult time as we are living in in this world, we pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Ms. Scanlon, the meeting's upstate, a meeting held on October 31st, 2023. I approve. Council members, late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before you? Seeing and hearing none, no objection, we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you need to review an item. And we are joined by young people today who are interested in legislation, and in particular legislation on vaping. So that's a good thing. From, no, not from the top. Where are we going? Mr. Chairman, motion to take item 93 out of order. Second by Council Member Ferrilevo. Item number 93, discharge item 22-2061 from legislation committee. Motion to adopt the discharge. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number one, report to cell 432 Goodyear. Motion to approve items one through seven. Second by council member Ferraletto. Item number eight, request to amend and approve the cell of Mohawk ramp 477 Washington. Motion to send to CD. Second by council member Bowman. Item number nine, September cash and flow. Motion to send the finance. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 10, change order for Buffalo Fire Department in June 25. Motion to approve items 10 through 15. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 16, notice of appointment for administrator. Motion to send to civil service item 16 through 22. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 23, approval to extend a contract with NYSET. Motion to approve items 23 and 24. Second by President Pro Tempstil. Item number 25, appoint detective. Motion to send to civil service items 25, 26, and 28, up to 28. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number claims, item number 29, Asari Verco for 50,000. This is motion to send to the claims committee items 29, Second by Council Member Freelander. Item number 48, Appointing Assistant Corporation Council 2. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member White. Item number 49, Fuster License 2577 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation items 49 through 53. Second by Council Member Freelander. Item number 54, first quarter gap 2023-2024. Motion to send finance items 54 and 55. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 56, appoint fleet manager. Motion to send civil service items 56 through 58. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 59, BSA board attendance. Motion to receive and file items 59 and 60. Second by Council Member White. All right, please resume. Item number 61, co-migrant event application. I'm sorry, that's item 60? 61. 61, motion to approve item 61. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 62, liquor license notice for 864 Seneca Street. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 63, appoint legislative assistant to. Motion to adopt item 63 and 64. Second by council member Dillambe. Item number 65, notices of appointments, permanent temp and provisional. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Bowman. Miscellaneous item number 66, affordable housing task force November 2023 report. Motion to send to legislation. Senate legislation seconded by Council Member Wingo. On this item, and just so the public knows, this is a rather detailed, well at least the first report of the affordable housing task force. If you haven't had a chance to look at it, it is full of ideas to help with affordable housing and to help with the rising costs legislatively, which is very important. This committee that is made up of community members, made up of activists, made up of residents, is working very hard. They will bring back to this council another report in 24. But this is probably one of the most thorough looks in coming back to this council of saying what we can actually do legislatively. So what I intend to do before leaving the council is each item that they have proposed to turn that into resolution form instead of balling it all together. That way some things that corporation council needs to look at, other things our state legislature might need to look at, can stay on the table as long as you all who will be. at least still here, will be able to look at and take down the road. We have heard from our residents for a decade, at least a decade, about the problem with affordable housing. And I want to thank this council for supporting the Affordable Housing Task Force. We'll hear the complaints, but we probably won't hear all of the, at least something, something is being done more than talk. but real legislation. So this is an important report. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President, and thank you for your leadership on this. I got a chance to look through it, and exactly what you said is great recommendations. And some of the things that we have said as council members as far as increasing fees and fines using the rental registry great recommendation so again i commend that committee what they brought forth and look forward to working with the task force and making those things a reality because some of it is common sense and it's it is great that some independent folks brought it forth people who are from the community in hopes that we can get this done because we know that affordable housing is a challenge good affordable housing is a challenge but some of these things are within our take care of and make happen. So thank you for your leadership on it. Thank you. All right. I'm sorry, Council Member Nohkowski. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to just open and thank you for appointing somebody that I recommended to you who's a law professor in housing. I mean, so we have someone with real bona fides that are able to shepherd the thoughts and processes and will of people, but also talk about the tangibility of legislation which housing meanders through state and federal regulations. So to have someone with that expertise be able to harness it and to bring this council recommendations and know what's applicable here is really good, so thank you for appointing her too. Yeah, this was not a partisan group. I don't know who belongs to what party, didn't care. It was about the expertise and I'll stop my remarks with this. One of the things that they talk about, about the LLCs. And having a name, and I don't know how far that'll go, but I think that at least having the ideas of how we track down. Because whether people want to admit it or not, we have some horrible, some of the landlords are horrible. And every single week, I'm hearing new stories, and if anybody's watching, this week, i talked to three people whose landlords told them they had to move within 30 days and they moved because they did not know their rights and this is just happening all over this city so thank you thank you all for the support of this committee and i hope that after january you will keep this committee in place to make sure they finish their work thank you Item number 67, request to address council regarding snow plan and warming shelters. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Norco. Item number 68, short term rentals in the city of Buffalo. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 69, federal, state, and local authority on tobacco. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member White, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I just wanted to bring this forth because I know that the Health Equity Group has a task force that have been working regarding menthol and smoke shops. And this is good information for my colleagues that we may want to be very stern in addressing because New York City is actually looking at banning menthol. And so if New York City is doing it, there's gotta be something to it. And I know they're a larger municipality and more engaged in politics than we are because they're directly connected. But I wanna thank Mr. Stan Martin for his getting this information to us because it's good information that we need to do to really ponder and look at what we can do. Because again, the impacts of menthol and vaping is dramatic in our communities. And we keep hearing about the state and what they're trying to do to go against it without flavor vapes and those things but we still have a proliferation of vape shops in our community and i just talked to one of my block club leaders today and they are up in arms that we continue to bring these approve these vape shops I'm not approving any more vape shops in my district because we are so saturated in them. And I know that Councilmember Scanlon is looking forward, and Councilmember Bowman are looking at us working together, putting a moratorium in place. And so I'm going to be on this like a dog with a bone because those are the types of things that affect our community, that people turn their heads on and we still deal with the ramifications of it, with the health issues. you know our medicare costs all those things continue to escalate so on one side somebody's making money and could care less about the effects of our community well i do care we do care and we want to do something about it so again thank you mr martin i know he's going to be coming next week to our committee to talk a little bit more about it but we have to stay on this wall because these are the types of things that we as legislators what we can do we must do thank you absolutely Next item. Petitions, item number 70, special use 163 Kerns. Motion to send legislation to city planning board, items 70 through 76. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 77, a bill of preservation board decision for 444 Forest Avenue. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Ferriero. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint associate tax clerk. Motion is to approve items one through seven. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Item number eight, appoint complaint clerk. Motion is to receive and file items eight through and including 23. Second by Majority Leader Revere. Community Development, item number 24, Seneca Street Special Needs. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 25, tire handler license 1657 Broadway. Motion to recommit. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 26, letter to National Grid, power grid winter preparation. Motion to receive and file 26, 27, and 28. And thank you to National Grid for coming in and giving us an update. Absolutely. Second by Council Member Friar-Levitt. Legislation, item number 29, Fuster license 3168, aka 3162 Main Street. Motion to recommit. Item 30, Fuster license 1943 Niagara Street. Motion to approve. Item 31, Property Manager, K&R Buffalo Management. Motion to recommit items 31 through 33. Second by Council Member White. Item 34, Local Law, Intro Number 3, Article 15, Department of Public Works. Motion to approve items 34 and 35. Second by Council Member White. Item 36, Special Use, 1239 Hurdle. Motion is to recommit. Motion is to recommit. Second by Council Member Wyatt and 35 should be with conditions always set from the Ellicott district. So just noted for the record as always. Next. Item 37, special use 381, Shirley. Motion to approve with conditions items 37 and approve items 38 and 39. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 40, special use 614 Moselle. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 41, special use 230 Mastin. Motion to approve with conditions. And just for the record, two of the conditions, three of the conditions that are not written in our regular conditions. After working with the neighbors, this is in a residential area. From the days of having old bars in residential areas which trying to move away from, however it's an event space, working with the neighbors. Three conditions that would be on there, 10 PM, they cannot operate past 10 PM on weekdays, past 1 AM on weekends. And the owner will be responsible for ensuring that cars are parked, that cars that are visiting, people who are visiting his establishment, that cars are correctly parking on the correct side of the street so as not to impede emergency vehicles. Mr. President? Council Member White. Can we go back to number 37? All right, are you going to change the motion? No, I just want to make sure the condition is one year sunset. So you have the condition? Yes. I'm glad you said that. Because it's on that one too. So put one year sunset on both of those for the record. No objections, I'm not going to redo the whole motion. I don't hear any objections. All right. Resolutions, item number 78, waive fees for Christmas and Kisertown event. Motion to approve item 78 through 91. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 92, pursuing the foreclosure of 377 Main Street. Motion to adopt the resolved remainder to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski who has the floor. I'd like to start my monologue off as dear Mr. President. I did not mean to sideswipe you when we're changing over districts or certain areas that I inherit that will be filled more. You know, as you know, council members come to the chambers and they're individuals and they have certain passions that they hone in on. And it's no secret that vacant and abandoned buildings, lots, and old buildings, I care about. And it might have been all the urban planning courses at Boff State that also made me very happy to inherit parts of downtown, which, you know, is an urban core and are important to cities. And I wanted to articulate a position for the city that we've had enough with some of these unscrupulous decisions. landlords that paralyze parts of the city by their actions and their Or not actions so from talking to to you during caucus and Karen I wanted to formalize that the city wants to do something that and stake out a claim of where we're at and I've been on a few email chains that include M&T Bank and people from OSP. And it is complex and nuanced because it's currently in housing court. And there's a date that OSP gave folks from M&T that it'll be in housing court. So 1116 at 945 AM. I know that members of M&T Bank, which are adjacent in downtown, will send representatives there. If your schedule permits, I would like to go with you so we can kind of articulate where we're at. So thank you, Mr. President. Yeah, and did we get a, are we in that email chain? Yeah, so they haven't even sent it to us, so we'll talk offline. But I'll just say this. There are plenty of properties across the city in residential areas where people who live right next door to them are suffering in the same way. I'm all for downtown, I've represented downtown. I understand that there are Buffalo places up in arms about it. I've been involved in it for 12 years, so I'm very much familiar with it. I think as the city looks ways to remedy problems with landlords, The people who get the least attention in this city are the poor. So you got poor neighborhoods right now that's got the same problem. And these people don't have stores next to it, they got houses and they've got children. And they've got lead poisoning and they've got contaminated soil and they've got all of that. And they don't have, unfortunately, an advocate like Main Street. That's the only thing that I hope out of this, that we find a way To not just, this M&A's thing, and it's in my district, so I'm very familiar with it. This M&A's thing has been pushed around, pushed around, pushed around, and pushed around. Pushed around legally at times because it goes from one owner to the other and you gotta start the process. I was in the process to get rid of the vault that was there so we could open up Washington. So I've been knee deep in this, so I haven't gotten an email about it. But at the end of the day, I'm going to be clear. Any legislation that happens for a building in downtown, it ought to be considered for buildings in poor areas that nobody has paid attention to. I got a kid right now suffering with lead poisoning because of a residence. Right, and an association get together and say, we gotta go after this. And nobody's showing, ten people are, and it's not in the district, but ten people aren't showing up to court for them. So at the end of the day, I think it's very, very, very important that we always have, and be okay in saying this, always have a heart and passion for legislation that will help those who don't have millions of dollars or who don't have businesses. So we'll mark a follow-up on that date, and we'll talk about it. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I appreciate your sentiments on that because I totally agree. You know, one of the things that I'm concerned about is that right now we have a moratorium on, well, doing any type of interim. And so until we figure out the surplus part, because there's a number of pieces here, Until we figure out the surplus part, we shouldn't have another interim until we take care of that so that we can move forward. But if we're not taking care of those situations that you spoke of, we're basically tasting our tails and we're not caring about the community at large. And I think I totally agree, we have to have that conversation because many people feel that we could care less about them. Well, that's not the truth. And I think the stance that we're taking right now speaks to that. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Item number 94, fee waiver for Western New York Veterans Day Parade. Motion to approve. Thank you, Council Member Scanlon. He'll second it for the Veterans Day Parade. Arden, I thank you very much. And folks, please show up to the Veterans Day Parade. It is one of the least attended parades. And they do a lot of work. I don't even know the date, but it's on there, I think on the item. They do a lot of work. Council Member White. Can we go back to number 28 also, sir? If we have to. Yes, sir. Are we going to be changing the voting? No, no. He just wants to speak on it. Motion to revisit item 28. All right. I just wanted to ask, because I know that I saw Mr. Mercy with the emergency manager. We don't have a resume, so I asked if we could have the resume forwarded to us. And just to get clarity, I know in committee we're going to talk about the snow plan. We had asked for the emergency manager to be there. So are we going to speak to him in civil service or are we going to speak to him at Community development. I think it would probably, I mean it comes before civil service but the request was in the community. Community development. I don't think, I think to do it twice may be a little much. If it's all going to be, you're going to discuss it this week, this Tuesday? Yes, yeah. Yeah. I think more people were invited in this week so that we could have hopefully more of a work session than a gripe session. And I did send out an email that some of the stuff that we can get to the administration early. That way when they come in, they're prepared to answer and we're not doing this and putting it off another two weeks. And coming back, I mean, it'll be snowing and it'll be spring and we'll be cutting flowers, still talking about the snow plan. So as much as you can, if you already know some of the questions, because as I said before, we're not trying to do a gotcha. That's just counterproductive. So at the end of the day, if you can get it to Jim, I don't know if anybody has. But even always be able to ask questions, I'm sure the chairman will allow it. But as much as we can get to them early, so that when we come, they can answer and we can move on. Thank you. And I think that what is important is two things, and we didn't talk about them, but it was the emergency manager that Councilmember Nowakowski spearheaded. And we also, I know they don't like this word, potholes are. So we get emergencies and potholes filled, and I think everybody's going to be happy. That was a joke. That's the last item. Announcements. Regular committees. Committee on claims will be Wednesday, November 15, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on civil service is Tuesday, November 21, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, November 21, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, November 21, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, November 21, 2023 at 2 p.m. Councilmember, is there any announcements for your districts? Councilmember Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Buffalo Common Council has been sponsoring the winter preparedness series for the city of Buffalo. I would like for all of our listeners to go to buffalowinterprep.com. For more information tonight from 5.30 to 7.30, we will be in the Mastin District at the Delavan Grider Community Center. That's at 877 East Delavan. A lot of partners contributed to make this event a very robust and substantial event, so we're asking the community to come out. We know that Buffalo knows snow, but last year rocked us. So we want to make sure that we are as prepared as we can be, even though we are no match for nature. We want to be as prepared as we possibly can be to mitigate the impacts and the effects. a blizzard should we have one again this year. Tonight you can get your flu shots and your COVID vaccinations or your COVID booster shots, that is. And I just want to just say thank you to central staff for all the hard work they did to ensure that these events were well attended. To make sure that all of us were included in the process. You guys did a phenomenal job. Thank you for doing such a comprehensive program for our residents so that they can be prepared. Now, we do one every year in Madison, but nothing like this. You guys did a phenomenal job. So, Tysha and Jim, kudos. And I only know my person, Selena, who had a very deep hand in it as well. So thank you to all of you to make sure that we were even on the news week after week to promote this event. This is the kind of stuff that is unheard of with the council having this type of exposure. So you guys did a phenomenal job. So thank you for a job well done. Again, that's tonight from 5.30 to 7.30 at the Delavan Grider Center. Everyone, one, somebody, everybody, come out and get your emergency preparedness packages for this upcoming winter season. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And just in case you're watching the playback, it's November 14th, so that if they watch it Friday, they won't show up Friday. There's one in Councilman Bowman's district on the 16th, is that correct, in Casanova? There is one this Thursday, yeah, so 16th. It's at Tosh Collins, which is technically South Buffalo. But yes, again, thank you to staff. Kimmy from my office had a major part in it too. Thank you. All right, any other announcements? No breakfast, no dinners, no sock ops, nothing? All right. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn second by Council Member Golombi.