to council member thank you council president Next, I am going to remind you of old wisdom and ancient wisdom. Old wisdom and ancient wisdom. The old wisdom, how do you explain that? What did Paul mention with Franklin? He said, we're going to live a hundred years, and frankly, I, tomorrow. I spoke for a guy who pulled out by his clothes. Franklin told his closest associates his favorite love of the prophets. Some of the proverbs that you read in the scriptures, or in the sources of his, quotes he used in the literature of Paul, read it, liked it, plagiarized it, and called it his own. Well, Franklin gets credit for some of the things that actually solved his problem. One of those was from Proverbs 11-15, the ancient wisdom. Proverbs is often called the book of little phrases that stick. This one is Proverbs. Without wise leadership, the nation falls. There is safety in having many advisors. This kind of council of functions is actually wise leadership with many advisors, many voices, many people that come to the table. I'm thankful for each of you, and I'm grateful. even in these times. Let me read it one more time and then I'll pray. Proverbs 11, 14, Without wise leadership a nation falls. There is safety in having many advisors. Father, I thank you for the work, the good work, but what I pray as a godly work that these nine possible words have as an assignment from those that put them in office electively, but also a divine assignment for me. he said perspectives many views actually make for a regular, and we declare today, a more righteous outcome. Lord, let us honor your voice, but also your voice above the storm, your voice, as they seem to do what's right and righteous for the citizens of our city in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Council President Bray, the family of this is Teresa High, who was actually a moral history of high defending of that decade. I just want to make one change. I missed my mother. Thank you. We had several people in the past few weeks, Saturdays, and past nights, and we had a former North District of Williamsboro on the west side of Buffalo. It was the North District of the Maribor-Long Forest Avenue. She lived in New York for about 10 years, and last few years, I've lived in North Buffalo, and I've had a lot of fun and I need to be kind to her children. I will support the minister as well as many other family members and friends. Helen Harris was a volunteer at the Happy Times East Corp. that has been in a lot of competition with her. Her dad, her husband, and my dad were super good friends with her. Children Jessica and Jennifer were also super good friends. Mr. Brown as well. Bruce Sanders, former Delaware District Member, Delaware District Member now, passed away on this as well. And he was very, very active many years in the whole District of Colorado reconciliation organizations and discussions. I'm going to miss him with those discussions in Tito and Tocqueville and Parallel, as I said, that people call on a regular basis about I know a producer's a comic was gonna be one of those three things that was usually called hard work, but he was a good guy. And last but certainly not least, the Buster or the Reyes, I'm a professor at the University of California, and I'm the founder of Blue Rhymer Base, who I can name you and I don't know if you're a key component of the program that's being developed. Blue Rhymer Base is a construction company. I wanted his dad to get 100 years of age and he was gonna get 100 years. And all his songs, all the laughs, all the laughs that he's been in for people's birth days, it means that he lived to get 100 years. And I was completely, again, that 100 years is fairly sorely missing. He's a great guy. You wouldn't know him if he wasn't 100 years old. I don't know him that good, but I just think if I made it to 80, most of them, they would be on my list. 75 years married to a younger woman. The whole thing is about five years of social life. I just wanted to add a word to those four ideas. We're saddened today at the loss of this evident Meriwether, a female Meriwether's mother, and founder of the Criterion, and her spader, and library, and death of the Meriwether family. We also are a pioneering woman and family, and there's Thank you, Council President. We would like to ask the City of Buffalo to repeat that prayer. The family of Susie White, who is the mother of and then Karen Patterson White, who is the wife of Timothy White, who has a philosophy of God. Timothy Devin White. Tim White is a great, great, great man who truly missed his wife and his family. We just ask that we all pray. to know that they have our condolences, but the body has our condolences. Joanne Allen, President of the Master District Church, Joanne Allen, when I think about her, I hope that one day that the folks say my name. You can't think about Joanne during her home run celebration this past Friday. I challenge everyone who came out and they feel as if we see our God. We built sanctuary, socially distanced, and we just had a great time reflecting and remembering and reminiscing the times that we all had with Joanne. All the many years, like I remember, I said, you knew how old she was. You would not believe my wish. You would not believe how sick she was. by the way she responded to life and always has smiled. So she will absolutely be missed by the Indiana Baptist Church family, the Madison District, and the City Hall, and all the community members that have come across this country. She will absolutely be sorely missed. And lastly, but not least, I would like to ask that we keep the family of the 12-year-old boy who was struck by a vehicle yesterday at 2.30 The ambulance rushed to the hospital, and he succumbed to those injuries. I went to the hospital, and this is a very, very sad, very sad occasion, very sad for us. You know, it's a big problem. We're going to have to know, and we're going to have to know. And I say this on my own behalf. If there's anything we can do to bring back our children, please let us know. But just know that the end of the week, we are here for you. Thank you. uh so time when we lose soldiers like that, the Army manages it. The Army has to do it. And so all of it, of course, any person could be given the life and the freedom of others in this world, as we call it, support. We have a special presentation today by Councilmember Brian J. Baldwin. November is actually Alzheimer's Awareness Month, which is why Councilmembers are wearing the purple clothes. And today we're recognizing the Alzheimer's Association within your chapter with us, Lauren Ashburn. And just a little bit, a little story here. Almost got a kindness effect to my neighbors. And it's something that has affected my family as well. My wife's grandmother broke, had dementia, and it really became a full-time job caring for her. My wife left her job and became a caregiver until her grandmother passed. But in the meantime, our entire family became familiar with the Alzheimer's Association of Western New York. Her grandfather, Robert Mack, who was a popular local Santa Claus, started using his talents. to raise funds for the association and it was a very successful venture for a worthy cause that became his passion so i'm honored to present this proclamation to lauren today i'll just read a little bit of the proclamation at this time City of Buffalo County Council recognizes the Alzheimer's Association founded in 1980 by Jerome H. Stone. With a group of family caregivers and individuals, they recognize the need for an organization that unites caregivers, provides support to those facing Alzheimer's, and advances research into the disease, which would lead the way to end Alzheimer's all their dementia by accelerating global research, championing risk reduction and early detection while maximizing the quality of care and support for their clients. The Alzheimer's Association Western Europe chapter continues to be a force in bettering the lives of our citizens through reaching millions of people affected by Alzheimer's and other dementia with the maximization of quality care, support, and research they desperately need. So at this time, I'm presenting for this activation. Hi, everyone. I've been here before, and thank you for counseling Bolton for bringing us back. I was lucky enough to have him back. He was spectacular for our chapter. He raised so much money for us, and that was the key to it. We need more and more funding to get a cure for this disease. Unfortunately, my grandma died from this disease, which is why I got involved in dementia care in general. I know if I had asked all of you, if you know somebody living with dementia, if you could raise your hand, it's probably the most important. So thank you so much to everybody for bringing this in here. But just know that we have free programs and support for anybody affected by this disease, and we're happy to help anybody that needs it. So thank you again on behalf of the 400,000 plus workers living with dementia. We are here for you. Thank you. I want to say that during the meeting, the mic was off, just so you can see. It used to go off. So I'll note it. So I'll make sure to keep quiet. Let's go with it. Thank you. On the motion by Mr. Rees and by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of state meeting held on Earth 2021 are. Council members, you have the lake mouth in four. Are there any objections to any of the lake mouth? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as before, so I'll take a minute break to pause this meeting to review an item that you may not have a chance to review yet. Adjourned and given. Mr. Chair, I motion to take item 20 out of CD out of order. Second by Council Member, Erin Levin. Item number 20, public and in Plastic Avenue regarding City Honors School 192. motion open up if there are those from the public who wish to be heard on this item yes that you can come to her to the one mic and state your name and some type of address or position thank you mr president will caress us from the schools i want to thank you mr president and the distinguished colleagues of the council for entertaining uh this item that has been by Mayor Brown. We certainly want to thank Mayor Brown for his advocacy for this project. But I would be remiss if I didn't point out a couple of my colleagues that are in the room behind me. In this direction are Principal Wilcressi and Reese Mattis, representing City Honors today and the City Honors Foundation. And they have really championed the restoration of Fosdick Field for many, many years. And it's now getting to a point which brings a lot of excitement to the district, where we are beginning to operationalize all those aspirations and all those dreams. So the first step is for this action to be considered by the council, so we can build the field. We are really appreciative of the review that will be performed by the council, and we are at your disposal should you have any questions about the project as it begins to plan and develop. Well thank you. Anyone else? And while this virus is coming down while you're here, the council has asked for a traffic study to be conducted in that area. And as of today, 10.36 a.m., I received an email from Dr. K, as we call him, that the school district will fund that traffic study. So we asked yesterday, caucus who would fund it. The school district has agreed to fund it. And we worked together along with the residents to ensure. I apologize that I didn't ask for the study some time ago. But I wasn't taking my seventh grader to school every morning. He was taking the bus. So I had no idea of the traffic situation around that school until I had to drive through it and then pick him up when the bus was ready, and the bus drivers, and bring him out. So for residents who are concerned about that, there will be a study before this is moved out of the council, just so everyone knows. Good afternoon, my name is Denise Farrer, I'm a resident of the program. I wanted to come today to say that I'm grateful that I've had good partnership with City Art School and we have worked things, we have talked about global traffic and trying to figure out some of the things that we've done on that, but in the issue across the field, of course, It's a very important topic to my neighborhood and we would like to see that whatever can be done will be done to ensure that that can be restored and that it will become a space that is actually available to the community. So I felt it important to be here today to say that we are exploring. For once, we can say we support the community. I think that as Ms. Barr said, the only part that most neighbors are concerned about is where that traffic goes. But working together, I really believe we can work this out and figure it out and, you So this is, and I don't want anybody to think that this is delaying it because we don't want the project. It's delaying it just to make sure it happens right. So thank you, Ms. Parker. Anyone else? All right. No one else? Oh, there's the public hearing. Second by-consultant, wake up. No, it's being held until after the public hearing. Yeah, we'll park it in the committee and then until the... You almost gave it to him. What a nice man. The motion is to recommit. Second by Councilmember White. Thank you. And thank you to Board of Education. Board of Management Lisa Green. Motion to set the CD. Second by President Portillo Scali. Item number two, BQ Elk Solar Pilot. Motion to set the legislative. Second by Councilmember Nocos. Item number three. Designated developer agreement extension for 726 Jefferson, 561 and 569 Tennessee. Motion sent to CD. Second by Council Member Hall. Item number four, designated developer extension for Boston Neighborhood Hospitalization. Second by Council Member Hall. Item five, landmark 31 and 57 and 71 Town Hall District. Motion sent to legislative. Second by Council Member Hall. Item number six, permission to enter into the designated developer agreement with St. John's-Football Community. Motion to second. Second by Council Member McClellan. Who has the floor? Um, Mr. Chair, Item number 5, I believe we visited it. I just had a quick question. Can we move around the church? I can just remind you. Item number 7, report is 0231 Alabama. Second by council member, Noah Comsky. Item number eight, report a cell for 160, 162, 164, best in 1145 Michigan. Motion to second the CD. Second by council member, Freeland. Item number nine, report a cell 269, best cell. Motion to vote. Second by Councilman Wood. No. Mr. Chair. Mr. Crosby. No. Can we send item 14 to CD instead of the approval? Motion is to approve items 9 and 13. The motion stands. With that adjustment, second by Councilman Wood. Item number 15, report is so 186, summary. Item number 14. Item number 14, report is so 20, active North. North active. That one's going to CD. Second by Councilman Wood. Item number 15, report to cell 186. Motion to send the CD. Second by council, number one. Item number 15, request to approve, report to cell 61, Tarrant. That was 16? 16, motion to approve, second by council. Item number 17, report to cell 62, Thomas. Motion to approve item 17 and 18, second by council, number one. Item number 19, report to cell 591, Whitehall. to present the legislation. Assembly member, what do you know? Item number 20, rescind the sale of A61 bond. Assembly member, what do you know? Item number 21, fiscal year 2020, a new comprehensive financial report. Assembly member, what do you know? Item number 22, change order. Motion to approve. Second by President, vote to abstain. Item number 23, encroachment on city right-of-ways for Buffalo State College. The legislation is ceded to City 91 items 23 through 25. Assembly member, what do you know? Item number 26, permission to hire CHA companies. Motion to approve items 26 and 30. Second by council, one by council. Item number 31, a point sheet pump and plant operator provisional. Motion to pass. Item number 31 through 30. Item number 35, approval to renew peacemakers' Pell contract. motion to approve items 35 through 38 second by council member item number 39, reduced or licensed, 1245 Bailey motion to send legislation items 39 through 48 second by council member item number 44, items recalled from mayor second by council member Item number 45, House of Contention, naming that RCWJCP interest guarding Edith Wilson and Linda Oban, Memorial Garden. She has sent the legislation. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 46, Liquor License Notice, two-fellow class. Item 46, second by President Potoska. Item number 48, Appoint Labor to approve. Move to send to civil service items 48 and 49. Second by Councilmember Murn-White. Miscellaneous, item number 50, opposition letter to 21-452, special use permit 485 Michigan. Second by Councilmember Luehle. Item number 51, push-buckle, proposed by Lieutenant Bill Wright. Move to send to lunch. Second by Councilmember White. Petitions, item number 52, zone and map amendment for 46, 68, 70, 74 Leland. Legislation, City Board, and 53. Second by Council Member Bolton. Item number 54, Leonard Street Black Club, petition opposed in 1397, Kisseltown. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Bolton. Submission list, Committee, Civil Service. Item number one, appoint system support analysts. Motion is to approve. Second by Council Member Ferriero. Item number two, notice of appointment, like Garci's law. Motion is to receive a file, item two, including 17. Second by Council Member Wilk. 19, Emerald Regulations. Motion to approve. Second by Mayor Rigg. Community Development Act, number 19, Pilgrim Village Family Housing Development Plan. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Boyd. 21, reported so. Motion to approve items 21, 22, and 23. Second by Council Member Frith. Item number 24, reported so, 131, Theodore. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 25, Street Snow Plan 2020. Motion to receive in pilot. Second by Councilmember Freeland. Item number 26, support for. Motion to send to the Finance Committee. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 27, approved plan disposition agreement for 321, Alampe. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Blanquette. Item number 28, public notice for Archway Road. district annual enrollment period. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Belanger. Item number 29, report of bill 192A. We commit items 29, 30, and 31. Second by Council Member... Item number 32, Western New York Youth Climate Council petition for declaration of climate emergency. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Brunson. Motion to recommit. Item number 34, permission to enter into agreement with Buffalo State School District. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Alvaez. On this item, it's the item in which there's an agreement between the public schools and the city to open up certain playgrounds in neighborhoods so that people in the neighborhood And I think that this was a tremendous agreement. And it's only one, from what I was told, three steps to get started in parks. It'll get bigger, and I know people will be thrilled with it. So I really want to thank the administration and the Board of Education for this, because this is so important. Because we have areas where there aren't playgrounds. And part of this, when we talk about city honors, I think, I don't know if this came out of that discussion, but I know that was being discussed with the community. the big, one of the biggest things, it wasn't about the field, like everybody, almost everybody I talked to agrees with the field. It was, can the young people, can the people, period, from that neighborhood utilize that field? And so this starts that ball rolling so that when that field is there we don't have to come back later and say, well how can the kid a block away or the team, you know, the neighborhood team play on it. neighborhood team or the neighborhood team that plays I've got to use this I appreciate what you said no not at all Yes, all right. So that those in the community are able to utilize it. And so there's a lot of work going into this. And I think that the public needs to know how important this is. Council Member Winkler, you have a chance. Thank you. I want to know. Let me just commend our Department of Public Works and the school district, Andy Rapp and Mike Finn, the commissioners for the Park Republic Works. And of course, those in the school district who facilitated this agreement to actually extend the use of these school parks to the community. We have made Buffalo schools some of them community schools. And I think this further extends and speaks to that partnership between the school district and the community, the city of Buffalo, to ensure that these assets that we have that are on city property are used for the benefit of the community. This is just a wonderful, wonderful initiative that I believe that we're entering into with the school district in the city of Buffalo. And again, let me just commend all of those who were at the table to make this happen because we did get a lot of phone calls and we did receive a lot of advocacy regarding making sure that we extend the use of our schools. And this is just evident that the district is listening. and that the city of Buffalo is listening. So this is a huge win for the residents of the city of Buffalo. And again, once Phase 2 and Phase 3, once we begin using more of the assets of the school district, it will resemble those days of the Lighthouse programs where schools are open and outlawing what we have. The community schools are open on Saturdays, and we do get the phone calls, Buffalo, school district we get the phone calls we get the text messages and we get the email we get everything notifying us of what is happening in the school district that concerns our children my wife and i will both have a fifth and a sixth grader uh in the school district at Olmstead and we cannot be happier with the change that are being made in the school district even in the midst of COVID I have to give it to these administrators who are leaving in an unprecedented time where There has never been a time like this before. They are still making sure that our children are safe. Let me just also shout out the nurses in these schools because if a child is not feeling well, the nurse, they're on it. Why are you seeing your child at school? The child doesn't feel well. Dr. Kennedy is upstairs in my office right now because she did not feel well. It's because my wife gave her some vitamins. That's no upset her stomach, but we know what the reason for that is. But we did not want the nurse to call and say that, listen, your daughter, go pick her up. So we are doing everything we can to cooperate, but again, this is a major, major win. for the residents of the city of Buffalo to get action. Can I commend these folks enough who are responsible for putting this draft, bringing this draft to us regarding the programs that will be made available to our city residents? Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you. Council Member Skrill. Thank you, Council President. You and Council Member Awinko didn't say anything that needed to be said, but I didn't want to let this go without addressing it. You know, if you're looking at our agenda and you start reading authorization request to enter agreement between city and Buffalo, it doesn't sound very sexy. You know, it's worthy. I kind of skim past it. It can get lost in the news cycle. But it's a very big development for the people in the city of Buffalo. As you mentioned, there are people, families in this community that do not have playground and access to these facilities within walking distance. And it's important that they do. It's apparent that they do for their overall well-being. And I just want to commend the administration and the Buffalo Public Schools for getting on the same page here and bringing all this to the people in the city of Buffalo. Absolutely. Thank you. Councilman Baldwin? Yeah, thank you, Mr. Chair. And I do want to join my colleagues in commending the schools and parks. And this item actually inspired me to submit a resolution that you'll see further in the agenda, but just kind of taking that one step further, fostering those, agreement and allowing, you know, I think about school 43 right on Lovejoy Street is right across the street from our indoor pool, Lovejoy pool. So I'd like to see us foster agreements to use those resources as well. We have the Kearns Bowling Alley in the Lovejoy District that used to have the high school league bowl there. Mr. Adams from Kearns Bowling reached out to me about that. indoor ice skating, giving opportunities to youth who might not necessarily have those resources, but just kind of inspired me to further, you know, look a little further into it. So great job. I commend the parks and schools and you'll see that resolution a little further down. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, everybody. Next slide. Legislation, item number 35. for 107 Delaware Avenue. Motion to receive in five. Second by council member, Fiora Lovell. Item number 36, property manager license, Rill Capital. Motion to approve items 36 through 38. Second by council member. Item number 39, special use for 485 Michigan Avenue for alcohol sales. Motion is to deny. Motion is to deny. Second by council member, Wingo. Adjourned. Oh, okay. So this reason for the denial, as cited in 11.3.3.8 of our green code, this establishment does not fit the character of that neighborhood. This is the African American heritage corridor, and we're trying to grow the corridor. We did have the public hearing. There were many people in opposition who felt, including myself at this point and even before, that putting a liquor store on Michigan and what was referred to over and over as sacred ground by the residents. keep that thought in my head because this is their territory, it's the residences, it's the corridor. I have not to this minute received one letter in support, not one. Matter of fact, we just filed another letter that we received filed to the next meeting of more people now chiming in and saying no to a liquor store on Michigan. And so for that reason that it doesn't have to fit into the character also of the public, of being overwhelmingly against it, the motion is to deny. We're at the second by Congressman Winkle, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just like to speak on this item and commend you first for ensuring that people had their voices heard regarding this particular poll application for a poll liquor store. Now, it's one thing for the liquor store to be on the building. but then to turn the corner and put that liquor store on a street that serves as the African American Heritage Corridor only itself speaks to the historicity of liquor stores and other establishments of the African American community. No other community, no other population in the country has been as adversely affected and impacted by liquor stores and sales through the targeted marketing of alcohol and other beverages than the african-american community north community therefore mr chair i commend you on ensuring that the people's voice was heard very loud and very clearly considering the fact that this is holy This is sacred ground, somewhere that African Americans and African-American black folks can be proud to say, we built this before our own. It means to show our generations behind us that they have something to be proud of. And with that being said, I commend all of the residents who came out who spoke against it, vehemently even. Some who spoke out very articulately who came with the history of that street and some of the other establishments that they proposed to put that liquor store in. But again, this is a major victory for the people. And I would hope that the community, and I know that the community, will will continue to express their sentiments as strongly about this as they do with this, than they will with other issues that plague our community. And, you know, I'll stop there Mr. Chair, but this is a major victory And I commend you and all of the folks who came out and spoke in favor of your denying this application. And of course, on record, I think it is unanimous, but I want this record to reflect that yes, I don't have a vote in that committee, but today I do have a vote. And today my vote is going in favor with Council President Darius Brown-Pritchett, which is to deny this application. So thank you very much, Council President. I wish I knew what to owe this to the floor. You better not say that. He claims something but I don't believe him. Now, as I stated last week in our committee meeting, and I just want to double down on today, I hope that this denial serves as a notice not just to the current applicant, future applicants who are applying to open businesses or do other work in that corridor, that just because you're going to come in and use the words new business and it doesn't necessarily mean progress for that corridor. You know, you had council chambers full of people last week advocating for that corridor and for their neighborhood and for their heritage. And they know that just because a new business is opening up, it does not mean it's necessarily an asset to what they're trying to do throughout that corridor. So I want to commend the public that came in and really put their foot down and said, no, this is our corridor, this is our history, this is our heritage, and we're going to determine how it's represented and what is built here. And the same to you, Council President. hearing their call and standing up for them. So again, help the student services notice to future applicants. Absolutely. Absolutely. Councilman Walker? Thank you, Mr. President. I concur with what my colleagues have said. In particular, when people learn, you know, I don't expect people to come into Black Rock Westside and North District and necessarily know the historicity, as Mr. Montour would say, of that community. like we do the residents that live there. And, you know, but once you learn about that history, you know, I would hope that people would have a respect for this hallowed ground or whatever it is, you know, in a specific neighborhood. I have to say, you know, I've dealt with any grew in the past and I thought it was pretty honorable of him to, when he found out about all of this, to say, look, I'm not going to be involved anymore. And I wish that there were more contractors, developers, entrepreneurs in the city that would do that. Because I've had similar problems in the North District where I've had people that have come into certain areas and tried to open up something nothing as bad as this, in my opinion. But you would like to think that people would respect the local fabric and the local community. But once again, good job to you and for the residents that were involved in that to protect not just the African American history of Buffalo, but our history of the city of Buffalo. Because it's all of our history, the warts and the good stuff and everything all came right. Well, and I think that when you look around Buffalo, you can see that there's a lot of This city is trying to really do different things to protect heritage, whether it's Niagara Street and over in that area, what's happening, trying to build a building, a tower, build a building that was bought to honor Italians, and it just goes on and on. I was senior. And so everybody is proud of their heritage. And Buffalo is really taking hold of it. So thank you all for your support. But I give all the credit to the residents there. If they hadn't come, Our vote would have meant something, but it means a whole lot more. I thought my mic went out again. I think your plan would be over there. It means a whole lot more when residents come out, when media put the word out and others. So thank you. So that was second. I believe it's unanimous from this council. I think that's important for people to know. Item number 40, use permit 2227 South Park, Portobaco. Motion to recommit. Second by Councilmember Skidmore. Item number 41, special use permit for 61 Terrence for parking structure. Motion to approve with conditions. Motion to approve with conditions and the conditions are written right into the record. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski who has Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to state for the record that we had a good conversation. I was figuring out which district it was in. It's a little choppy there, but it is the Doma, as people call it, as in the Fillmore District. And having a good conversation with you led to me speaking to the applicant and working up an arrangement for some affordability in that unit, which is 10% of those units at a monthly rate. that is 25% less than market rates in the building. The use of the building at Great Landon, this council now is working together. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, and as I make the kudos, I want to say thank you for following up you were on the council when we talked about inclusionary zoning basically. When we sell city land, that there had to be affordable if they were going to build housing, that there needed to be affordable units. Our target was around 10%. We always want to get more if we can, but for you to have it in writing is important. So thank you for your leadership. Item number 42, food store license, 1129 East Ferry Street. Second by council member Wood. Item number 43, local landmark, 926 West Avenue. Second by council member Wood. Item number 44, used car dealer, 540 East Avenue. We commend items 44 and 45. Move. Resolution, item number 55, partnership between BP and DPW for indoor pool use. Results, you made it to 53. Second by council member Wood. Item number 56, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 415, Small Business Social Distancing Strategy. Second by Councilmember Field. Item number 57, Troe Plays and Signs for Paul Murphy Way. Item number 57. Motion to approve that. Second by Councilmember Field. Is that approved? 15-7. It's not a big one. Motion to approve. traffic study for Hamburg and South Street. Motion to adopt the results from the maintenance. Second by Council Member Gnodowski, who passed the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is a resolution calling on the Department of Public Works to conduct a traffic study for Hamburg and South Street. And it's a pretty precarious spot due to the proximity to the water in Guilford's Ward. It has fishermen, bus bullets, kayakers. It has runners. It has semi-trucks. taking the bet in that corner. And right now, open for consideration in Missouri Board of Appeals, there's an application for additional units of those lots to be developed. And I just want to get in front of it now and have this conversation of what this corner looks like. Because with or without that development, it's just a really tricky spot with semis that have to turn into it to go into bars and restaurants. And it's just causing a confliction with pedestrians and those that utilize that space, which is right around near a kayak launch, a park. It's very busy and we need to get in front of it to have a real study to show what we can do there and the traffic study hopefully to lead to improvements. Excuse my bad English, but who would have thought 15, 20 years ago we'd be asking for traffic studies because there's so much going on in our cities. who the two two traffic studies in one day for good things going on so that's great next item item number 59 appointments to citizens advisory commission or reapportionment motion to adapt motion to adopt second by councilman fairlady item number 60 board assessment review appointment nominations Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Wilde. Item number 61, protecting tenants with legislative solutions. Motion to adapt the resolves, remainder to the legislation. Second by Council Member Colon, just briefly on this item. It's kind of troubling me to hear about so many tenants who are having problems with derelict land courts. you know i've been on this for a while with these properties um putting up the slum lord signs but most of the slum were signed all of them are on empty properties but what i keep seeing first of all that the rent is sky high and it seems that the rates keep going up but the services keep going down We have people just today, as a matter of fact, today at a funeral someone stopped me about the living conditions of their child who is renting a house in the city of Buffalo. At a funeral. At a funeral. So today a guy stopped me in Harlem. So we know there's a problem and there needs to be a legislative solution. So what this calls for is for until December, until January 1st, to ask the public to give us legislative ideas, research and not research, and even for landlords to be able to weigh in. Cuz I was talking to a landlord yesterday, learned about this, and he's like, yeah, we got some bad tenants. Well, this is really dealing right now with the right tenants. because I don't think there's a landlord in this city if he's If he, if they have tenants that's not making money. It's not making money, I will say that. Except for those who, there were some unscrupulous renters who just took advantage of some provisions during COVID. But for those who were paying their rent, and then you know, during COVID some people just didn't have money. Period. That's just the truth. But we want to do a legislative packet. And I do want to thank, and there was another item, I met with Push Buffalo this week, and as did several other council members, and they had their suggestions, and I agreed to follow. Now some people thought, oh, getting ready to vote, the council's getting ready to vote on this package from Push Buffalo. That's not, I want to be clear, it's about a discussion. Because some of the things in their packet cannot be done on a local level. But if we believe in those things, we can advocate and work with our state folks. But I just want all groups, all organizations, and individuals who have those legislative ideas to put them forward. We'll work with our law department. We'll work with our council staff. And then we'll work together to bring a slate of legislative items. In the coming year in 2022, because it's really getting bad. What's happening, what we're hearing and what we are. I promise you almost every council member here has somebody who has called you and the landlord just not responding. And so I think that this is very important, and I wanted to bring this forward. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. President. If you could add me to this resolution as I discussed with you on your show Friday. the problems that we're having in my district at the Millicent homes and I'm going to be public about this because it's been an ongoing problem. And I don't know if this is a shell game or what, but we're going to continue to put pressure on them because the situation that people are living in, meaning that they're paying their rent and they have busted out windows, they have mold, they have flooding basements, they have rodents, That's not right. And so I join you in looking at a resolution for a legislative solution, and not just us talking, but really putting something together. Currently, I have sent a letter to this owner, and I want to work with him. But I want to see that he's going to work. I'm not just going for lip service. And I think this resolution that you're putting forth is not going to allow for lip service, because now we have to look at the legislative impact and what we can do legislatively instead of just talking. So again, thank you for your vision on this. And I think that through this process, the residents of the city of Buffalo will find that their legislative body cares about their conditions, and no one should be taken advantage of no matter where they live. Thank you, Mr. President. Absolutely. Council Member Wingo and Council Member Rivera. Thank you Mr. Chair. If you could please add me as well. And the reason I would like to be added to this resolution is particularly because of the language that you used in this legislation. I want to be the first. Next month will be my 7th birthday as a council member. And when I first came on, one of the things that I remember you repeatedly saying was What about the policy? What about the policy? It's all about the policy. That's what we are. We're legislators, we're policy makers. And this is what we do. This resolution speaks within our program. And we're not social workers, although we act as social workers. We're not caseworkers, although we act as caseworkers. We're not human services, although we facilitate human services for our constituents at times. We are legislators. And there's one whereas that really, I think, really captured the essence. And that's this one. It says here that we're just fine. It's the second resolve. It says, the first resolve, calls on the local common council staff to conduct research and provide a report of the ways in which other municipalities have established legislation to abate the problems of derelict housing actually land works. And I believe that captures the essence of what we've been trying to do in this council from day one, which is ensure that there are policies that have teeth, policies that actually have some type of outcome or desire out. And if there is not the desired outcome from this policy, there is some type of reprimand or consequence. We are all adults. However, how do we learn? If a behavior is undesired, the behavior has to be corrected. You don't correct behavior with a treat. You correct the behavior with a consequence. And at the end of the day, we need to make sure that there is some type of legislative consequence that we could put in the system that will give those inspectors and other folks who actually do the job of writing those summonses and writing the citations for these dilapidated houses and structures that create light in our communities, to have teeth so that when they go to housing court, There is something that the city of Buffalo can look to, to make sure that we punish these people for being bad players in this business. So I really appreciate this resolution asking for legislation. And once that legislation is written or drafted, I would definitely like to be part of the brainstorming power to ensure that we have something in place that will help these residents know that we are thinking about them and their best interests as they as they are renting certain houses, living in certain structures, knowing that we do care and that we're going to make sure that there's policy that protects because again, to my colleague, Mr. Golombak, who teaches history, teaches political science at Buffalo State, teaches political science at Hope in the SUNY area, one of the things that we try to ensure, I personally try to ensure that my students understand is that government was put in place to protect the people We live in this democratic republic, and it has been put in place. This structure of government has been put in place to protect the people and their right, and their right to choose where they want to live and how how they want to live. So, Mr. President, thank you for this opportunity, and if you know why, I would really like to be put on this resolution for those reasons, as well as when we do begin to track the ordinance for the City of Buffalo's charter, I would like to be part of that brainstorming process. Thank you. Council Member Scowley. Thank you, Council President. I want to thank you for providing this resolution to the council. And although it is important that we are adopting this resolution and as important as the forthcoming legislation will be, I think it's even more important the manner in which you've set this up and how it's going to take place. And reaching out to the public first and saying, listen, what are the issues that we need to address? Instead of saying, here, here's a document, here's some legislation and trying to push it. The fact that you are going to the ground level and reaching out to the public and bringing them into the fold immediately on the front end, I think is the most important aspect of all this. And so I want to thank you for doing that. We've done some things on this council that if we hadn't have had the public's help, we would, I mean, just would have happened. So, yeah, thank you. Council Member Riviere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I met with Push Buffalo, and I believe this is part of a platform that PPG has, and we had met previously with them. And they circled back just recently when I met with myself, Council Member Nowakowski and we listened to them for about 45 minutes and they had the points that they wanted us to focus on. I was clear with them. I said, well you have to develop support for whatever it is you're going to do. You can't retail to all nine council members. And I also looked at the document and I noticed that a lot of what they were asking felt of what the city of Buffalo does, like rent stabilization, that's something that the state doesn't. Doesn't mean that we can't support it, but I think there are other things in the document that outside of the purview, certainly code enforcement is in, the conditions of the property, we should be enforcing those through city codes. So I would support having our staff put that in a resolution. To look at the document and pinpoint exactly what purview and what falls outside the city's purview. Is it home? Home. Home, a housing opportunity for people, which they do a lot of the housing component assistance. that's contracted out. We have one person in the city government that deals with landlord-tenant disputes. So we should find out exactly what falls within our purview. And I think as the staff looks through this, they'll be able to let them know, especially so that the expectation is clear. You know, this is what the city can do. This is what the state can do, or anybody else. So there isn't that false expectation that falls upon this town council that we are going to do things that we really don't have the authority to do. So I agree with you, I'm glad that's part of the resolution, I'm glad the staff is going to look at it. So when we have an audience that comes through here, we're clearly going to explain to them, look, this is what falls within our purview, these are policies that we can effectuate. So I commend you on moving this forward, looking at it, and having our staff research it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anyone else? All right. Thank you all for your support and thank you to the community again for working with us. Item number 62, budget and personnel amendment for Common Council. Motion to approve. Vice Council Member McWatters. Item number 63, commission of deeds, problem duties. Motion to adopt. Move number two. Chairman. Ms. Spelzer. I told you to remind me. I want to revisit. Revisit two items, items number five and 19. Item number. I'm from Lampard, 315771 Tandem on the street. My question with that, Mr. President, is I've had a computer again. Do we have a date when the public hearing would be? We have to set it. We actually, this is the item we had to recall. Okay, so we have not set the actual date yet. Okay, all right. I just wanted to make sure because I've been in contact with the owner and I think there is some time sensitivity there because they are doing development. So they're in support of this being granted historical recognition. But okay, thank you. So we'll schedule it sooner than later. Yes, yeah, thank you. It was an item number 19 on the regular team and Mr. Chair, item 54 as well. All right. Item number 19, report is set by Michael. Motion to rescind previous motion. Second by Councilman Winkle. Motion now to send the CD. Second by Councilman Winkle. Item number 54, Leonard Street Black Club. Petition opposed in 1397. Motion to receive the previous motion. So my council member for the motion is that the CDB. So my council member for the motion. Any other items to be visited? No? Motion. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled. All meetings are held in common. Council chambers, 13th floor, City Hall, Buffalo, New York. Regular committees. Committee on Civil Services, Tuesday, November 23rd, 2021 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Services, Tuesday, November 23rd, 2021 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation is Tuesday, November 23rd at 1 p.m. And Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, November 23rd, 2021 at 2 p.m. And just a notification for the record, the meeting on November 30th may be virtual. which is our common council meeting. As we've been informed by our county executive and health officials, the number of COVID cases are increasing. We are closing in on this to where we were in December of last year. So to keep the public safe and our staff safe, we will more than likely and we'll have an answer on the meeting on the 23rd, which will be live here. If numbers don't rise or something crazy happens, but we know that with Thanksgiving coming up, a lot of people will gather. And so the meeting on the 30th may indeed be virtual, but we will notify the public. Not only the public will be able, of course, to watch us on our, social media platforms, but those who may have to participate in the committee meetings the next week, we will do our best to notify, and this is only by the science. If we had a better handle on the science, we'd make a decision today, but the cases are increasing rapidly. Council member Wingo, Council member Varela. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You were speaking and reminding me of the expression of my mother, her family, if the creek don't rise, if the creek don't rise. But listen, we want to make sure that all of the City of Buffalo is aware that there is a major development happening in the Mastin District that we would like everyone's input on. We are very appreciative of all of the engagement that we've seen as of late and we would like that to continue. So the Madison district will have a community meeting regarding 16 89 Main Street project and this meeting will be held on Wednesday. This is tomorrow at 6 p.m. At the delegate right. So I'm hoping that everyone who's watching will attend because this is a major development that will bring more affordable housing here to the city of Buffalo and we really would like everyone's input. We have been in communication with the developers and they seem to be very very excited and knowledgeable at the same time about what they're trying to do here. So I'm hoping all of those folks come out and you know, give us your input so that you can have your voice heard regarding this proposal's development at 1689 Main Street. Thank you Mr. Chair. Okay. As soon as the climate balance is came down, that has happened to every one of us at the poll. I just want to crawl up under a pew. Who's next here? It's kind of a square period. Save me. Motion to revisit item 41. Oh no, we finished revisiting, I'm just kidding. Item 41. Item 41. Item 41, to use their license 326 military. Motion is to approve. You want to rescind it? Did you, it was, we misspoke. The motion initially was to send the legislation, is that correct? Yes. You want to rescind that motion, to rescind the previous one? Second by Councilman Colombo. Motion is to approve. Second by Councilman Colombo. Any other revisions? Councilmember Weil? Since we're revisiting, can we revisit item number 55? Motion. Revisiting item 55 is item 55. 55. Item resolutions? Yes. Item number 55, partnership between BPS and BPW for indoor pool usage. I just want to be added to the resolution. All right. Add councilmember to that resolution. Motion stands. Alright, here ain't no other better goalie for. That's a kind of square right there. Second by a couple of the jokes. Fair enough. What a movie. Huh? What a movie.