Present. Council Member Franczak. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. Atte. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain. Oh, how's everyone's going? Thank you, Mr. President. Today we have Rabbi Strasberg coming in. Shalom Aleichem, Rabbi. We welcome you to the Buffalo Common Council Chambers, and he is going to lead us in prayer. Thank you, Rabbi. Thank you.
 We'll turn it on for you, Rabbi. We want to get you on the record. No? No? How about now? Okay. Okay, so thank you to the council for inviting me. Thank you to Councilman Golombek in particular for inviting me to come. It's an honor and pleasure to be here. I'd like to just offer a short idea.
 that came from this previous week's Torah reading in the synagogue. We read about the introduction of Abraham, and in the beginning of the chapter, God speaks to Abraham and tells Abraham to leave his home and go on a journey to a land that he does not yet know. And a lot of the commentators on this section of the Bible, they ask,
 What were Abraham's qualifications for getting the chance to have God speak to him? It doesn't tell us anything about his character. Unlike Noah, for example, who appears a little bit earlier. We know he is a tzaddik. We know he is a righteous person. We know that he is pure, that he walks with God. But Abraham, the text doesn't tell us anything about Abraham's personal traits. And one of the Hasidic commentators from the 18th century called the Sfas Emes,
 He says that really, God was calling the entire world. God was sending that message to the entire world, and it was only Abraham who listened.
 Abraham was the only one who heard it, who took the time to turn down the static in his life and really listen to that inner voice that allowed him to understand that there's a transcendent unity to this world. There's something deeper going on here. And that voice communicated with Abraham, and he left his home in search of a new home on a new journey. And I think if there's any time...
 In recent history, we really have to tune into that voice, that transcendent voice that tells us that there's a greater purpose to the world. There's a transcendent unity. It's now where politics is a little bit hostile and there's a lot of tension involved. And it's up to us to be like Abraham, to hear that voice, which is telling us to look out for the welfare of the common man, to,
 to stand up for all the principles that I see in this chamber for justice and courage and wisdom, etc., etc. And it's very hard to hear that voice, and may God give us the strength to turn down the static in our lives and really tap into that voice which is telling us to look out for what's best in this world and what's best about humanity in general. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 This time, Councilmember Franczak. Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to acknowledge and thank the members of the City Naval Corps for coming and assisting us with the pledge of allegiance in light of Veterans Day, the President's Day, the President's Day. Absolutely. We're going to bring them forward when we do presentations for a picture and to thank them for their service. Mr. Dean, I'm going to do it. Mr. President, this is for the President.
 I know they're very well. Good to see you. We'll get a shot with them, and I apologize. We should have them right here on the floor to do that. Memorials, Council Member? Council Member Golombi.
 Thank you, Mr. President. We lost a longtime West Turtle resident, Mrs. Farrell, Benny Farrell, the wife of Mr. Farrell, one of the four original founders of the Black Rock Riverside Little League Baseball from circa 1958, 59, 1960.
 Ball Diamond is named after her family. We also lost Lisa Crispin, a younger woman from the neighborhood. She will be very, very sorely missed by her family as well. Thank you, sir.
 Someone else? Council Member White? I know this is not a local person, but someone who I've admired, Gwen Ifill, who was a media journalist for many years and reported on many, many events in our history. Love passed at 61 years old, so we're praying for her family. She has really made an impact on our world, and I think that was great.
 And of course, like every meeting, we always honor our military men and women and civilians who have given their lives since our last meeting. This is our procedure at every council meeting, and so it gives us great pleasure to do that in the presence of many of our veterans. We pause for a moment of silence. You may be seated.
 we have several presentations today um and i'm going to save the military presentations to last so that we can give them the respect that they are due and we will start with council member rivera is going to come to give recognition uh to i'll let him pronounce it so i don't mispronounce
 Thank you very much, Council President. It is my honor and privilege to stand before you today to recognize a gentleman who has impacted the lives of so many people on the city's west side and throughout the whole city. All of you are familiar with Royal Printing. It's a business that's been on Grant Street approximately 63 years.
 At a time where businesses were leaving the city and finding greener pastures, Mr. Tavi Asiris decided to stay in our community. And not only has he stayed in our community, he has dedicated much of his life to serving our young men and women.
 Tavi is the founder of the Westside Little League Baseball. He's also the founder of the Westside Street Hockey League.
 He has mentored and dedicated to so many of our young children. As a matter of fact, I just found out talking to Nick Bonifacio that Nick Bonifacio pitched for Tabby in 1962. That is how far back. I was just four years old when you were pitching for the Westside Little League Baseball.
 But I can't imagine anyone who is more deserving. I've had the privilege of taking awards to so many people, but you represent the West Side. And not only the West Side, you impact the quality of life of children throughout the city of Buffalo. My grandson played baseball at Little League. My son played baseball. And these are all grown up now. And many of the skills that you have,
 help them with, they are the life skills that they have today. So I want to thank you personally. I want to thank you professionally. On behalf of all of the constituents and all of those families that you impacted, I'd like Tavi to please come up. And Nick, you might as well. Nick is the former Niagara District Council member. And Tavi, when he walked in, he says, you didn't have to do this.
 And I know I didn't have to do it, but you are so deserving, and I just want to express our gratitude. And I just have a certificate of recognition. It says the Niagara District Council Office wishes to recognize you for the work and steadfast dedication to serving the people of western New York. It is a privilege and honor to recognize your lasting contribution and noble work. We earnestly thank you and offer appreciation for your service to our community. Thank you so much.
 Thank you. I appreciate the rec... and especially David has been a lot of help to us with our programs. Nick has been helpful. Joe has been helpful to us. And I believe in youth and recreation, organized recreation, to go a long way.
 for them making better citizens. I really feel proud of the people that went through our programs for years and I'm going to keep doing it as long as I can. I have arthritis in my spine, I had trouble walking but I don't coach anymore but I still do the supervision of the three programs on the west side. And I want to thank everybody here for recognizing me. Thank you.
 It's our honor to have you here and at this time we're going to ask Lynn, is Lynn in the building? We are recognizing the efforts of those dealing in world pancreatic cancer.
 Lynn, I'm just going to read a little bit about this. In 2016, an estimated 53,000 people in the United States will be diagnosed with pancreatic cancer, one of the deadliest cancers. And 41,000 of those diagnosed will
 will die from the disease. Pancreatic cancer surpassed breast cancer this year to become the third leading cause of cancer death in the United States, and is projected to become the second leading cause.
 I'm going to go down to the New York State numbers and then let you talk about this and thank you for being here. Whereas approximately 2,660 deaths will occur in New York State in 2016.
 whereas the good health and well-being of the residents of the City of Buffalo are enhanced as a direct result of increased awareness about pancreatic cancer and research into early detection causes an effective treatment. Therefore, be it proclaimed that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo hereby designates November 17, 2016, as World Pancreatic Cancer Day in the City of Buffalo. Thank you for your work.
 Thank you.
 I appreciate very much you seeing me today. I'm probably the only sole volunteer kind of laying the foundation for fundraising and awareness in this area. I represent the Pancreatic Cancer Action Network, which is one of the largest organizations that provides patient resources. It provides information on cancer.
 clinical trials, and also does a lot of fundraising. So I'm hoping that by starting small with just having this day be proclaimed, that I can also start the fundraising. Just to give you a statistic that's really eye-opening that Reverend Pridgen did not share with you, is once you're diagnosed, 71% of the people initially diagnosed, they die within the first year.
 and 92% make it five years. I have personal experience of it. My husband passed two and a half years ago of pancreatic cancer, and he was only given four months. That same year, the...
 quite oddly. The people in the building that I worked in, they had spouses that also passed. One had three weeks, and the other had fought it for over a year. About a year ago, my brother was diagnosed, and he's been battling it. So this disease is really becoming prevalent, and it's not really discussed a lot. So that's why I felt it important to bring it to the forefront today, and you will be seeing and hearing a lot more of me in the future.
 And we have two military presentations and the military, the veterans that came to do the flag, if you'll join me on the floor, I think it would be wonderful. And then you could thank the other military members for their service because this is what military does. We're family. So we want to thank you for being here and.
 The first one, I'm going to ask Councilmember Wingo to come and join me. He knows this gentleman very well. Mr. Webb, I just interviewed him for television. Mr. Webb, come on and join us. Any other veterans? Come on down, veterans who are in the room.
 And we'll bring you last because we've got something for you special. Where's Malcolm? Malcolm, come on. You're in the military. So I'm going to have Councilmember Wingo, who we joined in this effort to honor Mr. Webb, together talk a little bit about it.
 Thank you Mr. President. It brings me great joy and pleasure to talk about William Uncle Bill Webb. I've been knowing Mr. Webb now for about 11 years. I met him at our place of worship, which is the Faith Missionary Baptist Church, where James R. Banks II is the pastor. And when I got there, I wondered who this very young-spirited man was who was in his 80s at the time,
 who was running up and down the stairs with this big, huge firearm on his hip. And then I introduced myself to him and he had told me, you know, I think you'll get saved yet, young man.
 because I'd be in the sanctuary playing on the organ, and he'd be listening in from the hallways, making sure that everyone in the building was safe. And this was at 81 years old. Now Uncle Bill is a ripe 91 years young, and he had to leave his firearm at home today to
 to get his recognition. Otherwise, Uncle Bill would have it with him right now. He definitely loves his family. He loves his church family. And it brings me great honor today to talk and share with you about Uncle Bill Webb. Now, there's something that is not on this proclamation that Uncle Bill usually brings up in most interviews. He'll just usually tell you voluntarily, which is when he was 16 years old,
 Uncle Bill wanted to enlist in the Army, but because he was too young, he had to lie just so that he could serve his country. So Uncle Bill at that point enlisted and then he had done so many great things since then. He was in the triple nickel parachuters. He was also a Tuskegee Airman. He was a World War II veteran, Korean War veteran. I mean, he has done so much for this country. Every Sunday,
 I'll find Uncle Bill and we'll take some selfies together. We missed this Sunday for whatever reason, Uncle Bill. We have to catch up next Sunday. But every week we'll catch up and we'll take a selfie together. So it brings me great honor to read his proclamation today. William J. Webb.
 A City of Buffalo resident served as an Army Sergeant and Airborne Ranger during World War II and the Korean War. Sergeant William J. Webb delivered equipment for the construction of boats that were part of one of the largest amphibious military assaults in the invasion of Normandy.
 Two days after D-Day, Sergeant William J. Webb landed on Omaha Beach as a member of the 1st Trunk Company, convoy division of African Americans delivering ammunition and supplies to the front lines. Sergeant William J. Webb received the prominent honors of European Theater Medal for Battle Stars.
 World War II Victory Medal, Good Conduct Medal, Korean War Combat Infantry Badge, United States Korean Service Medal, and he holds the honor of the Triple Nickel 555 Parachute Infantry Battalion, nicknamed the Triple Nickel. And now therefore, where the
 The City of Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that it is an honor and a privilege to recognize Sergeant William J. Webb, who through his courage and strength serves as an inspiration to us all. Signed by all nine council members, David Fronczak, David Rivera, Joseph Golombak, Chris Galen, Joe Ferletto, Rasheed N.C. Wyatt, Rich Fontana, Ulysses Owingo Sr., and the Council President, Darius G. Pritchard.
 And so, out on the campaign trail, he gave me a nickel. It wasn't one of these. But when the Buffalo News recently just honored him, we had staff contact him to ask him to come and honor us with his presence. Mr. Webb, do you have anything? No, I really appreciate this. I'm going to expect it, but...
 I'll take care of him. You'll take care of him? Thank you, Mr. Webb. You all can honor each other for your service. And then we have one more. Everybody may as well just stay put right there. You'll come down. This is one of our Buffalo Fire investigators. So he was able to wear his gun today. And this came about because his colleagues...
 knew of his service and wanted him to be honored. Whereas on Veterans Day, a day of remembrance, it is fitting to respect the work of heroes who give their all to a selfless service. Whereas Edwin O. Ortiz, the newly appointed Deputy Commander of Fire Investigation in the Buffalo Fire Marshal Office,
 is a local hero demonstrating commitment to selfless service, whereas Ortiz has devoted himself to the safety of the city for 25 years in Buffalo's fire department and for 20 as a fire marshal.
 And whereas fighting not just for fire safety in our city, but for freedom in a global war on terror, Ortiz served his country honorably as an NCO in both the U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force through Desert Storm and OIF respectively.
 Now therefore, we the members of the City of Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that it is an honor of recent, to honor you in your recent retirement from military service and continued work as a fire marshal, November 15, 2016, shall be Edwin, ah, we moved, yes, Edwin Ortiz Day in the City of Buffalo. May he continue to be a shining star, signed by all of those council members that Councilmember Wingo named,
 Thank you for your service. Oh, God. I don't know why I'm sorry. I want to cry. No. Thank you. It's nice. 32 years, two wars. It's nice to be acknowledged. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's great. The Air Force is good. Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you.
 Congratulations. Well, I think the presentations are going to be longer than the meeting. But they all well deserved, every single one of them. And when you can have the council meeting and recognize people. And I want to thank Art for the front flags. Art actually bought them at a garage sale, saw them, and went and bought them for us. And what I've been told is that the one blue star
 You would hang in your window if you had a military member, and you military folks tell me if I'm wrong, serving overseas. And if they were deceased, you would turn that into a gold star. And Art is a veteran also. Art Robinson is a veteran. Art, why didn't you come down?
 Well, we also thank you for your service. Thank you. And your service here as the 10th Councilman. Which war, Mr. Franchek? Spanish-American. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on November 1, 2016 are approved. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are before us that does not bar your right to...
 object to the late file when it comes before the council. Hearing none, we will hear the entire agenda starting from the top and then we're going to take one item out of order.
 I'm going to talk. Item number one, acquisition of Dillon Courthouse. This item is open. Thank you. This item is open. Seconded by Councilman Franczak. We do, we're going to step out of our normal protocol for this item. And the reason is, is because most have just received the item.
 and i wanted to ensure because this is a big purchase although a little price tag uh... that if council members have any further questions and to allow we would normally send this to the committee
 Because of the time sensitivity, we're going to be making a move on this today during this meeting. However, I did ask representatives from the administration to come and give a very brief overview of why this building over other buildings and this time sensitivity so we get that on the record. We just state your name for the record. Thank you, counsel.
 So the ‑‑ oh, sorry. I'm sorry. I'm still getting used to this. Rashawn Sanubi, Deputy Commissioner of Buildings, City of Buffalo. So we're here to talk about the acquisition of the Dillon Courthouse.
 the on the existing I police headquarters which is located at 74 Franklin Street is at capacity I'll they have stored requirements storage up state store partners they have to me and that they're in need of up new space I'll the city of Buffalo received an opportunity from the federal government to happy Dylan courthouse can be for one dollar
 The Dillon Courthouse is about 60,000 square feet larger than the existing police headquarters, and it will be well utilized by the police. Along with fire, it was a great opportunity for us to also look at consolidating police and fire administration within this facility as well.
 So at this particular time, we believe that this is a great building. We did look at other facilities, specifically along Broadway. We looked at the old Kmart. Unfortunately, it was cost prohibitive for us to move into that building. But we truly believe that this is a great opportunity for the city of Buffalo to house these administrative staff in this building. Thank you.
 Council Member, just push in so that the camera is swinging to you. You talk about cost prohibitive. You gave us a number of what Broadway, I think the public needs to know that. Yeah, it was... And about the square footage of why Broadway wouldn't work. Absolutely. Thank you, Council President. The total square footage of the existing Broadway...
 facility is 85,000 square feet. Existing police headquarters is 120,000 square feet. And they are already at capacity. So we would have had to add a very large addition to the existing Kmart building at a cost of about $31 million to renovate that entire building and to add the addition. All right. Mr. Conte?
 Different buildings carry different costs, of course, and this building seems to be in pretty good shape. We were told yesterday in caucus that the roof was newer. The building does need internal work, updating as far as where tracks go, and 21st Century Communications. But it seems to be working together with the federal government, it seems to be a building of choice. We talked about it yesterday. Council Member Scanlon mentioned it first in the meeting, and it was kind of on everyone's minds.
 People are already starting to say, you're not going to let them gum up Niagara Square with this building, are you? Meaning the way they park over at police headquarters, people get extremely upset, citizens do, about the double parking that occurs over there. Sometimes it even occurs over by the Sheriff's Building at the Board of Elections. You saw me once, I was kind of blocked in because someone double parked me.
 And you were asking me what's going on. I said, it's blocked in. You can't get the truck out. Here I'm sitting in a van. I'm waiting for 20, 30 minutes to get out. That cannot happen, of course, over in Niagara Square. I want the residents to know that's definitely on our minds, too. We don't want to create a situation. But I think with proper enforcement, proper training, proper techniques, and also the attitude change at the police department that you just can't park wherever you want to park, especially in Niagara Square.
 It brings up the square. I don't want parking in the square either. I don't think the square should be used as parking for this building at all, unless it's an emergency, of course, but that type of situation. So, Mr. Helfer, what has the administration done so far to ensure that this council won't see a nightmare on the square when it comes to double parking and clogging up the area?
 Thank you, Councilmember. Kevin Hulfer, Parking Commissioner, Executive Director of Buffalo Traffic Violations Agency. Currently around that building, as you've probably noticed, for years it was posted for marshals parking. The marshals are now parking at their new federal courthouse. That parking has been vacated around the perimeter of that building. That will be used for police and fire personnel.
 Across the street at the corner of Court and Franklin, through our Buffalo Urban Renewal Agency, the city has contracted out with Buffalo Civic Auto Ramps that manages a 67 car parking lot.
 We will be purchasing that from DERA and using that 67-car parking lot for police and fire personnel. So all told, between on-street and off-street parking, we're anticipating roughly around 90 spots, which is substantially more than what currently is on Franklin, both in their off-street and on-street capacity.
 Just one final question. I haven't seen him on the topic yet. We talked to him. Of course, our fire commissioner is busy. And I would like for our council to honor our fire commissioner at the next meeting, if we could call him down to the next proclamation. Because what he did in Lackawanna was truly leadership at its best, helping out Lackawanna's team. They did an excellent job as well, as well as our mayor and our mayor. But he really rose to the occasion. So if we could do that, I'd appreciate that. When it comes down to this project, though, does the fire commissioner and police commissioner both support the project?
 Yes, and as a matter of fact, I think there will be a lot of economies of scales as well. For instance, currently at fire headquarters, it's very much an administrative office of about 15 people tops when all positions are filled. They will be moving over, and police obviously has similar type of personnel, so we will get some economies of scale that way with payroll personnel, et cetera. Our investigation is currently at Elmwood in Virginia.
 As I'm sure this council is aware, the public are aware, a lot of these arson investigations involve both police and fire. That's another economy of scale by having them both co-located in the same building.
 quartermasters, each one of the agencies that we're talking about, police and fire have quartermasters internal affairs we anticipate, we've been working together with members of the police department and the fire department, we anticipate that through this increased cooperation that services will be better for the public in the city of Buffalo Mr. Golomba
 Actually, Mr. Fontana asked the main concerns that I have was the number of parking spots lost and gained. That's been one of the questions that's been running through my mind and from some of the personnel that work at the police department. I have faith in the administration. Kevin did a good job yesterday calling me. I had to walk around on the west side part of my district.
 So Kevin and I missed, but he was in touch with me by phone and by email, and that's very, very much appreciated. It appears that the city did their due diligence, which I would expect nothing less from them, so I'm prepared to vote yes for this. Any other council member? Council Member Franza? Thank you, Mr. President. I understand the...
 The raw, hard data here, you know, the Dillon Courthouse, that's a magnificent building. There's no doubt about it. I used to go in there, and Congressman Nowak was there and for various other functions. So it's an excellent building. The first thing I asked in caucus, which has been answered, has been the parking issue. You get it for a dollar. And the thing is, because I've been an early advocate, as has the police commissioner for the Kmart site,
 The Dillon is 180,000 square feet. I see the Kmart is 85,000, which they'd have to build on. So I can, is, Kevin, do you know if the owners of the Kmart talked about a sale price of it? I do not know that. I do not know if Mr. Snoopy does, but I think the only one, if there was a price, I would know that might be Brendan Mahaffey from the office of strategic affairs. Yeah, because the owner of that building is doing some great work.
 on the east side, Dr. Dager, and I met with him again today. And he's disappointed, but he's not going to lay in action on that building. He's already got some chasing some leads, and he also owns the historic 1940 Art Modern Eckert Building at Broadway in Fillmore. And there's something that I think that could be in the works that would be excellent for it in the future.
 probably reach out to the mayor about that. But I think there could be a good development. I just want to see the side be part of the overall renaissance. You know, I can understand all these numbers and statistics, and I'm not going to vote against this project that originally wanted a Kmart site, but I just think that there's a lot of good potential development projects there that can and should be supported, and I will continue to advocate for them. Absolutely. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you.
 All right. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Thank you. Motion to take item 52 out of order. Second by Councilmember Glombeck. Item number 52, environmental assessment of 51 through 55 Rhode Island. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Villalobos. Item number two, citizen service submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file items two and three.
 Okay, seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item number four, pilot commences public infrastructure improvements. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number five, insure fund loan city hall improvements. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Villalobo. Item number six, appoint principal accountant. Motion to send to civil service items five through seven.
 6, excuse me, 6 and 7, seconded by Councilmember Y. Item number 8, notification serial. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Franzen. Item number 10, agreement for sidewalk and snow removal. Motion to approve items 10 through including 21. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana.
 Item number 22, appoint clocker. Motion to send to civil service items 20 through 22 through 24. Present pro tem scandal.
 Item number 25 approval to extend agreement with the conversion image pack motion to approve items 25 and 26 in the customer for your letter item number 27 full store license 1318 Fillmore motion sent to let somebody customer friends at item number 28 purchase an auction script scrap of vehicles motion to approve items 28 and 29 second by council member fear little I
 Item number 30, appoint senior special assistant. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 31, approval to provide 12 spaces to unify a court system. Motion to approve items 31 and 32. Second by Councilmember Peralta. Item number 33, appoint secretary to the commissioner. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wingo.
 Item number 34, items returned by the mayor without approval and disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 34 through 38. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item number 39, appointments temporary, provisional, and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. And by Council Member Fontana.
 Item 40, Brownfield Cleanup, Pierce Arrow Building. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 41, Restricted Highway, Elm and Oak Street. Motion to receive and file and send to Public Works. Item 42, 51-55, Rhode Island Rezoning. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Peralotto. Item 43, Petitions, Yusa 527 Street.
 Motion to send item 43 and 44 to the left and city planning board. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number 45, use of 905 and what? Motion to send to the left, city planning board and public work. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number 46, use of 986 Grant Street. Motion to send to the left and city planning board items 46 through 48. Seconded by Council Member Golombek.
 Item number 49, creation of land use and community advisory. Motion to send to CDA for 49 and 50. Second by Council Member Fairland. Submissions list, Plains Committee. Item number one, Anderson, Margareta Anderson. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 29 has been withdrawn. Second by Council Majority Leader Revere. Item number 30,
 Thomas Ronaldo. Motion to approve item 30 to 43. To 43? Yes. All right. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 44, claims committee agenda. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember White. Civil service committee, item number 45, appoint senior engineer. Thank you.
 We completed the order numbers on claims? Oh, sorry. 45. Okay. Motion to approve items number 45, including item number 53. 53. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item number 54, notice of appointment. Receiving five. Seconded by Council Member Franczak.
 Finance Committee Meeting, Item Number 55, Arbitration Award. I think there's an addendum to this item. I could either keep it as an addendum or I could do it as a condition, but I'll read it first so that everyone knows what I'm talking about. On Item Number 55, the approved motion that comes with the approval of the condition that the Arbitration Award approval will have no force, precedent, or future effect on future claims
 and neither will it guarantee approval of future claims pursuant to the applicable collective bargaining agreement. So that is the appendage I'd like to put on to the item. So I'd like to motion to approve as amended. Would that be the amendment? All right. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon, who has the floor. Hello. Hello.
 I'm sorry. In the negative. In the negative. All right. Okay, so it would be second by Councilmember Golombek. We record Councilmember Scanlon in the negative.
 Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 56, Buffalo Niagara Film Commission. Motion to approve. Second by President Pro Tems. Item number 57, Say Yes to Buffalo. 57 and 58, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number 59, Concerns Raising of Adult League Fees. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Iriletto. Committee Development. Oh, I'm sorry. Legislation Committee.
 Yep, you're fine. All right. Item number 60, full store license, 2724 Bailey. Item 60 and 61, motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item 62. You approve 60 and 61, right? 60 and 61 is approved. All right, 62. Item number 62, used car dealer, 64 Bird Street. 62 is also approved, but with a seven-car limit.
 All right. Second by Council Member Revere. Item number 63, use of 3288 Bailey. 63 and 64, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 65, rezone 51 to 55 Rhode Island. That's motion to approve, but the rezoning of 51 to 55 Rhode Island should be from R3 and C1 to C1.
 To C1. To C1 only. So noted for the record. Not as marked originally, but as to C1. So there's a typo here on our agenda. Yeah, the typo there is C2, but we should approve it as a C1. Is that clear? Council Member Revere has a floor. I'm in the negative. All right, second by Council Member Revere, Council Member Golombek is recorded in the negative. Council Member Revere, you have the floor. Mr. Chairman, that is a split line.
 51 and 55. One was a C1, the other one was R3. What the planning board decided to do was to make them both C1 instead of C1 and R3. So both of them, the split lot, there will be C1 more restricted. Certainly the neighborhood came in and we tried to work
 There was a misunderstanding.
 The thought was that they couldn't do bottle returns in a C1. And according to permits and inspections, C1 is a permissible use. We did confer with legal counsel. We did confer with inspections and permits. C1 is a permissible use for bottle returns. The same way that convenience stores that are C1 are retail stores and they allow for bottle returns, this location will also allow for bottle returns.
 There are times that people think that you can pick what you can do in a certain area. And there is a zone, you can do A through D. And as long as you fit within that perimeter, you can do A through D. And there are times people say, no, we don't want you to do A, we want you to do D or D. But when you're zoned, you can do whatever falls within that category. Am I correct?
 So they are allowed to do bottle returns at this location. So there was this misunderstanding. The only difference here is that the other building, what was classified as an R3, is now going to be a C1. The building in question, that particular building, was an auto repair shop. It's registered with the county as an auto repair shop.
 With the city of Buffalo, if you look at our tax record, it's an auto repair shop. It is a storefront. And so it is a residential business district that allows for that. And we want to work with the neighbors to make sure that whatever goes into this new C1 district
 former R3, will be something that the neighborhoods will be happy with. The owner of the building has agreed to work closely with the neighbors. We want to make sure we have the right type of business down there, but certainly it falls within the zone. And it's the prerogative of the owner, as long as it falls within the zone, what he prefers to do. Thank you. And like all other licenses, the city, if they –
 Don't abide by the codes and if there's problems, has the ability to bring them into a hearing and possibly take the license. Thank you. All right. Council Member Fontana? Okay. Also record Council Member Fontana in the negative. Any others in the negative? All right. Next item. Item number 66, Ordinance Amendment to Chapter 399. Motion to approve.
 second by majority leader here item number 67 used car dealer 283 Broadway I was going to approve this until I roll past last night and this was a car lot that we discovered is operating without a city license and the applicant came in committee was informed that she does not have city license although she let us know and I think
 At that point, legitimately, I truly believe she thought she was okay operating with a state license. We let her know she was not okay. I went past last night and the business was open and operating. As if we had not had the discussion, there are no lights in the parking lot, as I asked about lights in the parking lot during business hours.
 There's not even, there's only one pole and if that little pole lights up that parking lot, then it's a pretty bright light that I didn't see. I'm going to ask permits and inspection to contact, have asked staff to contact permits and inspection to make a visit to this location, to shut it down immediately. And that is because I think that this council has been very friendly to business. We work with everybody.
 But when you know you're operating illegal, you continue to operate illegal, it doesn't show me or this council that you are serious about working within the law. And so this will go back to committee. I'm asking for it to be recommitted, but I do ask that permits, and I'm sure it'll be public by then, and they'll be quietly shut down. But I have the pictures of them open yesterday. And I could have probably walked up and bought a car.
 last night and there's more than 10 cars on the lot. It's quality of life issues that we have to be so concerned about. And when folks want to open up a business in Buffalo, they've got to conduct themselves like any other place that would not allow this type of business. And so I'm going to ask, I really...
 am this far away from just denying it and letting them reapply but I'll send it back and hopefully the owners can get themselves together but they need to be shut down in the next couple days hopefully they don't have any cars to sell motion to recommit second by Majority Leader Revere item number 68 outer harbors feet limit motion to receive and file second by councilmember Golombek
 Item number 69, citizen participation proposal meeting. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Item number 70, letter to invite to education committee. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Resolutions. Item number 51, resolution.
 Authorizing resolution for restricted use permit. Motion to approve. Thank you, my council member, Golomba. Item number 53, ordinance amendment to chapter 137 code enforcement. Motion to send to the ledge items 53 and 54.
 Second by Councilman Frioletto and Councilman Scanlon, negative. No, I'm just . I'm sorry? I filed it. I better not vote on it. Oh, that's how, when you put up your finger, I was like, is he going to the negative on his own thing? No, I don't like it. You have the floor. Change of heart. Thank you.
 No, I just wanted to provide a brief update to the rest of the council on this. We've seen this item pop up a bunch in the past few months, and it has to do with an adjustment of the fine schedule. And I just wanted everyone not to think that we're changing it a number of times. I know Council Member Wyatt's had concerns in the past, but I just wanted to update on why it's popped up a few times. It was supposed to be filed originally back prior to August recess, and it wasn't.
 and then after it was filed with some incorrect information twice, and then it was actually filed another time without the proper information in it. So this is finally the adjusted proper one, and next week at committee, Tim Ball Corporation Council, people from permits and inspections will be in attendance to discuss it, so we can move forward on it there. Just wanted to, again, provide everyone an update so they don't think we're doing this four and five times, changing it, but it's just the one time, and we're finally getting it finalized. Thank you, sir.
 Next item. Item number 55, Commissioner Deeds and Public Duties. Motion to adopt items 55 and 56. Second by Councilmember Columbe. Announcement of committee meetings.
 Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, November 22nd at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, File on Civil Service, Tuesday, November 22nd at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, November 22nd at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, November 22nd at 2 p.m.
 Council members, any announcements? Any breakfasts, lunches, dinners? Anything else you all have? Council member Wyatt.
 That little bit? The camera points to me. Oh, oh, thank you, sir. All right. You're fine. Here you go. I can't find it anymore. Okay. I just want to announce our annual turkey giveaway, Tuesday, November 22nd, 2016, at the Ken Bailey Community Center, 995 Kensington. It's to people who are eligible.
 meaning that they're income-based. Definitely 65 seniors are definitely wanted, needed. We want to help them. From 4 to 6 p.m., you can call our office at 851-5165 to register. Last thing, the University Block Club Coalition University Heights Collaborative in my office will do a university district recognition awards for the people who have worked hard in the community, who have made a difference. It will take place on Saturday, December 10th.
 6 p.m. To 10 p.m. At the varsity theater at 3165 Bailey music will be by DJ slim and guest soloist Joseph Vertino, um all are welcome if you don't live in the University District, but want to have a good time You can come and that's again. That's December 10th. I'm in the varsity theater from 6 p.m. To 10 p.m. Thank you right councilmember Wingo
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. My announcement is I have no announcements. Thank you. Oh, my goodness. Well, the Madison District is going to be hungry this week.
 Next stakeholder meeting. Wait, wait, wait. We actually had our breakfast this past Saturday, so there's no need to announce it three or four weeks in advance. So I'll announce the next council session, sir. Thank you, sir. The next Elegant District meeting is on December 5th. Our topic is going to be gentrification. So we're really going to be digging in, making sure that...
 uh we are addressing it the best way that we can as a council uh and so we ask that those people come who want to roll up their sleeves and get to work um complaining has its place but at the end of the day we got to do the work and make sure that we are doing everything we can to um
 ensure that during in areas that are being gentrified that people want to live and stay Are able to do that so that's very important councilman why I just want to thank councilmember Franzak for the great job He did with the green code meeting yesterday. We had a great turnout I think that was excellent that people have to come out and voice their concern about it And I think you have another meeting coming up legislative meeting as well if he would announce that
 When Mr. Wingo told that guy only two minutes, that set the tone. Tell somebody two minutes?
 So basically what typically happens is you have someone who wants to go over, but only have a couple more things to say, and then they'll go two more minutes. And this guy had gone maybe like five minutes, and it's like, wait a minute, if we let this guy go five minutes, you guys will be here past 830. It'll be 1030 before you get home. So we just tried to make sure that Council Member Franczak didn't catch all the heat. So we took a little form last night and asked people to just keep it to two minutes. That's all.
 But our next one is the next legislative meeting at 2 p.m. 22nd. So I just wanted to let the community know because a lot of folks. Great job, Councilman Frenzik. And the place was packed. People were actually lining up at 5 o'clock.
 to sign up to speak. And so I thought it was very good showing and we learned information. We heard a lot of the same things over and over, which was good because that showed us we only have a few issues that it seemed like that we need to adjust or at least look at. And just on that, we took their comments seriously. I wrote down a sentence or two with everything everybody said.
 and I'm going to underline and read some of the key points just to see if there's some similar things, maybe some new things.
 And, you know, it was all typical. I agree. And Brendan and his staff was here, too, so we want to thank him. He stayed along with his staff, and, again, that means a lot because, you know, these are the people that we're trying to make sure that we're meeting their needs, their expectations, and he needed to hear that, and he stayed, so I commend him and his staff for being here yesterday as well. Absolutely. And, gentlemen, if you have a chance today, the racial roundtable equity conference,
 I just messed up all of the words, by the way. Released their report that we've been working on for 18 months, and it shows the gaps in our local area. I was well attended today. The announcement, all of the information was embargoed until today. I'll send an email out to all your offices where to get that information. And it's all about opportunity and getting the business community.
 and all the faith-based community, elected officials, to start looking at the same thing. How do we bring the divide together in education? How do we bring the divide together in employment and other opportunities in our city? It was a great work. I want to thank COTIL, the Buffalo Foundation. They put a lot of work into this and the many partners. And now it's time to go forward and ensure that the renaissance, as we keep hearing,
 of buffalo is made available uh... to all so thank you i'll get you the information we get information from the website motion to adjourn second by council member fontana racial