Thank you. i haven't just think about the taxpayers 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. President Pro Tempore. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombi. Here. Majority Leader Hudson-Polk. Present. Councilmember Nowakowski. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. To the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the God who rules over The God who grants mercy and grace. We welcome you now into this chamber of meeting, to the common council chamber. And Father, we simply ask that you would come and provide guidance. We ask that your sovereignty would continue to rest in this chamber. We pray, Lord, for single-mindedness of decision making. And that even for their constituents, Lord, that they would come in agreement with the direction that they had planned, that they have come in agreement for this city. Father, I pray even now for decisions that are on the table. I pray today Lord that you would cause them to come in agreement and that we might see a better Buffalo. And then finally I pray that you know the plans that you have for this chamber, for these councilmen and women. We know the plans that you have for the city of Buffalo. You have declared that there's one of peace and not of evil with an expected end. So now, Lord, we put all things in your hands, and we thank you for the outcome of a better Buffalo. In Jesus' name, amen. Thank you, Pastor. Council members in the audience? Council Member Gallenbeck. Thank you, Acting President. We all know our colleague in acting, Mayor Chris Scanlon's brother, passed away last week. It was heartbreaking yesterday the number of people that were at the meeting At the funeral home, it was about a two-hour wait, but it just shows the love, the family, and the lives that Mark had touched. So I want to keep him, his family, the empty mayor's family, Mrs. Scanlon, and all in our prayers. Thank you. Council Member Ferletto. Thank you. I want to keep in our prayers the family of Henry Guarino. Henry was a lifelong Delaware District resident, owned a couple restaurants in the Delaware District. He owned Oliver's Restaurant for about 30 years, sold that. More recently, he opened JT's on Elmwood and Delavan, several other restaurants he had in the city, and he will be sorely missed. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. I just want to ask for the prayers for a young man who lost his life suddenly, Kavon Demir Walker, you know, a young man who just, you know, one day didn't wake up. and also Bernard Bird, another young man, 30 years old, who passed because of cancer. And also a long time executive at HSBC Bank, John Gwower, who was a dear colleague and friend of mine, who gave me my first opportunity as a bank employee and taught me so many things. He was one of the people who had what they call the old timers for HSBC, and we would have these gatherings that just kept us connected and together and grounded. So I pray for their families. Thank you. Thank you all and I would like to add my condolences to acting Mayor Scanlon's brother Mark who passed. And for all those names mentioned and our first responders, the members of our first responder community and the men and women of our armed services, please join me in a moment of silence. We have a special presentation from Council Member White. If I could have Ms. Gwen Misey. It was on. It shows that it's on. Gwen Mizeak and also Jonathan McClath to come down, please. I know Pastor Howard is left, but I'm going to tell you. I was wondering why I was given the job to do this. But Pastor Howard, I can tell you that sometimes it's God that puts you in a position to talk about something that not everybody can talk about. I lost my daughter. She didn't have cancer, but she was 16 years. I just talked about two young men who just passed, young men. I don't know if one had cancer, but this other individual I didn't know. But to be able to deal with people in those difficult times takes special people. And so I thank you, Gwen, for what you've done as the executive director for PUNT, Pediatric Cancer Collaborative. The work that you do, the passion that you have, and you got involved because of a situation that related to you. And sometimes that brings us out because of those situations. So God bless you and thank you for doing that. And Jonathan has used his expertise and his professional life to demonstrate an unwavering dedication to uplifting others. Again, two special people. How do you do this? It's not always in some, everybody's hurt, but you all have experienced it and shown this commitment that's really important because not everybody has that capability. So thank you for what you do. acknowledge you now therefore we as the county buffalo county council hereby honor and recognize jonathan mcgrath and Mon Isaac for their outstanding contributions to children's grief awareness, advocacy, and pediatric cancer families. And I ask for your continued efforts to inspire and uplift our community. Your leadership as a beacon of hope and reminding all of us the importance of care, compassion, and solidarity during times of loss and beyond. So thank you so much. I'm going to give you an opportunity to say a few words. Thank you very much. Thank you. It's such an honor for us to be here along with our very important teammates, Terry Carbone and Maureen McGowan. I stand before you as a servant leader of a nonprofit for 13 years. And for many years, we focused on pediatric cancer loss and supporting our bereaved families. But as we continue to try to garner skills for our own work in the bereavement realm, we started to get data and understand what a broader community need there was. We live in a death-denying culture. It's hard to talk about. A lot of people don't want to think about it, especially kids with cancer is hard enough. And then you go the step of a loss to pediatric cancer, but we have become very passionate advocates for our bereaved families. And that has allowed us to meet some people on a national level, the National Alliance for Grieving Children, some top grief centers in America. And we're very proud to share that we are about to open the doors on Western New York Compassion Connection, a center for grieving children and families. It will be open to all origins of loss in the entire country. community of Western New York beginning in January. We will be running peer support groups and providing support to grieving children and families. We learned on our journey that one in eleven children in Erie County will suffer the loss of a parent or sibling. We that population is at much higher risk of every negative outcome that you can imagine. So this goes way beyond just supporting people in times of grief and hurt feelings following a loss. And so we really hope that the community will embrace this, that you will help us continue it for many generations to come. I also stand before you as a woman who became widowed at 50 years old who parents three grieving children. And I stand next to you as a teammate of Jonathan McGrath who lost his little boy to pediatric cancer. And so in addition to our professional skills and experience, we have a real personal passion for making sure that Western New York Compassion Connection is a true beacon of hope and grief literacy in Buffalo and Western New York. Jonathan. Thank you. No, as Gwen said, I stand before you as a believed father, as well as somebody who has a professional career and has worked with a lot of different organizations in the community. This is going to become a very important community asset for many of the reasons that Gwen had mentioned. And as she also mentioned, that 111 kids will lose a parent sibling by the age of 18. There's a lot more people out there that are kind of struggling on their islands, and this center is something that we hope can fix that and at least give people a little bit, you know, the weight of it never really goes away, but I think when you're around certain people, it's a little easier to carry with you. So we appreciate the recognition, and, yeah, thanks. Thank you. Thanks, dear. Thanks. I appreciate it a lot. Thank you for sharing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. on a motion by Majority Leader Hope seconded by Council Member Gallenbeck the minutes of the stated meeting held on October 29th 2024 were approved Council Member do you have the late files before you are there any objections to the late files is your mic on yeah yes Hearing no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This is not to delay or interrupt the pause of meeting. If you haven't had a chance to review the late files, from the top. If we could just wait one second, someone fix your mic. Yeah. It's low. Mic check. One, two, three, four. All again. Mic check.
 Wow.
 I had to push it in. All right, let's do it again. Councilman, does the late files, are there any objections to the late files? Yes. Hearing no objections to rate files, we'll hear their genuine and sententious. Does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the rate files. Friendly tap. Number 1, 2025, recommended capital budget. Motion to sign the committee of the roll. Second by council member Nowakowski. Number 2, 642, Broadway development LLC designated developer agreement. Motion to sign it to your legislation. Second by council member Everhart. Item number three, citizen services, Muslim report. Motion received and found. Seconded by council member Lee Zare. Item number four, a designated developer agreement for 1670 Genesee. Motion to approve items four through including six. Seconded by council member Gallaudet. Item number seven, secret negative declaration for 680 Amherst Street. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by council member Ferralato. Item number eight, change order number five for Buffalo Science Museum. Motion to approve items number eight through and including 17. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 18, permission to accept 2023 ship weight weight team exercise grant. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 19, appoint public safety dispatcher. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Everhead. Corporation Council, item number 20, Jariah Bailey, 500,000. Motion to send items 23, including 34, to Queens. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Permits and inspections, item number 35, New Second Hand Dollar, 878, aka 942, McKinley Parkway. Motion to send items 35 through, including 37, to Legislation. Seconded by Council Member Gallenbeck. Item 38, tire handler license, 1353 East Oliver. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Nowakowski and those conditions were sent to the clerk and the law department. Item 39, tire handler license 229 aka 235L. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member Everhart. Parking item number 40, fire department obtaining tow vehicle. Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Second by Council Member Rivera. Item number 42, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 42 through 44. Seconded by Council Member Gronbeck. Item number 45, a co-mingling of the application, 69 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Farrell-Levitt. Item number 46, notices of appointment, 10 provisional and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Leib. Item number 47, a policy and legislative assistant. Motion to adopt 47 through 48. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Miscellaneous, item number 49, nutritional education resources for November education committee. Motion to send it to Education. Second by Council Member Everhart. Item number 50, support for temporary moratorium for now owner-occupied short-term rentals. Motion to send legislation. Second by Council Member LeVere. Item number 51, Climate Action Manager requests to attend Waterfront Development Committee. Motion to send to Waterfront Development. Second by Council Member Donovan. Item number 52, Secret Negative Declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Ferravetto. Item number 53, children's ID program. Motions in education. Second by council member Everhart. Petitions, item number 54, special use 1415 Fillmore. Motion to send items 54 through and including 71 to legislation and city planning board. Second by council member Lai. Submission by civil service, item number 1, appoint executive assistant to mayor. Motion to receive and file items 1, 2, and 3. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item four, notice of status change. Motion to approve items four and five. Second by council member Rivera. Item number six, appoint director of workforce employment. Motion to receive and file items six, seven, eight, nine, and ten. Second by council member Gumbel. Finance, item number 11, letter to law department from the controller. Motion is to receive and file. Second by council member Rivera. Community Development, item number 12, Casals Climate Change. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 13, Petition to Redress of Grievances for Water Flagration. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Farrell-Ledda. Item number 14, Central Parks LED Lake Conversion Casale. Motion to receive and file 14 and 15. Second by Council Member Weil. Item number 16, Buffalo Water Board. Motion to recommit. 7-Eye Council Member Murakowski. Item number 17, petition to park on Bronson Place. Motion to receive and file 17 and 18. 7-Eye Councilwoman Everett. Registration item number 19, food store license 344 aka 350 Broadway. Motion to recommit. 7-Eye Council Member Rivera. Item number 21, food store license 1345 East Evelton. Motion to approve with conditions. 7-Eye Council Member Gallenbach and those conditions have been sent to the law department in City Clerk. Item number 21, FUSO license 352, Lawden Avenue. Motion to recommit 21 and 22. Second by Council Member Lott. Item number 23, used car dealer 1719, Morgan Street. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Malachowski and those conditions have also been sent to Law Department and City Clerk. Item number 24, used car dealer license 2104, South Park. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 25, immediate and future solutions for Buffalo Animal Shelter. Motion to send to the Finance Committee. Second by Council Member Gumbel. Item number 26, special use 48 and what? Motion to approve items 26 with conditions, 27 with conditions and approve 28. Second by Council Member Lyle. Item number 29, special use 380 Hudson. Motion to deny. Second by Council Member Murakowski. Item number 30, special use 210 Prospect. Motion to approve with commissions. Seconded by Council Member Neverheart. Item 31 is only an amendment for 282 Guilford. Motion to recommit 31 and 32. Seconded by Council Member Oliveira. Resolution, item number 72, fee-worthy for Christmas Inn, Kisertown 2024. Motion to approve item 72 and 73. Seconded by Council Member Gaumbach. Item number 74, Commissioner of Dates. Motion to adopt item 7475. Second by council member . Announcement of Committee Meetings. Committee on Education will be Monday, November 18, 2024 at 11 a.m. Committee on Civil Service will be Tuesday, November 19, 2024 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance will be Tuesday, November 19, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on Legislation will be Tuesday, November 19, 2024 at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development will be Tuesday, November 19, 2024 at 2 p.m. Committee on Claims will be Thursday, November 21st, 2024 at 1 p.m. Is it Thursday or Wednesday? Claims. I don't think. Excuse me. Correction. Committee on Claims will be Wednesday, November 20th at 1 p.m. Special Committees. Waterfront Development Committee will be Wednesday, November 20th, 2024 at 11 a.m. Committee on the Whole will be Tuesday, November 26th, 2024 at 11 a.m. Council members, announcements for your districts? Majority of the government? Yes, for the Onica District residents, there will be no stakeholders meeting this Saturday. Instead, we will be having our friends giving on Saturday the 23rd at 500 Seneca. Please contact my office to register. It requires an entrance and it requires a toy that will be given to the Christmas Bazaar for the Michigan Street African Heritage Quarter. Thank you. Council Member Lyle, thank you. I'd like to invite the residents of the University District to our second annual winter preparing series. It's going to be taking place this Friday, November 15th at the Frederick Olmsted School, 319 Norfolk from 530 to 730. And you must go on to register, so you can go on to www.buffaloreyork.gov slash council winter prep to register so that you can get the free giveaways and it's a real great event um it's our second year thank you to council staff for organizing and putting together i hear the other events have been well very well attended and i hope that they're very well attended for the university because we must make sure we prepare ourselves For what may come this winter. Thank you. Oh, second thing, sorry. Second thing is we have our turkey giveaway. If you want a turkey, please contact us. Call the office, 716-851-5165. Again, thank you to Josh's and Urban Fruits and Veggies for, again, helping us with this annual giveaway. It's going to be taking place next Wednesday, excuse me, November 20th, which is a Wednesday from 4 to 6 p.m. at 995 Kensington. Thank you. Majority Leader? Yes, I want to thank my colleague for a timely intervention preparedness. It's tomorrow at 8, F-414 South Division, School 6. Please contact us with the exact same information that Councilmember White had shared. You can contact my office as well at 851-4980. Thank you. Anything further? Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Dornanbeck.