Roll call. Council Member Faroletto. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Glombeck. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon.
 Present. Council Member Wingo. He'll be right now. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Forum President. Let's stand for the plate. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Councilmember Joseph Golombek will be introducing our chaplain for the day. Thank you, Mr. President. We have Rabbi Ori Bergman here from, and hopefully I'm going to get this right, Rabbi. He is at Kehillat Ort Zion. Close? Okay, thank you. And he's also a teacher at the Kadima Academy outside of Buffalo. And I got to meet him through a mutual friend, Lee Singer, who's helped us the last few years to bring in a rabbi at the end of November, beginning of December. And what's interesting, and I'm going to put the rabbi on the spot here for a minute. He's from Canada originally, and he played hockey. And I was just wondering if he's a Toronto Maple Leafs or a Buffalo Sabres fan. Oh, that's a fun spot. Which you don't have to answer, Rabbi. But welcome, welcome to the Buffalo Common Council, and thank you for coming. Yep. Go look for TV Weekend. Yeah, there we go. Yes. Oh, my goodness. You are live on TV and recorded, and your prayer will be played back ten times this week. Okay, that's great. Well, I'll play it with your permission. Thank you for having me. I will admit, the prayer is only going to be a little bit at the end, and it's more an expression of gratitude to you all. So here it is. So I want to thank you all for the opportunity to speak here, to be here. It really is an honor to be here. Buffalo is near and dear to my heart, and for most of my life, I didn't even know it. Let me explain it. You see my wife's family. My wife is actually up there. You can see on TV. And our three kids. My wife's family is from Buffalo. And my kids are sixth generation Buffalonians. Wow. Which is quite amazing. And it was six years ago that I actually met my wife here in Buffalo. But it took us about five years to get back to Buffalo. And we're really thankful to God that we live here now. I want to share a story with you. An old Talmudic story. And there was a certain state, and this is him speaking. He said, I was once traveling when I encountered a man. And he greeted me, and I returned his greeting. And he said to me, Rabbi, where are you from? I responded, from a great city of righteous people and scholars. He said to me, Rabbi, would you like to dwell with us in our place? I will give you a lot of money, a lot of gold, precious stones and pearls. And I said to him, if you were to give me all the silver, gold, precious stones in the world, I would not dwell anywhere but in a place of wisdom and righteousness. For when a person passes from this world, neither silver nor gold nor precious stones nor pearls accompany him, only wisdom and good deeds. And I will tell you all that I've lived in Buffalo only for 44 months. and I already see the money cannot buy the quality of life in the people, hands down. I've met so many amazing people. I don't know any other city in the world where the day you move there, your neighbor comes over with a frozen chicken, or the grocery store where employees come to greet you and welcome you to the neighborhood. It's really an amazing thing. Money cannot put a price on these things. And I really think Buffalo's a model community, and God takes pleasure in that. I will end with a prayer. That's what I want to pay the big bucks to be here. May God bless you all to continue on your important work and not only grow Buffalo economically, but raise a generation of children and families that are shining lights to the world, that are moral, empathetic, and down-to-earth. For these are the true measures of a person. Thank you all for everything you do, and may God bless you. Thank you. Amen. Thank you, Rabbi. Council members, memorials? Oh, I'm sorry. You have a presentation? You get a gift. Council member Wingo? The Mastin District mourns the loss of one of our stalwarts in the community, Mr. Clark Eaton, who was laid to rest today at the True Bethel Baptist Church. He was born on October 31st, 1934, and passed away November 22nd, 2017. We would like the community to know, and also the family to know, that the Mastin District has you in our thoughts and in our prayers, and if there's anything we can do, please do not hesitate to call us. Thank you. Councilmember White. I just wanted to add to the memoriam regarding Clark Eaton as a member of True Bethel, former trustee at the time when Mr. Eaton put in serious work for us to accomplish our mission of building the worship center at 907 East Ferry. His humility and his servanthood is hallmark, and we are... remembering him for his many hours of labor and the money that he put forth without getting a lot back from us but service. So we thank him and we remember him. Tanya, his daughter, was a trustee of the church. So on this day we remember this man for all the great deeds he's done for True Bethel Baptist Church and for the city of Buffalo in helping minority contractors. I also want to memorialize Donald Russell who is a family member of former colleague Bonnie Russell and judge Russell whose past and was a veteran and he was a member of the varsity community choir for 50 years Which I didn't know So we laid him to rest and we asked for prayers for the family Also, I just left from doing eulogy for mr. Eaton. Mr. Eaton actually built our church the first person that went into the The lapidated twin fare on the ferry was Rasheed Wyatt and Janice McKinney. And we didn't have any money. We just had a lot of vision. Mr. Eaton had a minority, had a contracting company, and came in and believed in us, and took out the insurance, gave us, took out all the permits, and we went in with our bare hands. We'd get off of our day jobs and go in there at night, and he's going to be missed. He believed in our dream and we didn't have the money. We had vision without provision and Mr. Eaton provided almost everything we needed besides the money and so to lay him to rest today, the Mastin District, you're totally correct, we'll miss him and I think the City of Buffalo. But all of the development you see around True Bethel started with Clark. We pause remembering those men and women who have given their lives, freedom of our country since our last meeting, three Navy airmen that died in a plane crash since our last meeting, and others. We pause in these chambers to remember those who we have called and others for a moment of silence. You may be seated. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on November 14th are approved. All of the late files are in front of you. Any objections to the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as it is before us. Not taking away your right to object to the late files as they come before you if you have not had time to review them. I think we have one item out of order. Mr. Chairman, motion to take item six out of order. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item six from Community Development Public Hearing, proposed naming of Herb Siegel, Landing, and Walkway. Motion to open a public hearing. Second by Council Member Franczak. All right. Is there anyone here to be heard on this item in the audience? All right. Don't rush. Motion. All right. Council Member Golombet. Oh, okay. Council Member Frioletto. This is an item that went through and already received approval through the Preservation Board and through the Buffalo Arts Commission. Procedurally, the council has to have a public hearing and vote on it, but it already passed through both of those, and we look to support that. All right. Motion to close public hearing. Motion to close public hearing. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fialetto. Next item from the top. From the top. Item 1, SEQR negative declaration, 67 North Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item 2, ESDC restore grant. Motion to approve items 2 and 3. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 4, report of sale, 1312 Michigan. Motion to send to legislation item 4 through 6. Thank you. Second by Councilmember Golombet. We can approve five. Excuse me? A motion to revisit item number five. Oh, absolutely. Motion to revisit item number five, seconded by Councilmember Winkle. The motion is now to approve. The motion is to approve, seconded by Councilmember Frenzik. Item seven, report of sale, 343, 347, 349, Mastin. Motion to approve items seven, eight, nine, and ten. Second by President Prozo. Item 11, Certificate of Necessity Transfer of Funds. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 12, Appoint Temporary Member Assessment Review Board. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 13, Notification of Serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Forensic. Item 14, Consulting Electrical Upgrades Project. Motion to approve Items 14... through 27. Second by Council Member Freelance. Item 28, no plan 2017-2018. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member White. Item 29, water treatment facility upgrades. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item 30, appoint associate account clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Forensic. Item 31, permission to accept 2017-2018 motor vehicle theft insurance fraud grant. Motion to approve items 31 through 34. Second by President Pro Temp. Item item 35 food store license 1522 genesee motion to send to legislation second by uh president item 36 garbage collector b lard and disposal services motion to approve second by councilman fontana item 37 lodging house 45 west chippewa motion is sent to legislation uh motion to send the legislation second by councilman wingo and on this item this is request for a lodging house at at 45 West Chippewa. We'll talk about this in, what was the date? In our meeting on the 19th at, where did we send it to? Legislation? In legislation. In ledge. I spoke about this at our caucus. The applicant is applying for a lodging house. I've asked Corporation Council to look into the legality of this being a lodging house, as it seems more like a rooming house. When I talked to the applicant... I was informed that they take referrals from agencies, which doesn't necessarily make it a rooming house, but it seems like some of the other things that are involved in this make it a rooming house. Second thing I asked about, especially with Emerson Commons being right down the street, was whether they have sex offenders involved. Do they house sex offenders? And the answer was a quick yes. So I do thank the applicant for their honesty, but I am concerned about whether this is truly a lodging house or whether it's a rooming house and whether it meets the 1,000 feet setback. According to the Corporation Council, there must be a 1,000 feet setback. So I just want the public to know that this will be discussed on December the 19th. Because I think it's important for the public to be involved in really some clarification on whether it's rooming, lodging, whether it can be located where it is. with the fact that they do house sex offenders. And the law talks about sex offenders on parole cannot be lodged 1,000 feet from the schools. We'll hear that then. Next item. Item 38, property manager license above and beyond property management. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 39, appoint clerk. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item 40, approval of funding for Buffalo City swim racers. Motion to approve items 40 and 40. Excuse me. Motion to send to finance. Items 40 and 41. Seconded by Council Member Golombi. Item 42, single source provider. Thank you. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franz. Item 43, items returned to City Clerk by Mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 43 through 47. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 48, notice of appointments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Council Member White. Miscellaneous items, item 49, taxi, livery, and ride-sharing regulations. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilman Franzen. Item 50, BPD Checkpoint Data 2017 Update. Motion to send to Police Oversight. Second by Councilman Glombeck. Item 51, Environmental Assessment Form 1580-1640, Bailey Avenue. Motion to send to Legislation. Second by President Brotin. Item 52, special use permit application 3144 Main Street. Motion to receive and file items 52 through 55. Second by President Prozo. Item 56, 1029-1043 Clinton Street amended NEG DEC letter. Motion to adopt. second by a customer punter petitions item 57 loud noise diminishes quality of life for downtown residents motion is sent to CD So my cousin my friends a committee civil service item one appoint market manager and food enterprises coordinator motion approved item one two and three second by the majority leader For no so appointments temporary provisional permanent motion to receive a file by majority leader Finance Committee item five City of Buffalo living wage Commission concerning allied waste Stephen five Second by Council Member Wengel. Legislation Committee, item 7, use 1068 Elmwood for vaping establishment. Item 7 and 8, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Frielo. Item 9, food store license 2594 Bailey. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 10, food store license 218... Recommit. Did I say recommit? I don't mean approve. Recommit on item... Recommit. Item number 9, recommit. Alright. I'm sorry. item number nine is to recommit that was just an error thank you second by council member fronten item 10 food store license 2183 genesee now 10 and 11 are approved second by councilman fontana item 12 tire handler license 1677 aka 1675 seneca 12 is motion to recommit second by majority item 13 second hand dealer license 3124 bailey 13 and 14 motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Winkle. Item 15, special use permit for Tavern Live Entertainment, 3144 Main. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 16, property management license. Who is motion to receive a motion to approve second by customer white item 17 utilizing council chambers for City Board and agency public meetings motion receiving files in my customer of the lumber I'm 18 men zoning map for 1580 1640 Bailey Avenue motion to recommit My customer friends. I'm sorry that customer we quote resolutions I am 58 transfer funds Martin Luther King Park casino design motion to approve and second by councilman glombeck 159 SLA public information motion sent the CD saying my customer content I just comes from white has good thank you mr. chair um just wanted to put forth this resolution we're regarding the issue of public notice regarding liquor licenses it seems that the public is not well informed of these things and I And I think it's created some issues. And I think that working with the SLA, trying to create more transparency in this process will assist the residents and be able to speak on an issue before it comes to the council. Because many times we know that a lot of issues, it seems as though it comes to the council, and these things could have been addressed beforehand where they have more leverage. So we're sponsoring this resolution to have the SLA come and educate us on this process. to assist the residents in being more knowledgeable and more transparent. So we don't have issues like what we had at 3144, where the community felt that they were not informed of an issue. It's my job to inform them. We're not trying to create another level for council to be intervened, but to be a catalyst to get this information out. So we'll use this platform to work with the SLA to get that information out to the public so they're more aware of what's going on. Because it seems as though when we get to receive and file items regarding liquor license, the train has left the station and we have no authority to change it or reverse it. So we just want to make sure that we can be, give the community more information, make them more aware, so that hopes that they can use their information input and their influence on whether concerns with the SLA before it comes to us. Absolutely, and I think this is really good because I think many of us have had situations where people even think we know what's happening and we don't at times with the state liquor authority. And so this resolution asking them to, you know, step out a little bit more. Now they are of course guided by the state, and so is this also being sent over to our state representatives? You know what, we need to add that. Yeah, I think we should be sending it over to all of the Western New York State delegation. Because people then come to these chambers and blame us for something that we have absolutely no power and nothing to do. And there's some bars that I would literally go to the hearing if we knew about the hearing. If we know that our neighbors, I think today's paper, there was an editorial that the district attorney said there's no problem in Allentown or in Allen Street area. That there's no crime problem in Allentown. I think what he meant is that that was an isolated incident of the person who was killed recently. But we know there's a problem. Yes. We know there's a problem. But we just don't have the ability to stop these licenses going forward. So I commend you and hope that you're able. And could you please add me to the resolution? Absolutely. Thank you. All right. Anybody else next item our six councilmember Fontana you had a floor Thank you, if we could revisit item number and this is some new information that we just received item number 12 out of fine out of the Legislation Committee motion to revisit 12 and 12 in legislation second by councilmember Fontana Okay, if we could let's just read off what the item is so people are licensed 1677 aka 1675 Seneca Thank you after hearing the motion By the chairperson and then the second our our astute councilmember of the South District has informed me that this is a minor change in the license of a father to a son and We want to honor that commitment that the Sun has to the business and I'd like now to see if we could rescind the motion to recommit now motion to approve Motion to rescind. Motion is now to approve. Motion to rescind, seconded by Councilman Ringo. Motion is now to approve, seconded by Councilman Fontana. Yeah, and thank you to the chairman. Not a problem. Is the applicant here? Appreciate it. The applicant in the building? No, they're not here. Chris knows the applicant. It's a good tire shop. I'm very leery of approving anything without fully understanding the issue, and I didn't get a chance to look at it yet. I thought this was closer to the thruway, but this is over by the bridge, and it's been there. Community Tire's been there for quite a while, and they're good business. All righty. Next item. Item 60, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item 61, Information Jacket Expressway. Motion is to adopt. Seconded by President Pro Temp. Council Member Golombek has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. What this resolution does is it calls for the New York State Department of Transportation to pretty much can the plan that they're preparing right now. Because what it is is it basically does not remediate the urban damage that was caused by constructing the high-speed expressway that starts... that goes through Delaware Park, it goes through most of my district. There's been some really, really nice plans on board for this project. And NYSDOT has basically said that we can take it or leave it. And I think that NYSDOT needs to remember that they work for us, for all of us who are New York State residents. and they've i've been at a couple of the meetings that they've held over the past couple of years and i believe that they've not really listened to the residents of the city of buffalo in the region and i think that what they've done is it's like having a a band-aid on and they're slowly just ripping it off just very very slowly and they should either leave it on or rip it off for fix the problem or don't fix the problem but what they're doing in my opinion is exacerbating the problem because they're not going to make it into what of the reformers want making it into a roadway they're not going to put it back into a through a which other people want and at the end of the day nobody's going to be happy it's going to dissect uh... my district and it's going to dissect the park and there's some really really nice plans i was at the grant amherst business association lou haremski put together this very very nice plan that makes it look like it's the genesee river in rochester absolutely beautiful it would change the whole complexion of that neighborhood with giving waterfront access for people that live in the black rock section of my district and in the north buffalo part of my district So basically what this resolution does is it requests that NYSDOT halt their current plan and begin the process of design for a comprehensive plan that restores the historic Frederick Law Olmstead Parkland and creates a cultural corridor that it deserves. The cutoff date for comments, I believe, is December the 8th. uh... so that's why i'm asking to vote on this normally i would ask you to go to committee so that we'd be able to talk on it but i'm asking that we would uh... adopted today so that we can send it to new york state and remind nice dot that they work for us thank you mister president very good cosmo window uh... thank you mister first i want to be put on the resolution with council the long back and also about the wing of the the one ninety eight actually stars at at delavan and i don't believe that All of the people who need to be informed on what's happening with the 198 have been included in this conversation. I really have to applaud Councilmember Golumbac for trying to protect the fabric of this community, but this is going through a historic part of my community as well. And for whatever reason, the New York State Department of Transportation decided to stop at Parkside. It's not fair to the residents who live beyond Parkside all the way back to Delavan. And as a 33 literally cuts down all the way through Maston District, it then branches off into the 198 and goes over into Delaware District and then on up to North District. So I would like to put on this resolution. I absolutely agree that they should halt this process until everyone has had a chance to ensure that they have gotten the public comments of all of the residents. Because it seems as though if there has been a portion of... residents in the city of Buffalo, particularly in Madison District, who have not been able to have their comments heard. I've been to the meeting for the DOT. They seem to be amenable when we're there, but yet we turn around and we get reports and we get things that say that they're going to move forward despite the concerns that have been expressed by the people of Madison District. So I would like to be put on this resolution, and I would hope that they would, and I agree with Councilmember Golombac, I would hope that they would honor the fact that they are working for all of us as we are working for all of our constituents in the city of Buffalo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And what an odd day for this discussion to happen. Mr. Eaton, that we talked about earlier, was actually working toward getting the Humboldt recovered in the area that split up a neighborhood. And really got a lot of traction, a grant from New York State to study it. And even when he came to me, I thought, there's no way the state is going to listen. Well, I don't know if they're listening or not, but he was one of the architects of trying to bring that neighborhood together. And when the state makes these type of changes, it does affect our neighborhoods. And then they go back to Albany, most of them in New York. And we're the ones, when you drive right down there now, they need to make some type of decisions because you don't know what it is. So I agree with you. Councilman Wyeth, then I'll come back. I'd just like to be added to the resolution. I agree with my colleague, Councilmember Wingo, that there are some who feel as though they have not been included in the conversation. I know I use it all the time, and I don't live in Madison or North or in Delaware, but I think it affects... the city of Buffalo and I think the residents should have more input in making sure because some people think it's absurd that we continue to make people drive 30 miles an hour in that area if it's something that we can work out I think people should, there should be heard now that I agree with it But definitely they should be heard because it's something that impacts many, many residents that drive through there. You know, I drive through there to Wegmans many times, but we just should make sure that the entire city is covered in her. Absolutely. Council Member Wingo, then Council Member. OK, and Council Member White is asked to be at Council Member Franczak is asked to be at Council Member for your letter. I'm sorry. Okay, let the record state that Council Member Ferletto noted a negative on the resolution. Council Member Wingo? I would just like to make sure that I'm on the record saying that we have not forgotten why the speed limit has been reduced to 30 miles an hour. It was a tragedy that occurred, the reason why the state came in and reduced the speed to 30 miles an hour. We prayed for the family and we would hope that no one has to ever go through what that family had to go through with the loss of a child. Nonetheless, we want to also make sure that if it hadn't been for that tragedy, everyone would still be driving 50 miles an hour on the 198. And what's really sad, Mr. President, is that tragedies have to happen before they begin to listen. And I don't want anyone to ever feel that the people who live from Delavan to Parkside, well I should say from Delavan up to Main Street of the 198, however it's broken up, they haven't been complaining all this time too. They've been complaining about the soot on their houses, they've been complaining about the quality of air around their houses because they live at the 198, and also the people who live on Humboldt that's connected to the 198. Restoring Our Community Coalition has been working tirelessly to get the 33 covered up so that they can restore that community to be a beautiful, beautiful community where it would not be divided by this Thruway, by this expressway. So I don't want us to forget, and I don't want anyone ever to think that these residents have ever stopped complaining about it. They've always been complaining about it. And I believe that we need to make sure that those things are heard as well as we move forward and being totally inclusive. And I'll stop there, Mr. President. Anything else? Council Member Frey-Letter, you have the floor. Thank you very much. I just wanted to explain why I wanted to vote in the negative on this. This was a debate. This was a late file and it refers to, and I understand it was a late file, the comment period ends soon, but it refers to... several organizations that are in my council district and this has been a state issue and I wanted to talk to some of the State some of these organizations to see how they feel about it. I agree with councilmember Wingo with the restore our quarter coalition I was in a meeting with them over ten years ago when they were advocating for those changes with some New York State officials I believe there should absolutely 100% be more dialogue on this But in the resolution where we're... I think we... I would just like to learn more of what the plan that Olmstead wants in place. Because I know one of the main things that Olmstead has a concern with the plan is that there's going to be a median separating them. I'm not convinced... that it's safer if you don't have a median with cars traveling in two lanes going each direction. I know Council Member Wyatt and I had a meeting. Regarding medians on main street, and we were told by some engineers that the medians have actually reduced the number of head on collisions. So I don't want to be in. I agree with the with the intent of this, but my concern is just. I would like to get more on the Olmstead plans, but my biggest concern is the medians and their advocacy for removing medians on the 198. So that's why I was in the negative. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Council Member Fontana? Just a bit of housekeeping. Do we have the whole resolution? I only have this one page. Is it only the one page? Is it sponsored? Yes. Okay. Just want to make sure. Is that the whole resolution? Thank you. Councilor DeSigna. Anything else on that item? All right, next item. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, December 5th, 945 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service. Committee on education, Tuesday, December 5th, 1230 p.m. Committee on community development, Tuesday, December 5th, 1 p.m. Committee on legislation, Tuesday, December 5th, 2 p.m. Special committee, Committee of the Whole, Tuesday, December 12th, 145 p.m. Council members, any announcements? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. On Saturday, December 2nd, we will have our Winter in Wonderland tree lighting. That's sponsored by Madison District Assemblymember Crystal Peoples-Stokes and the 141st, and also by the Just Breathe Block Club. That's December 2nd this week from 3 to 5 p.m. And then also next week on December 10th, We will be having our monthly stakeholders meeting and breakfast, of which you all are invited, all of you, are invited to come out and share with the wonderful residents and constituents of the Madison District as we all have fun, food, and fellowship. We invite you all to come at 8.30 in the morning. But this time we'll be coming at 10 a.m. for another hearty brunch. Last month we had very, very good food. I will give you the spread, but I don't want anyone to leave out of here salivating because Mastin has the best cooks in the city of Buffalo. But 877 East Delavan, 10 o'clock a.m., Mastin District, stakeholders, brunch. And I believe that will conclude all of my announcements for today, unless my legislative assistance has another announcement. We're good. Thank you, Mr.
 Chair. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to announce to the residents of the University District on December 2nd, next Saturday, this coming Saturday, excuse me, the University District Awards Dinner will be taking place. This is the third year that we've done this in cooperation with the University Heights Collaborative, University District Block Club Coalition, and the University of Buffalo. It will be held on Hermann Hall from 6 to 9 PM. This is a way for us to celebrate the season, but also celebrate the hardworking individuals in the district. that have gone above and beyond to make the University District a safe place to live, learn, do business, and raise a family. So we invite any resident or anyone that is interested to come out and celebrate with our awardees and just have a good time. Also on December 9th, which is in two cities, Two Saturdays we have in Christmas and University another our third year doing this I want to think the Bailey check cashing for being a major sponsor and Trying to create a different atmosphere on our business trip on Bailey Avenue They've done the terrific terrific job that will be taking place from 530 to 830 at 1301 3101 Bailey is going to be free musical performances by the Olmstead school Westminster School And also free food and pictures with Santa. So we want to invite the residents come out. Last year was a great, great time. It was actually a traffic stopper because people were stopping to see what was going on. So I want them to be a part of this. This is a way, again, for us to make our community vibrant and more accessible as well as give our kids a safe place to come. and get pictures with Sansa. Also throughout December, I'm inviting and challenging the residents in the University District to post their Christmas pictures of their lights on their homes. I think I'm gonna beat them though. I don't think anyone's gonna do a better job, but they can tag it on the tag their picture posting on Facebook to the Buffalo University District page and they can also hashtag it Christmas in University. But we challenge everyone just to make it a festive atmosphere again. Things like this make our communities more viable, brings more attention, and it makes people feel good about where they live. I don't want to see a street without lights. put up some little lights, screen lights, something. But we just want to challenge everyone to make the University District the most festive in the City of Buffalo. Thank you. Alright, Council Member Scala? Thank you, Mr. President. This Saturday, December 2nd from 5 to 8 is the 17th annual Christmas in the Park in Cazenovia Park in Tosh Collins Community Center. This is organized by my office and South Buffalo Alive. there will be santa claus giveaways music from the south buffalo school of music and carriage rides throughout the park things of that nature so i encourage everyone to come out and support the event and then on friday december 8th from five to nine is the fourth annual shop south buffalo event which is sponsored by my office south buffalo live in south buffalo crew um there will be a party kickoff at the buffalo irish center and Mount Mercy High School's Pure Magic will be there singing. Then we'll spend the night out shopping. There will be trolleys on the route, on the three main thoroughfares, with a after party at the Blackthorn restaurant where there will be baskets donated by all the participating businesses and all the proceeds go back to South Buffalo Crew. So I encourage everyone to come out and support their local businesses that night. All right. Did you have something, Councilman, for your line? Yeah, this Thursday, November 30th at 6 p.m., St. Margaret's Church 1395 Hurdle Avenue. We're having our first annual holiday tree lighting. We have a 40-foot tree decorated with carolers, Santa Claus, Mrs. Claus, hot chocolate, cookies. Should be a fun event for everyone and it's again this Thursday November 30th at St. Margaret's Church on Hurdle Avenue. Thank you. All right. Council Member Wingo. I need to amend my initial announcement regarding the Stickholders Breakfast. It is not December 10th. It is December the 9th. So all of you that gave me those excuses, you got your date wrong. But now you have no excuse, so I gave you the right date. It is actually December the 9th. I look forward to seeing you all there. Thank you. All right. And Council Member Fontana, a lot going on? I think at the next council meeting we should have a picture of Clark W. by its house up on the screen. To show us how good of a job he did with the lights. We can put it right there in the front. I'd like to see that. So University District, you know, a little... Go over there. The little elves could go over and get us a nice picture of his house. When it comes down to Christmas over in Lovejoy, we do a nice job. I want to thank Brian Boldman from my office. He's been out all day today decorating all the new streetlights in Lovejoy with white lights. and if you start in Sloan on Lovejoy Street, Lovejoy Street goes into Sloan, and you look into the city, as far as you can see into the city, all you see are the nice lights at night. It looks really sharp on Lovejoy Street, and it creates a nice little atmosphere that you can see the central terminal at the end of that row, so it looks pretty sharp. On December 9th, it's that same Saturday. It's the busiest day of December for most of us. At the School 43 community school outreach on Saturday morning started at 9 a.m. The community school under the direction of Dr. Cash is having a huge holiday to do all morning long right through noon. And then the children are going to be walked over to the Hennepin Center. where the Head East Organization, President Mike Cacciatore, is going to be hosting a party there till 3 for the children of the community. That's a party that Mike and my wife do every year, as well as Stephanie Cacciatore do a great job. And then from 3 to 5 to 9 o'clock, right on through the night, over at the Spirit of Truth Church on Gold Street, Reverend Al Robinson is doing a community dinner and a community toy giveaway. So all day long, all All the people at Lovejoy work together, and I think there's also a tree lighting ceremony that night as well. So everybody's working together to put on a great day for the kids, and if they miss it, they better not miss it. But if they get there, they'll have a fun day from 9 to 9 at night and have a good time at Lovejoy. Well, I've got lights going on Jefferson, but I was informed by... the power company that any of the polls that were still in dispute, that they're going to unplug the lights. So if those constituents ride down Jefferson and they see some lights on and some lights off, it is because the power company told us that they will unplug. Yeah, unless we're on a meter, The power company has been very, very Grinch-like. When I used to have the old poles on Clinton Street, we used to put those lights up ourselves. We found out that they were cutting the wires at the base to the festoons, and they would not let us use the festoons. Now that we've reinvested in new lighting, we have LED lights. We had new festoons put on the poles. And we pay for those lights on a meter. So the electric company doesn't care what I plug in. I could plug in a snowblower. They don't care. But if they're not metered, if it's per light bulb, they will cut your power and not let you have any type of Christmas lights whatsoever. It's ridiculous. They've done that for many years. Grinch, he says, the Ellicott District Revaluation Information Session will be here in Council Chambers on December the 12th, 6 p.m., and free grant writing classes for Ellicott District residents, and you must call to register. We'll be at the Frank Merriweather Library, 1324 West. Jefferson on Saturday, December 16th. Call our office 851-4980 to register. Any other announcements? Motion. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Golombet. We are adjourned.