If it's necessary. Ready? End it? You ready? End it? Okay. Five, four, three, two, one. President Pro Tem Bowman. Present. Councilwoman Everhart. Present. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Majority Leader Houghton-Polk. Present. Councilmember Noah Kousa. Present. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Council President Scanlon. Councilmember Wyatt. Here. Here. Court is present. Please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Please remain standing for our invocation by Pastor Bill Clark from New Bethel Community Church. Let's walk together. Father, we thank you for this is the day that you have made. We purpose in our hearts to rejoice and be glad in. We thank you for this gathering of these legislatures, those who set law and make law for our city. We invite your presence. We ask that you would rest upon them. We ask that you would give them wisdom beyond that which they know, that you would lead and you would guide them. Further, we ask your blessing upon them, Lord, for their sacrificial service as it relates to leading our city. Give them what they don't have. cause the walls of our city to be rebuilt and not just physically and not just numerically but give them wisdom and insight to rebuild families men women children we pray father that you would rest upon them in a supernatural way these are the things we ask and we ask them now in the name of he who was and is and is to come our lord and our savior jesus christ and we all said amen thank you Council Member Zane Memorials, Council Member Gondek. Thank you Mr. Bultman. The Riverside Black Rock Community lost Barbara Forsak this past week. She's the mom of Karen, Kim, and Katie. It's going to be a very, very sad holiday season with Mrs. Forzac being gone. And my colleagues will know this and understand this. She was the woman that would call on a regular basis because I still have an old landline. And she would call me and she would leave messages that she was mad at me because whatever. And I would always go and visit her and she would say, Took you six days to get it done. And I'm going to miss her very, very much. And her daughters who live in the district told me that they're going to be picking up the slack. Lois Redden also passed away. She was a long time Riverside resident. She was also my neighbor. She lived about a block away from me. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family and her friends, especially her children, Mark, Daniel, and Charlie. And last but certainly not least, Charles Mitchell, not to be confused with our former clerk, Charles Mitchell, who used to work for M&T Bank, different spelling, similar sounding. But he passed away two weeks ago and his son Mark lives in my district. And I found out that Mr. Mitchell was actually born on Hunt Street in the Riverside area from the old Hungarian community that isn't really there any longer. But it was interesting to know that there was that Riverside connection. So thank you very much. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you. And I'd also like to echo Charlie Mitchell who worked at HSBC for many years, great executive for the bank. And also I just got word that Valerie Williams who lives in my district, someone who I worked with when I was a youngster at A-plus mini market passed suddenly. So my prayers are with her and her family. And in the Lovejoy District we lost Tim Gisario. His nickname was Doodles and he was a employee at Wee Chex, which is a well known establishment in the Kizer Town neighborhood. And he fought. oral cancer these past few years and he fought it like a champion. So we wish that he rests in peace. And also our men and women of the armed forces and our first responders, if you would join me in a moment of silence. Please be seated. We have a special presentation from Councilwoman Everhart. Good afternoon everyone. So this month, November, is National Homelessness and Hunger Awareness Month. And so I know quite a few people who work in this space. And so I wanted to make sure that we recognize the work that these organizations do in our community to keep people housed and off the street, um, A lot of people deal with homelessness on a lot of different levels, right? People get evicted, people lose their jobs, and we have safe havens in the community who make sure that them and their families are taken care of. And so first I want to start with someone who I consider a mentor, a friend, Ms. Luann Forrestal from, yes, come on down here, Luann. So I have known Lou, who I call her Lou. Everyone calls her Lou. I have known her for many years. She was actually an advisor of mine at Canisius College when I was a student. And she oversaw the service immersion trips at Canisius. And so we students at Canisius took trips around the world and I was fortunate enough to go to India where we taught English to kids at an orphanage. And I knew then that Lou was going to do big things in our community because of the work that she did in making sure that she's taking care of the less fortunate. It's always been your thing, Lou, and I love you for that. So I'm going to read a little bit of this because she's deserving. Thank you. Whereas, Luann Firestone, an Executive Director of Family Promise of Western New York, has led the organization with profound dedication, ensuring that families facing homelessness in Buffalo stay united, supported, and empowered during times of crisis. Under Luann's compassionate leadership, Family Promise stands as one of the few shelters in Erie County that offers a safe and inclusive refuge for entire families, addressing the unique needs of each family member, especially the children who make up 75% of its guests. She has championed efforts to make... Family Promise, a fully ADA accessible facility that provides essential services to neurodivergent children, larger families, and those with specific dietary needs, creating a supportive and welcoming space for all. Now, therefore, the Common Council of the City of Buffalo proudly honors and celebrates Luann Firestone for her exceptional leadership at Family Promise of West New York, recognizing her inspiring impact on the community and her tireless dedication in observance of National Homeless Awareness Month. I didn't even think of it. Okay, well, hi, everybody. Yeah, this means a lot to us, you know. So it's very working with the homeless population, with families experiencing homelessness is a lot each and every day. You know, but we do it with love and compassion, and we're there to serve the community. We're actually trying to build a second shelter because family homelessness is really escalating right now, and there's not enough space and shelter to house families. In the message. In the Mastin District on East Ferry. It's going to be beautiful. But, you know, your support means a lot because we can't do it alone. So getting families across the finish line and back into housing requires the whole community to get behind us. And so something like this is really important to raise that awareness and help the community help us drive families forward and back home. So thank you so much. Thank you, Lou. And so next we are going to honor Ms. Lisa Freeman from Compass House. Now we are all familiar with Compass House in this community and your reputation precedes you. And thank you for all the work that you do in our community. So I will read some of this. Whereas Compass House was founded in 1972 as a homeless shelter, today they operate an emergency shelter, a resource center, and a rapid rehousing program. Their mission is to provide runaway homeless and street youth with safe shelter and services in an environment that supports dignity, respect, and self-reliance. Lisa Freeman has been the Executive Director of Compass House since 2011, and this year marks Ms. Freeman's 36th year of service at the agency, having previously served as Compass House's Assistant Executive Director. Now, therefore, I hereby proclaim that the Common Council of the City of Buffalo proudly honors honors and celebrates the extraordinary dedication and unwavering contributions of Lisa Freeman. Through her visionary leadership, Ms. Freeman has transformed the lives of countless young people, ensuring they receive the care, support, and guidance they need to overcome adversity and build brighter futures. Her steadfast commitment drives the mission of Compass House, leaving a profound and lasting impact on youth of our community. Congratulations, Lisa. And you can do words if you'd like. Okay. You're very welcome. I just want to thank the City of Buffalo in general. I mean, we've been in existence for 52 years, and I believe the City of Buffalo and all of you wonderful people here have always supported Compass House and all of our programs, and I just thank all of you for helping the runaway and homeless youth of Erie County. Thank you so much. on a motion by majority leader seconded by council member farrah leto the minutes of stated meeting held on november 12 2024 are approved council members you have the late files before you are there any objections to the late files hearing objections to late files will hear the agenda in its entirety this does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review any of those late files please from the top A.A.T.O. No. 1, Amendment to Pilot Agreement, A.D. Price, 2nd Housing Development Corporation. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. A.A.T.O. No. 2, Amendment to Pilot Agreement, Packard Building Housing Development Fund Corporation. Mr. President Pro Tem, this item is... It's not to me. It is in my district. And so I'd like to hold this in abeyance until I can get an answer on what it means, what's going on. I will not approve it until then. Motion is to hold in abeyance. Seconded by Council Member Everhead. Item number three, pilot agreement for Plater Gardens Housing Development Fund. Motion is to approve items three through five. Seconded by Council Member LeVere. Item number six, easement for 179 Saunders. Motion is in community development. Seconded by Council Member Gallenbeck. Item number seven, planning board findings. Motion to approve items seven and eight. Seconded by Council Member Farrell-Levitt. Correction. Motion to approve item number seven. Second motion is to rescind the previous motion. Passed motion to rescind the previous motion. And motion is to send to reg. Seconded by Council Member Wright. Item number nine, certificate of necessity, transfer for planning accounts of buildings design and planning. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Milikowski. Item number 10, Comptroller's 2025 Capital Budget Response. Motion to send to Committee of the Whole. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Item number 11, Information Report for Payroll for 2024. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member LaVere. Item number 12, Permission to Enter into Intergovernmental Agreement with New York State for ASM. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member McElwain-Beck. Public Works, item number 13, change order, Halton Park. Motion to approve on items 13 through 21, and it is not Halton Park. Seconded by Council Member Ferreira. Item number 22, permission to extend lease for JW between City of Buffalo and Buffalo Schools. Motion to send to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 23, permission to hire West Ferry Lift Bridge Rehab. Motion to approve items 23 through 26. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 27, food store license 3162, aka 3168 Main Street. Motion to send items 27 through 31 to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 32, CEC Entertainment LLC DBA Chuck E. Cheese. The motion is to approve with conditions that will be sent to the clerk and to law. Seconded by Council Member Everett. Mr. Bowman. And Council Member Gallenbeck has the floor. Thank you. This is Chuck E. Cheese that's opening up on Delaware Avenue in the North District, and I've met with a few of the neighbors in the immediate area, and there is some concern because of the past history that Chuck E. Cheese has had. Well, I've met... with either in person or over the phone with representatives from the inspections department and in person with representatives from D district on Hurdle Avenue. And what we're doing is we're putting together a set of conditions that are similar to what we put on Fright World on Hurdle Avenue. this is a very large area, a very large area, a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, and it's a very large area, that they will be safe and that the Buffalo Police Department and the Inspections and Permits Department has been on top of this working with me since we first found out about the application. Thank you. Very good. Item number 33, second hand dealer license 2190 Genesee Street. Motion to approve. Second by council member Rivera. Item number 34, used car dealer license 1082 Kenmore. Motion to send the legislation. Second by council member DeLandrick. Item number 35, third quarter project and expenditure report. Motion to send items 35 through 37 to finance. Seconded by Council Member Ferreira. Item number 38, permission to auction and scrap vehicles. Motion to approve items 38 through 41. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 42, items returned by Mayor to City Clerk without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file items 42 through and including 44. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 45, notices of appointment, temp, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service. Second by Councilmember Everhart. Miscellaneous, item number 46, audit of city owned property, social ADA compliance. Motion to send items 46 and 47 to city for community development. Seconded by council member Rivera, council member Nowakowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I do want to just speak on both items that I didn't realize were back-to-back. So the first one ends of the audit of the city-owned properties to ensure ADA compliance. I did submit a letter to the acting mayor. We did have a really good meeting at the Citizen Advisory Board of people living with disabilities. And I had somebody that lived in my district that came into my office just to explain that the Some of these buildings that are outfitted that are city-owned, they may be ADA compliant, but that's just words on a piece of paper, and they're not functional. So I actually had a constituent who could not access a police building because of the physical impairment of one of their arms and that it was just too high. So, yes, these standards are sometimes important. solidified in black and white, but they're just not functional or they're really updated. And so the acting mayor was, you know, on board to make sure that we just go through an analysis of our structures to make sure that they're functional for people of all abilities to make sure that they access because, you know, the one that constituent came into my office and was rightfully pretty hot because it's It's really upsetting and degrading when you're trying to live an independent life and you can't access a building because of the functionality of the compliance with the structure. So I'll be looking forward to this going to Community Development where we'll have the Director of Facilities for City-Owned Structures to come in and kind of talk in and I'm going to invite anybody that's living with a disability in the Advisory Board to come in and if there's something that you can't access or if there's new technology that could be used we can outfit these buildings a lot better than what we do now. Oh, and then in the second, while I have the floor, 47, is I did late file a letter. Thank you, Majority Leader, for, as you see in the news, the acting mayor and the county executive are – in a little bit of a disagreement questioning the cost of infill housing that is in most of our districts, Niagara, I know Mastodon, Ellicott, and I worked with the community in the old first ward where the infill projects are happening, that are slated to happening, so they had community buy-in, stake-in, we talked about the designs, we talked about the functionality, how neighbors can then access you know, the you know, the differences that happen that come with construction and living next to that. And then the cost and the concern came in to question about what the bids came in, which were about $100,000 over what we originally thought what they would be built. And we can question that and scrutinize that, and that's very important. public trust is very important too. And I don't need the public to feel that we just can't trust the city, they just can't build a house, they can't get it together when we work for a very long time planning these processes. And as local council members, that's our main job is to work at these community centers, talk to neighbors and develop good plans. And we need to see projects like this go through. So I know that there is a back and forth in their scrutiny that I will and have invited Benelik to come to community development next Tuesday at 2 p.m. to give an update and an outline on where we stand in these community projects that affect all of our districts. And sometimes with these American Rescue Dollars, I feel like I don't see them. I feel like it was – I don't know who it rescued besides the municipality. And projects like this, like building homes and putting working-class people in homes and be making them homeowners, is really the tangible thing that we can see done with these dollars. So scrutiny, making sure that we're getting good prices is very important, but making sure that we also ultimately complete the projects and have the public trust is paramount. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Item number 48, 2025 proposed fee adjustments. Motion to sign items 48 and 49 of finance. Seconded by Council Member Ferrarotto. Item number 15, SECA negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 51, zero emission vehicle communication from Sierra Club Niagara Group. Motion to send to Community Development. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Petitions, item number 52, special use 1191 hurdle. Motion to send items 52 through and including 66 to legislation in the City Planning Board. Second by Council Member Everhart. Submission was civil service, item number 1, a plain public safety dispatcher. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number two, appoint public safety dispatcher. Motion to receive in five items two and three. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Community Development, Item Number 4, Petition to Redress of Grievances. Motion to receive and file Items 4 and 5, please. Seconded by Councilmember Fairbaird. Legislation, Item Number 6, Broadway Development LLC Designated Developer Agreement. Motion to approve Items 6 and 7. Seconded by Councilmember Dallinbeck. Item Number 8, Tire Handler, 1425 Clinton. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number nine, tire handler license 221, a.k.a. 235 Elm. Item number nine for 235 Elm is in the Ellicott District. So I will ask the Majority Leader to give us an indication on what will happen on number nine in legislation. Item number nine. Motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 10, support for temporary moratorium on owner-occupied short-term rentals. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Everhart. Item number 11, food store license 344, AKA 350 Broadway. Motion to approve item 11. Seconded by Councilmember Withere. Item number 12, food store license 352, Walden Avenue. This item is in the Fillmore District. The Fillmore District Councilmember would like to speak on this item. Thank you, Mr. Chair. We can approve with conditions that I will set the hours and submit to the clerk, and I will also submit a condition to ban single-serve alcohol, to not have 40-ouncers or single-serve alcohol in the store. It's been something that I've been adding to my district conditions that I've been facing a lot of good things that have happened. The fact of the matter is in my district, I have food stores where people will consume a single serve alcoholic beverage and loiter or get into arguments and fights or hop on the NFTA bus and cause serious disturbance. So I've been finding... a lot of good things with placing that condition. Thank you, Mr. President. Seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Item number 13, used car dealer 1715 Genesee. Motion to approve items 13 through 16. Seconded by Councilmember Rivera. Item number 17, special use 539 Franklin. Motion to deny. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Gauenbeck, are the reasons for denial, which district was this in? Fillmore. Fillmore. Council Member Nowakowski, for... We can approve with conditions. Okay, motion to rescind the previous motion to deny. Motion for the room house. 17, 539 Franklin. Is still a denial. The applicant actually withdrew their application. this item requires either approval or denial. So the denial is based on the applicant from rescinding their application. Motion to deny stands. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Item number 18, Special Use 1122M. Motion is to approve and just just to approve it with conditions. And the condition is that this is for 577 Forest. So this 1122 Elmwood is actually several buildings. This faces Forest Avenue. It's directly east of the city-owned parking lot. So we're approving it for 577 Forest. And I do want to state that the... Someone who lives across the street, or actually who lives behind it, but is a real estate agent for the condos across the street, emailed us some petitions in opposition with some signatures, and that was emailed to all of the council members, and it was also sent. emailed again to all of the Council members and taken into consideration. And again, the motion is to approve with conditions. Thank you for sending that along there, Council members. It's seconded by Council Member White. Item number 19, Special Use 74, Casanova. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 20, use card number 2104 South Park. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 21, special use 1764 South Park. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Item number 22, special use 219, Felton. Motion to deny. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt, and this is in my district. It is a short-term rental, and I received a petition from many of the neighbors. An overwhelming majority were against having a short-term rental in this property. They cited several concerns, some being the increased traffic and parking it would bring, and just an overall... overwhelming amount of support against this so that's a denial seconded by council member Nowakowski. Able number 23 special use 194 Southside Parkway. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by council member Rivera. Able number 24 special use 178 Sumner. Motion to recommit. Seconded by council member Golombek. Able number 25 special use 1936 South Park. Motion to approve. Seconded by council member Wyatt. Item number 26, Special Use 2076, South Park. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Everett. Claims, item number 27, Jariah Bailey, $500,000. Mr. Chair, we're going to motion to approve items 27 through 41. There are three items where council members are in the negative, and they can express who they are. Seconded by Council Member, well, Council Member Gallenbeck wants to be in the negative on items 28, 29, and 32, please. and you can't spend the day asking can you please record me in the negative and item 32. yes senator and councilwoman over here please record me in the negative 132 as well 32. okay so that is um motion was seconded by councilman wyatt councilman mcgonnell back is in the negative on items 28 29 and 32 councilman milakowski and councilman ever had in the negative on items 32 as Waterfront Development, item number 42, notice of preliminary permit application. Is it waterfront? Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Resolutions, item number 67, comprehensive communication strategy for combat and public dumping. Motion to adopt and send the remainder to Community Development. Seconded by Council Member Rivera. Item number 68, fee waiver holiday community sing-along. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Filareto. Item number 69, promote public access to Buffalo sewer and water authority meetings. Motion to adopt items 69 and 70. And Council Member Gondek has a favor. I'm sorry Mr. Chairman. I was going to ask to be added to item 69. Is the resolution to be allowed access to the sewer and water authority meetings? Okay, so on item 69, Council Member Rivera would like to be added. Can we just get a second? Just get a second on 69 and 70 and then go to the floor. That's seconded by Councilwoman Everhart and Council Member Dallenbeck has the floor. Thank you. This resolution came from some information that had spread around the media and the council city hall, etc., and it deals with the open meetings laws in New York State. And there's some question as to whether the meetings that the water and the sewer authority have been holding have been transparent. I think to a degree they have been, but I think they haven't been transparent enough. I think the problem is that the meetings have been held at the Colonel Ward pumping station. And I was telling people earlier, if you told people in my district, oh the meeting is at Buffalo City Hall, the majority of people know where Buffalo City Hall is. Even the people that are the most active probably would not know how to get to the Colonel Ward pumping station. And so I think that in the sake of, and in the name of transparency, and I think for the appearance of transparency, that holding these meetings in Buffalo City Hall would be much wiser in the future. They would be open, as they probably are right now, to the public. But it's easier access, I know one of the criticisms was that it might cost money to to park in downtown Buffalo, but I'd rather see people spending a few dollars to park in downtown Buffalo than not knowing how to find the meetings for the water or the sewer authority. So I want to thank my colleagues and the Those of you that supported this, thank you. Council Member Wright. Thank you Mr. Chair. If I could be added to this as well. I definitely support this and think that what my colleague said is right on point. As a member, as a finance chair, I was a member of the, one of those committees and I said that to them. And it was on deaf ears. And that's unfortunate. Because when you're in public office, we have a responsibility, we have a duty, and we don't always like to hear the negativity, we don't like to hear the comments, but it's still our job to hear that. And so we want to make certain that people hear the conversations as it relates to their water, especially now. We want to hear about that, especially when we're looking at the rates of water increasing, and there's no public dialogue. We got to have conversation with the public when it relates to the budget, You're going to increase our water rates? And then we had conversation just a month or two ago that possibly water rates are going to go up again? We need to have some conversation. We need to know what's going on. You know, there's things being put out there about a billion dollars regarding water improvement and those types of things. Well, the public should hear what that is, and it shouldn't be that they have to go somewhere that they don't know. If I went out to, as a matter of fact, I did go out to the Kona Ward treatment facility and didn't know where I was. It's a whole other world. And so to send me out there and say a meeting's here, unless someone is directing me, I would not have a clue where it is. So I would definitely support them having the meeting here in City Hall where it's convenient. Yeah, it may be somewhat inconvenient. But even as far as having it on Zoom, we can have that aspect of it. But I didn't always see that. They have some work to do. I know that they said they're committed to that. I want to see that in action, and I appreciate the sponsor and putting forth this resolution. Thank you. Please let me counsel. Member Wyatt. Item number 71, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Malachowski. Item number 72, accountability for code violations by leveraging and fixing tools for collection. Motion to send the legislation. Seconded by Council Member Everhart. Council Member Malachowski has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. And this resolution is to talk about how the City of Buffalo can leverage fines against individuals housing court violations and other fees and fines that we get. And because, to be honest, the reason why we're dealing with a lot of this blight in our districts is because we have out-of-town landlords that get tickets, they get a violation, they go to housing court, and then they never pay them. And when they get something in the mail, it's just a piece of paper, and they think it's a joke. And the fact of the matter is this. They're going to start finding that we do have tools as a municipality, and they joke that they think that the letter that we're sending shows up on their tax bill, and if they don't pay their tax bill, then their property goes to interim auction and it gets auctioned off. Maybe they'll start coming in and taking better care of their properties and addressing the violations that we have. There are tools in the books that exist. There are state laws for the municipality to do. We have Corporation Council attending the legislation committee that I confirmed December 31st, And this is a matter that the Common Council does not need to hear if and or but. It's how we're going to do it. This is not a position where I want to be talked around and danced around. It's how do we leverage these fines to get people to start taking care of the blight. Because you know what? It's all fun and games until you live next to the house that's falling down, and you're going back to housing court and spending your time there to see it adjourned for a year, and you have a fancy lawyer that's talking in circles. So we need to figure out how much money does the municipality have on the table How much money in fines do we have that we don't collect? And then we need to start using the tools and to start holding people accountable and leveraging the tools that we have to put them on people's tax bills and then start moving to foreclosure if they don't pay the tax bill. Thank you, Mr. President. Council Member Levin. Thank you, Council President. I agree with my colleague. This is a terrible, terrible problem in the Mastin District. Just last night and into this morning, I am dealing with an abandoned property where teenagers are throwing parties and doing drugs and... Lord knows what else they're doing in these apartments. And so I had to get police involved, and the city had to go out and board the house up this morning. This is costing us money, and it is only a matter of time before someone gets hurt. And so I think that this is absolutely important. My former boss, Congressman Kennedy, does have a piece of legislation in the state senate that does allow us to go after these abandoned properties, and we just need to do our jobs in this building and get it done. Thank you. Thank you, Lynn. I asked to be added to this as well in caucus and I'm passionate about this issue. You're right. There are houses that I've been calling in since I've been elected as council member that I drive past and they still have, you know, tarps on the roof and haven't been addressed. We have a revenue issue in the city of Buffalo. We should be holding the snowmores accountable and collecting on these dollars. And overall, when you go to community meetings, when you're talking to residents, these are the issues. This is an issue that's on their minds that they want us talking about. So I think it's very relevant. I want to hear from all different departments as to, you know, what can we be doing better? How can we hold them accountable more? So I'm looking forward to this discussion. Majority Leader Houghton. I also ask to be included on this as Elmwood Heights, if you all know about that particular property, which has been boarded up and then unboarded. It's not even safe enough for somebody to stand inside. There are places that do not have floors. It's an extremely dangerous situation, and this is critical. So I want to thank the sponsors, and thank you for adding us. to this as we've been discussing it for months, at least even prior to me becoming an elected, it's been an issue that I've had to deal with, oddly enough. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wyatt, please add me as well. Thank you. Please add Council Member Wyatt as well. item number 73 utilize an abandonment proceedings to combat blight in the city of buffalo motion to adopt and send the remaining to ledge second by council member nolkowski thank you mr president and that's not redundant but i want the public to know what this resolution is designed to do so abandonment proceedings are a chartered function in the city of buffalo that go under the section of the commissioner of permits and inspections who can post vacant properties that are abandoned that are against our code and It is a series of checklists that has to be done and and has to be notified the owner but long story short I have a house hoarder in my district who purchased properties Five or six of them in the 90s when houses were extremely cheap in the city of Buffalo So you can walk away for the hundred grand with six houses then and they have been abandoned since then here is where this person believes that they're going to outfox me in the city of Buffalo. At the last minute, this individual will write a paper check, like it's the 70s, and mail their taxes to avoid foreclosure so that we can't move it in an in-rem auction. They strike a bit of luck. We get hit by a global pandemic, and we do not have in-rem auction for multiple years, avoiding a foreclosure auction. The fact is, there is a tool already in the books in our own code and in state code that it is against to have a vacant and blighted property for a long duration of time. So these properties have been posted for abandonment. That will be the city's position when they go to housing court. If the housing court judge believes that the city is right in the purview, those houses that are deemed abandoned go right to the city auction for someone to actually purchase them and invest in them. Anyone that is a mayoral aspirant needs to talk about housing in the City of Buffalo. It is the main problem and pervasive problem that you go to a block club, people, it's that one house where you have squatters or fires lit. You have people sleeping on the porch. You have sewer problems. It's those pervasive problems that hold communities back and We have to get smart. We have to use different tools. And this is another issue where I don't want to hear from somebody in City Hall, this is how we did this for 20 years. It's a new day. We need to come up with new tools on how to take back our communities from people that hold back and keep us in slum and blight. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. And it also has to be added to this item, and it is true for me it's about also how do we empower the departments to be able to enforce these policies that are on the books and provide them resources as well because I really want to see, at the end of the day, I want to see compliance at these properties. Do we have a second? Yeah, you got us. Item number 74, transfer funds for DPW for Buffalo Police Department training facility. Motion is in finance. Seconded by Council Member River. Item number 75, transfer funds for DPW buildings. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Gelnick. Item number 76, Commissioner Veeves. Motion to adopt items 76 and 77. I'd like to... Seconded by Council Member Farrell. Mr. President, pro tem, I need to revisit several items. First, revisit item number two, which we held in abeyance. Motion to revisit item number two, seconded by Council Member Rao. Motion is to approve, but prior to doing so, I'd just like to comment that I just received the information today, and I would hope that, you know, given that this is OSP and we've had some changes in city government and in that department, that anything that's upcoming for my colleagues and myself, we get this information far in advance as they go through transition in those departments. Seconded by Council Member Nolkowski. The other item I'd like to revisit is item number 19 under legislation. Motion to revisit, seconded by Councilwoman Everhart. Motion is to rescind the previous motion. Motion is to rescind the previous motion, seconded by Councilwoman Rivera. Motion to approve. Motion approved, seconded by Councilman Montgomery. And finally, a motion to revisit items 34 and 35 in claims. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. I just want to provide a little update for the record. My colleagues and I were curious about where the resources were coming from specifically to pay these two claims. They are coming from legal settlement fund, police and fire pension, and fuel costs, both of which are trending low right now, and I just want to make sure that that's on the record. Thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wright. And if I can also speak on this item. I know a couple of us had some concerns, not concerns, but the payout is not indicative of what these men have suffered from what we saw. And typically individuals who are incarcerated wrongly will get a million dollars per year. Well, this is far from that. They lost their lives, family, people have passed on. And so the $4 million that we're paying is what the city can afford, but certainly not what we would have liked to because they deserve more. But unfortunately, because of our finances, we are limited. But I'm glad that they're getting something in hopes that they can piece their lives together somehow with the limited resources and time. Because we don't live forever, but we definitely deliberated that and I just wanted to make put that on the record thank you does she know that can i have a motion to revisit item number eight what do i need a second motion to revisit item eight is to send to ledger we just missed the uh we missed the second and so second by council member nowakowski okay Council members, announcements for your districts. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024 at 10 a.m. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024 at 1 p.m. A committee on community development will be Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024 at 2 p.m. Special committees, committee of the whole, will be Tuesday, December 3rd, 2024 at 11 a.m. And that's regarding the capital budget. Council members, announcements for your districts? Happy Thanksgiving. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Ferreira.