Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council president Pridgen. I'm key. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scalin. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. This staff roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto.
 Council member Golumbak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. I'm here. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scalin. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Ms. Stanford. Roll call. Council member Volk. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God,
 As we remain standing, our invocation today will be given by Overseer Reverend Dr. James A. Lewis III. Greetings. Heavenly Father, we are thankful for the watch care you provide over the affairs of the men and women of government. We ask for your Godly judgment in every decision that they render.
 We're grateful that nothing escapes your care and notice. You never sleep and you never change. The ideology and philosophies of our times change, but God, you never do. Your immutability gives us great comfort, knowing that you always keep your word and your promises are true. Help us not to be so enamored by our own talents and ability that we fail to submit ourselves to you and your ways.
 You tell us in Colossians 3 that we are to demonstrate compassionate hearts, kindness, humility, meekness, patience, bearing with one another, and forgiving one another as you have forgiven us.
 Lord God, we thank you for a semblance of justice for the massacre victims of 514. We pray for lives lost through racist acts of violence and those that are lost to COVID and all dis-eases of our decades. Then we pray for our decades-long city worker, Michael Muscarelli, a member of our family. Lord, I pray that you will find each of us faithful.
 in pursuing those qualities of our hearts. Father, many things that vie for our attention, would you grant wisdom and clarity to these men as they do the work of serving the needs of the people of Buffalo, New York. We need your help and we pray it in the name of our creator and our sustainer,
 Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Lewis, and thank you for mentioning Mike Muscarella. I won't go into detail because I think there are others here on the council who had personal relationships that would like to speak, but I will say that for today, we were to discuss the snow plan, and I have asked Public Works not to do that today in honor and in respect of Mike and his family.
 Councilmember councilmembers any others memorials comes from a galum back. I
 Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, Mike Mustarella, I've had a long time work relationship with him here in the building and it's just horrifying when something like that happens to any of our employees. When I got the message that there was a tragedy that occurred, I remember thinking, oh no, oh no, you know, that day. And no matter who the name was, it was just heartbreaking the day before Thanksgiving,
 It's just horrendous and my heart goes out to the family. But I want to say one thing, whenever I would call the inspections department, I would ask for Muskie. And then Commissioner Comerford would say, you must be after someone. Because if anybody knows Mike Muscarella,
 He was tough and he was fair, generally speaking. Sometimes he would exasperate me because I'd say, can you give him a little bit of leeway? And he would say, no, there is no room for leeway. But whenever I dealt with him, I knew where he was coming from, whether I agreed or disagreed with him. He never threw me a curveball and I appreciated that. Also, former Buffalo police officer and
 good old good friend of mine, Kevin Maloney, passed away after a three, four year battle with cancer. When I was diagnosed with cancer four years ago, a bunch of the guys that I hang around with who had not been to the doctor in like 20, 30 years all said, oh my gosh, you know what, we're gonna go to the doctors.
 And thank God everybody was good, except unfortunately, Kevin ended up having a battle with cancer for two, three years that he fought very valiantly. And he lost this past week, I think actually his birthday would be this week, he would have been 60 years old. So my heart goes out to his wife, Denise, and his children. Any others? Council Member Winkle?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to ask the City of Buffalo to keep lifted in prayer and in their thoughts. The family of one of our former senior city planners and the person of Sandra Marie Hall. Art's mother was a blessing to the Mastin District as she frequented many of our events and always provided great insight. She leaves her husband behind, Art's senior, as well as her five children.
 Mario, Marlo, Art, Shanti, and Emilio.
 we ask that we continue to keep them in prayer as they go through this very difficult time thank you mr chair thank you council member nowakowski thank you mr president i would like to put jj alfieri in for memoriam he is not a film or district resident but he was a friend of the film or district and actually when i first met him had put me in quite a predicament with my constituents because he owned an establishment in allentown that was conflicting with the neighborhood so i got to know him by
 really conflict resolution and bringing people together and having tough conversations but to know JJ was to know a larger-than-life personality and he loved music he loved taking care of people he loved he was a restaurant tour at heart he really wanted everybody to have a really good time
 And to know him to know what's music was his passion and things had gotten heated in the district And I'll never forget. I was in the Delaware district having a piece of cannoli cake and coffee Where it seemed we were able to come to a resolution and actually become friends And it ended up actually working out to our benefit in the structure that he owned he sold to someone who will make it more conducive to Allentown and he was going to take his propriety to Oscars which I
 uh you know he even sat me down and you know even let me almost pick up the menu and he was just that type of guy and gave a lot to our entertainment districts and he'll be missed councilman so i want to i know he was recognized already mike muscarella he lived in the delaware district and
 And everyone knows he was very, very serious about his job at City Hall. One of the last times I talked to him, I had a random question about the public right-of-way. And the public right-of-way is different on each street in the city of Buffalo. And I asked him, I'm like, well how does someone find out because I have a specific question. He said he drives around with it in his car so he knows exactly what the public right-of-way is for every single street.
 had the opportunity to see him in the district, at Home Depot, at the grocery store, and talk to him about personal things, which is nice to see. It was much different than at work. And he had a huge heart.
 And he has a great family, his son Dan is a city attorney here. When he was in law school, he clerked at Ferraletto Law. And he has a great family and he will certainly be missed and we're all praying for him and his family. Thank you. Thank you. You all captured Mike very well. How many calls I got about Mike being very serious about his job.
 I didn't recognize this was the same person until I saw the picture, because whenever you see him, he was always jolly and speaking. But he was very serious about his job and ensuring that people follow the rules. Very good.
 All right, hearing no others, seeing no others, we always pause for a moment of silence for all of those who have been mentioned. And we always remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since we have met. We always, right now in this season, lift up the people of Ukraine also. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 On a motion by Council member, 2nd, by customers, Scanlon, the minutes of stated meeting held on November 15th, 2022 are approved. Council members late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections to any late files, we'll hear the entire agenda that is before us.
 We'll be going from the top, Majority Leader. From the top. The Majority Leader said from the top. Item number one, appoint members of BMHA Board. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number two, amendment to the 2020-2021 annual action plan. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Bolton. Item number three, amend report of sale of 14 and 16 coons. Motion to approve items three through six.
 Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number seven, report of sale, 193 Southampton. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number eight, report of sale, 573 Spring. Motion to approve items eight through 12. Second by Council Member Fairlady.
 Item number 13, COA for Haley Whitney. Motion to send to civil service. Second by President Pro Temp. Scanlon. Item number 14, certificate of necessity transfer of funds for city hall improvement design. Motion to send to finance. Second by council member Noah Cousins. No, excuse me. That's.
 i'm sorry was that 15 14 14 was receiving file motion receiving file second by councilmember no accounts item number 15 in our fund loan for november 2022 motion to send finance items 15 and 16. so my councilmember white and number 17 change order for bud big will ice cream
 Motion to approve items 17 through 24. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 25, food store license 3323 aka 3327 Bailey. Motion to send legislation items 25 through 29. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 30, new used car dealer 35 Skillin. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 32, liquor license notice.
 Motion to receive and file items 32 and 33. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 34, notice of appointment in turn two. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item number 35, appoint senior legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 36, why we need municipal sidewalk plowing. Motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item number 37, Olmstead Parks Conservancy 2023 proposed fee adjustments.
 motion to send the legislation by council member boyd item number 38 petition to stop hope oil opioid center in cleve hill plaza motion to send the cd second by councilman white item number 39 concerns drug testing and bpd motion to send the civil service second by councilman boyd petitions item number 40 zoning map amendment for 618 622 and 624 clinton motion is sent to legislation city planning board items 40 and 41. second by councilman orcos
 Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint assistant auditor. Motion is to approve items one and two. Second by majority leader Revere. Item number three, appoint open data analytics project coordinator.
 Motion is to receive and file items three through and including 18. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Community Development, item number 19, designated developer agreement for 224 Vermont LLC. Motion to approve items 19 and 20. Second by Council Member Freelon.
 legislation item number 21 special use 414 was delivered motion to approve item 21 22 23 24 with conditions and 25 saying by councilmember white item number 26 special use 830 Abbott for alcohol sales motion to recommit items 26 and 27 by councilman Scanlon comes around the Lombok you're the floor
 Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 27 is the 881 Tonawanda Street short term rental. I promised last week when we had the people in on Zoom that I was going to go take a look at it, which I did over this weekend, and the backyard was filled with debris.
 I was ready to approve it with the sunset class today, but I did try to get in touch with the person that represented them. My text messages kept getting sent back to me because I wanted to send the pictures of what the backyard looked like.
 uh... and i just want to state for the record that there's another property that i'm looking at right now that they're trying to do it here being the end that has had actually to i think in the district that have had similar problems over the past and i'm gonna go on the record and say i'm not rewarding people that have not paid their taxes that are not cleaning up their property
 that think that they're going to come in front of the council and do this short-term rental you know i'm going to deny it and i'm going to make sure that i have justification working with the law department to make sure that they don't get approval um and if you're going to do this in the north district or anywhere in the city of buffalo you should have all your problems fixed on these properties have your taxes up to date etc i just take it as a slap in the face to me and the residents from the neighborhood
 that some of these properties that are coming in front of us are known problem properties not this one specifically i'm disappointed in this because if they would have cleaned up the backyard i'd have been ready to go uh today um but just uh i am also concerned and i am going to work with law department as well it seems like we're getting a lot more of these all of a sudden and i'm concerned about what type of nefarious activity may end up happening
 At these properties, so this is going to go back to committee. I want to talk to the The person that we spoke to last week and try to get it cleaned up. Thank you. Thank you sir claims item number 28 Ismail Mohammed 37,500 motion to approve items 28 and 36 Councilmember Furlan resolutions item number 42 budget of personnel amendment a
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 43, Commissioner V. Motion to adopt items 43 and 44. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 45, creating a city ADA advocate to enhance quality of life for residents with disabilities. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Who has the floor?
 Thank you, Mr. President. We're going to be speaking about this and having it open to the public next civil service meeting next Tuesday, which I've worked pretty extensively with the disability community and a lot of community partners for the need for this. And any municipality that is over 50 employees and that receives federal funding must have an ADA coordinator.
 we do, we have a designee of someone that does that as their job, but that's one element of a lot of duties that they have. And I spoke to somebody at UB who does ADA coordinating and basically said, you know, if you create this position to just do compliance, that's all this position will do.
 It's been 30 years since the Americans with Disabilities Act has passed, and we need to do more than just complying with law that passed. We really need to be proactive and think about a world that is more accessible to those that are living with disabilities. And I've been through a few panel discussions, and it's pretty hard to hear folks that are living with a disability that say that they don't feel included, they feel overlooked, and that they're from infrastructure projects to city services to streets, sidewalks, busing,
 uh... you name it that voice needs to be there in this position i would really like to see
 be somebody that is living with a disability because visibility matters. It matters to people in the city of Buffalo that see somebody that's working in City Hall on their behalf and understands what they're going through. And it's important that as we grow into a more inclusive society that we include everyone and that we don't look over people living with a disability. So there's going to be a robust conversation that's going to be happening next week in civil service and I look forward to a great discussion.
 Thank you, sir. Item number 46, Transfer Fund City Hall Approvements. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 47, Support for the Three-Bell System for Buffalo Public Schools. Motion to adopt the resolves remainder to education. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Go ahead, Sepulveda. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This support for the Three-Bell System for the Buffalo Public Schools,
 has a lot to do with addressing the problems that we've been having with transporting our students from their homes to school safely. There are two issues that I would like to bring up. One is that out of 472 bus routes, 41 of them have been uncovered over 50 times last year.
 This means that students have gone without transportation to either get to school or to get from school. One of the things that we've discovered over the last few years, I've reached myself personally, is that the classroom begins on the school bus. Children become socialized as they arrive to school with other students. Many of our school buses don't have bus aids.
 This was an issue when I was serving as the chair for the Committee on Education several years ago. And it's still an issue. And it was an urgent matter then, and it is more of an urgent matter now.
 We have been talking about this and talking about this, and nothing seems to have been done of any substance to try to rectify the issues of our children's safety. And if our children cannot get to school, they are not in the classrooms, which means they are behind, grossly behind, especially due to the fact that we had this loss of learning during COVID-19.
 Now we're off from COVID, so to speak, and our children are still faced with the same dilemmas and issues that we were faced with before COVID. When the prior administration of our school district came into office, this individual had receivership authority, and that's what basically made this individual as successful initially as they were.
 Now we have an opportunity to ask our governor to grant our current superintendent, a superintendent who was born in Buffalo, raised in Buffalo, went through the Buffalo Board, Buffalo School District Education. We're asking the governor to consider giving her the authority to ensure that we enter into this stage where we have a three-tiered or a three-billed system where not only do schools open up only at 8 and 9.
 But now we're asking for 730, 830, and 930 so that we can use our resources more effectively. In one of my classes that I teach, we talk about Six Sigma. And that is a series of applications or processes that you use to try to make sure that you are using the most effective and efficient processes to get the best and most optimal outcomes of the things you have in place.
 and it also encourages businesses to operate more lean. This system right here, I would say, would meet the Six Sigma requirements that would ensure that our school district is making sure that our children are safe, they have sufficient and adequate buses to meet the needs of our school system, make sure that we actually are able to have modified sports so that we have transportation, make sure that our children also have access to
 go to field trips throughout the day, all of these things are because we don't have the resource of transportation for our students. With this resolution, we are asking that the governor grant our homegrown superintendent the authority to make sure this happens. So that the issues that we are faced with as far as students not being able to get to school.
 students not being able to leave the school throughout the day to have field trips and use the city of buffalo and other resources as Their campus as their classroom and also to make sure that we have sports Modified sports that our children have access after school and also The major second point that I wanted to bring up is after-school programming many of our schools can have after-school programming because we don't have transportation to get our students from the school and
 And because our resource in the busing is so sparse, we don't have the capacity to do that. So I'm asking and I'm appreciative of the support to adopt this resolution and send the resolves to the Education Committee so that the City of Buffalo parents have an opportunity to weigh in so that we can hear their voices on how important this issue is to get their children to and from school because many households,
 don't have the luxury of a two-parent household, number one. Number two, they don't have the luxury of a two-car household. And number three, the parents cannot afford to take off from work to ensure that they drop their children off to school every day. Even though the compensation program for people taking their children to school may be a remedy, but many folks don't have that opportunity to actually take advantage
 of that program. So again, I appreciate the support of sending this resolution to the Education Committee. I appreciate the conversations I've had with Councilmember Brian Bowman prior to this resolution, and I really look forward to having a great dialogue to get to a
 a real resolution which i believe this is to ensure that our children uh are much safer than they are now thank you mr chair thank you and i'm i'm just um because it was a late fall um having an opportunity to read the full resolution um that is before us i did speak at a meeting that was held at the church and i want to be clear for the public is that the
 Common Council has no authority over the Board of Education. I want to ensure that people understand that they elect a school board. And I know that there is negotiations
 talk between the Union and the school district and what I've said and I don't want to get in the middle of a fight between the Union school district I think that the Board of Education should be be doing that but I want to cautiously for me personally say that I encourage the Union and the school board to work together
 as quickly as possible for our children. So I will support the resolution, but I do want to be clear that what I said at that meeting to the administrator who was there. And I do commend the superintendent for allowing the administrator to come to a public meeting with data
 that they knew they would be criticized for. So I have to say that that was something you don't normally see. So I commend her and her actions. I also commend the community who is coming together to work on solutions. And one thing that Mr. Rapport said at that meeting, he was not there to bash the school board. He wants to find solutions.
 So for me personally, whether it is the three bill, whether it's the two bill, whether I see other districts, which I hope we don't do during four days with longer school hours, I encourage them to come up with a solution.
 but I don't propose that I know what that solution is so I'll support it personally out of respect for a process being in place but personally I think that the school board Board of Education superintendent the head of transportation for the school board they've got a they've got a
 Get in a room and figure this out because you are totally correct. Kids are not going to field trips, they're not doing sporting events, some schools. And I have personally been a part of not having a bus to pick up my child. So I just wanted to make that plain because I didn't want the public to then think now the council is responsible for that three bells.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I appreciate your words, and I do agree that we've never, I've never seen this level of transparency from, you know, administration from the school district, and I say that out of respect for the position itself, because I understand how easy it is to scrutinize and criticize a position of money folks will never have. But I want to say this, that some information that was made available today is that
 The reason why I'm so confident in supporting the resolution as it's written is because what I do know is the BTF is not against the three-tier or the three-bail system. They're not against it.
 And what I do know is that this is the resolution where the teachers and the administration and the Federation, they all do agree that this would remedy this issue immediately should they be able to implement it immediately. It's just that, like you stated previously, they are in negotiations and this just happens to be one of those pieces that they are negotiating. And what we're trying to ensure is that this superintendent is not
 she her hands are not tied we would like for Dr Williams to have the opportunity to be successful as the prior superintendent have the opportunity to be successful and not have to necessarily worry about all of the bureaucracy that would slow down a relatively complex process anyway so we want to just make sure that we are helping her uh to be successful thank you Mr chair
 Thank you, Mr.. Chair and you know in our education committee meetings. We have talked about the transportation issue We've had a great response from the superintendent She's personally been there at our committee talking about it so as the results are coming to Education Committee I will do everything I can to convene our next education meeting quickly and To use our voice. We don't have a vote as a council on the education But I'll work to make an education committee happen soon. So thank you I
 I think that's the great thing. We don't have a vote, but we do have a voice. All right. Anything else? All right.
 all right announcement of committee meetings regular committees committee on civil service is tuesday december 6 2022 at 9 45 a.m committee on finance is tuesday december 6 2022 at 10 a.m committee on community development is tuesday december 6 2022 at 1 pm and committee on legislation is tuesday december 6 2022 at 2 p.m council members just reminding you that we have a capital budget to decide
 The leadership has reached out to every member, so we need information as soon as possible because the data's coming up very quickly. Okay, any announcements for your districts? Hearing no, Council Member Wingo. Last meeting of the year for the Mass and district stakeholders will be this coming Saturday. Not this Saturday, but Saturday, December the 10th at 9 o'clock.
 We're asking everyone to please come get the information that we will be disseminating.
 We don't know if we'll be giving away any gifts, but there will be a gift exchange, I can say that much. So come and get a great meal, great information, and there may be a gift exchange. We don't know yet. We'll see how that works out. But other than that, 877 East Delavan, the Delavan Griders Center in the City of Buffalo, Mass in District of Best District. 9 AM hot breakfast, great information, and again, fellowship and food. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you.
 All right, hearing no another's. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Joel P. Farrell.