Councilmember Fontana? Present. Councilmember Franzen? Here. Councilmember Golombek? Here. Council President Pridgen? I'm keen. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scanlon? Present. Councilmember Wingo? Present.
 Present. Council Member Wyatt here. Warren, present. We've been joined by members of Troop No. 5 who actually just came into the council chambers to monitor for their troop, and I've asked them to do the Pledge of Allegiance today. Troop No. 5 from Buffalo, New York, will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. Let the record state that, and maybe it'll help them toward their Eagle Scout or something.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. We'll make sure we get a picture of them right there so that they can take it back to their troop. Reverend Al Warner, our chaplain. Will you voice down? More ready?
 What a beautiful September day in Buffalo, New York. Doesn't feel like November, doesn't feel like post-Thanksgiving. What a lovely day that we're experiencing in our city. I'm sure Mr. Stepniak is quite pleased with the weather that we're experiencing. We're just after Thanksgiving and Christmas, of course, on the way. But I want to look back for a moment with this scripture at Thanksgiving. Philippians 4, 6, and 7, two awesome verses that I love.
 This translation says, Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and petition, with thanksgiving, present your request to God, and the peace of God which transcends all understanding will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. It's interesting that prayer is lifted up, but when we add to it thanksgiving, the next verse says that we experience the peace of God.
 Thanksgiving loses something in us. Worry and anxiety just have to sort of get out of the way because Thanksgiving recreates perspective. Another translation of this particular verse says it interestingly. It says, don't worry about anything but pray about everything. So let's pray together with Thanksgiving today. Father, the season that our nation labels as Thanksgiving time,
 should only remind us that we're to be thankful every day. Lord, I say thank you for the good God that you are. Thank you for the wisdom and creativity that you bring to this council. Thank you for your guidance. Thank you that you're better than the best GPS system. Thank you that you know exactly where this city is and where it needs to go.
 I pray now today, with thanksgiving, for what you've done looking back. But I thank you ahead of time for where you're taking us, where you're leading us, where you're guiding us, and the things, the supernatural surprises on the journey ahead. We thank you, and we thank you for what's still to come.
 Now today, bless with your supernatural presence on the deliberations of this house. In your precious name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain Warner. Memorials, Council Members. Council Member Golombet.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Riverside lost Violet Blazer this past Thanksgiving week. Very sad for her and her family, her husband, her children, who are active in the community and Rediscover Riverside and a bunch of other organizations. Mrs. Blazer will be sorely missed by all of us. Thank you. Any others? The 10th council member, Art. Art.
 Yes, the passing of a city worker, Donald Palmer. He was only 49 years old when he passed away. His father was Ansel Palmer, a lot of people knew him for Forky Palmer. He worked for the Savers and for the Bisons and all that stuff. He was the young kid that caught the ball behind foul balls and all that.
 So, he worked for the city and he passed away last week. One of the news media outlets not only ran a story on him one day, but they ran it on him the exact same story the next day because the story was so popular. They didn't change it. They just ran it again. So, obviously, he'll be missed in the city of Buffalo.
 As always, we always... Court? Also, Michael Bicena, brought up in Kysertown, a great young hockey player from the cancer. And as always, we always close honoring those servicemen and women and civilians who may have given their life for our country and other countries in the fight for freedom across our world. We pause for a moment of silence. Thank you. You may be seated.
 On a motion by Ms. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting that were held on November 15, 2016 are approved. We have, unfortunately, a few late files that are before us that did not make it by the time there was an upload. They have been, unfortunately, I don't even have it here at my desk. They have been given to council members in paper form, correct? Yes.
 Is there one? Are you referring to four? Oh, that we're going to read into? We're going to read it into. Do we have anything in writing for? We handed the clerk something in writing. We noted that the paper will be forthcoming, but we are going to read it. So the paperwork will be here before we read it into the record? Yes.
 Because I won't read into the record without paperwork. We've got to have paperwork for every council member that I have at their desk. And it's a real estate transaction. But the point is, and we want to call it real estate. Now, understand that it was, it's for a larger project, and it's one piece out of many that we've approved. But we're not going to do that verbally. So if we don't get it, it won't be read into the record. I talked to the...
 contractor earlier to the developer and I'm okay with it, but we've got to get it in the records. It's got to be in writing. Alright, so I'm not even going to consider that piece unless it comes to us in writing and if they're going to get it to us in writing, I would suggest that they move very quickly because I don't foresee this meeting being very long. Mr. Chairman, that's item 2A. Can we hold that in abeyance then?
 The motion is to hold item 2A innovated. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Thank you, Majority Leader. All right. From the top. From the top. Item 1, pilot lofts at Larkinville Housing.
 Motion to send items 1 and 2 to Finance. Second by Council Member Golombek. And I apologize. All the late files that are before you, gentlemen, are there any objections to any of the late files that are in front of you? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda as in front of us. It does not take away your right to object when the item is in front of you. Next item. From the Comptroller, item 3, Comprehensive Annual Financial Report. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item 4, Interfund Loan Shoreline Trail Improvements 2016.
 motion to approve second by councilmember white and I'm 5 2016 2017 first quarter gap sheets response motion to send the finance second by councilmember Wingo item 6 appoint associate auditor motion to send civil service item 6 and 7 second by councilman front and public works item 8 notification cereals motion to receive and file
 And waive the 45-day waiver. Thank you. Seconded by Council Member Frielo. Item 9, Commissioner, Hire a Consultant. Motion to approve Items 9 through...
 19. Seconded by Councilmember Frenzel. Item 20, food store license 405 Hampshire. Motion to send to ledge items 20 through 23. Seconded by Councilmember White. Item 24, restaurant dance license 732 Hurdle. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item 25, restaurant dance license 454 Pearl. Motion to send to ledge items.
 I second by Council Member Franzen. Item 26, secondhand dealer 3065 Bailey. I will defer to the district council member for a motion. Council Member White, is that clear? Motion to approve with conditions that there can be no secondhand furniture out on the sidewalk in front of the premises. Got it. And is that probably also a cold? Is that a cold violation already? Is indoor furniture that they're putting outside? Well, they have...
 They're going to be selling appliances, those in washers. We don't want to see them on the sidewalk. I totally agree, Councilmember. Good move. Seconded by Councilmember. Item 27, secondhand dealer, 168 Elmwood. Motion to send to ledge. All right. Seconded by Councilmember Glumber. Item 28, used car dealer, 1353 East Ferry. Deferred to University District Councilmember. Do I have a ferry? Yes.
 We could set up a legislation. Pardon me? Legislation. Motion to send to ledge. Thank you very much for sending that to ledge, and please check it out well. I saw the police report. And it's in a growing neighborhood because you've got Mastin, you, I think a portion of it is Fillmore, and so used car lots always need to be examined, I think, because what they can do to neighborhoods if it's just not done right. Speaking about Council Member Fontana. 129, first quarter gap sheet.
 Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. City Clerk, Item 30, Liquor License Applications. Motion to receive and file Items 30 through 33. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item 34, Notice of Apartments, Temporary, Provisional, Permanent. Motion to send to Civil Service, Item 34. Thank you.
 Second by Council Member Franzen. Miscellaneous. Item 35, suggested changes, Buffalo Green Code. Motion to receive and file items 35, 36, 37. Second by President Pro Tem Scandal. Item 38, proposed amendment, Chapter 437, Taxi Cab Ride Sharing. Motion to send to ledge, Mayor's Office, Common Council, EDPI, and the Taxi Cab Committee.
 Second by Council Member Golombik. Okay, yes, thank you, Mr. President. And to my colleagues, just so that everybody knows what is going on, but before I go there, there was a couple of other places I would like to see this sent to. I would like to see this sent to all the Buffalo taxi companies, Corporation Council, Department of Licenses, Mayor, the New York State Senate leadership and the local delegation, the New York State Assembly leadership and local delegation,
 Uber, Lyft, Limousine, Bus, Taxi Operators of Upstate New York, TLC of Western New York, Limo and Concierge Services, Upstate New York Taxi Association.
 What this is, is about a year's worth of work that has indirectly come out of the Taxi Cab Subcommittee that I've been the chair of for quite some years. The reality is that Uber, Rideshare is coming to Buffalo. It's going to be coming. The real deal, the big deal for them, so that all the hipsters that are in the Buffalo region understand this, it wasn't Buffalo that they wanted in New York State.
 Uber was pushing in the city of Buffalo until they got approved in New York City. And then Uber disappeared. The Uber representatives, the Uber lawyers disappeared. I don't have a local contact any longer, and I haven't for about the past year, because their main focus was on New York City. That all being said...
 Uber will eventually come to the rest of New York State, and it's going to come to Buffalo. What I want to do is get ahead of the curve. Most of you were here with me when I chaired the committee that brought food trucks to the city of Buffalo. It took about 18 months. It would have been nice if as soon as we had the legislation in front of us that we could have approved it. But I know and I understand that it takes time because we want to make
 that we're doing just service to everybody in the city of Buffalo, from residents to taxpayers, to the people that own brick and mortar restaurants, to the people that had the food trucks. Well, this gives us an opportunity with what's going on in the
 in Albany to try to get ahead of the curve in Buffalo. Even if we approve this as is, which I wouldn't recommend because I think the devil is in the details and we all need to take a look at this, but even if we approve this today and if the mayor signed it into law today, Uber's not in Buffalo tomorrow. We still have to wait for Albany. So I want everybody out there to understand that, that it's Albany's final decision.
 But once Albany makes that decision, I don't want to have to wait months and months and months before the city of Buffalo puts together an ordinance that allows rideshare and Uber in the city of Buffalo. Basically, what my concerns are is that the industries, whether it's rideshare or the taxi industries, are playing on a level playing field, number one. And number two, that they hold the city of Buffalo accountable.
 Not accountable, God forbid, if and when something happens. If a rideshare operator gets attacked, like what happened over this weekend with the taxi cab industry, somebody was either shot or stabbed in the face and robbed. If a taxi cab gets into an accident, they have millions and millions of dollars worth of insurance policies on them.
 There's been problems with some of the ride share in places like Los Angeles that when the insurance company found out that they were using their cars for transportation purposes, the insurance company said, no, no, no, wait a minute, you said this was your own personal car. Well, it is my own personal car, yeah, but you're transporting people. We're not going to honor the insurance for this. And so then what ultimately ends up happening is that the municipality gets sued.
 I'm sure that Buffalo would get sued, but I want to make sure that we are protected in a court of law, that we have done our due diligence. So what I'm hoping to do with this item is go in front of the Legislation Committee and then either be put together as a subcommittee or perhaps sent to Taxi Cab. I'm open for that. And putting together a small working committee, my colleagues and representatives from both Rideshare and the taxi industry,
 Once again, just like we did with the food truck industry, I want to make sure that drivers are properly vetted. Currently, if you decide that you want to be a drive share driver, you just simply put an app on your phone and you get a call or a message and you say, hey, I'll be there in 15 minutes. We don't know who that person is. If you're a taxi cab driver, you have to be vetted. You have to make sure that the person actually has a license.
 that the person actually is not a convicted of felonies, that they don't have certain criminal proclivities in their past. So that's something that we want to check and make sure. We want to make sure that there's proper insurance, protect the passengers in the event of an accident or incident, to protect the drivers, to protect the City of Buffalo, the taxpayers of the City of Buffalo.
 We want to make sure that there are safety checks on the vehicles similar to the taxi inspections. Once a year, the taxi industry has to bring their taxi cabs to the Buffalo Police Department. Buffalo Police Department does a check that takes about a month or so, and then they either approve or deny, and then they have to come back until the car is deemed safe.
 for transport. Just because you have an app on this does not mean that you have an automobile that's safe. You could have bad tires, you could have bad brakes. Once again, if there was an accident, the City of Buffalo would, I'm sure it would be sued. I want to make sure that we have no liability or are as protected as possible.
 And lastly, I believe that this legislation is basically a progressive piece of legislation, and I mean progressive by jumping on board early. If and when, well when, Uber's rideshare becomes legal in New York State, I would like to be able to not have to go through a several month or a year and a half process process,
 to allow Uber, Rideshare into Buffalo. I would like to be able to say, hey, we got the legislation, the ordinance right here, we're ready. New York State has approved it on Monday, we're approving it on Tuesday, or maybe we'll do it on Friday before so that we can even get further ahead of the curve. Once again, this is not a done deal by any stretch of the imagination. I want to have input from people from Rideshare, from people from taxis,
 from my colleagues and I want to make sure that we have the best piece of legislation. In one caveat, many of the recommendations that we put in here were based on the New York City ride share agreement. So these weren't just made up numbers or made up things. Many of these are based on best practices elsewhere.
 So, you know, that's where I'm hoping to go with this, and I'm sure that, you know, people have asked me how long this is going to take. I would assume that if we got working on it immediately, it's probably not going to be ready any time before spring of 2017. But once again, we have to wait for Albany. If New York State doesn't approve it, and we do, we're not getting Uber, we're not getting rideshare, but we would be ready, and we'd be ahead of the curve. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Golombek. Council Member, President Pro Temp Scantling.
 Thank you, Mr. President. First of all, I want to commend Councilmember Glumbeck, first of all, for jumping on board and dealing with the taxi industry and everything. I mean, it's not an easy carry, and he jumped right on board. And, I mean, he's been great with this. Similar, he mentioned the way he helped out with the food trucks. Absolutely. I mean, he was instrumental in that, so I want to commend him on that. And I'm glad to hear that he's kind of using this item here as kind of a starting off point.
 When I read it, I was under the impression at first that, you know, this is what we were going to move forward and try and put through because I was thinking, while I am overwhelmingly in support of ride sharing coming to Buffalo, if this were the ordinance amendment to come to the floor for a vote with this language and these stipulations, it's not something that I would support. To me, this legislation was something that it appears to be drafted by the members of and the representatives of the taxi industry in an effort to defend
 their industry from technology and where that seems to be heading.
 I've seen in the media in the last day or two that this measure by this council really would be its largest step yet in bringing ride sharing to the city of Buffalo. I didn't look at it that way when I read this initial one. I looked at it more as an attempt by that industry to put regulations on ride sharing to help protect them in the long run. And I don't think this body should be in the business of protecting an industry from other competition.
 If there's technology that comes along and it can create a more efficient product and it can help our citizens who we're elected to represent, I think we should look at it long and hard. I think ride sharing should be given every opportunity to succeed here in the city of Buffalo. I mean, we've heard time and time again from people who complain about the NFTA and their busing practices.
 Maybe this is an option to help them out, things like that. We've heard from people who've called for cabs and they've been unreliable, won't go into certain parts of the city, things like that. So again, it's just I want to look at every opportunity we can with ride sharing to bring it in here. Earlier in the year, I filed a resolution which was unanimously supported by the council to ask the governor in both houses of the New York State Legislature to bring ride sharing to the City of Buffalo.
 I've also had corporation counsel looking into any possible legal action we can take to force Albany's hand to allowing ride sharing in the City of Buffalo and the rest of upstate New York. So I'm in full support of ride sharing coming to the City of Buffalo. This language in this particular proposed amendments, proposed changes to the amendment, it kind of turns me away a little bit but I'd be more than willing to work with Councilmember Glenn Beck on this moving forward.
 Thank you, President Poteau. Council Member Fioriletto. Thank you. I think it's very important to recognize, as Council Member Scanlon said, that this council unanimously supported a resolution asking the governor, asking the State Assembly, and the New York State Senate to come together and get Uber and get Lyft and get ride-sharing companies in upstate New York and not just in New York City.
 There's several bills in the state senate and state assembly addressing ride sharing. We don't know when it will get passed or how it will get passed. But if it gets passed and the state regulates it, then the state will have uniform rules for ride sharing companies for all municipalities in New York State. If the state passes it and leaves it up to the municipalities to figure out the rules,
 Then the City of Buffalo, as Councilmember Golumbac was saying, needs to have regulations in place so when the state allows it, we could move immediately and have ride sharing the following day. I think this is very proactive in getting in front of it before Albany officially makes any permanent measures or votes on it, and it's important to recognize that the City
 regulates the taxi industry. How many taxi cabs there are, how much money they can charge, and we have nothing in place for any ride sharing company. So if we could take any action to support Uber, Lyft, ride sharing, but we still need the New York State legislature to take an action and allow it in upstate New York. Absolutely.
 I know many have chimed in on this. Just today there was an interview, and I think at the end of the day to be ahead of the curve is very important, and the work that Councilmember Golombek put in for a long time on the food trucks. Times are changing. Buffalo Place, in our last meeting, brought this up and talked about how a lot of people
 the conventions and people visiting the hotels, they're commenting, and here was the comment, on the prehistoric history.
 Buffalo at times because we don't have rice here. I think it's unfair to say that because Buffalo has advanced in so many ways, but it's people's opinion, and we have to hear their opinion and know it. And recently I asked some folks, what do you think? And I'd say probably 90% of the respondents, if not 95%,
 talked about wanting ride share. And especially the younger generation, this is what they know. So it's part of the times, it's part of what's in front of us. I commend Councilmember Golombak and those who are working on how do we get ahead of the game and make it work for everyone. Councilmember Fontana. In a rare situation, you could have a job in New York City that you can't legally have in Buffalo.
 Council Member Scanlon was an Uber driver for about 10 minutes here in Buffalo when he applied a couple years ago. Remember, he applied on the council floor. But legally, me and Rasheed could drive to New York City and –
 get in his Nissan and become Uber drivers overnight, but as soon as we cross out of New York City, we can't have that job. Right. It's a weird situation. Now there's, of course, and Mr. Ferraletto knows being a lawyer, there's laws across the state that state that in populations of over a million, this law will take place. My question for our law department, maybe even for council staff and residents at home are probably asking is what makes it legal in New York City? What magic bullet did they find in the insurance laws?
 that allows it in New York City that doesn't allow it in Buffalo, the second largest city. And you don't have to apply now, but maybe if you could get us an email on that, that would be helpful so we could tell our residents at block club meetings what exactly they did in New York City to make this legal and what then, as Mr. Parallel says, what needs to be done to make it legal in our city, in Buffalo, the second largest city in the state. And I think it's unfair for visitors to think, oh, we don't have Uber, we're a little behind the times.
 It's something that's coming around. Joe's correct. Uber split. They left. They didn't stay around and try to work this issue out. They absolutely made a D-line to New York City and left the city of Buffalo. So it's not like they're here every day trying to get something done. They're not. They're gone. Can't call them for a ride.
 But in other cities it's so common to say I'm going to call an Uber or I'm going to call Lyft that it's just become part of the vernacular of those cities and something that we're not afforded to have that position. And it's really weird that it's one of the few positions you could have in New York City but you can't have in Buffalo. Absolutely. Thank you.
 President Prozimski. Just to follow up on the question that Councilmember Fontana had. First of all, I was not a driver. For the record. Second of all, I have been discussing the legal aspect of this with Tim Ball for a while now and he is going to have something for us in the next couple of days. So I will provide it to all the Councilmembers.
 All right. Thanks for writing. Everybody can sign up to be Uber drivers. I believe it's going to happen this session. I really do. I think that there's going to be enough. And thank you, Council Member Golombiec, for saying what you said, because I said recently the people who lobbied us most in the past was the taxi industry. Then we heard from people, and then it was no one. So someone took exception to that and said, you know, no, I've been lobbying for it. Well, your voices weren't as loud as the taxi industry locally.
 But I do believe that when they go into session this time, I believe they're going to come out with something. Council Member Golombak. Thank you. I figure I'm on the right track right now because I've received an equal number of phone calls of people who have called angry at me for supporting Uber and Rideshare and angry at me for supporting taxi cabs over Uber and Rideshare. So the point is that if anybody's watching this,
 I'm trying to level the playing field and just bring something like we did when we did the food trucks in the city of Buffalo. I'm not favoring one group over the other, but I do believe that there should be a level playing field. And as our council member, Franzek, has taught us and told us, if everybody's equally unhappy, then we're probably doing a pretty good job, right? Good. All right, next item. Item 39, Fruit Belt Community Land Trust. Motion it.
 We're still item 39. Yes, sir 41 to CD Second by councilman friends at item 42 naval park proposal for funding item 42 through 40 40 items 42 43 44 45 and 46 are receiving file second by council member Montana
 Petitions. Item 47. Use 742 Delaware for a ground sign. Motion to send to light City Planning Board and Zoning Board. Second by Councilman Fairlough. Item 48. Use 2255 Bailey to place an illuminated pole sign. Motion to send to light City Planning Board. Second by Councilman White. Committees. Civil Service. Item 1. Appoint Principal Accountant.
 Motion to approve items number one through and including seven. A second by President Pro Temsken. Item eight, appointments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. President Pro Temsken. Finance Committee, item nine, Conventus PIF. If it's okay with the District Council Member, motion to approve.
 Second by Council Member Feraletto. Community Development Committee, Item 10, Citizen Participation Proposal Meeting. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member, I'm sorry, Majority Leader. Mr. Chairman, there was somebody to speak on this. I was told and they wanted to be heard. So that's why it's come before us once again. Thank you.
 But somebody did want to come before us to speak on this item. In the council meeting? What did they do? It was going to go to CD. Oh, it's going back.
 I thought you meant they want to speak today. No, not today. They want to speak in the CE Committee. So it's going to be recommitted? Council Member Golombik has the floor. The only question that I would have with that, Mr. President, is that it's sort of like what happened in the past. There's five different items that they want to speak on. One or two deal with community development. One or two deal with the police department. One or two deal with legislation. I'm not exactly sure what committee that should go to. I mean...
 I would prefer to receive and file it and have them do what happened the last time, have them send it to the respective committees.
 and speak in front of those committees because, I mean, I don't want to talk about police issues and community development. I just don't think it belongs there. Same thing with some of the other items that are in front. So I'm all for them speaking, but I'd like to receive and file it and let them apply to each of the respective committees. I would defer to the chair for what the chair would like to do with it. I don't have a problem if they want to file something new specifically to what it is they want to speak to.
 that would be fine perhaps we can uh contact them and ask them to be specific so we know exactly what committee to send it to and i think we we have enough staff to be able to even help our citizens so that um you know and i'm not i'm not i don't even know who wrote this because all i see is the the item but i think that when we have someone they want to be participant we help them so that it's not getting um convoluted
 So I would agree with the chairman to receive and file it and then work with the constituent to pull those items out.
 So that no constituent thinks that we're ignoring them, but just so that it doesn't get stuck in one committee. It's not that we don't want to give them an audience or a place to speak. However, we need to know exactly what it is you want to speak on, so we know where to send it to. So I certainly don't have a problem. Maybe we can get back to the people in question and ask them to...
 We can work with them. Let's have council staff just work with them and get it right for them. All right. Second. Was there already a second on that? Okay. Second by President Pro Tem Scam. Next item. Item 11, BGBDC Entity Formation. Motion. Motion to approve. Motion. Is this the one we were? Did you get the note from? No, this one was being recommitted, I think. Okay.
 Oh, we did. I don't know why. Yeah. Oh, so it's recommit? Mm-hmm. Okay. Withdrawing my motion? Yeah. Withdrawing motion seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. And motion to recommit now. All right. So, and what we want, seconded by Councilmember Wyatt, the reason this has to be recommitted, because there were questions that kept coming up about the budget and which part of this was, it was just a lot of questions. So what I encourage is that we have some conversations.
 before the committee meeting, so we don't have to go all the way through. And then that way, by the time we come in committee meeting, we understand it a little bit more. And I know that, and it might not be here on this item, but we have Nona here, who is from one of the bosses from the Department of Strategic Planning. So I'm just going to ask her, and I know this isn't normally, but because the motion just changed, is there any time sensitivity to this one that you know of on the Beverly Gray situation? No.
 It's not a time. Okay. So we're in good shape. I just, I don't like to shift it in the middle and then departments think it's coming and, you know, we made a shift. Okay. So we're going to recommit that one. Motion stands. Next item. Legislation Committee, item 12, who's our license, 1318 Fillmore. Motion is to approve. Second by Council, by Majority Leader Revere. Item 13, use 527 to operate a brewery with storage. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Freer-Levitt.
 114 use 905 elements place sidewalk cafe and it right away that's also approved with conditions second by consul entry level item 15 use 909 Jefferson to install pole sign 15 motion to approve with conditions all right second by consul member Fontana item 16 use 986 grant for pole sign
 16 and 17, if there are no objections, both of those are motioned to approve with conditions set by the Planning Board. Second by President Pro Temp. Scandal. Item 18, used car dealer 283 Broadway.
 18 is also motion to approve with conditions conditions for with condition thank you second by councilman Fontana and on this item I just I'm gonna say it one more time I can't say it enough especially for people open up businesses that need a license in the city of Buffalo we
 Regardless of whether you get a state license, a federal mandate, a letter signed by the President of the United States, if you do not have the proper license from the city of Buffalo, you cannot operate a business, whether it's a store.
 a car lot, anything that requires a City of Buffalo license. So we saw this in the University District years ago. Councilman Wyatt has done a great job in clamping down on that. When we had the store owner, remember it came with the pictures of the store they set up?
 with the tops, and it was actually a picture of Topps Market, and they were already operating and all that kind of stuff. So we just got to send out a clear message. You know, we had this. I want to thank the Department of License. They went out the next day and shut this used car lot down. Persons came back, and I don't want to in any way give them a bad reputation. I truly believe that the young lady who came before us
 Just did not know the process But we've got to make sure you want to use car lot store Don't think that because somebody gave you a wink and a nod that you get to open it up in the city of Buffalo At least this common council has shown a pattern that it'll be shut down. You start from the beginning next item item 19 ordinance amendment chapter 137 code enforcement Motion to approve second by councilmember Scanlon 20 chapter 19
 Chapter 295, Ordinance Amendment, Nuisance Party. 20 is motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just want to add, again, thank Lauren Howard for her efforts on this nuisance ordinance. It's so important that we have this to give the police department a little bit more teeth when dealing with some of the parties in the district. And again, I don't want students, I don't want the...
 UB newspapers saying that Councilmember Weiss against students, want to lock students up. However, we do have to have some things in place so that when students don't want to listen, when students want to be unruly, when students want to be disrespectful to the residents of the City of Buffalo, that the police have the authority to do what they need to do.
 because we do want them to be more inclusive in our district. They do a lot of great things. I want to send a clear message that UB students do a lot of great things in supporting our community. So I don't want to miss that. But certainly there are some who don't respect us.
 and don't respect the residents. And for those individuals, this ordinance is tailored towards them. Councilman White, just briefly, can you tell sort of the public who's watching, what is the ordinance, what does it do? Well, it gives the police department a little bit more authority in finding and arresting the individuals who are hosting these parties. Because many times they'll be in a group and you don't know who that individual is. But this individual, once they find out who it is, they can arrest them and they can get a minimum of 15 days in jail.
 That's something that's not typical right now. I think that the police chief has been a little bit more diplomatic in working with students because we don't want to give students arrest records. But when we have the same problems in the same houses over and over again, we have to take a little stronger hand. So this is going to allow for that stronger hand for the police to use it. Thank you. All right. Motion stands. Good job. Item 21, food store license 163, West Ferry.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombik. Resolutions, item 49. T-Waiver, Cousin Town Holiday Tree Lighting. Motion to approve.
 second by council member Phil Odom and 50 authorized resolution rezoning 854 allocate motion for that second by president for Tim Scanlon doing trail blazing sign in honor of superintendent Reverend Ressi chillis motion to approve second by council member friends 52 established a RH task force motion to that second by council member the London what this what this is is we have
 had a lot of people come before this council that has
 supported inclusionary zoning during the Green Code. The Council has gone on record supporting this study of inclusionary zoning, which we are moving forward with the administration, and we've been told that by February, we will have the results of that study. But what I think we hear more and more, especially in areas that are experiencing gentrification,
 is, and I, well, yeah, I can't say this word on the floor. There was a guy who ran for, what did he run for governor? And he said the rent to daggone high.
 And so he was saying that in New York, but now we are experiencing the rents going up in Buffalo. Now, some would say that's a bad problem. I say it's a part of a growing city, but government still should look, I believe, at how and what tools do we have in order to either incentivize businesses
 rent stabilization in some way, encourage it, continue. We know that the administration has been pushing affordable housing. And so this sets up a task force to advise the council that will be made up of academics, of folks, of attorneys who know, you know, we keep hearing people come to us and say,
 Why can't you all stabilize the rents like New York City? Same thing like we just heard about car share. Well, and really do the research, every unit in New York is not stabilized. The building has to be over so old, so age, built at certain years. And so that's going to take real study, real knowledge, so that we are not just hearing from citizens saying my rent is high, but that we are able to say to citizens,
 Come participate and also to really bring this to a point of just because, you know, I get tired of people saying, well, such and such has never happened before. Well, Buffalo shouldn't be afraid to make new things happen.
 and to see where in the law, or working with New York State, even working with the county, how we can address the situation of increasing rents so that people are not, you know, some people are going to have to move. But if we have nothing in place and development just keeps occurring and we're not looking toward how do we protect some of the most vulnerable people in our community,
 Those who are on the lower economic scale are seniors. And if we do absolutely nothing, I believe we know the results. We've got to look at situations like Shoreline.
 where a situation where people who had a lower income could live in downtown Buffalo, could work, their children went to school around the corner, many of them, and then there's efforts to say, you're no longer welcome. Or we're going to change the neighborhood to the point where you can't afford to stay. Well, where do you put those folks? And what does the government do about it? So this, I think, is a positive step
 to talk about how we move forward and get the information we need because as a council, and I have to remind folks, this is a three-tier government. And the council has a responsibility of its own. And it's not just to go, we'll wait, and then once we get the information, then we act.
 Well, by that time, if we get the information and we don't know and we haven't done our own homework or research, I think that we are missing an opportunity. So that's what this is about. And council members, if you have persons you'd like to suggest to be on the committee, I'm open to that. We just ask. We will add.
 citizens on the community of on the committee or the task force there won't be a standing committee of the forever but a task force um but we also want to make sure we have some professionals if you know of who might may really help us I in this task force and move for council member why thank you share wanna thank you for your leadership on this I think it's something that's very timely and very important matter fact I'm gonna be having a meeting with a group of folks
 who worked with Joel regarding inclusionary zoning as well as affordable housing. I think that people want to see their elected officials doing something about their plight. And many of them are in situations that they can't help themselves. So I think it's our duty to try to help them as well as we can, as well as balancing out what people, their expectations when they come in and they invest in the city as far as new housing and things like that. So I think this task force is very timely. I know when I hear council majority leader
 Revere talked about some of the individuals who have been displaced and feeling very frustrated and saddened that they have to move to an area that they're not familiar with. They've lived all their lives in this particular community. And to go somewhere that they have no knowledge of is so unfair. The New Buffalo shouldn't be displacing people who
 want to stay in their neighborhood and benefit from the new Buffalo. They should be able to benefit too. So I think this is a timely task force. I'm looking forward to working with the individuals that come with some new ideas to help balance this thing out because we do want developers to come and develop affordable housing and make sure that everyone benefits. But we shouldn't just put the least of these to the side as if they don't matter. Thank you, Chair. And the last two projects that have come through,
 I believe Bureau, one being AP Lofts that is coming forward and the other being the Carmina Woods project that was in front of Budse today.
 They all include workforce housing or affordable housing. And one of my greatest concerns has been all of the new development that was coming downtown, much of it was market rate. And so you would not have that inclusion and that diversity. So, you know, I always say when I'm concerned about something, I make noise. And I think when people are doing a good job, you've got to make noise about that too. So I think that's a part of where Buffalo, when people say, well, nothing is happening. . .
 People aren't allowed to live. Well, you've got to lift up some of these other projects that are hitting the nail on the head and saying we want to have some affordable, we want to have some market rate, but we're looking out for all of Buffalo. And I commend the administration, but I also commend this council.
 that it has been the discussion over and over and over on this floor. And so I think that we're moving in the right direction. I think this task force will help us to have that knowledge that we need as a council also.
 All right. Next item. Oh, I'm sorry. I apologize. Majority Leader, I'd never leave you out. Thank you very much. Majority Leader, Mr. Chairman, I want to thank you and Council Member Rasheed Wyatt for being passionate and outspoken about this issue whenever we have an audience.
 During the Green Code meeting I was really surprised, pleasantly surprised to see many of the folks that were here for the Green Code speak up for inclusionary zoning. It was one, there were like four things that they really fought for. One of them was inclusionary zoning, the other obviously was the Elmwood Village, the Outer Harbor.
 The Waterfront Village. Those were the four items that they really, really pushed for. And most of the people that spoke out were people from the at-large community. They didn't look like us. And they spoke out very passionately. As a matter of fact, I met with...
 Councilmember Ferraletto and his working group, and that was one of the items that they felt strongly about. And these are people from the Elmwood Village in the Delaware District who are passionate about inclusionary zoning. They see what is happening, that people are being displaced. And they're very compassionate. They're saying, look, they can be our kids. They can be our mothers and grandmothers. These could be our family members that at some point can't afford to live in the neighborhood that they grew up.
 And I think we need to make sure that every opportunity we have, whether it's in this task force, and I'm glad to hear that it is going to be inclusive, it's going to reflect the community entirely, whether professional community or community that are going through some of these problems. There are some great groups already doing work. We should reach out to them as well, such as Push Buffalo, such as the Elmwood Village Working Group that have already been working on many of these issues.
 But once again, I feel very strongly that we shouldn't water it down.
 that we should be very careful with the study that's going to come forward, because you can do a study with the end result in mind. I want to make sure that the study really reflects what's really happening out in our community. Absolutely. And I hate to see it watered down. And we don't want to tell the developers Buffalo is not a friendly place to do business. The opposite. We extend the welcome mat to anybody that wants to do business in the city of Buffalo.
 But we can rise everyone up. I mean, this isn't about you against us. There is money to be made. There is a niche with affordable housing. There's a niche with market rate. And we have to look at it that way. They said there's a niche, and you can make money doing exactly what we're talking about with inclusionary zoning. You don't have to be afraid. And I hate to see other folks
 who are defensive right from the get-go. They're going to be very defensive. They're going to come in here and say, no, let the market dictate what's happening. And those are the people that say, hey, let's make as much money as we can and...
 as little space as we possibly can. Absolutely. So we have to be conscious. We really have to keep our foot to the gas on this. And once the green code is passed, I want us to work just as hard to get this passed once the green code is passed. So I commit to doing that wherever I have an audience. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you to all of you. All right. The next item. 153, Ordinance Amendment, Chapter 399, Smoking. Motion to send to ledge.
 Second by President Pro Tip Scanlon. Item 54, Budget and Personnel Amendment. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Item 55, Commissioner Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt Items 55 through 57. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item 58, Trailblazing Requests, Mr. Alonzo William Thompson. This one is not marked. Is that an approve or an adopt? Adopt. Adopt.
 second by council member friends at motion to revisit item to a motion is revisit item to a second by council member on ten additional probably located for 14 Adams
 Gentlemen, this is the one that I said needed to be read, that we needed to read into the file. Just to give a summary, we had already made designated developer, made VFNC the designated developer for all of the properties that you see before you on Adams and on Monroe.
 And they are only coming back because there was one property that was left off of that, and that was 414 Adams. So that's the extent of what this is. All right. Seeing no late file, seeing no objections, it's before us. Motion to approve. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Friuletta.
 Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, December 6th, 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, December 6th, 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, December 6th, 2 p.m.
 Announcements for your districts or anything else? Council Member Blumbeck. Thank you, Mr. President. December 4th, we're going to have, and I always hate saying this, but the first annual. But whenever we've done a first annual, we've always had a second annual. But we're going to have the first annual tree lighting ceremony at the corners of Ontario and Tainawa Street. For those of you who are familiar with the location, that's the old...
 Riverside Men's Shop location and it was torn down a few years ago and part of the understanding that we had with the Good Neighbor Planning Alliance, Rediscover Riverside, the Palladinos, myself was was that we were going to plant a Christmas tree on that corner and we're going to start a new tradition in the neighborhood where we would light it and have a community get-together every first Saturday of or every first Sunday of December and
 Sort of to kick off the Christmas holiday season for the Riverside and Black Rock neighborhoods. So anybody that is out and about is welcome to join us. It'll probably last about an hour. We're going to have hot cocoa, and I think we're hoping to have some jugglers and things like that. If it's not too cold, we want the jugglers freezing their fingers. So about 6 o'clock December the 4th at the corner of Ontario and Tonawanda Streets. Thank you, sir. Majority Leader Rivera. Yes.
 On Thursday, December 1st, the Westside Business Taxpayers Association, along with my office, will be hosting Peace, Love, and Grantspeed. It's something we've done for a number of years. We have petting zoos. We had trolleys in the past, Santa Claus, Chorus, just to lighten up the Christmas spirit. So it's from 4 to 8, December 1st.
 And on December the 3rd, between 11 to 4, at Five Points. It's an up-and-coming area on the city's west side. It's on the corner of West Utica, Rhode Island, Bryant.
 where all these streets intersect. It's a growing community. People are moving back into the community, investing in the community. So to get a chance to stop by Five Points, that's 11 to 4 at Five Points. Well, a lot of celebrations. Council Member White? Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to invite the residents of the University District to our first annual Christmas on Bailey tree lighting event, which is going to take place on December 3rd this Saturday at 530 right at Westminster and Bailey. I want to thank the
 owner of Bailey Check Cash and Kareef Ali who came to me and said he wanted to see something positive happening on Bailey so I'm going to give him big ups for that. As well as on December 17th we're going to have in his location checking in with Santa so residents can bring their child into that beautiful edifice right there at Westminster and Bailey and they can see Santa Claus and hopefully all their wishes will come true.
 Is that at the check cashing place? Yes, it is. Checking in with Santa? They're checking in with Santa. If Santa writes checks, I'm going to Santa's house.
 I don't know, Santa might be writing some checks. And then I also want to invite the residents on Saturday, December 10th at the Varsity Theater from 6 p.m. to 10 p.m. We're going to have a University District Community Recognition Awards for all the things that some of the individuals in our district are doing great things. It's going to be showcased by DJ Slim. So if you want to dance, you can come and dance. But we're going to acknowledge all the hard work
 that individual residents in the district have done, and that's brought to you by the University District Blog Club Coalition and the University of Ohio's Collaborative in my office. Thank you. Any other announcements?
 Uh, Council, uh, President Pro Tem Stanley. Thank you, Mr. President. This Saturday, um, December 3rd, is I believe the 16th annual Christmas in the Park at Tosh Collins Community Center. That runs from 5 to 8. Santa Claus will be there. There's a bunch of, uh, gifts, food, different events for the kids to kick off the holiday spirit. Also at 8 o'clock there are fireworks there.
 for everyone to enjoy. Then the following Friday, December 9th, is our fourth annual Shop South Buffalo where we team together with all the local businesses. There's discounts. People get out, enjoy the community, enjoy and support local businesses. That event kicks off at 5 o'clock at the Buffalo Irish Center, and then afterwards the shopping takes place until 9 o'clock. Afterwards there is a post party at the Blackthorn Restaurant. We're taking the party this year to Seneca Street, so I hope everyone comes over and has a good time.
 Well, you know Buffalo is growing when Santa is in so many places in Buffalo in a week. We're growing. I mean, Santa, I don't know if Santa used to spend this much time in Buffalo before. AP Lofts Community Meeting Wednesday, for those who are watching by air, which is tomorrow, November 30th. Those who live in the Swan Street area, South Division area, North Division area,
 over there, AP Law is having a community meeting. Beginning at 6 o'clock, it says 6, 7, 30. I'm not going to give the end time. Just be there on time. 6 o'clock at the Ellicott Apartments at 424 Swan. Also, Councilmember, in the Community Day, where you do not need an appointment to meet with me will be Friday, December 2nd, 1 to 5. And that's for whether, for church, for anything, for community, for
 You need me to clean your cat, something, whatever, just I'll bring it over. I'll bring a catty litter, kitty litter, something like that. So that's on December 2nd, no appointment needed. And I will be this week or that week at 907 East Ferry.
 No appointment. And then our stakeholders meeting where we will be addressing gentrification on Monday, December the 5th at the Bell Center because gentrification happens in more than one area of the city. And again, I want to say gentrification, the word is not a bad word. It means they're really bringing up a community to a middle class standard. December 5th, 2016, 530 Bell Center 104, Maryland.
 Motion to adjourn. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. We stand adjourned.