Present. President Pro Scam Scalin. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. And council member Fontana is on his way. Can you stand for the pledge? To the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Back on the United States soil after being crossed the water. the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. We are joined by Councilmember Richard A. Fontana. And it's on. There we go. Thank you, Council President. It is good to be back. Deb and I were given a trip for our anniversary to Italy. We got to visit the hometown of her family, which was pretty remarkable and quite the time. The good news is, as many of you know, that God is a local call from Italy. It's not even a long distance number, Bishop. It's actually a local call, so we're able to make lots of calls. We're coming up to Thanksgiving. My favorite scripture, there's tons of scriptures on Thanksgiving. It's like one of the common themes of the Bible. But Philippians in New Living Translation, Philippians chapter 4, I love the way it does the contrast. Don't worry about anything. Instead, pray about everything. I love that opening line. Let me do it again. Don't worry about anything. Instead, pray about everything. Tell God what you need and thank him for all he's done. Then you'll experience God's peace, which exceeds anything we can understand. His peace will guard your hearts and minds as you live in Christ Jesus. The more you worry, the less you pray. The more you pray, the less you worry. That's sort of the contrast to those really good verses in Philippians chapter 4. There's not a person in the chambers today that doesn't have something to worry about. Some of you have a lot of somethings to worry about. We've gone through, as some of you know, with our son a 13-month inability for him to get a good job after BAC USA closed 13 months ago. So we know there are lots of things that can rob us from Thanksgiving, but you can make a better choice than that. You can either choose to worry or you can choose to turn it over to God and to pray about it and then thank him. with Thanksgiving. Thank him for his answers. Our city has a lot to be thankful for, and I want to pause with you and pray and this Thanksgiving day celebrate the goodness of God to the city of Buffalo. Father, thank you so much. Thank you for the words of Paul. Thank you that he really contrasts fearful worrying, and Lord, sometimes I've been prone to that, with being able to, in faith, release something into your hands. Father, thank you for the goodness that you've brought to the districts, the council districts of our city. Thank you, Father, for the good things that have already taken place in 2019. But Lord, you know as we come up to this, we recognize there are citizens that are coming into this holiday season with a very blue spirit because of the things that have hit and happened in their lives. We lift them before you, Father, and we even now pray that this Thanksgiving will help reset some of the pain of the journey that they've been on. Lord, thank you that we can say thank you and not have to take worry deep into our soul and spirit and let it cripple us. I pray that as the deliberations happen today for the council, Lord, you'd be the invited guest. Help the wisdom of heaven, even as it says inscribed in the pillars above us, invade the councilors in this chamber. And Lord, let Thanksgiving ring from all of our hearts in your precious name, Christ. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Council Members, Memorials, hearing none, we always remember those who may have given their life for the freedom of our country or for the freedom of others in this world. We pause in this chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you, sirs. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Council Member Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on November 12th, 2019 are approved. Are the late files out before you? Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had time to review. Are we going from the top? or do we have a motion to take item 60 out of order please second by councilmember franzek item number 60 discharge item 19-1855 from cd motion to adopt second by councilmember golombic item number one amend dda for community help builders motion to approve Second by Councilmember White. Item number 2, 312-423-503, Busty Avenue, Designated Developer Agreement. Motion to send the CD items 2 through 4. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Item number 5, Report of Sale 588, Broadway. Motion to approve items 5 through including 9. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 10. Councilmember Franczak, on the floor. Thank you. Just on item 9, to thank my colleagues, for approving the crossroads at Genesee and near Dote. There was a building that was a former mattress factory, this giant building, wasn't too far, kind of runs up to the Concordia Cemetery, just a very large building. And the thinking is what are we gonna do with this large building, just sit and deteriorate? But with the Matt Urban Center and partnership with a number of other developments, Crossroads Group, got together and decided there's going to be over 76 apartments in there. There's 20 apartments for the homeless. There's going to be a health clinic. Journey's End is involved with this project. And I just wanted to thank everyone that, you know, the east side is on the move like the rest of the city, too. And I just think this is going to be a great addition to that community there. Thank you, sir. next item item number 10 2019 caffer financial analysis motion to receive and follow items 10 and 11. second by council member fontana item number 12 cash flow flow actual and projections for october 2019. motion to send finance item 12 and 13. second by council member columbia item number 14 appoint assistant auditor motion to send civil service say my council member wyatt item number 15 appoint secretary to the controller motion to receive and file Second by council member Scanlon. Item number 16, appoint supervisor auditor. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member Wingo. Item number 17, notification serial repeal no parking on Cambridge Avenue. Motion to receive and file and waive the 45 days. Second by council member Wingo. Item number 18, change of contract. Motion to approve items 18 through 20. Council Member Fontana. Item number 21, fiber optic carrier license agreement template. Motion to send for legislation. Second by Councilmember Franczak, and on this item we had discussion in caucus because this does put some regulations on fiber optic companies, especially when they are going into our streets. The conversation that came up was about the other utilities, gas, water, that are often going into communities. without notification um without any type of prior uh discussion with the neighborhood people waking up not having water people waking up not having gas we asked mike fenn about that and one of the things he talked about was some of these agreements date back to the 1900s so we will be submitting a resolution to look at whether any of those agreements can be changed and or if something could be done about it because neighborhoods are suffering. Just yesterday, a guy stops us in a hardware store, complains that, was it a gas company came through, He didn't get notification, gets ready to tear up his lawn, and he refused to allow them to tear up his lawn for the holidays. And so they didn't. But everybody is at home all the time, and everybody is not as aggressive. And so we will take a look at that. And this really has been triggered all summer long with complaints about that. Thank you, sir. Item number 22, permission to hire for Prospect Park Shelter. Motion. now go ahead finish the motion to approve items 22 through 26. second my council member white who has the floor thank you mr president i just wanted to go back to that point that you were making about these um entities that seem to have no respect for the community and you're right we met with one of the block club leaders on judge's row and he was incensed about how he had not got any notification now these are things that we were told through the summer that these things were happening that, oh, yeah, we notify the folks, we send out the flyers. None of those things have been happening. And as I mentioned during the caucus, one of my block clubs on Berkshire has major complaints with National Fuel how they, again, no notification. You come up and you tear up their lawns during the holiday season. People don't want to see this. But these folks seem that they have a lack of sensitivity to the community. They think that their job is just to go out there and do whatever they need to do, which is under their rights as the state, but have some sensitivity, have some respect for these block clubs. And I've offered them because I knew that they were in my district. You can notify me and I will let you know what, meet with the block club so that at least they know that. they've not one time reached out to me. So we've given them olive branch to say, hey, we want to work with you because we know this is for the betterment of our community. But again, over and over again, they seem to turn a blind eye to us and feel as though we just have to let them happen. So I was very appreciative of Mr. Blackman knowing his rights and saying this will not happen at this point in time now it's going to happen at some point but it's not going to happen during this holiday season and i think we should send a strong message not only to them but to our pse they should be working with us we had them talking about the whole issue with spectrum and they kind of ignored us And that's unfortunate because we would think that you're working with us. We meet with these folks every day. Folks are complaining about all these different services, and we don't get the support from the state service, the PSC, to address these issues. They're real issues. They're not make-believe. It's things that we would want to do if they were on my block or they were in their block. You would want someone to have to do the things that they say they're going to do. They're not doing the things that they say they're going to do, and that's the biggest issue. So I hope that we can make some headway to getting them responsive to us and to the residents on the issues that we know that are issues that we need their support in addressing. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Mr. Chairman, motion to revisit item 25? motion revisit item number 25 second by council member franzette item 25 east side transfer station rehab motion to rescind the previous motion motion is now to send the finance motion is uh rescind the previous motion second by councilman wingos in the finance second by council member Item 27 appoint senior first-class stationary engineer motion to send civil service Second by council member white item number 28 contract renewal health works motion to approve second by council member Franza item number 29 drug asset forfeiture motion to receive and file saying by council member Wingo item number 30 BPD seized vehicle motion to approve items 30 through including item 37 Second by council member. Mr. Chairman, on item 36, city will waive parking fees at all city meter parking throughout the city, including parking lots that have meters. That's the item 36. Yes, what's that? That's correct. Then revisit item 34. That's the receiving file. Okay. All right, so give me the motion. I'm sorry. Can you turn the system up a little bit? Give me the motion again. Okay, motion to approve. It's on? Motion to approve items 31 through 33. Through 33. Okay. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 34, appoint senior special assistant to commissioner. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. All right. Item 35 parking department obtain and tow vehicle motion to approve items 35 through 37 second by council President pro temp Scanlon and on 36. I know that there was a Press conference yesterday on this. I just want to make the public aware that it always has to be approved by the council first so there was a ceremonial announcement, but the actual movement for the the Black Friday free parking, which we commend the administration for suggesting, but it has to be approved by the council in order for it to be in effect. And this is the approval motion. Next item. Item 38, items returned to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval. Motion to receive and file item 38 through 43. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 44, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Oh, okay. Item number 45, notices of appointment, season off lap. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 46, notices of appointment, temp provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Councilmember Wingo, who has the floor. Can we revisit item 37? I have a question. Motion to revisit item 37. Second by Councilmember White. Mr. Chair, I have a question. I'm just looking at the renewal agreement for the Polygraph Services Inc. I just need a little bit of clarity. I was under the impression that the City has a new service for the Polygraph Services. Is this the same provider that we have used in the past that we have had problems with? I have no idea. Is somebody here to speak? Yeah. Is this the same polygraph services that we're we've literally just approved to extend this contract for the polygraph services and HR? Is this the same provider that we've had issues with in the past with the various implicit and even explicit biases that the worker had for our fire and other such services for the city? Assistant Corporation comes to Karen Gordon. No, I think this is something separate. You might be speaking about the individual person who, yeah, that's a different situation. So this does not connect to what you're suggesting. Okay, so that person is not working for this? No. Okay. Yeah. Because this person was out of Rochester, correct? This person that we have the issue with? Yes. The person that we had the... The previous person was out of Rochester, but this is something separate and distinct from what you're speaking about. All right. I just needed that clarification. Thank you very, very much. Yeah, I don't think we had problems with the polygraph company in the past, right? The issue in the past was with the individual administered the psychological evaluation. Wait, say it again, council member? The problem we had in the past is with the individual administered the psychological evaluation. I'm having problems. They have what? The psychological evaluation, not the polygraph. Oh, all right, all right. Thank you. But it's, I mean, it's good to take a note of it to make sure we don't repeat the past. Right. Next slide. And we are, council members, they're working on the sound. I'm not sure what's going on. It's very, you all might be able to hear. We can barely hear up here. Next item. Item number 47, BOPC fees approval request. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Pontana. Item number 48, concerns regarding proposed lagoon in LaSalle Park. Motion to send to CD. And Councilmember Rivera, if we could also send this over to Bud C. Bud C is actually, and I just left out of a meeting, Bud C is actually the agency handling this. So I think it might be, instead of sending it to CD, I would be okay with forwarding it to Bud C. Motion is sent to Bud C. Second by Councilmember White. So receive and file it. Yeah, we send this to, we can still leave the CD. And then that way we can follow up making sure that Buttsy responded to this concern. Item 49, concerns regarding restaurant dance license 3148 Main Street. Motion to receive and file item 49 and 50. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. 51, Seeker Determination of Type 2 Action, Special Use, 1325 Michigan Avenue. Motion to adopt items 51 and 52. Second by Councilmember Franczak. Petitions, item number 53, Special Use Permit, 1880 Niagara Street. Motion to send the legislation to the Planning Board, items 53 and 54. Second by Councilmember White. Committee, Civil Service, item number 1, Appoint Confidential Secretary. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number two, appoint associate accountant. Motion to approve item number 2345678910. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 11, notices of appointment sent provisional permanent. Motion to receive and file numbers 11 and 12. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Council Member Scanlon has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I just need to be recused on number eight. On which number? Eight. Ah. Motion to recuse them on item number eight, I think I know why, and second by Council Member Wingo. Thank you. Final minutes. Item number 13, record storage facility lease audit. To receive and file. Second by Council Member Wingo. Community development. Item number 14, the Frederick Law Olmstead School Development. Motion to receive and file 14 through and including 21. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Legislation item number 22, full start license 363, Hopkins. All righty. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 23, food store license, 977 Sycamore. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by President Pro Temp, Scantling. Item number 24, food store license, 572 South Division. We'll try items 24, 25, and 26. Motion to approve. Motion to approve with conditions on 24. And 24. And then motion to approve 2526 from President Pro Temp, Scantling. Thank you. Item number 27 special use 1325 Michigan Avenue motion to approve with conditions second by council member Winkle I item number 28 zone and map amendment 150 town of wanda street motion to approve second by councilmember columbia item number 29 restaurant dance license 3148 name motion to approve with conditions and my councilmember white item number 30 revocation of special use permit for 3199 main street with no objections motion to receive and file items 30 through and including 32. Second by Council Member White. Item number 33, Zone and Map Amendment for 1318 Niagara. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 34, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 96, Bonds and Contracts. And we'll try to take items 34 all the way through 40 and receive and file. Second by Council Member Golombic. Item number 41, Strengthening Property Enforcement. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member White. Item number 42, progress report for committee for fair elections. Motion to receive and file items 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Rivera. resolutions item number 55 fee waiver for Italian heritage parade motion to approve by council members Scanlon item number 56 local law intro number six energized and why open see pays financing program motion to send legislation I don't number 57 bound resolution for crane branch library building improvements motion to send the finance that comes from number one item number 58 local law intro number five article 22 contracts motion is sent to legislation like on some ever Fontana I don't know we're 59 preservation call ordinance amendment motion to adopt second by council member friends I and we're sending the remainder of the remainder to legislation doctor resolves that the resolves remainder to legislation motion stands item number 61 or in its amendment chapter 479 traffic ordinance motion to send legislation second by councilmember for columbia item number 62 excuse for fair little from 2019 november 26 meeting motion to adopt item 62 through 64. second by council member fontana on item number 63 actually administration was sending somebody down today um i thought it was unfair they're just getting this resolution so they'll come down uh for committee meeting and discuss the m a situation Next item. All right. Item number 65, ordinance amendment for UDO cell towers. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 66, budget and personnel amendment. All right. Motion to approve items 66 and 68. Second by Councilmember White. Item number 69, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember White. Councilmember Wingo, I support. Mr. Chairman, excuse me, Mr. Chairman, can we revisit item 63? Motion to revisit item number 63, second by Councilmember Franzen. And 64. Yes. Go ahead. Yes, sir. the motion should be adopted resolves remainder to CD and 63 yes is that how it was called I don't think that's how we called it right so just for clarification I did back it up with that but we'll make sure for the record that that was the intended motion to adopt the results thank you for clarity councilmember Wingo you have floor item number 64 I don't believe we called that but anyway Can we just motion to that be adopted? Motion to revisit? Yeah, item 64. Seconded by Councilmember Scanlon. Thank you. Mr. Chair, this item, item 64, is due to the fact that even though Buffalo is experiencing this resurgence and this revitalization of our economy, we have an issue with predatory phone calls, folks who are harassing current homeowners. with the sale of their private property, they're receiving not just one phone call, but several phone calls per day from various different prospective buyers. And this is becoming a detriment to their quality of life. And we're writing this resolution only so that we can try to have some type of decency around folks proposing to purchase someone's property because no one wants to get three and four phone calls every day regarding someone trying to purchase their property because they can foresee. the value in that property going up exponentially. So we want to make sure that the Hamlin Park Taxpayer Community Association knows that we are doing what we can on this side of the paper to get some relief to that issue. And we'll be following up with the resolution, Mr. Chair, that's going to be open to the entire city of Buffalo, because I'm sure Hamlin Park is not the only area in the city of Buffalo that's encountering this issue. We live in the Fillmore-Leroy community. community of Maston District and she's received several phone calls because she owns a vacant parcel next to her house so people are calling and harassing and we want to make sure that the homeowners in the City of Buffalo know that we're aware of it it's when companies come to our attention and we want to help give them some peace to know that we're doing we can on this side so we'll be proposing that resolution for the next session mr. chair thank you very much Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on civil service Tuesday, December 3rd, 2019 at 9 45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service is Tuesday, December 3rd, 2019 at 2 a.m. Committee on legislation Tuesday, December 3rd, 2019 at 1 p.m. And committee on community development is Tuesday, December 3rd, 2019 at 2 p.m. Members, any announcements for your districts? Councilmember friends that just a clarification I think when we passed the crossroads project I said that one of the partners was journeys in which is a great group, but I meant to say Jericho Road So I want to give credit where they're both great groups for those Jericho Road. That's involved and I Hope everyone enjoys the Thanksgiving season. There's always a lot of weekend activities at the Brody Market that is occurring during the whole holiday season. I know I always see you there, Mr. Chairman, during the holiday season there. So thank you. I'll be there a little later today. Anybody else? All right. Then happy Thanksgiving. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo.