5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Vollman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Temp Scalin. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Please stand for the pledge.
 Pledge allegiance to the flag, the United States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. For our invocation today, I would ask that our Council Chaplain Al Warner please come down and introduce our guest chaplain for the day, Pastor Gabriel Gauthier. Thank you. It's a joy and privilege to stand here today with a
 An old friend whose dad is an older friend. Bishop Angel and his precious wife, Medium Gauthier, were at Prince of Peace Christian Church for...
 30 years. 30 years. And they're now ministering in Puerto Rico. And Pastors Gabriel and his wife, Amanda Gauthier, have taken over Prince of Peace Christian Church on the west side and are doing a tremendous job of answering God's call. And I'm expecting an incredible Christmas celebration from Prince of Peace. I knew it would happen. My friend, please. Thank you. Thank you, Council Members. Thank you for this honor. Father, we love you. We thank you.
 a beautiful day you've given us we thank you for this great city for every citizen every constituent we ask oh god in the next few moments as uh laws are being passed as decisions are being made that you would give each and every council member to your wisdom give them your direction give them clarity we thank you that you will lead this great city as you have done since its inception
 We give you praise. We give you honor. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. Councilmembers, any memoriams?
 Councilmember White. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pro Temp, I just want to keep in prayers the family of our school board member, Paulette Woods, who lost her dad, who was a decorated veteran and 100 years old. Very, very special man, very influential man. I'm sure her family is going to miss him and our community is going to miss him, but we thank him for the legacy that he's left. Thank you. Councilmember Glombeck.
 Justin Delacruz, Thank you, Mr. Chair. Um, we lost Anthony Shug, the son of Diane Swick, who runs the senior programs at, I think, North Buffalo and Northwest Buffalo Community Centers. Young man tragically lost. He's going to be very missed by his family and his friends.
 Also, it was a horrible tragedy a week ago Saturday. Frida Petko, 96 years old, I think she was a week away from her 97th birthday. Frida would walk Hurdle Avenue military up and down the side streets on a regular basis.
 She sadly was walking across the street and got hit by a car, a horrible accident. I believe the person that was driving the car was blinded by the sun. And, you know, I'm sure it's a traumatic experience for all. But Frida is going to be very, very sorely missed by her son, Al, the rest of her family and her Black Rock and former St. Florian Church community as well.
 thank you council members for those members who've been mentioned today and anyone else we may have lost since our last meeting i asked if we please now have a moment of silence we have one special presentation today so i would ask council member nowakowski please come forward thank you very much we are just coming off of a holiday weekend where a lot of us spend times with our friends and family but we also uh
 and, you know, enjoy our community too and fellowshipping in the many areas that we represent. And I went to the Responsive Love Center on Thursday to share a meal and to interact with some of my constituents who are in the most need. But right around the corner, there's a place that everybody knows if you're a Buffalonian and that's St. Luke's.
 and it serves, it's an organization that's been around for a very long time that serves hundreds, if not thousands of people a year. And they impact just because they're in my district does not mean that they just serve my district. They serve the entire city of Buffalo. I'd like to bring down Nancy Langer for a recognition and a few words.
 of the mission of St. Luke's and what they do. And also the good news ahead of how they will be expanding in my district and that's just more people that they'll be able to serve in the city of Buffalo. So please come down, Nancy, and say a few words.
 Thank you. So, Council members, staff and guests, thank you very much for recognizing St. Luke's. My name is Nancy Langer. I'm actually working on a project associated with St. Luke's. Everybody else is too busy doing all of the wonderful things that Council Member Nowakowski talked about. St. Luke's is a wonderful place.
 I have the benefit of seeing it from the inside and the outside at the same time. And I brought my cheat sheet with me with all the things they do. They are serving over 600,000 meals a year.
 People line up and come into the school building, which includes a mission mall. It includes the whole downstairs cafeteria is taken up with food preparation. The top floor is a school for the kids who live in Gaspa village, which is for seven families where mothers need mentoring.
 And also there are 25 men who are living in a shelter situation in the old convent and rectory. So Amy Petros and Norm Pellini opened the mission almost 30 years ago and Amy has been living there ever since.
 The greatest need they have right now is for food. They are spending thousands of dollars a week to food a day to feed people. So to be recognized today on the Giving Tuesday is really a great blessing for us. The final thing I just wanted to share with you about St. Luke's, it is such a happy place.
 They do all this tremendous work every day, 365 days a year. And it's done basically by 10 people who are volunteers, including the help when the volunteer, the community, but it is one happy place. If you ever feel it in your heart,
 to come volunteer there or to support what they're doing. I know you will be happy to. So thank you very much. We really appreciate all the support we have received from all of you here. One of our highlight from 200 from this year is going to be the zoning map amendment that takes all of these different ministries that St. Luke's is doing together and recognize it as a medical campus. So thank you again, we appreciate this very much.
 Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski, and thank you, Ms. Langer, for all the work that you and St. Luke's Mission do throughout the City of Buffalo. Thank you. Council Members, do you have the late files before you? Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing there are no objections to the late files, we'll hear the agenda in its entirety. This does not take away your right to pause the meeting if you haven't had a chance to review the late files. Clear from the top.
 Item number one, collective bargaining agreement, local 17 operating engineers. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Gombach. Item number two, appoint chief diversity officer. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number three, report of sale, 35 Churchill. Motion to approve items three and four.
 Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number five, report of sale 719 Northumberland. Motion to send the CD items five and six. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number seven, report of sale 129 Sears. Motion to approve item seven through 16. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 14, report of sale portion of 450 Stockbridge. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Farrell-Leto.
 Item number 15, report to sell portion of tool 7 Titus. Motion to approve items 15 and 16. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck. Item number 17, appoint knowledge base slash quality as. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 18, annual comprehensive financial report. Motion to send to finance items 18 through 25. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 26, Zinger contract extension. Motion to approve items 26, Zinger contract extension.
 Through item 40. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 41, appoint public safety dispatcher. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Bowman.
 Item number 42, Brandon P. Ellis, guardian of Chelsea L. Ellis, $43 million. Motion to send to claims committee. Seconded by Councilmember Glumberg. Permits and inspections. Item number 43, food store license, 51 Broadway. Motion to send to legislation items 43 through 45. Seconded by Councilmember Farrelletto. Item number 46, food store license, 210 aka 214 Porter. Motion to approve items 46 through 49. Seconded by Councilmember Bowman.
 item number 50 board of ethics approved minutes motion to receive and file items 50 through 53. seconded by council member wingo item number 54 notice of appointment for council intern three motion to adopt seconded by council member wyatt item number 55 to appoint civilian school crossing guard motion to send the civil service seconded by council member nowakowski
 Miscellaneous item number 56 Buffalo owns that parks to service see 2024 proposed the adjustments. Motion to send the finance second by Council member Bowman. Item number 57 request council consideration of certain special use permits. Motion to send CD second by Council member Farrell Leto.
 Item number 58, Opposition of Cannabis Shop at 1669 Hurdle. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 59, Concerns Eviction Process. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Councilmember Klombeck. Item number 60, WBFO Driving While Black in Buffalo. Motion to send to Police Oversight. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I wanted to just be able to articulate that there was an article and report done by the WBFO, and they were able to take a lot of data from open data to
 demonstrate traffic stops in the city of Buffalo. And so I marked this to the police oversight committee because I wanted to show them my commitment to, to taking this issue and the reporting to the appropriate committee. I will work with the chair to talk about when we can have the next police oversight meeting, because they do need, uh,
 more biannually and sporadically than they do in a scheduled manner. And it did show that the Fillmore District has the most amount of stops, traffic stops that disproportionately represent people of color. And so the
 When we talk about policing and these issues are very serious, and we also have a lot of complexity and nuance too, because in parts in Broadway Bailey are some of the hardest hit areas in my district and I've been on Broadway, where I've had constituents that have had their vehicles stolen.
 Jason Eckert, CISA Region 2 Chief of Cybersecurity and Security Services and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of Public Security and the Department of
 uh, hearty conversation and, and making sure that we're not, uh, disproportionately, uh, and disenfranchising people of color in their own neighborhood. And, uh, I, I think the BFO for taking a lot of this info and, and digesting it when it comes to a councilmanic, um, purview. And I think that it's a discussion that we need to have on police oversight. Thank you. Council member Rivera, Mr. Chairman, the findings are alarming.
 however i think we should send the analysis that made to the police department giving the police department enough time to look at the information and data and the numbers that they came up through the open open portal so we certainly want to make sure that the police department is prepared to respond so we'll ask our staff to send the police department this study that they've put together to verify the numbers
 Thank you. Item number 61, request a follow-up from city comptroller investigation regarding employees on pay. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Boland.
 Thank you. This is just one after another. So this is just my further correspondence regarding this matter. Everyone is very well aware of it. And in the adopting resolution, this body did adopt a date that said November 14th, that there should be some correspondence with this council from the comptroller that wants to wanted to and elected to do an investigation over an audit. And I think that intergovernmental correspondence and and alerting this body that.
 that they're working on this is very important and and that's what this request is and in correspondence is to also demonstrate to the public that we haven't just given up on it or not working on it but that people in city hall are working together uh to come up with a remedy and information in fact so this will go to civil service and i await the controller's response
 Petitions item number 62 special use 139 Vermont for neighborhood shaft. Motion is sent to legislation city planning board item 62 through 66. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Submission list civil service item number one notice of appointment for administrator.
 One second. I was already jumping ahead to another committee. Motion is to approve item number one. Seconded by council member Wingo. Item number two, notice of appointment for assistant for external affairs. Motion is to receive and file. Seconded by majority leader Rivera. Item number three, notice of appointment for assistant administrator. Motion is to approve. Seconded by council member Glombeck. Item number four, notice of appointment for director of infrastructure and quality of life. Motion is to receive and file items two and four.
 To receive and file items four and five. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number six, notices of an appointment for motor equipment mechanic. Motion to approve.
 Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number seven, notices of appointment for water service inspector. Motion is to approve items seven through and including 12. Seconded by Councilmember Pullman. Item number 13, appoint fleet manager. Motion is to receive and file items 13 and 14. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. Item number 15, appoint recreation instructor. Motion is to approve items 15 and 16. Seconded by Councilmember Glumbeck.
 item number 17 notice of appointment for carpenter motion is to receive and file item 7 through and including 27. seconded by council member farrell leto finance item number 28 year 49 hub funding allocation motion to approve seconded by council member bullman
 Community Development, item number 29, request to amend and approve the sale of Mohawk Ramp 477 Washington. Motion to approve. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 30, request to address council regarding snow plan and warming shelters. Motion to receive and file items 30 and 31. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 32, designation of urban development action area for Mohawk Ramp. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Wingo.
 Legislation item number 33, food store license 2577 Bailey. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 34, food store license 1370 Broadway. Motion to recommit. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 35, used car dealer 835 Sycamore. Motion to approve item 35 with conditions and approve 36, 37, 38, and 39.
 Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 40, special use 995 exchange. This is a motion to deny and the council member whose district it's in wanted to explain the reason for denial. Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to, I put this in the approving motion in committee and I'm moving to just reiterate what I put in the
 original motion was that it's not consistent with 11.3.3 section E of the standards in the UDO and that the proposed use would be in conflict to the character of the neighborhood and produce noise odors glare and vibration that adversely impacts the surrounding area as long as and as well as numbers three within those standards as well for my reasons for denial motion is to deny seconded by majority leader Rivera
 Item number 41, special use 453, East Amherst. Motion to approve items 41 and 42 with the condition that they have a one-year sunset and to approve item 43 with conditions. All seconded by Councilmember Glombeck. Item number 44, special use 115, College. The Councilmember from the Fillmore District, which items 44, 45, and 46 are in, wanted to speak on all three of these items. Okay.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm speaking to this in a sense of that we're really in a perplexing time when it comes to short-term rentals, especially in my district, when we have a moratorium that's in place until the end of the year. This council is now considering new legislation that's on this agenda that will be for next week and also have deadlines that we have to adhere to when things are clocked into our committees to make a deliberation. And this question is for Corporation Council just because,
 I think that we need to start changing some of the behaviors and the expectations of this body when it comes to special use permits, because they are special use permits. And Corporation Council, if you can just confirm that special use permits are at the discretion of the Common Council while using the approval standards in the UDO.
 Assistant Corp. Councilor Karen Gordon, that's correct, sir. Thank you, Corporation Council. I just want to put that because people get really confused. They come to this body and I'm elected to represent 30,000 people. This is a representative democracy. I make a decision on those that behalf. Civics 101, and I'm going to start, maybe I should start a new
 course in in schools so that people understand that and so that i have to make decisions based on facts and about listening to my residents and making sure that i'm contributing to neighborhood harmony so although that these special use permits are in committee in a weird way when we've been doing a lot regarding them um i will be motioning to deny items 44 and 45
 with states which also i will be putting this and in hand this to the clerk of the reasons why and number one is 11.3.3 section e is number six is that the proposed use um will deter or have a detrimental impact to the uh science or the historic importance of the rounding surrounding areas and also is not harmonious um in the foreseeable manager manner to the adjacent areas um i will be approving um with conditions uh i
 Item 46, that is 418 Virginia, which is adjacent to where the applicant has a business for a short-term rental. And I have to make sure that my scrutiny is congruent with what I'm currently doing and working towards to the Common Council. Just because this is stuck in a legislative matter with all these things happening doesn't mean it just gets jammed and railroaded through. So that's my story, and I'm sticking to it. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 The motion is to deny 44 and 45. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 46, Special Use 418, Virginia. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Claims item number 47, Asari-Dargo, 50,000. Motion is to approve items 47 through 65. Seconded by Majority Leader Rivera.
 Resolutions. Item number 67, waive fees for Hanukkah community. Motion to approve item 67 through 73. Seconded by Council Member Golombak. Item number 73, Commissioner Deeds. Motion to adopt item 73 through 75. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Item number 76, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 380 on short-term rental housing. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 77, moratorium on food store licenses and smoke, vape, and hookah shop licenses. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Councilmember Wyatt. Item number 78, rename the Athletic Center at Sochon Park as the Thomas M. Smith Athletic Center. Motion to approve items 78 through 80.
 Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Added number 81, transfer of funds for DPW and permits and inspections for Local 17. Motion to send the finance. Seconded by Council Member Farrelletto. Announcements. Council Members, any revisits?
 Announcement of committee meetings. Regular committees, Committee on Claims, Thursday, November 30th at 10 a.m. Committee on Civil Services, Tuesday, December 5th, 2023 at 945 a.m. Committee on Finance, following Civil Service will be Tuesday, December 5th, 2023 at 10 a.m. Committee on Community Development is Tuesday, December 5th, 2023 at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation will be Tuesday, December 5th, 2023 at 2 p.m.
 Council members, any announcements for your districts? All right. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Seconded by Council Member Glumberg.