One roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Council Member Fontana. Present. Council Member Franzik. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. At ease. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Form. Present. I stand for the pledge I would like to leave you to the flag of the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, indivisible, free, and just as per all. Quite appropriately today, I'll have our, I can introduce her, you can. Who's introduced? No, come on. Great. I love it. Thank you. Council Member Golombek is going to introduce our guest chaplain of today. Yes, thank you Mr. President. You know every November we try to bring in a rabbi to offer prayers on our behalf and on behalf of the city. And today we have Rabbi Sarah Rich. She is the Executive Director of the Hillel of Buffalo. Prior to arriving in Buffalo in 2017, Rabbi Sarah served as the Director of Education at the Hillel of Princeton University for six years. It was there that she first had the opportunity to teach for the Jewish Learning Fellowship, and she is grateful and excited to now offer the program here in Buffalo, and we're very fortunate to have her here. Rabbi Sarah was ordained in 2011 from the New York campus of the Hebrew Union College Jewish Institute of Religion. She subsequently earned a certificate in ex... experiential Jewish education in 2015 from Yeshiva University, and completed Hillel International's Weinberg Accelerated Executive Training Program in 2016. Rabbi Sarah earned a BA in Psychology from the University of Maryland, College Park, and an MA in Hebrew Literature from HUC-JIR. And today, Rabbi Sarah resides in Buffalo with her husband Ezra and their daughters Miriam and Sivan. And welcome to the Buffalo Common Council, Rabbi. Rabbi. Rabbi. Council members and hardworking staff and citizens of the city of Buffalo, you have holy work to do today. I know because I took a peek at your agenda, not knowing exactly what takes place at a meeting like this. And I saw lists, lists of permits, reports, claims and petitions. Each of these items very specific and each one representing the hopes and the needs of the people of Buffalo and it is for them that you serve. The Jewish tradition teaches the following in a book called The Ethics of the Fathers which dates back 2,000 years. Do not be as servants who are serving the master in order to receive a reward. Rather, be as servants who are serving the master not in order to receive a reward, and may the fear of heaven be upon you. It is for the people of Buffalo that you serve, not for your own grandeur, not for your reward, but to help them in their struggles and bring them towards their dreams. May the work of your hands today be blessed, and may it bring honor to this community. In this season of gratitude and light, may we give thanks for all of our blessings and for the opportunity to perform this holy work. And we say together, Amen. Amen. Thank you, Rabbi, and to all of you pastors who are here. I went to Israel with a contingent of folks, including our chaplain. And so I learned how to say all of those Hebrew words we think we know how to say the right way with a lot of huch and all that kind of stuff in it. Thank you for being with us, Rabbi. Any memorials? Council Member White. Praying for my family, my aunt, who was 90 years old, Clara Stanton, Staten, how I passed and her funeral will be tomorrow. So if you would please keep my family and her daughters in our prayers during this holiday season. I also would like to special prayer for the father who accidentally hit his son and killed him on Thanksgiving Day. you know my heart goes out to him and every time i see that story it brings a tear to your eye because you know how devastated he is but during this thanksgiving season we pray for situations like that so that people hopefully will be able to give thanks and we have great memories um of someone who has passed thank you thank you councilman fanta Brian Crisbell, resident of Kysertown, lifelong resident of the area. Brian was only 46 years old and he succumbed to a brain tumor this past week. He is the owner of Peddles and Pines Nursery, which is over on Clinton Street where it forks off to Old French, if I'm not mistaken, in West Seneca. But Brian was a fantastic force in the Kysertown neighborhood for many years. As a 20-year-old, he owned his own business. He ran his own landscaping business. He personally made sure that Weimer Street always looked the best, and we will miss Brian and all his skills in the horticultural world. Council Member Golombic. Thank you, Mr. President. Diane Martinelli passed away a week or so ago. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, especially her son Andre. She was a longtime member of the North Buffalo community. And also Frank Francis J. Ruscinak passed away, 57 years old. Obviously, this one would hit home. Frank was my cousin. He had been sick for quite some time and over the past couple of years had just deteriorated rapidly. He's going to be missed by his dad, Frank, and his siblings and the rest of his family extended and the Black Rock family that he was a member of. Anyone else? Yes. Right here and on others, we always remember those who have given their lives since our last meeting. We had four persons that we know of who have given their lives since our last meeting for the freedom not only of our country, but for other countries around the world. And these chambers, we pause now for a moment of silence. You may be seated. We also joined up in the top, I think they just came from a meeting with the administration, The LGBTQ seniors, I got it all right and all out in one word, also known as, they're known as RSVP from the Rainbow Seniors Visible and Proud. And they are here today joining and watching our meeting briefly. Now you're welcome to stay for the entire five hours of our meeting. But thank you for gracing the people's house, your house, the Buffalo Common Council Chambers. All right. I think we have one item because we have our commissioner here. So we're going to take one item, I believe, out of it. We can take it out of order. Yeah, we'll take it. We want to get you back out to the street. What item are you here for, Commissioner? Snow plane. Item 26. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. motion to take items 26 and 53 out of order second by councilmember Fairlittle oh I apologize I apologize on a motion by mr. Rivera second by mrs. Scanlon the minutes of stated meeting held on November 13 2018 are approved on late files are before us already any objections to any late files hearing no objections to late file will hear the entire agenda not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you did not have a chance to read or review one of the late files all right 53 is a discharge 57 Howard 53 on motion to adopt second by councilmember Y I'm 26 snow plan 2018 2019 items open all right this item is before us Commission I know you're here with a brief words and then we want this is going to CD all right I'm not sure did you need to tell us something on this no I we were asked to come down and if you have any comments about snow plan or anything we all good Okay. Yeah, because if it's going to CD, they'll discuss it there. We'll discuss it there then? Yeah. That's perfect. Yeah, I want to get you to work. Okay. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'm not sure who told you to come down, but I'd have called you. I just saw the schedule. Motion to send to CD. Thank you, my counselor. From the top. From the top. Item 1, appoint member, Commissioner and Citizens' Rights. Motion to send items 1 and 2 to Civil Service. Seconded by Councilmember Wingo. I really hope his visit doesn't jinx us and then we end up with some type of, you know, unsplanned storm this week. But, I mean, the rabbi did pray, so she did speak. All right, next item. Item 3, Broadway Market. Motion to approve items 3 and 4. Seconded by Councilmember Franze. Item 5, Reporter Sale, 2438 Bailey. Motion to send the CD item 789. Nope, 5. Okay. Five is going to CD. Oh, five is going to CD. Yep. Second by the love, Joy, Councilmember. Item 6, report of sale, 396 Gibson. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franzen. Item 7, report of sale, 279 Joy. Motion to send to CD, items 7, 8, and 9. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Thank you. Item 10, certificate for necessity transfer funds. Motion to receive and file items 10 and 11. Seconded by Council Member Golomba. Item 12, cash flow report, October 2018. Motion to send finance items 12 and 13. Seconded by Council Member White. Item 14, Ian Willman, PAMF, assistant to assessor. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by President Protemskine. Item 15, notification serials. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Ferenczak. Item 16, change order. CIR Electrical. Motion to approve item 16 through 25. Second by Council Member Freeland. Item 27, appoint equipment operator. Motion to send to civil service items 27 through 30. Oh, we just tried. All right, I'm sorry. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 31, food store license 2724 Bailey. Motion to send legislation item 31 to 33. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 34, food store license 475 Fargo. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 35, lodging house license 618 Delaware Avenue. Motion to send the legislation. second by council member Forensic. Item 36, fire department obtaining towed vehicle. Motion to approve items 36 and 37. Second by council member White. Item 38, veterans housing school 75, negative declaration. Motion to receive and file items 38 through 42. Second by council member Fonten. Item 43, no supplements, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by council member White. Miscellaneous items, item 44, Buffalo Water Board adoption of rate fees and charges. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franza. Item 45, SEQR Neglect 500 Pearl. Motion to adopt items 45 and 47. Second by President Broto. Item 48, Article on Syracuse Tax Collection. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Furlow. Petitions item 49, Special Use 34 South Crossman. motion send the legislation and city planning second by a constant front end committees civil service item one appoint assistant auditor Motion to approve items number one two three and four say my customer I know five notes appointments temporary provisional permanent receiving file Second by a majority leader Finance Committee item six requests from Apollo producers for allocation of funds motion to receive and file and by majority leader Community Development Committee item seven appointment support commissioners BMHA a motion to approve second by councilmember fear o level I am a reporter sale 40 and 44 at a I'm not sure whose district this is mr. President did we make any data data data? Ada place Somebody wanted to discharge Recommit Recommit motion is to recommit item number eight second by customer what item nine city Buffalo Fair Housing report please Motion to receive and file items 9 and 10. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item 11, Reporter Sale, 917 East Delavan. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation Committee, item 12, Naval Park Lease and Liberty Hound Sublease. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item 13, Special Use Print, 195 Grant. Motion to approve with conditions. That have been filed by District Council Member. Second by the District Council Member. Item 14, Adaptive Reuse Permit, 412 Virginia. Motion to approve. Second by the Majority Leader. Item 15, Request Naming at Dog Park in the City of Buffalo after Lieutenant Craig Evan Lehner. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Council Member Scalding. Item 16, Food Store License 1095 East Lovejoy. If there are no objections, motion to approve Items 16 through 20. Second by the Council Member Fontana. Claims Committee, Item 21, Linda Barber. Second by the Council Member Fontana. motion to approve item 21 through 62. second by council member white through 61. second by council member white 162 claims committee agenda motion receiving file it's in my council member council member content okay if the clerk could record me in the negative on number 33. please record councilmember Fontana negative on 33 on 33 next item resolutions item 50 direct appeal methods of collecting fees motion send the finance and my customer prayer look item 51 transfer funds Allendale theater design motion to approve items 51 and 52 my customer front 1053 has been discharged item 54 amendment to council rules motion to that my president Proctor and 55 seeking cooperative review A motion is sent to legislation. Second by Council Member White. Item 56, amend Chapter 454 of the City of Buffalo Charter. Motion to adopt. thank you my customer white 157 wave special event fees for christmas and university motion to approve and my customer white 158 commissioner deeds public duties motion for that is 58 and 59 second by customer transit announcement of committee meetings regular committees committee on civil service tuesday december 4th 9 45 a.m committee on finance following civil service committee on community development tuesday december 4th 1 p.m committee on legislation tuesday december 4th 2 p.m special committee special committee Meeting on finance, Wednesday, November 28th at 9.30 a.m. Council Members, any announcements for your districts? Oh, Council Members? This Saturday, December 1st at 6 p.m., we're doing a tree lighting at St. Margaret's Church on Hurdle Avenue. We have a 45-foot Christmas tree, which will be decorated with Santa Claus, Mrs. Claus, hot chocolate, cookies, and invite everyone to come. Thank you. All right. What's the address again? Where? St. Margaret's Church. I won't get you off to the number, but St. Margaret's Church, free, hot chocolate, and Santa and Mrs. and all that. Anybody else? All right. No grits and eggs over. All right. Okay. Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilman White.