Okay, we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Ferraletto. Here. Council Member DeLombeck. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Here. Council President Pridgen. Here. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Formers present. Present.
 All right, quorum is present. Let us stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, in the Republic with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. We are joined by our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. Thank you, Council President.
 A while back we were sitting with a city commissioner at City Hall and he'd asked us if we had seen the book God Waits and we hadn't. So he gave us a copy. It's a book with story after story about God showing up at unexpected times in unexpected ways in people's lives, sort of God surprises. So, since this is the last session before the Christmas holiday.
 I thought I'd maybe suggest that one of those unexpected times, unexpected ways, in Luke chapter 2, were for some shepherds to be part of the original audience.
 says, and there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. An angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord showed round them, and they were terrified. But the angel said, don't be afraid. I bring you good news that will cause great joy for all people. Today in the town of David, a Savior has been born to you, Messiah the Lord, and then goes on to describe it.
 I thought about that story in Luke chapter 2 of the shepherds, and I thought probably these shepherds wouldn't be the ones that were invited to our district fundraisers. They weren't on anybody's social calendar. Unlike the kings that would come, they didn't have expensive treasures. They were just simple shepherds, and they had little of what most people of that day and our day value. But on an ordinary night where they were just doing their job,
 watching sheep, tending flocks. On that ordinary night, God interrupted their normal with a supernatural experience. So as I pray, I want to pray that to people in our city who feel on the fringe, who feel like they have no value or worth and, and, uh,
 in this story, we see the great worth God places on people who don't always see it in themselves. And I want to believe that in this time of darkness, that great light that they saw, the angel and then the choir of angels would be here for us and for our citizens as well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that even in a time of darkness that we've experienced and our city and our citizens have experienced.
 that Lord there is light that comes and I ask that that would be the case this Christmas. Surprise us, push back darkness. I pray recognizing that there are people that are valued, lifted up, audiences are given, they're seen for their worth and their value but others not so much. But Lord thank you that you count us all equal. I pray Father even now that you'd visit
 this city, visit our citizens, visit those who feel hopeless and marginalized, visit those on the fringe, and visit those at the center. I thank you even now for what Christmas represents, bigger than just a day, but literally an event. Lord, remind us that even now, you're the God who values every one of us, your creations, and we thank you for that in your precious name. Amen.
 Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner, and we also show respect to all religions who may and belief systems that may be celebrating special time in these seasons, and I thank you for that, Dr. Warner. Council Members' Memoriams. Council Member Joseph Golombek.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Lou Hremski Sr., former Black Rock resident. His son, Lou, lives in the periphery of Black Rock. Passed away this past week. Residents of Black Rock, Assumption Church, St. Mark's Church, and elsewhere want to wish our condolences to him and the family. Thank you.
 Sorry. Thank you, sir. Council Member Rashid Enza.
 Thank you, Council President. I want to ask for prayers for the family of Sean and Janet. Sean and Carl McKinney, the lost their dad, George McKinney, had a beautiful home-going service, and thank you. And also sending prayers to those families who are affected and devastated by the tornadoes in Kentucky and the Midwest. My heart goes out to them and just keep them in prayer during this.
 holiday season. Thank you. Thank you. There was another hand up. Council Member Chris Scanlon, President Pro Tempore.
 Thank you, Council President. I'd like to ask that we please keep on our thoughts and prayers to the family of Vivian Finnegan Setlock, who passed away two weeks ago after battling an illness. Mrs. Setlock lays behind an enormous collection of siblings and in-laws, nieces, nephews, cousins, and friends. Her and her siblings, the Finnegan family, really have carved out a niche in South Buffalo and really created and contributed to the city as a whole. She's going to be very missed, and particularly by her family
 her husband Joseph, her daughters Jennifer, Julia, and Joanna. And also I'd ask that we please keep in our thoughts the family of Peter Dubell, who also passed away two weeks ago after battling an illness, who also, again, an enormous collection of family and friends and who made a tremendous impact on the South District. And he's going to be sorely missed and in particular remembered by his family, his wife Nancy, his son Connor, his other son Cole, and his granddaughter Quinn.
 Thank you, sir. Anyone else? We are, as Councilmember Wyatt said, George McKinney, just a great man. One of those kind of old school dads raised two
 Great sons, Carl and Sean, will be missed. And then the brother of Judge Jeanette Ogden, Norman McCarter, who will be funeralized later at the True Bethel Church this week. And then Apostle Joseph Brinson, who had one church in Niagara Falls, had another ministry in Kansas, known throughout...
 and really embraced young adults and adults and who just had and has. The church is a tremendous church and the ministry is tremendous for really reaching out. Apostle Brinson also will be funeralized, I believe, this weekend from the 907 location of the True Bethel Church. Our hearts go out to them. And of course, as always, to those many women
 who may have given their life for the freedom of others. Since our last meeting, we pause in these deliberations for a moment of silence. Thank you, council members. On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on November 30th, 2021 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to the late files?
 Seeing no hands, hearing no voices, we will hear the entire agenda, not taking away your right to pause the meeting if you have not had a chance to review or deliberate about an item. Majority Leader? Mr. Chair, motion to take items 133, 54, and 65 out of order. 133, 65 out of order.
 And third, what was the last one, sir? 1, 33, 54, and 65. All right. Just so the public knows, we may have to go into an executive session. I would prefer if we do that, we move that to the end as not to have the public being disconnected, but we'll see when we get to that item. And that's a claims item. What's the claims item, Majority Leader? 54. All right. So when we get to...
 that item if there is unreadiness because it is a legal claim. If council members want to go or if a council member wants to go on executive, we will then move that to the end of the agenda not to hold up all of the debate that we must go through. All right. Clerk. Number 1, letter regarding 2022 capital budget and ARP amendment. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 33, request approval of ARP Act Spending Plan Budget Amendment number 2. Motion to approve. Motion to approve, second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Members, again, I cannot see everybody until we come back to full screen. If you raise your hand and I don't see it, just unmute your mic and I'll come to you. Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Golombak? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyeth? Yes. Item number 54, discharge item 21-1721 from claims committee. Is this motion to adapt to discharge?
 We're going to that item so that we can see it. That is the discharge from claims committee.
 What's your pleasure? Council members, is there anyone who needed because this is a late foul in what Corporation Council, and just for the record, we did not go into discussion about it. We just need to understand it before we went live. So we did not go into discussion. We stopped short of discussion so that we can respect the open meetings law.
 Is there a council member that needs more information on item 54, which would necessitate us going into executive session? And I would request at the end of the meeting. Yes, sir. Without getting into the merits of the case, because if perhaps we should let Corporation Council explain. So there's some transparency with regards to why we're doing this.
 or why they're recommending that we approve this item.
 So I would ask Corporation Council, and it looks like she's connecting to audio. It looks like she's connected now. Again, without going into merits, I would prefer if we're going into merits and weighing on the actual case that we go into executive session. But to explain as what Council Member Revere, the Majority Leader, has asked, can you give us why this is a late file and why we are receiving this now? Sure.
 Hello, this is Assistant Corporation Counsel Karen Gordon. I do believe that we have John Hannibal online to discuss this matter. Do you just want me to give you an explanation or do you want to go into executive session because if any additional information will require executive session? No, not the executive session portion but why I mean the timeline of why we must
 act on this today or why we don't have to, the council doesn't have to, but why corporation council is suggesting that we act on this today.
 Okay, of course, yes. This is a time-sensitive matter in that it's a settlement agreement that required the city to settle on it by December 15th. As we know, the initial meeting that was set up for December 8th was canceled due to things beyond our control. And so I believe that after reviewing the documents in preparation for our next week meeting, it was realized that the settlement matter had to be done by December 15th.
 being tomorrow and given the fact that we would not have a meeting tomorrow or the claims committee does not meet until next week it was necessary to move on this item today right council members is there a need for executive session on this item or do you feel that you have properly been able to review this item and will be ready to vote on this one item out of claims committee
 All right. I see no objection. So I am assuming by having no objection that we are ready to move this item forward. Excuse me, Dr. Rosen? Sean? Yeah, I just need a second for the discharge item, and then I should call the actual item that's in claims. Second by Councilmember Fairlady. And it says item 33 out of claims, Whitmire, Kristen. Motion is due.
 Motion is to approve. All right. The motion is to approve, second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferralero? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes.
 And I'll just say for this item that we have expressed to make sure that we have our claims committee so that we don't want to set a precedent of voting things like this, although it's $20,000, you know, with a late file. I think that that's very important to send that message back so that there is clear deliberation on items that are demanding or that would affect our budget.
 Next item. Item number 65, 2022 capital budget and 2023-2026 capital improvement program recommendations. Majority Leader. Motion to approve as amended. This motion is to approve as amended and just as a,
 Just kind of general education for those who may be watching and to remind us as council members, the capital budget has been amended for basically $50,000 more per councilmatic district for capital improvements, which would be things like roads, which would be things like sidewalks. I did get an email from a gentleman who said that's totally not enough. I think all of us agree that it is not enough.
 There is another 400,000 in a letter agreement to, as we already voted on, in the American Rescue Plan, the ARP, that adds another 400,000, basically, that would be guided in conjunction
 function with the administration by each individual council member. So the capital budget has not been increased to $800,000. The capital budget was increased to $50,000 per district, but in an agreement with the administration, there was $400,000 more that was discussed in the Committee of the Whole for each councilmatic district. Almost all of
 us have heard from constituents about sidewalks, about roads, and we know that there are some districts that have worse than others. And I want to be clear, a lot, much of that is based on, um,
 construction and when people dig into the streets and put in new pipes and don't come back and clean up that stuff in the streets and put the new blacktop on, a lot of that happens. However, we are now addressing a lot of that with now increasing the capital budget and also getting $400,000
 promised from the American Rescue Plan. Council members, any other comments before we move forward? Council Member Revere. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. First of all, thank you for all the work you did back and forth with the administration. As you have mentioned, council members listed a number of priorities in their respective districts, and we negotiated
 Those items in these two budgets. So, obviously, we're probably the people closest to our districts and we hear from them and you're absolutely right. Most of the priorities are streets sidewalks parks and things like that.
 And certainly, our goal was to put more infrastructure dollars in the districts in the neighborhood in our commercial districts in our parks. So I just want to thank you for the work you did. And moving this along I know negotiations are easy at time, but we thank you for the work that you put into this. Thank you so much. Thank you, sir. Councilman what
 Thank you, Mr. President, and I too thank you and the majority leader for your leadership and standing up for the council members in which we are looking for additional dollars to improve our district. You know, I know that the amount that I asked, a million dollars, was not the amount that I got, but I appreciate your ability to negotiate to make sure we got something that was significant for our districts. And as you stated, it's not enough.
 But we'll continue to try to work with this administration to ensure that the districts that have been left behind are made whole. I think in a lot of cases, when I look through this budget, there's very little for my district. And I'm going to continue to fight like H-E-double-L. No, let me just say the word, L, to make sure that I get what I need to get for my districts.
 I have numerous complaints from my constituents about sidewalks and about curbs and about paving and those things. And I want to see those things happen in the university district. I don't care about what happened in the past. In the past, the past, we have a mayor that's supposed to be responsible for the entire city, not just one section of the city, the entire city. And so I'm going to continue to work in good faith.
 That the American Rescue dollars will be utilized as we ask in our districts to improve the quality of life for the folks who have put us in office and are looking for us to make sure that we improve their lives by making sure this money is not spent just on a few, but for everyone. This is the city of Buffalo, not one section should be designated to give more money than another section.
 to look at how we can do this in an effective way. I think something that we recommended in the finance committee to have someone from the council be representative for the ARP dollars to make sure they're presented and used in a proper way, in a fair way, is really very, very important because this is a one-time opportunity. And just because we have American Rescue Men doesn't mean that we are out of the woods operationally. We still have some operational issues.
 But the dollars that we've gotten from the federal government, we need to make sure they're utilized in the way that they ask and require. And make certain that, again, the things that the council members have put forth are done in a proper way so that we can make certain that those dollars aren't. The Treasury Department doesn't come back later and say, oh, you didn't use the dollars properly. You got to pay that money back.
 um i think there's a lot of things that folks in my district have asked for as far as niagara falls bullock dart being repaid um work being done on bailey avenue and other areas as far as speed humps we want to see those things continue and again thank you and majority leader for your leadership i'm ensuring that we got our fair share thank you councilmember fair level thank you very much i just want to thank everyone involved in making this happen i'm very excited
 There will be more money spent in the Delaware district on paving roads this upcoming construction season and it's not just a little more. It's more than double of what we have been allocated in past years. So again, I want to thank everyone involved. The residents of the Delaware district will be very happy that many more roads will be paved. And thank you. Thank you. Council Member Wingo.
 Yeah, thank you Mr. Chair. Again, just to kind of echo the sentiments of Joe for a little he literally took the words out of my mouth I want to thank everyone who was involved in ensuring that we got more for the infrastructure for the city. Of course, it's never going to be enough, we will never have enough, quite honestly we will never. Let me repeat, we will never have enough to do all the things that need to be done in the city of Buffalo as it relates to our infrastructures roads sidewalks curves and everything else.
 But this is a victory for everyone. And I believe that the administration, as well as this council, are showing this community that we are willing and able to work together for their benefit, which is the priority. We are in place because of them. We have been elected by them to do the work for them. So this is just showing that the work is being done for the people of the city of Buffalo. And I'm really grateful that we all have done this great thing together. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski.
 thank you mr chair i just want to join the choir and thank everyone involved in this negotiation that has brought uh money back to the common council because uh i will be unapologetic about it we my role as a district council member is to bring back the most amount of resources to my district and some of parts of my district are the are the part
 poorest people in the city of Buffalo. And I take bringing home every dollar I can to fix up neighborhoods and parks and infrastructure and lighting, very serious. And I'm very thrilled that we are now going to have extra funds to do that, but the ball will keep rolling and I'll keep asking for more. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Council Member Bowman.
 Thank you Mr. Chair. I just wanted to echo everyone's sentiments. I appreciate leadership and everyone involved with the negotiations. And I'm looking forward to seeing teamwork like this in the future with the ARP funds because we all have priorities for our district. We all have needs.
 And these funds will be used to, you know, take care of some of the projects that our residents have been consistently asking for over the years. So I think this is a great step in the right direction and looking forward to seeing it continue for each district with the ARP funds. So thank you. Thank you. And I agree with you.
 on the ARP funds, I was very glad to hear Jessica Brown say in the Finance Committee that she would welcome, that they would welcome a representative from the Council to be a part of the team that moves the ARP money forward. I know that there was an announcement or a press release
 or at least an article in the Buffalo News that announced some moves. I wish we could have had somebody there before then, but I will assure you that within the next 48 hours, there will be a council member named to the ARP and team so that we don't read about it in the paper, but that we are moving forward together. This is a...
 huge amount of money for the city of Buffalo. And it must be seen and it must be known by our constituents that it is not one bag of a Santa Claus bag of not one individual, not one council member. It should be working together to deliver for the city of Buffalo. At having that request fulfilled by Ms. Brown
 And we will assign a council member there. And so that the ARP money is not used as a political football, nor is it used as a gift to any individual, but is actually used to do what the federal government made it about. And that is to rescue our people.
 country and specifically to help rescue the city of Buffalo. So thank you for the opportunity, uh, to be, uh,
 the president of this council will work with the leadership and the administration to get at this point, probably the most money that we have gotten into districts in recent memory, as far as that which is controlled basically by the council member. And I think that's where people may get confused. This is monies in which the council is able to work with the administration and say these streets here, these speed bumps here,
 This pocket park over here that we have not had, but with the American Rescue money, we're able to add, but I want to be clear that won't last. This is basically almost a one shot deal. And we have to deal with what happens after that. So thank you colleagues for your confidence. All right, did we finish that up Sean? Tell me where we're at. No, I need a seconder and I'll roll.
 Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member White? Yes. All righty. I think that was all of the ones out of order. Is that correct or do we have one more? I believe that's it.
 Item number two, lease between City of Buffalo and Klein Hands Music Hall. Jody Leader, is he still with us? Motion was to approve item two. All right, motion to approve, seconded by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Golombic? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo?
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number three, local landmark 1100 Niagara Street. Motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Fairlittle. Item number four, McCarley Pilot. Motion is sent to CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number five, report of sale 68 Ernst. Motion is sent to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number six, report of sale 373 Goodyear. Motion to approve item six, seven and eight. I'm going by council member Wingo. Council member Bowman. Yes. Council member Ferraletto. Yes. Council member Golombic. Yes. Council member Nowakowski. Yes. Council president Pridgen. Council member Rivera. Yes. Council member Scanlon. Yes. Council member Wingo. Yes. Council member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number nine, certificate of necessity, AIKG infrastructure. Motion to receive and file items nine, 10, and 11. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 12, informational report on city payroll 2021. Motion to send to finance. Second by council member Wyatt. Item number 13, appoint community advocate to controller. Motion to send to, excuse me. I believe the motion is now to approve. Okay.
 The motion to approve. Yes. All right. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes.
 Item number 14, change order engine 25 fire station electrical project. Motion to approve items 14 through, can you scroll up? 14 through 21. 22. 22. 22. Second by Council Member Ferriero. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferriero. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes.
 Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 23, appoint street worker. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Item number 24, acceptance of donations for the neighborhood engagement team. Motion to approve items 24 and 25, approved with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Seconded by Council Member Wingo.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombek? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyand? Yes. Item number 26, food store license 778 Genesee. Motion is sent to legislation.
 All right, seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 27, food store license 245 Ontario. Motion to approve items 27 and 28. Seconded by Council Member Ferraletto. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombak. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo.
 Yes. Council Member Wyeth. Yes. Item number 29, used car dealer 2284 Genesee, also known as 2280. Motion is sent to legislation item 29 and 30. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 31, auction of scrap vehicles. Motion is sent to finance items 31 and 32. Seconded by Council Member Wyeth. Item number 34, free parking Mohawk and Fernbach for NYE.
 Motion to approve. Second by Council Member White. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Weiner. Yes. Item number 35, Permission to Extend Contract Be Well. Yes.
 Item 35, send the finance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 36, BSA Board Attendance 11-22-21. Motion to receive and file items 36, 37, 38. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, permission to purchase used equipment. This item is open.
 Is there any objection for this going forward? Is the used equipment motorized? Do we know? Yeah, it's an electric scissors jack. Oh, electric. Yes, that's cool. Long distance electric. No objection, motion to approve. Motion to approve second by Council Member Golombek. Item, I'm sorry, Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Galambek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyeth? Yes. Item number 40, Notice of Appointment Laborer II Seasonal. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski.
 Item number 41, supplemental letters of support for 600 Delaware. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 42, concerns regarding user fee assistance program. Motion to send to CD items 42, 43, and 44. Seconded by Councilmember Wynk. Item number 45, secret neck deck for zoning math amendment 46, 68, 70, and 74, Leland.
 Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Temsken. Item number 46, Special Use 822 Clinton for Vehicle Repair Minor and M3E Zone. Motion to send to legislation City Planning Board items 46 through 50. Second by Council Member Fairlough. Item number 51, Petition in Opposition to ZMA on 46, 68, 70, and 74 Leyland. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member White.
 Submissions list, civil service. Item number one, appoint account clerk typist permanent. Items one, two, and three. Second by Council Member Rivera, Majority Leader. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Bridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Yes.
 Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member White? Yes. Item number four, point recreation structure provisional. Motion is to receive and file items four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, and sixteen. Second by Council Member White. Finance. Item 17, request approval of American Rescue Plan Act Spending Plan Budget Amendment for Patient Care Report.
 Motion to approve items number 17 and 18. Second by Council Member Wyngell. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Farrelletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wyngell. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Item number 19, research and plan to upgrade city vehicles to electric. Yes.
 Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Community Development, item 20, family of former Peace Bridge tenant Randall Saccone. Motion to receive and file 2021 and 22. Second by Councilmember Fairlittle. Item number 23, report of sale 3241 Bailey. Motion to approve 23 and 24. Second by Councilmember Wyatt.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferletto? Yes. Councilmember Golombak? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Legislation item number 25, food store license 1245 Bailey? Yes.
 Motion is to recommit items 25 and 26. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Item number 27, used car dealer 540 East Delvin. Motion to approve with conditions item 27, approve items 28 and 29, 30s in the South District. Is that an approve? That is, but Mr. Chair, if you could approve up to 29, I'd like to speak on 30 before we make the motion because that needs to be amended.
 All right, so motion to approve up until and including 29. Second by President Protum-Scanlon. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Ferraletto? Yes. Councilmember Galambach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo?
 Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Council President? Yes, sir. Item number 28, that was the original ordinance amendment. Did you want to approve that or receive a file on it? Out of legislation? That one should be . If you can pull up the screen, I think 28 was marked for approval by the majority leader. Is there something to be changed for that?
 There was a substitute item filed with the council for this meeting. There was a typo in the original document, so that item 28 should actually be received and filed. All right. On my printed agenda, it says received and filed. And what did we do with it? It's marked for approval on the screen that we have now. So we made a motion to approve it. So we need to rescind the previous motion and receive and file it.
 The motion is to read in that order by Councilman Bonowski, rescind and then receive and file it. Next item. Do we get a second for that? Right, second. Okay. It's on both of them. Thank you. Item number three. Mr. President.
 Yes, sir. Council Member Glumman. I just want to make a mention on item number 29. We did the local landmarking on that. I worked with the attorney Mike Risman and the owner of the property there. That's along the Tonawanda extension part of my district between Amherst and Niagara Street. And by landmarking it, the owner is going to be able to take advantage of
 tax credits through New York State. I know quite often people complain that when we landmark things, that it's very negative and that's the general idea I think that constituents have, but they don't realize that a lot of times by landmarking an item, we are able to assist with the redevelopment. That was how...
 you know, in my district alone, Chandler Street was able to get redeveloped and a few other places. And so there is, you know, quite often a very, very large positive that comes with something when we landmark it. And it was a pleasure to work with Mike Risman, the attorney and the owner of that property. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Anything else? Next item.
 Item number 30, zoning map amendment 46687074 Leland from N3R2 DIL. This item is sent without RAC and the council member from the South District, Council Member Scanlon, wanted to speak on this item.
 Thank you, Mr. Chair. I know Corporation Council is on with us. I want to make sure we're doing this the right way. We are going to approve this, but we are going to approve it as amended. The original request is to change it to a light industrial, but the request has been amended to change it to a flex commercial. So we'd like to approve that as amended with a flex commercial request and also on the condition that Lactalis continues to operate with their truck entrance on South Park Avenue. Thank you.
 All right, sir. Corporation Council, has that been placed in the record correctly? Assistant Corp Council Karen Gordon, that's correct. It's just a slight amendment, which will be more beneficial to the residents of the area to have it at a more restrictive zoning than what was previously requested. Absolutely. All right. So that motion is to approve. Yes. It is that including 31? Yes.
 That is including 31 and is there that? Yes, including 31 also. Right. Second by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Ferraletto? Yes. Council Member Galambek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Council Member Scanlon?
 Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes. Item number 32, special use permit 682 Abbott for tobacco sales in an M3E zone. Motion is to deny. Motion is to deny. Second by Council Member Scanlon, who has the floor.
 Thank you, Council President. The reason for the denial here for anyone in the neighborhood who is watching, the applicant has moved on to another business model, another business altogether that they want to open there. So this is not so much a denial as it is just an act to get it off our table and off of our agenda as they pursue a different type of business. All righty. It has been so noted for the record. Thank you, sir. Next item.
 Item number 52, 2021 Lovejoy Halloween Parade Traffic Fee Waiver. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Belamac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Councilmember Brown?
 Item number 53, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number 55, Ordinance Amendment Chapter 175 and Chapter 307 for parking garage structure license. This is a late file. That's filed by Council Member, which Council Member was that filed? That's Council Member Nowakowski.
 This is, and just as a reference point, this is the updated version of the ordinance amendment we received and filed the previous one out of legislation. There was just a typographical error, and if the council would like, it can be approved for immediate passage. Is that the desire of the council member? No.
 Yes, Council President, there was once looking over the discrepancy, it was literally just a typo of a space, and I believe that it's not that far off from at all from the original item and would like to motion to approve. I would expect that you would find the spacer with your any leader motion to approve motion to approve second by Council Member Noah Kowski.
 Item number 56, municipal facilities program. We'll just need a roll call on that last item, Sean. I'm sorry. You're totally correct. Do we have, is the next item? Yeah, the next item is not an approval. All right. Council Member Pullman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombek? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes.
 Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember White? Yes. Item number 56, municipal facilities program and nomination form. Motion to adopt, remainder to CD. All right, the motion is to adopt the results and send the remainder to CD, second by Councilmember Joel Freeland. Item number 57, budget and personnel amendment, Director of Planning,
 Motion to approve items 57, 58, 59, and 60. Second by Council Member Wingo. Council Member Bowman. Yes. Council Member Ferraletto. Yes. Council Member Golombek. Yes. Council Member Nowakowski. Yes. Council President Pridgen. Yes. Council Member Rivera. Yes. Council Member Scanlon. Yes. Council Member Wingo. Yes. Council Member Wyatt. Yes. Yes.
 Item number 61, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Bowman. Item number 62, Commissioner of Deeds, Public Duties. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 63, Transfer of Funds, AIKJ Infrastructure. This item is not marked. Member Wyatt. Those should go to Finance. Thank you. Motion to send to Finance. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough.
 Is that the end of the agenda? Yes. Announcement. Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings are scheduled to be streamed live on www.facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Committee on civil service, Tuesday, December 21st, 2021 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on finance following civil service, Tuesday, December 21st at 10 a.m. Committee on claims, Tuesday, December 21st at 11 a.m.
 Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, December 21st at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, December 21st at 2 p.m. All right. I know I have a, there is, I'm just trying to find it, a Jefferson Avenue meeting coming up. I'm trying to do a couple things.
 This mark if you're on. Can you give that date and time is today at 430 Jefferson Avenue at the Meriwether library 1324 Jefferson. I encourage constituents, Jefferson Avenue spans in between Mastin and the Ellicott districts to attend. I was able to attend the one on Saturday, which there was a spirited discussion
 about the concern of narrowing that road to the point where people are not able to get around if there's a funeral, if there's a car breakdown. So I just want people to know that those meetings are going on. The architects and engineers are there to hear from the people. So that is going on in the Ellicott District. But again, Jefferson Avenue does encompass more than one district. Any other announcements, Council Members?
 council member christian if i could just have your attention for one second uh item number five uh it looks like the motion was to send to legislation it's a report of sale i think those are supposed to go to uh community development uh if it's okay with council member wingo if we could uh change that motion councilman hey jim pull up all right that goes to cd correct is that what you're saying
 Yes, typically report of sales would go to CD. Right. That's fine with me. We can make a motion to rescind it. Yep. Motion is rescind the motion to send the legislation second by Council Member Wingo. Motion now to send to CD second by Council Member Wingo. Any other announcements? All right. Hearing no other announcements. Majority Leader? Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Thank you.