Roll call. Councilmember Farrelletto. Here. Councilmember Fontana. Present. Councilmember Fronzek. Here. Councilmember Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. I'll keep. Councilmember Rivera. Present. Councilmember Scanlon. Present. Councilmember Wingo. Councilmember Wyatt. He's here. Let's stand for the question of the flag. The flag of the United States of America and it's to the republic for which it stands.
 our council chaplain back from Israel indeed he is council president and how is jet lag going for you at this point I didn't think so neither for us Debbie was in bed at 8 45 last night and uh we were up 4 a.m on Sunday morning couldn't get back to sleep
 So I went to 745 service, the Council Presidents Group Bethel Baptist Church. So it was quite the experience. I wanted to do two parallel thoughts today, sort of circulating around a verse that's pretty precious within the Christian tradition this time of year, one that you're quite familiar with, Luke 2, 14. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Most of us have heard that verse more than once over the years.
 But with the Council President and his wife and son and Deb and me and others, invited by the Buffalo Jewish Federation as clergy to come with them to Israel, we walked into a land where the prayer of peace becomes far more relevant tonight. If you studied, as I'm sure several of you have, this is a land of incredible ongoing conflict.
 We saw so much, we learned so much, met with Jewish leaders, Palestinian leaders, Muslim leaders, business leaders, educators. We really got to see so much in the land of Israel. And we met leaders who were striving for peace in a land that has known more conflict than nearly any place in the world. Not just conflict religiously, although that's there, politically that's there, geographically that's there, economically it's there, it's conflict at so many levels.
 I actually think that the council president was pleased to come back to Buffalo conflict after seeing the level of conflict we were there and then during the time of the year Mr Trump made an announcement that even made it more challenging for us if he consulted we devoted weight on that announcement but we were there as all that came down and put extra tension and stress into the air someone 226 says pray for the peace of Jerusalem may those who love you be secure
 So in a moment we're going to pray for peace in Jerusalem, but the second thing I want to talk about in relation to the angels talking about peace on earth was yesterday, as your chaplain for the Common Council, I was invited by the Buffalo Police Department Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner and Chiefs and Captains, along with chaplains that had served Officer Lehner during his tragic loss, his family and the police department, to come together around that situation.
 And I was reminded as I was there praying for that family and everything that they're experiencing that Christmas is bringing up a new level of a need to pray for peace for all of them. As for the Lainers, there's all kinds of unsettledness as they come into this season and new grief that's being released. You probably know some people in your life that Christmas is a blue Christmas this year because of circumstance. So I want to pray for a city and a nation a long ways away and for families way up close
 Would you join me in prayer? Father, sometimes trip into things in the world where we recognize how nearly impossible, easy answers and simple solutions are. And Lord, you know, sometimes for these council members, just solutions within their own districts are so challenging. And then we step into place with geopolitical conflict on a world stage in Israel. So just as the psalmist reminded us, today we pray for the peace of Jerusalem.
 Some days it seems farther away than ever, but we join our prayers with those for centuries who've made that prayer. But then, Father, I come that camera up much closer. And I think yesterday, as we were talking about still the hurt and grief in the Buffalo Police Department, Officer Lehner's past and how much even more the physical family is impacted.
 Lord, right today I pray for the Lehner family. He had so many families that he taught. His own physical family, the National Guard family, the Buffalo Police Department family. We pray for all of those in this time of peace on earth, goodwill toward men when they don't feel much of that at all. And I pray for peace now in each of their lives. And that for many of us who are working and dealing with friends and family and people in our neighborhood who've lost loved ones,
 I pray, Lord, that we'd be a shining light to them, even as you were all those thousands of years ago. And I thank you, Father, that we can gather today. I pray for wisdom for every council member. And thank you for your powerful presence as we close this year and begin another one. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, amen. Amen. Thank you, chaplain. Glad to have you home. Also, council members and memorials. Council member Golombi.
 thank you mr president uh susan willits passed away her mom and dad are long-time residents of the uh north district she's going to be very very sorely missed by uh by them had been very active at st florian's church the riverside senior association northwest buffalo community center and others
 Some of you might remember Trish Foltz, who was our human resource commissioner. Her brother passed away unexpectedly, Marine veteran, his name was Scott Foltz. Like to remember him in our thoughts and prayers today. The Riverside neighborhood lost George Ogden,
 who lived in Riverside almost his entire life, grew up with him. It's pretty scary when people younger than you start passing away of natural causes, but he will be very, very sorely missed. His brother Keith works for the City of Buffalo as well. Joyce Grady passed away. It was the grandmother of Mike Lewis and grandmother-in-law of Sandy that works in my office.
 We also lost a long time Black Rock resident, Sandra Zawadzki. She's going to be very, very sorely missed by her numerous children. In the best family...
 And another one of my former interns, her dad passed away, Gene Pesikow. Catherine worked for me about five or six, maybe seven years ago now. But he passed away sort of unexpectedly, once again, late 50s. Not an old person by any stretch of the imagination, but these will all be very, very sorely missed by their families and their community. Thank you, sir. Anyone else? Hearing no other questions, I'll stop here.
 Hearing no other names, we always remember our servicemen and women and civilians who have given their life for our country, for the freedom of others, since our last meeting. This council pauses for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 on a motion by mr revere second by ms scandler the minutes of stated meeting held on november 28 2017 are approved their life late files before us are there any objections to the late files there are no objections to late files we're here the entire agenda not taking away your right to object the late files as we get to them if you have not had time to
 To review them and take a couple items out of order. Mr. President, motion to take items 21 and 64 out of order. Second by Councilmember Franza. Item 21, Council Amendments to the Capital Budget 2018. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Colombo.
 Item number 64 capital budget recommendations 2018 a capital improvements 2019 to 2022 motion to approve. As with amendments as amended as amended second by culture member why we have a budget.
 From the top. Item number one, appoint member to the Preservation Board. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombi. Item number two, submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item number three, Preservation Board report and recommendation landmark status 1740 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number four, report of sale 145 Chester. Motion to send to CD items four through...
 7. Second by Council Member Pierre Leto. Item number 8, report of SIL 24-K. Motion to approve items 8 and 9. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 item number 10 reported cell 87 wolders motion is sent to cd say why comes from what item number 11 reported cell 281 wadden motion to approve second by president protein item number 12 reported cell 735 woodlawn motion to send to cd it's my customer fountain item number 13 appoint real estate specialist motion to send the civil service second by council member white
 Item number 14, certificate of necessity transfer of funds. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Galum. Item number 15, BMHA benefit eligibility audit. Motion to send items 15 and 16 to finance. Seconded by Council Member Frenzel. Item number 17, inter-fund loan for Dewey Avenue bridge replacement. Motion to approve items 17 and 18.
 saying my council member item number 19 enter phone long for social pool restoration motion to receive and file items 19 20 and 19 and 20 second my president hotel item number 22 notification a cereal motion send the CD items 22 second by council member long back can we pause one second I just need your clarification
 Thank you. Next item. Item number 23, permission to hire consultant for MLK Park Casino. Motion to approve. Second by President Proctor. Item number 24, appoint dispatcher. Motion to send the civil service items 24 and 25. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 26, police body warrant pilot program. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item number 27, appoint detective.
 Motion to send to civil service items 27 through 31. Seconded by Council Member White.
 Item number 32, full store license 163 West Ferry. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Freelander. Item number 33, full store license 109 Grant Street. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golomna. Item number 34, full store license 465 Niagara Street. Motion to send to legislation item 34, 35, and 36. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 37, purchase, auction, and scrap of equipment. Motion to approve.
 Did we do 30 second by a customer friends that we did 35? Can we on revisit item 35? motion to revisit item 35 second by councilman for a little if we could have council staff to contact property manager or the person applying to
 there's several questions on his application one is the fact that the police report is over a year old it was from october of last year and there's a box check that he's in court or that there's a pending court action
 in a housing matter. So I think we need to know what's going on with that. So we could have him to appear at our next committee meeting or whenever he or she leaves the city. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, can we revisit...
 i just wanted to add to that number 35 as well is that we were already looking at it because the individual lives in rochester and they have to live in western new york so miss johnson from council staff is looking into it she'll probably add just other things to that as well thank you thank you motion to revisit item number 19. second by council member for your letter let's be forced
 So show social motion to Resend the previous motion motion is to rescind the previous motion. What was previous motion to receive and file receive and file motion is to receive Resend second by councilman Fontana motion is now to approve motion is to approve second by councilmember Yep item number 38 items return to city clerk by mayor without approval or disapproval and
 Motion to receive and file item 38 through 40. Seconded by President Protill. Item number 41, notices of appointment. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Farnsley. Item number 42, brownfield cleanup public comment invitation for 990 Niagara Street. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Excuse me.
 Item number 43, sign zoning map amendment for 1580 to 1640 Bailey Avenue. Motion to approve. Seconded by Councilmember Franzen. Item number 44, letter from City of Rochester, Zonka Silkeary. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Councilmember Golombek. And on that, we could ask Corporation and Council to look into this because when we had a gentleman come before us
 About a year ago, I was told from another corporation council that this premise of the reciprocity was a moot point for New York State. I think we just need some clarification. Is it a moot point? Can people truly bring
 use their license to carry in other places right here in Buffalo, for instance, or in New York State. So we just need clarification on that because I think this council would have moved on it in the past, but we were informed that what Rochester is saying, not Rochester, but the reciprocity laws, that it's not true. So we just really need to know, and basically for the public,
 What this is about is Rochester is saying, is coming out against what some say is an ability for people who have gun permits
 in a different state to be able to just carry here. I don't know if that's true, so before we take a position, I'd like to know real facts. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yeah, we brought this forward because we were concerned, because we've been hearing at the federal level that this is on the table for Congress to look at. And when you see the various areas or states' approval
 and ours is probably one of the most stringent, we should be concerned that the federal government is going to be allowing or trying to allow individuals with various degrees of background checks to come into our state with their guns. I think it's a recipe for disaster. It can cause more harm than good, and I'm glad that you're going to have the Corporation Council look at it to see if we can put forth a resolution supporting it not happening anymore.
 Thank you. Council Member Fonten? Yeah, now that we took a second look at this, Mr. Ertha sat me down and showed me what the true meaning of this was, and I think once I saw it the second time, I was a little bit more apt to say, yeah, that makes more sense. I could sell real estate here in New York State, and it takes me more paperwork to sell real estate in Florida than it would for somebody to carry a gun over the border.
 over the border of the state with this reciprocity type of situation. So I think that I'd be in favor of that as well. If we get something drafted, I think I'd be in favor of it. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Next item, anybody else? Next item. Item number 45, affordable housing strategies for the city of Buffalo. Motion to receive and file items 45 and 46. Second by Councilmember Fialetto. Item number 47, Frederick Douglass, Associate Phase 1 tenant displacement. Motion to send to CD. And this is a late file, by the way, gentlemen. I just want to be transparent just so it can get noted. And I want to encourage...
 Yesterday there was a meeting with Frederick Douglass residents who, with VMHA and the management company of Frederick Douglass Towers and the townhouses. And the concern is, is during that meeting they were told that they may have to be displaced in February. This is December.
 It was then said to them, we didn't mean February, maybe we meant March. And it's just a mess. It's kind of the same situation that Councilman Franczak had with Shoreline. And I can't imagine people being displaced for improvements or anything else.
 to move out in the middle of the winter and many of these are elderly people. So we're asking the BMHA to be here next week. The chairman allows it in the community development meeting. And if residents are concerned, they will know that this council is going to be asking those questions and also inviting if they have concerns that they feel like they're not getting those answers.
 to be at that meeting next week at 1 if the chairman brings it to the floor. And I thank you. Chairman, is that okay? Is that okay with you? Or are you okay with that? All right. So what I did is just voted out all of your money to allocate. Are you okay? All right. So that will be next week. It will be heard. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
 Next item. Item number 48, substitution letter for 67 North Street. Motion is sent to legislation items 48 and 49. And I know that there are people here, I don't know if they realize it's going to committee, so it'll be discussed in committee. All right, second by Council Member Franzen. Item number 50, concerns figure to enforce noise ordinance.
 Motion to send to City. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 51, Special Use Permit for 3021 Bailey. Motion to send to Legislation City Planning Board Items 51 through 54. Second by Council Member Fioriletto.
 Submission list, civil service. Item number one, appoint associate account clerk. Motion to approve items one and two. Moved by Council Member Fontana. Item number three, notices of appointments. Motion to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader. Finance Committee. Item number four, approval of funding for Buffalo City Swim Race. Motion to approve. Second by Majority Leader. Motion to approve.
 Community Development Item Number 5 Snow Plan 2017-2018 Motion to receive and file Second by Council Member Franczak Item Number 6 Loud Noise Quality of Life for Downtown Residents I'm not sure, is that Mr. Pridgen, is that yours? Yeah you can send it to committees so they can talk about it Okay we can recommit
 Oh, I'm sorry. It's in CD right now. Yeah, this is, I don't think they came, so we, can we send this to receive and file? Okay. Motion to receive and file items 6, 7, 8, and 9. Second by Councilman Frioletto. And what we'll do is just send a copy of this over to the police department. Did you want to do something else with it, Councilman Frioletto? Because I'm okay with whatever. Okay.
 Well, it's been an ongoing issue for years, and the police coming in here saying they will enforce the laws, the question is enforcing the laws what we need. You want to send it, I mean, we could send it to police oversight. Somebody wants to come in, you know.
 So we had it on there. I don't think anybody showed up and tried to get in touch with you. You want to recommit it? You can try one more time. You can try one more time. I'm okay with that. So motion to rescind that. Oh, I'm sorry. Yeah, to rescind the move to receive and file second by Council Member Golombek. The motion is to recommit second by President Pro Temp.
 thank you yeah because you just don't want it and council staff can you see if you can get back in touch with the letter writer if they want to come in uh because we don't want anybody think we ignored it we just need to hear specifically next item all right legislation committee item number 10 seeker for negative declaration for 67 north street 10 originally came without recommendation does the uh mr council member wish to recommit or
 No, because this is just a secret. It's a secret. Yeah, it's just a neck deck. It doesn't move the project forward, backwards. It's just a neck deck of it. So what do you want to do with it? It can be adopted. Adopted. Adopted. Motion to adopt. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Fairlady. Item number 11, report is still 1312 Michigan. Motion to approve. Motion to approve.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Add on number 12, report of sale 273 prospects. On this, it came without recommendation, and I request the wishes of the District Councilmember. Can it be re- Oh, no, this is fine. Motion to approve? Motion to- I'm sorry, you make the motion. Approve? No, that's fine. Motion to approve. I'm all off today. Doesn't matter. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Add on number 13, environmental assessment form. Motion to adopt. Second by President Protil.
 item number 14 full store license 2594 Bailey motion to approve with the conditions that are listed all right second by the lovejoy councilmember councilmember Fontana item number 15 a main UDL zoning map for 1580 1640 Bailey Avenue motion to approve by councilmember Ferrell item number 16 use of 197 Allen this item originally came without recommendation the motion is now to recommit
 Second by the Majority Leader. Item number 17, wholesale and scrap license for 1647 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file. Second by the Majority Leader. Resolutions. Item number 55, rescinded unissued bond authorizations by repealing various bond resolutions. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number 56, portion of land beneath Buffalo River. Motion to send to CDE.
 my counselor in front item number 57 transfer of funds for city service buildings motion to approve items 57 and 58 my customer content I know 59 a main you do zone and map for am hers place motion to send legislation say my customer go under I don't number 60 councilmember Wingo excuse for meeting number 60 dot second my home's first family
 Item number 61, restore New York grant application. Motion to approve items 61 and 62. Second by Councilman Peralta. Item number 63, Commissioner of Deeds. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilman Franzen. Announcement of committee meeting.
 Committee on Civil Service Tuesday December 19 2017 at 9 45 a.m. Committee on Finance file on Civil Service Tuesday December 19 2017 at 10 a.m. And Committee on Community Development Tuesday December 19 2017 at 1 p.m. And Committee on Legislation Tuesday December 19 2017 at 2 p.m. Council members any announcements? Council member Golombet
 Thank you Mr. President. Thursday, December the 14th, there will be a menorah lighting ceremony in downtown Buffalo at Canal Side. It's going to take place at approximately 7 o'clock.
 If you're in the North Buffalo area, you'll probably see a little cavalcade of cars with menorahs and other festive Hanukkah lighting on them that will be coming from North Buffalo into Canal Side. So if anybody's free, that's going to take place. The lighting will take place at approximately 7 o'clock in Canal Side. I believe this is our third year that we've been doing this.
 So everybody's more than welcome to attend and I want to wish everybody a happy Hanukkah. Happy Hanukkah. I learned that you got to do a lot. Hanukkah. All I heard in Israel is Hanukkah.
 Happy is it Conoco is that the right way to probably say happy Hanukkah we do before we're finished analysis where we got to revisit item 59 and as city planning board any other announcements motion to revisit one announcement then we'll come back to Ellicott district reval meeting those are watching live is today Tuesday December 12 530 here in the chambers on the 13th floor and
 And then the free grant writing class for Ellicott District residents on December 16th, Saturday, 1030 at the Frank Merriweather Library. You must call the Ellicott office to register. Seating is limited. Majority Leader? Motion to revisit item 59. Second by Council Member Glumbeck.
 motion to send a letter it needs it needs to also go to city planning board it needs to go to city planning board the motion is sent to ledge and city planning board second by council member franzek which does not rescind the motion because it's part of the same but adds that to it all right anything else motion to adjourn second by council member fontana