4, 3, 2, 1. Council Member Faraletto. Council Member Fontana. Here. Council Member Fronczak. Here. Council Member Golumbak. Council President Pridgen. Here. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Council Member Wyatt. Quorum is present. All right. Quorum is present from the top. Item number one, call for special session. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fairlotto. Item number two, item recall from Mayor from December 10th, 19-1778. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Pro Temp, Scanlon. Item number three, amendments to PUD 451, 489, and Wood 219 and 187, Bryant. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember White, who joins us. Item number four, PUD 451. 451 489 Elwood to 19 187 Bryant Motion to approve as amended second by councilman Fontana comes with your chairman. I'd like to speak on this Yes, this reconsideration is being done to correct procedural error from last Tuesday's or Tuesday's a council meeting that did not include a revised HUD today we do have one in front of us and This put includes changes that I made after receiving feedback from the community in two months that we had the original public application. These changes from the original application include and I want to read this because I want people to know exactly what some of the benefits are that we have not mentioned up to this point. One prohibiting front yard parking. Greater setback protections for neighborhood properties to ensure that any new buildings are not towering over adjacent neighbors Most importantly the revised PUD includes standards for affordable housing and green space Thankfully the current developer has agreed to providing affordable housing and green space but by including this standards in the PUD This ensures that those standards are written into law and will need to be complied with regardless of who owns the property. Because this project will be going to New York State affordable housing tax credits, they must receive all city approvals before Friday, before tomorrow, when their application is due to the state. That is why we need to call a special session today to reconsider this item immediately. And people would ask, well, why are you doing it immediately? It's because of those tax credits and the fact that they're applying. And if they want to receive funding in this cycle, it needs to be before the state by Friday. And so that is the reason why we called this special session. With that, thank you very much. And once again, I want to thank the community for their input. I want to thank the developers. I want to thank the business community for their patience. We're looking forward to moving this project forward to start to begin momentum in an area that needs momentum. As I said before, there are people that are living in the shadows of these buildings for years now And they have to walk by the shadows and by these buildings late at night feeling unsafe. You have business community that lose money and they're crying out, especially during this time of year in the cold months when their business is down. We're losing money. Storefronts are closing on Elmwood. On one hand, people are complaining that the stores are closing, but that's because of the density that we lost when we lost Women and Children's Hospital and all those people that went to those businesses to sustain those businesses. This momentum is very important for many reasons I've said before. For the community, for the business community, and for those that live adjacent to this property. So thank you very much. I ask everyone both for and against the project. To stay involved through this whole process. There'll be opportunities for further meetings. We'll have Planning board meetings on every specific project within the PUD area Well, they'll have an opportunity to speak on things that matter to them and I commit myself and my staff to continue to work with Them. Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir Just one question you talked about the affordable housing it will regardless of who with this move regardless of who owns it that that stays that's that's correct regardless of who owns the property we put it into the law that it will remain the same with green space we want to make sure that this green space is permanent that another developer comes and says we're going to build on the green space they can't do it we included those safeguards because the community wanted it and that's why we have the amendments all right thank you very much motion to adjourn second by councilman fronten yeah we approved as amended