Councilmember Fontana? Present. Councilmember Golumbac? Here. Councilmember Frontak? Here. I apologize. Councilmember Pridgen? Here. I keep. Councilmember Rivera? Present. Councilmember Scalin? Present. Councilmember Wingo? He's on his way down. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge to the flag.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. As we enter the December season, and our last meeting together before the Christmas holiday,
 Luke chapter 2 jumps to my mind. It says in verse 13 and 14, Suddenly the angel was joined by a vast host of others, the armies of heaven, praising God and saying, Glory to God in highest heaven, and peace on earth to those with whom God is pleased. And then the shepherds said, Let's go to Bethlehem and see what has happened. At a time when the earth was filled, as any of you who have done the studies know, with turmoil,
 And Mary and Joseph in turmoil as well, fleeing from all kinds of things that have been happening, and their life is about to get even tougher in the years ahead. But in the midst of that, angels declaring peace. For some of you, I know that, and some in our city, this hasn't been a year of peace. It's been a year of challenges. Some of you are familiar with the phrase, Blue Christmas.
 that was coined to reflect those that are not in a very merry mood because of challenges that have hit their lives. Death, suffering, we just left a person whose mom has only been given a few weeks to live. There's hard and harsh realities that hit at this time. And some of us need to have angel armies remind us that God is declaring peace into our hearts and lives, our minds, our spirits. And for those in our city, we want this to be a peaceful,
 and a powerful Christmas season. Let us pray. Father, thank you that the angels were not intimidated by earthly circumstance when they sang that chorus that resonates in my own heart and mind right now. Father, those who've seen nativity displays for years think of how important the angelic host was in declaring a different atmosphere
 than what was around them. Lord, I pray even now for the prophetic voice of this council to declare a better atmosphere than the atmosphere that is sometimes around us. We declare now peace on the citizens of Buffalo. We ask that your angel armies would even sing today over our city a song of grace, a song of love, and most of all, Prince of Peace, the song of peace.
 I pray, Lord, that today's session would be marked by your presence. We invite and thank you now for being here. In Christ's name, amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Councilmember, is it memorials? Councilmember, go on then.
 Thank you, Mr. President. Lost a couple of people in the neighborhood the last couple of weeks. Paul Degenfelder, the husband of Colleen. I went to school with Colleen. She's a little bit older than me, so, you know, it was a young family. He's going to be very, very sorely missed by her and his –
 and their children. Dolores Cousier Kalinowski, my mom's sister, passed away, leaving my mom the last of the family. She's going to be missed by her former Fillmore and Lovejoy District area friends and family. John Fagus joined his beloved wife Alice
 I used to work bingo with John back in the 80s and 90s up until the early 2000s. Just a wonderful, wonderful guy. He used to sit out on his porch, and he was one of those guys in the neighborhood that anybody that was walking by, you could stop, talk to him, and he just had the local gossip or the history of the neighborhood going.
 And my buddy Cecil passed away. Cecil was a great guy, lived a few blocks from me. And having the opportunity to be a council member, we all get to meet people in the community that we really, really like. And if you showed up, you would have said, Mr. Hurd doesn't like you. And Mr. Hurd would whisper to me and he would say, Columbeck, you might be a Catholic,
 You might be a Knights of Columbus, you might be a Democrat, and you might be a Ford driver, but I always vote for you. And, you know, if you came in, you'd think that, you know, he was giving me the business on the regular basis, but, you know, just what a wonderful man. He's going to be missed by his wife, Cleo, and his three children. House members? Any other? House member White? I just want to acknowledge the passing of Denise Johnson.
 And, Pastor, you did a wonderful job sending her home. She will be sorely missed. But I want to definitely commend the clerk's office for the fantastic job they did in working with her and aiding her in showing love. And sometimes areas where we don't seem to show love, but City Hall has love. And they did a fantastic job in taking care of her. And we thank you. God bless you. Thank you, Coach McClure.
 I echo those words to the clerk's office and the City Hall staff that works for the Council and all of the Council members signing the resolution and many being there coming through. But I'd like to give credit to where credit is due for those who are watching. We had a staff member who suffered from cancer for many, many years and the staff of the office where she worked worked.
 did everything they could, including taking their own lunch breaks and their own time to take her to chemotherapy, to be there for her, to raise money to help her. And I don't think you could ask for a better staff. And I know we're at memorial time, but I do want to commend the clerk's office for having a heart for people and treating people well, period, but especially your own. Thank you. Any others?
 Of course, we end all of our memoirs by remembering our men and women who have given their life for our country and for other countries all over this world since our last meeting. We pause for a moment of silence.
 thank you gentlemen I want to remind you of time because I do have a staff member who must leave here by 220 I know that we have a presentation so I'm going to introduce councilmember why but I got we got to get to the capital budget and get someone to them okay it's my pleasure to bring in Leonard Lane from 5
 Buffalo United Front, who have been doing a fantastic job in our community as peacemakers. But more importantly for this particular event, the Family Fishing Day that they've been doing for the last years?
 Ten years and it's always well attended and it does something that's so very important, connecting fathers with their sons and their children. And the CEDAW's father there involved in this day really speaks volumes for the impact that they've been making. And we want to thank them for what they've done. And they want to acknowledge the council members who participate every year. So I'll pass it over to Mr. Bennett.
 Thank you, Council Member Wyatt. I just wanted to come and show our appreciation to the council members, especially in terms of supporting us for the many years that we've been trying to do some different things with our youth. I just want to introduce Todd, which is one of our youth. He's the youngest guy, 22 years old, 23. And I get a little emotional in terms of thinking of Todd because he's one of these young guys
 He's been shot and he got a bullet in him. But we take the time that's necessary to spend the time with guys like these, to make them change their life, to change different things that they do, to make better decisions. That's all a part of this fishing program and all the many programs that we have throughout the city. Because we truly believe we take one, we teach one. If it takes one at a time, that's what we do.
 But we just really wanted to just come here just to show our appreciation, bring this guy so that you know and understand this is the work that we do. Because this is what's necessary in order for us to change the dynamics of different things that goes on in that city. The collaboration that's necessary with all of us working together. That's what makes a difference in our community. So with all that said, I don't want to continue, I just wanted to bring this and
 Just to show our appreciation to you guys. Because us working together, we can make a difference in this city. And we do make a difference. Lenny Lane has suffered a number of different things, but he's still on the front line. And we're going to continue to stay on the front line because it comes from here. This is where it comes from. That's how we make a difference and what goes on in our city. So I guess what, Lenny, just to say a couple words. Mr. Johnson. Okay.
 He said a lot, and Mr. President, I can thank you, Councilmember Wyatt, and all of the councilmembers. It's been a hard year for me also. I lost three of my loved ones, which my daughter was the one that my neighbor had run over, backed over with the car. That was one of the most hardest things for me to endure, and being a firefighter.
 at that and have to suffer a loss. But yet still, we are a forgiving community and a forgiving people. And we allow God to come into our heart and to forgive us and forgive those who perhaps may harm us.
 And saying that every now and then you guys present so many awards to so many people in the community and the citizens of Buffalo. Here's an opportunity to present you guys with an award and saying thank you for all that you have done for our community. Again, thank you for allowing us this opportunity as we present each and every one of you with a plaque of Certificate of Appreciation.
 You can come down if you're trying to take a picture. You can come down. We want you to get a good picture. So when you post it, we want our good side, not our balding backsides and all that. I think that's very significant. Wow, that's great.
 As they are, this is probably the last time I caught a fish was at one of your events. And it wasn't even big enough to keep. It was more like a minnow, I think. I didn't know minnows could hit a hook. But so many people come out to this event now, and it's so diverse, and it's so Buffalo. And I want to thank you. And as Lenny stated, Lenny went through such a tragedy, we were hoping you wouldn't disappear.
 I remember calling you the next morning, and I thought, this guy's going to be way up on 10. And you were so even and so forgiving, and I think that's what the city of Buffalo, they needed to see that out of their leaders. So thank you, each one of you. Thank you.
 All right. Gentlemen, we're going to have to take one item. Well, I think I better do this other business first. On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Ms. Scanlon, it's minutes of the stated meeting held on November 29, 2016, approved. I've already allowed the person to leave because we made a commitment to them that we would have them out by 2.20. We started a little late, and so we couldn't keep them. So if there are questions, and we will deal with the budget, if there are questions...
 um i would just ask that we would be sensitive to the fact that we did have a time constraint that we didn't meet all right so um not from the top we're taking one item out of order motion to take item six out of finance out of order second by councilmember wingo it is in front of us which is am i the right is that the one
 a lot of finance yes i'm sorry i was looking at item six thinking that's the wrong one all right um gentlemen we have the capital budget in front of us uh the city's capital budget i understand that our i'll turn the floor over to our majority leader riviera thank you very much mr chairman first of all uh you know working on a budget requires a lot of work and a lot of diligence and a lot of considerations and i just want to thank
 leadership on the Common Council, yourself, and Council President Pro Tem Chris Scanlon for the meetings that we had with the mayor and his finance people. What we have in front of us today is an amendment to the mayor's recommended 2017 capital budget. There has been some changes. I am going to motion right after a
 Actually, I guess we can motion. We are going to motion to approve with the following amendments. And I'd just like to talk about some of the amendments that we're considering today. Most of the projects involved
 consideration by the district council members to use their money for right-of-way infrastructure, improvement sidewalks, and overlay. But there are some items within the budget that we had to change. There was a change in the Fillmore District. We've allocated $210,000 for improvements to the kitchen at the Broadway Market. That also includes floors,
 We've also allocated $300,000 to the McNika Center improvements in the Lovejoy District as per request of the Lovejoy District Councilmember.
 City Hall improvements. There's a building line for $250,000. We've allocated an additional $35,000 to make it handicap accessible at the urging and consideration of the Council President. Thank you for fighting on behalf of those.
 folks with disability that come down to these chambers. In 2017, they will be able to come down to the floors. Thank you for pushing that item and including it in the budget, and certainly you can talk to that. There is another item in the Fillmore District, and it had to do with vote docs. And I believe the amount of money is Hamburg Street vote docs, $40,000.00.
 The rest of the budget, the amendments were made to local districts. Six of the council members have decided to leave money in the infrastructure line for improvements to right-of-way. I just want to thank the mayor for sending a very conservative budget, $14 million, another $5 million.
 million from prior fiscal year. I want to thank the Comptroller's Office to make sure that we retire more debt than what we incur. That has been the Comptroller's Office policy, and it's a good policy that we pay down our debt
 I want to thank the mayor's finance people for doing the great work and certainly all of the council members who we conferred with and council leadership. I want to thank staff, Sean Mulligan, who was going back and forth making sure that the council members we made sure that we got it right on paper as to form as to how the council members wanted it. So it's a very fiscally conservative budget. I want to thank all of those involved and
 I know that it's a tight budget, and sometimes we get to pick here and there what streets, what sidewalks we'd like to get done based on needs in our respective districts, and I'm sure that's what the council members are doing. So I move that we approve this budget with the amendments. All right. Council Member Golombet? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. President. You know, one of the places I don't want to forget, one of the departments, is the Department of Public Works. Since day one when I was elected here, I would meet with either the city engineer or the commissioner.
 going back to Mike Zira and Joseph Giambra, and over the last several years I've met with Mike Finn, Andy Rabb, Steve Basile, Steve Stepniak. And a lot of times this is on a Saturday morning. We'll go meet at a Tim Hortons, and then we'll go and we'll spend three, four, five, six hours driving around the district and taking a look at all of the different areas that need sidewalk improvement, curbs, street escape improvement, parks, and things like that.
 And I think that that's one of the things that, one of the areas that we should be very, very, we are very, very fortunate because we have those people that work in the administration, whether it's now the Brown administration or before that it was the Mazziello administration,
 that would come in on a Saturday and spend that two, three, four, five hours. It's become a regular rite of passage in April, May, end of April, May or June for people in the North District. They say, oh, who are you bringing with you this year? And it's like, oh, I'm bringing Finn with me. Or actually, the commissioner's coming with me this year. And we've had people that, you know, say, well, what time do you think you're going to be by my house?
 And so we stopped there, and the Department of Public Works has taken the time to talk to the residents and let them know what it is that we're trying to do. So, you know, kudos to them, and, you know, it's always a pleasure to work with them. Agreed.
 I also want to echo and thank the Majority Leader and our President Pro Tem. All of us were in the meetings with the administration, working things through for what the council members wanted in their district, and recognizing that by charter that does not have to be that way where you have an administration that actually works along with the individual council members. They could just send a budget. So I do want to thank the administration also for that. Council Member Franzenko?
 Thank you, Mr. President. I can recall in the capital budget used to be part of the regular city budget process before it was changed to the December 15th deadline. I can remember the very first year it was switched out from the spring budget deliberations to the fall. The council actually allowed the budget to go through –
 without any amendments because of a little bit of confusion as to, you know, when the time was to do that. So, but the council, you know, since that time obviously had put in its deliberation on it as it should in the charter. And this process has been very painless, and I commend the entire leadership for, you know, sometimes a painless process is okay. We've been through some painful ones. Yeah.
 They saw the need for the council members' needs with priority projects that are a goal, that benefit their communities, and I commend everyone as I get up in years that, you know, to have a painless process is a good thing. Yes, sir.
 So we're really excited about the access to, as Majority Leader said, for those in wheelchairs to be able to get to the floor. As you know, now when they come, they have to sit up in the birdhouse, you know, way up in the top, and we've got to take them a mic. And it was actually a meeting with Leadership Buffalo in which they talked about –
 kind of the segregation that those in wheelchairs experience when they come to a place like this and they can't participate like everyone else in government. And the council in the past has approved the resolution to look at that and it will not be, I know I'll get a hundred calls from preservationists who will say you're changing the chambers, but there's actually, we found a stairway in the back
 that comes right off of the 13th floor, and that it will bring the wheelchair right down to this floor, and they'll be able to roll right out here. And if there's a council member ever elected, and I'm sure there will be one day, who's in a wheelchair, they don't have to figure it out, because this council has the foresight to figure it out. So thank you for your support on that. Council Member Fontana.
 The cost of the bonds were looked at by Councilmember Scanlon last year and it was pretty eye opening to me his investigation that showed how much it cost per bond. I'm totally guilty of this. I'd like to have my own bond with my own wording in it so that no one else could get that money and the project gets done. But if that's going to cost me $80,000 to do it that way.
 As opposed to having a little bit of faith and being part of a bigger bond and saving money, then I think the controller has to look at that as well. So on some of these, I'd like to ask central staff, our chief of staff, to work with the controller's office to see where bonds could be sold a little bit more generally, hopefully saving some dollars as opposed to selling maybe a smaller bond
 and then spending more money in the long run so just to see what the best bargain is but still maintain the council members ability not to lose those funds in a money grab that could potentially happen if another project goes over over bit and the money just gets spent and then you're left out without it so that's the only thing i worry about but if there's a way to save money i like for them to look at that because i was really
 enlightened to see the cost of a bond, how much it actually costs. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. So, motion stands. Motion to approve. Motion was to approve. Thank you very much, Auditor Parkland. As amended. Oh, as amended, yes. Why don't you approve the amendments? We said approve as amended. Yes. Okay.
 You want to go through each one of them? No. We submitted this for the record, these other amendments. Pre-properation. Yep. All righty. From the top. Item number one, citizen services submission of monthly report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Fierletto. Item number two, permission to designate developer for community health builders. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Franzen.
 Item number three, designate developer for 825, 831, 845, and 847 Eastbury. True community. Motion to send to CD items four and five. And six. Okay. Second by Councilman Golombek. And I want to recuse from that, although I do not have any financial stake because of the relationships I have with some of the principals.
 3, 4, and 5. Refuse from 3, 4, and 5, please. Councilman, thank you. Second, Councilman Fontana. Item number 6, report of sale 196, Emsley. Motion to send to CD. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 7, Fisher Associates for the Buffalo Green Coat. Motion to approve items 7 through 9. Second by Councilman Pro Temps-Stanley.
 Item number 10, report a sale of 280 rollers and 495 East Utica. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 11, certificate of necessity, transfer of funds. Motion to approve items 11 through 27. Second by Council Member Fairlittle. All right, what I'm being informed is 11 is actually a receive and file. So...
 Motion is to revisit item number 11. Yes. Motion is seconded by Council Member White. Motion is now to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Next item. Item number 12, appoint temporary member to assess review board. Motion to approve items 12 through 27. Seconded by Council Member Wingo.
 Item number 28, full store license, 1021 East Ferry. Motion to send the light to items 28 through 31. Second by Council Member Wingman. Item number 32, second hand dealer, 282 Amherst. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombe. Item number 33, appoint chief building inspector. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member White. Motion to approve.
 Item number 34, purchase of auction and scrap of vehicles. Motion to approve items 34 through 36. Seconded by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 37, Buffalo Sewer Authority Board Attendance. Motion to receive and file item 37 through 41. Seconded by Councilmember Golombi.
 Item number 42, appoint assistant legislative aide. Motion to adopt item 42 and 43. Second by Council Member Wingle. Item number 44, notices of appointments for seasonal flat. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Pro Temps Scanlon. Item number 45, notices of appointments for temporary, provisional, and permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item number 46, Buffalo Cannabis Act.
 Motion sent to ledge. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 47, South Buffalo's exclusion from Solar City's workforce outreach. Motion that's sent to Community Development. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 48, 198, corridor environmental impact. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana, who has the floor. Thank you very much. I was a little slow on the trigger, so I apologize. The letter that's...
 there for the South Buffalo meeting. I think there's one in Toshkallens, but for the Solar City project. We recently just sent an email to the people in charge over at Solar City and also hopefully the state to ask for a meeting to be held in the Lovejoy district. I looked at the meeting dates. There was no such meeting. Last night at our Kysertown Coalition Block Club, been in existence 20 years, so they didn't know anything about it. Lovejoy is not
 South Buffalo, you know, it's farther away. So we'd like to have a meeting in the Ledgeway District that we could tout. It could be branded through our office so people know it's real. And then they could understand the severity of it because this is really where the jobs have to meet up with the residents of the city of Buffalo. And if we don't do that as a representative here in the Common Council, which obviously my colleague in the South District is and always does a good job,
 We're not doing our jobs. We need to make sure that we speak as loudly as possible to get residents to come and look at these jobs, hopefully qualify for these jobs, and then eventually take these jobs. That's a true...
 home ownership zone that I see happening right up Bailey Avenue, right over to Amherst, past even Councilmember Wyatt's district, get everybody involved. So that's what we're looking to do. But you can only do it if you're in those neighborhoods to talk to the people. So we're hoping they're going to come and do the meetings, and I'll keep you posted. Hopefully we'll make an announcement at the next council meeting of the Lovejoy District's meeting. Not that we're being parochial, we're not. But there's a set way things are done within areas. Thank you.
 If there's a meeting at the University District, Councilmember Wyatt's not going to go and start telling everybody in Lovejoy about it. He would be thinking he's going into my, just why would he come into Lovejoy and tell people about a meeting in my area? I'm not going to go over to Kensington and Bailey and start talking to people unless he gave me permission, but we don't operate like that. It's not like that. If there's something in Lovejoy, Fontana will handle it. If there's something in the University, Councilmember Wyatt will handle it. It's just the way it is. We can work together.
 Maybe there's a joint meeting and we both work together on it. But we're going to miss people by not having it associated within the general neighborhoods.
 And you're leaving out a lot. You're leaving out Schiller Park. You're leaving out Lovejoy, Kysertown, Seneca, Babcock. A lot of areas that I represent that just aren't going to a meeting if it's not close to my home. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And, you know, I'm a little disappointed that Solar City didn't take our initial conversations about wanting to ensure that city residents
 had an opportunity for these jobs. And when Councilmember Scanlon mentioned that he wasn't, you know, that his district wasn't considered, you know, it shows that there's some issues there. And I know that I attended one of the meetings that happened in my district. We have two of them. I'm thankful for that, but it wasn't all totally together. You know, there's applications for entry-level individuals that these individuals
 positions are not available on their website right now. So people are coming to get information, it's good information, but they can't even apply for the jobs. So there's a little, some pieces there that concern me and I'm going to be sending a letter to SolarCity because again, I want them to make certain they hear from this council and the residents in this community that we don't want to miss out on this opportunity. You know, Council Member Scanlon mentioned about the number of jobs that are out, the number of events that are going to be happening outside the city.
 Well, we want you to make certain that what was promised to the residents of the city of Buffalo, they're given that opportunity, a fair opportunity. So there are some pieces missing that I think we all have to be made aware of
 purpose, for perfect example, that these other districts aren't having these same conversations. Number two, there's not a good coordination between Department of Labor and SolarCity regarding these applications because people come for the information and you mean to tell me I can't go onto the website and apply for the job? Mmm, something is amiss there.
 But I'm going to make certain for my district and for the city residents that we make sure we hold them accountable, that city residents have opportunities for the job because these jobs are the Chevy and the Ford jobs of our time. And if we're going to lift up these boats, folks need these jobs. And it's very urgent for us to make sure that they've been patient through all this time. They've been going through the ups and downs of the issues of Solar City. Now it's time for the rubber to hit the road. There's jobs that's going to be available beginning –
 2017, early 2017, and we don't want a single resident that has the ability to get a job to miss out on this opportunity. So we're going to stay on top of this, and I'm supporting my colleagues that we want to make sure that every area in our city has the opportunity for these jobs. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, sir. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Just to follow up on something Councilmember Wyeth said he mentioned that they're not paying attention to the conversations we're having. I can't tell you how many conversations I've had with representatives from SolarCity prior to them releasing that list of information sessions. And when they released the list of them and I saw only one in South Buffalo, I was aggravated enough. The plant is built in South Buffalo.
 and to see that there's only one there, but there are four or five in the suburbs, three in Williamsville alone, I kind of blew a gasket a little bit. So I was a little aggravated. Then I see a couple days later in the Buffalo News a list of the information sessions, and the South Buffalo one wasn't listed on there. So I reached out to find out why, and we discovered that they claimed there was a conflict at the location, a scheduling conflict.
 Heaven forbid they reach out to the council members office, maybe we could have found them another place, a location, which I informed them there are many of in the letter. And I was extremely aggravated late last week. I received a call from the Department of Labor and the representative, to their credit, they took the blame for it. But they thought that was just going to be the end of the conversation.
 I called and said, listen, that was my fault. I was in charge of scheduling these. This was, I apologize. And then seemed to think they were just going to get off the phone as if they weren't going to fix the problem. I said, no, no, no, now you have to fix the problem. So I appreciate the fact that you took the blame, but now it's time to fix the problem. That's the second half of the equation. This company received $750 million. $750 million.
 to locate here. And it's been my experience at every turn, whether it be with HR people I've met with or other people, they're treating us as though we should be thankful they came here. But in my opinion, it's the other way around. We did them the favor, not them. They didn't do us the favor. We did them the favor. We gave them $750 million to come here. So I hope they do right by us. I hope they start scheduling more of these information sessions and start hiring the people in the city of Buffalo. Absolutely. Thank you, gentlemen.
 Next item. Item number 49, Purpose-Built Communities Accelerate a Holistic Change. Motion is sent to CDE.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. And thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to just speak on this just briefly because I think that, you know, we're having some issues and we're talking about inclusionary zoning and affordable housing, and we just happen to be doing some research, you and I, and some other folks regarding this purpose-built community. And I think, you know, when we talk about changing our neighborhood, some of us think that it's just a building.
 You know, but if you put lipstick on a pig, it's still a pig. You can put new housing in a poor neighborhood, and it's still a poor neighborhood. So this purpose-built community really looks at the other aspects that are just as critically important. If you put new housing in a neighborhood and there's no jobs, then, again, it still misses the point. This purpose-built community really takes all the very important aspects of a community, community values,
 community relations, community centers, education, and as well as small business development. It takes that and encompasses that all in a process that makes certain that that demographic in that community is affected in a positive way.
 We can't continue to just build housing in a certain area and think that it's going to fix the community. It doesn't. But I'm hopeful that once we do the research on this process, that this is something that we can incorporate in the city of Buffalo that really takes the effort to lift all boats. Because, again, if you just put a new housing development in the community, that really doesn't lift all boats unless those people who live in that community –
 are part of building it up. If you have small businesses who are carpenters, who are contractors that have an opportunity, that's where it really helps. So to do it the old way of what we've done is just putting, changing a neighborhood with just housing or whatever aspects of it, especially in the neighborhoods in some cases where I represent that there's poor of the poor of the poor.
 If we really want to make a difference, if we really want to lift these boats in the new Buffalo, we have to look at a holistic approach to how we do it. And I think this is the way. And I think you've heard some information on it. And we're going to continue to do the research and we're talking about the task force, the affordable rents task force and affordable housing task force. Those things, I think, once we really get into that process,
 Really, we're trying to turn Buffalo around in which we do things on purpose and not by accident. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was in San Diego last week for the Racial Truth Healing and Transformation Summit sponsored by Kellogg Foundation.
 And one of the best speeches there was by a Harvard law professor, or a Harvard professor who specializes in this area, and he brought up the purpose-built housing. He said probably the only example that he had of transformation in cities where it went beyond just race, it was socioeconomic.
 And that if you're going to transfer an area or transform an area, that the services have to be there, education. And Dr. Cash was there and heard the same speech that I did. And it was just a powerful thing to hear this because I know this has been – you've been championing this. I learned it from you.
 and to hear him say this is one of the only, I shouldn't say only, the best example that he's seen on rebuilding communities. So keep pressing forward. All right. Let me click this and figure out how to do this. Okay, I think I'm back. Next item. Item number 50. Oh, yes. Purpose-built communities addressing poverty. Oh, let's move the motion to send to CD. Second by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 51, use of 2075 Seneca. Motion to send items 51 and 52 to Ledge and City Planning Board. Second by Councilmember Golombek. And can we revisit, because I think that purpose-built community should also be a copy of this sent to, and we can just do it without revisiting item 2, the new task force, so that we're all on one page. We don't have to revisit it. We can keep going. Just send it. Because the recommendation will come out of CD. I just want them to be aware. For both items?
 yes committee civil service item number one appoint associate auditor motion to approve items number one to include wanting to want to second by 30 later review item number three notices of appointment temporary provisional permanent motion to receive a file second that comes for a field loader
 Finance Committee. Item number four, list contract. Motion to approve. Seconded by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number five, 2016-2017 first quarter gap sheets response. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Majority Leader Revere. Item number seven, concerns about permit fees for community center use. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Golombet.
 Community Development, item number 8, request creation of community diversity law committee. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt and, yeah, I won't comment. And item number 9, BG BEC entity formation. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Legislation Committee.
 Item number 10, food store license 970 Kizzleton. Motion to approve with conditions filed by the district council member. Second by Council Member Freer-Loh. Item number 11, public band tall license 67 West Chippewa. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. I want to speak to this item. This is where the law begins.
 I don't know if it benefits or I'm not sure whether it hurts because this is a venue and it's on Chippewa, but because it's a venue, this establishment can have co-mingling without coming to the council. It is a huge facility that will house or host about 700 people. It was just in the paper. I've been working with the owners to talk about how far we've come on Chippewa.
 Now, I want to be clear, and I guess we have to read this into the record, that this is not a bar. As a matter of fact, we did the motion to approve with conditions, and I'll read the conditions.
 67 West Chippewa, also known as 75 West Chippewa, is approved with the condition that the facility operate as a concert, musical, stage production, or entertainment venue only, and that it only operate when it is hosting a scheduled show or event.
 It shall not operate as a tavern as defined by Section 511-68.8D of the Code of the City of Buffalo. Should those conditions be violated, the Council may rescind its approval. Between Council Member Franczak, myself, and other Council Members, especially us who are districts right next to each other,
 this council in the city has spent a lot of time stopping or at least being able to know when co-mingling events were happening which were at times the cause of a lot of chaos because you had young people all over the place now this venue has an event already on the website for new year's eve
 there's nothing we can do about it this is a time when you already got a full downtown you already stretched for resources that if there was a commingling request i would have denied it and would hope that i would have had supportive colleagues i want to make sure that the public knows that this council because of the way this was applied for does not have the same hammer
 So that means if this club decides to have four events during the week,
 They don't have to come to us and ask. They do not, and I'm talking about an 18 year old, and all of their events are being advertised as 18 years and above. I just talked to folks from permits and license. They said this venue is the same as the Kleinhans. The difference is Kleinhans doesn't have a bar in the middle of the venue in which the majority of people who are going to come in there are going to consume alcohol.
 I will say that the owners, unto the owner's credit, they have come to me, they have talked to me, I've been buried. Matter of fact, they have sent, and I want to enter for the record, a letter to Corporation Council, Howard, in which they state that they will only be an event facility. I am cautious about it.
 But by law, because this is the way our law reads, we can't stop it. But if the owners are as...
 up front as they have been, then that gives me some hope that they get it. Because they've come, they've called, they came to the meeting here when I was absent last Tuesday. And so hopefully this does not turn Chippewa back to what we've worked so hard to turn around. Council Member Franzen. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm glad that Council Member Pridgen is so thorough about this.
 It's interesting that this venue at 67 West Chippewa is directly next door to 69 West Chippewa that in the past caused us a lot of grief because this section of Chippewa, just to the west of it, is a residential neighborhood. When you think Chippewa, you think restaurant establishments, bars that over the years have been more compliant with behaving in a manner according to city law.
 and decorum, but there were problems because there were neighbors with noise and people parking in their spaces and fighting and urinating and all those things. And we were very, very careful with 69 West Chippewa, where we believe that it's a case-by-case basis. And in your recommendation, we do not support those where the police don't have time to fully prepare for it.
 among other reasons. So we'll watch this very carefully. We don't want to inhibit business, but it's close to another venue that it took us a while to get to behave in a proper manner. We're hoping that this is not another one of those establishments next to the one we just tamed, so to speak, in the last year or two that's going to have to have a revisit at some point.
 And I warn, I just caution my colleagues, as we've dealt with this before, that these kinds of venues is what they want to turn Allen Street into. And I just had another case of where they took another business and they want to put yet another bar in that crowded part of Allen Street. So, you know, they're spilling out from Chippewa, which we have to make sure behaves in a proper manner, and now they're spilling more into Allen Street. And like I said, I don't think Allen Street should be Chippewa Part 2.
 Absolutely. And we worked so closely with the residents in the Fillmore District. Right. And we want to make sure that the residents in the Fillmore District who couldn't park in front of their houses, who had people doing all kinds of stuff on their property have the
 owner's phone number like the other owners have given them, but I think that, you know, this is important and we've got to watch it. And it's about public safety. I want to be clear. This is about public safety at the end of the day. And money should not trump public safety. Excuse it, it was not a pun. Richard Fontana. Just on that, because I'm not going to, I'm not in the district, but someone from my district might be inside this place. How safe is this going to be?
 Are they going to serve alcohol? That was said. Are they applying for a liquor license? I believe so because they've advertised, I mean you can see in their advertisement where the bar is. Yes. Is there structured seating like client hands for an event? Not that I know of. I think that there's movable chairs. And will they have a dance license and live music license? That's what we're giving them now. Alright, well, look.
 You're probably cringing just like I am. I would not want to be running a bar where I have 600 people in the bar, a cold mingled crowd. You can't see where those drinks are going. Once somebody with a band gets a drink, they're just past subminors and there's just no way this type of operation ever succeeds.
 Everybody in the business knows it. So I don't understand. If that's their business plan, I'm voting no because I'm not going to vote just on chaos. And I would never run a bar where I have 600 people in the room, 200 might be minors, and you've got drinks being passed between the people. It's just ridiculous. You know, the minor gets a 7-up.
 The 21-year-old gets the beer or whatever, pop, and they're drinking. And there's just no way to stop that from happening. Then when you've got an 18-year-old drinking inside your establishment, they get a little gutsy and go start a fight. It's just what you don't want Chippewa to be. And I don't understand how...
 And they never called me, and I didn't really ask, but how do you stop an 18-year-old from drinking in this establishment? My son walked in there, who's 18, he can show identification and gets in. Good thing he doesn't drink. But if he gets in there, is he going to be safe?
 And I wouldn't let him go in that space. I said, no way. When you've got 18-, 19-year-olds and 20-year-olds in there drinking, which they're going to drink, you can't stop them from drinking. There's no way this owner can tell me that he's going to stop them from drinking. So I'm voting no. And I hope he sees the light. And Councilman Fontana, usually at these commingling events, they give them some type of armband that lets them know that, you know, they're under 18. I understand. You could paint them purple. Yeah. You could paint them purple. They're going to get away to get a drink. Two people go in the bathroom. Psh, psh, psh.
 done. You could absolutely do everything in power to do it, but once you have 600 people in a room, it's just not, if it was a small little intimate thing, whatever, they could handle it. 600, there's just not enough. And what we've seen in the past when they have these concerts there, and this is not on this owner, I want to be clear, the parking, because there's not enough parking on the
 And so they park in the neighborhoods. And so I think we gave one of the streets permission. They used to put up something at the beginning of the street. I just hate to see this happen again. I'm going to ask Corporation Counsel to just comment, and mostly for the public, so they understand what the law says. Lauren Howard, Assistant Corporation Counsel. Section 511.68.8 of the city code.
 states that concert musicals, state production venues, state production venues or theaters, schools and amusement, entertainment and recreational facilities don't fall under the definition of a cavern. They're specifically excluded from that definition.
 And I think that we are lawmakers and we may need to look at that. You bring up a lot of good points about fixed seating. I don't know, but I think we may need to look at that so that we don't have other folks that are actually bars that are going up under the radar and saying they are venue. Because if you look at the code, there is nothing even in the code for venue that stops them from saying we are having an event every day.
 We could literally say, you know, we could send it back and bring the kid back in. We allowed them to have the last. Let me ask this. Can this be approved for a month or does it have to be to work this out? Or does it have to be. It has to be for the year, even if the council decides. Case by case. Like can be, you know, like 69. Let's check it off.
 So in the letter to Corporation Council that we just filed states they will not, oh shucks, you might want to part two, page two, that they will not have events every day. Here's my concern. Probably every bar isn't open every day. So what happens if they're open five days and they just advertise an event every day? It seems like that this might be a way to get up under the radar.
 So, Councilmember Rivera, you have the floor. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I was, they did, somebody did come and speak to the Common Council on this. And my understanding is their plans were, it was almost impossible to do them every day. They would have to advertise. They're promoting big bands and groups that come from different places to these events. They've talked about security, and as you mentioned, they're not a bar.
 And it's a concert, basically. And in concert you have, unfortunately, young kids with older folks as well that attend the concerts. And the parent might have a drink and the child will not have a drink because the parents are there. But that is something we just have to police. And you really won't know until this begins and you begin to get feedback from the general public and the people that live nearby about.
 But they did come before us and did explain. I don't know if you were in San Diego. You were in San Diego when they came in. And they were pretty clear. I wish he was here today, perhaps, if you had given him the opportunity to explain the concerns that are shared with us today. But they did come to the Common Council at one of our meetings yesterday.
 and state how they were going to operate. And I was made abreast of them coming in. Like I said, I've met with them, but it just doesn't take away... I think we have to be very clear from the beginning, because we'll start all the way from scratch. And I think that there's an appropriate place for different things.
 This has no parking lot. You bring up some really good points about things I think we need to look at in the future, or else they could end up in any district and just say, I'm not going to be called a bar. I'm going to be called a concert venue. And then what I'm concerned about mostly is,
 is public safety in that every other venue has to get permission for 18 and above. That way we're able to inform the police and first responders and strategically work. This we wouldn't know. And what happened on Chippewa before
 was when there was chaos, the city got blamed. And why isn't the city doing it? But if you don't know when something is coming up, I don't think the city should have to get on their website to look and see when they're going to have an event to know whether they need extra police in downtown Buffalo. And my greatest fear is that we end up with a tragedy and people say, the city should have known, the city should have did something,
 But if it falls under the law like it is right now, I don't know if I was the police commissioner. What do I do? I sit somebody and say, look at all the venues and we're going to staff? You know, one of the things that we have coming for us is a notification process for all of the clubs so that the city can strategically plan. We don't have it now. And this makes me nervous, but I'm going to support it. Council Member Fontana? Yeah, I've just never seen it work.
 any well-respected or experienced bar owner in western New York, when we were talking about co-mingling, came into these chambers and told us as council members, co-mingling does not work when you have bigger numbers of people. There's just no way to do it. I don't think Darien Lake allows alcohol to be served when minors are present. They know, they understand the risks about alcohol.
 If they were just coming with their parents, it's one thing, I could control my son. But they're not. They're coming alone. They're coming with maybe older people. This would be very hard to believe.
 What I've been informed by Corporation Counsel is that we can approve for one year and have them return. And then in between time, if there's problems, just like the other clubs, obviously, the mayor has the ability to shut them down. And I don't know if the council has the same ability, but the mayor, you know, I could have that ability to shut them down. Please come in. Thank you.
 So my recommendation is that it's approval for one year with the stated conditions which have been filed and with the letter from the owner which has been filed for one year, returned for one year to look at it. Approval with conditions for one year stated in the letter. I'll vote no two. I'll vote in the negative two. Okay. So Mr. Fontana, please record Mr. Fontana and Mr. Franczak in the negative. All right. All right.
 Next item. Item number 12, restaurant dance license for 228 Franklin. If there are no objections, items 12 through and including item 18, motion to approve. Second by Council Member Golombek. Item number 19, use of 399 Ohio to open Bar Beach Club. Motion to receive and file.
 Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number 20, Fool Store License, 635 East Ellivine. Motion to approve with conditions filed by the District Councilmember. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Resolutions, item number 53, Bond Resolution, Police and Fire Headquarters. Motion to send to Finance. Second by Councilmember Pirelletto. Item number 54, Transfer of Funds.
 motion to approve second by council member fontana item number 55 ornith's amendment to chapter 307 food belt residential pilot parking area motion to approve second by council member scanlon and this closes up uh the fruit belt parking now this is the last little piece that had to come before us i think this is an amendment uh so that we move this forward so first one in the city of buffalo and i
 Others are asking for it all over the city right now. We've got to figure out how this one is working and how this one will work, but congratulations to the Fruit Belt and thank you to my colleagues for supporting this all the way down the line. A lot of people don't realize one district council member cannot get this done if you don't have five, four other people with you.
 And this was unanimous approval, so thank you to my colleagues for the first residential pilot parking area in the city of Buffalo's history that we know of, unless they had one during horse and buggy days where you could park your horse and nobody else could park there. You know, other than that, it's not in the books, and we don't know anything about it. So congratulations to the Fruit Beltens and the city of Buffalo, and thank you to the support of the unions. Yeah, that's a big deal. Thank you.
 Thank you to the support of our unions and the medical campus, and of course the residents of Fruitbelt. Next item. Item number 56, adoption of land use plan. Motion is sent to ledge. Second by Council Member Franczak. Item number 57, repeal of conflict in chapters of code. Motion is sent to legislation. Second by Council Member Franczak.
 Item number 58, final generic environmental impact statement. Motion to adopt. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 59, unified development ordinance. Motion to send to ledge of city planning board. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 60, appoint marriage officer. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Scanlon. Adopt. The motion is to adopt, 61. 60. Adopt.
 Motion is to adopt item 60. All right. Motion is to adopt. I think we entered person in a group. Is that why you said that? No, the appointment is a back. Right. Okay. Second by the same second. All right. Item number 61, Chapter 265, Property Managers. Motion is sent to legislation.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to thank Assistant Corporation Councilman Lauren Howard and Sean Mulligan for their hard work on this. This has been a long time coming. We just have one more piece that we wanted to add to it to reinforce it so that property managers can be summoned to court.
 regarding any issues that they have. But I'm really happy with this new ordinance amendment because it won't allow us to have glorified slumlords in the city of Buffalo with a license. We're going to make sure that we stay on top of them, that they do their due diligence, that the residents are being taken care of and not taken advantage of,
 and this ordinance will make sure that we do that. Also, this is a renewable one year, so it's not something that they have forever. If we have problems, just like our deli stores, we shut it down and they don't get it. But again, I want to thank them for their efforts and thank my colleagues for supporting this. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you, sir. Next item. Item number 62, Commissioner B's public duties. Motion to adopt items 62 and 63. Second by Councilmember Fontana.
 Announcements of Committee Meetings Regular Committees Committee on Civil Service Tuesday, December 20, 2016 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance Following Civil Service Tuesday, December 20, 2016 at 10 a.m.
 Community Development is Tuesday, December 20th at 1 p.m. and Committee on Legislation is Tuesday, December 20th at 2 p.m. Special Committees is Committee on Education this upcoming Thursday, December 15th at 5.30 p.m. Councilmember, is there any announcements? Any breakfast? Any lunch? Dinners? Councilmember Franzen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
 There's been a good groundswell campaign in support of a resolution adopted by the Common Council regarding the intercity transportation project that's being proposed for the city of Buffalo for train travel with Amtrak, and this council has been on record unanimously in favor of the best site, which is the central terminal. We've urged people to register online with the committee that is meeting in these chambers this Thursday,
 which I think is the 15th of December.
 From 10 o'clock to 2 o'clock, we're urging people to sign up. We expect a full chamber with supporters of the Central Terminal. We have a website, allaboard.com, urging we have a postcard campaign to the members of that committee to support the Central Terminal. I can give you a lot of passionate reasons to support it vis-à-vis the east side, but the hard, cold, technical reasons also favor that location as well.
 And so we are urging if people need to, they can contact my office, look at the website for Dave Fronczak, 851-4138. Contact the committee, and the groundswell, I think, is continuing to grow, and we hope to persuade that committee that's been formed. Absolutely. And, Councilmembers, I sent out an e-mail with our representative, Dr. Constance Moss,
 um and then i went the way i was going to send them and send out her resume so you all are and we'll send you a number also to contact her so you all are very welcome to give her your feedback your feelings uh as council member franzak said we went on record supporting the central terminal i still at this point support the central terminal of some people who say you know but the neighborhood well fix the
 the doggone neighborhood. Not move away from it. Don't run away from it. To me, it is still the best choice for that location. Imagine trains coming back through there and the majesty of that place already being there. So some places are just already there. Yeah.
 Any other announcements? Council Member Wyatt and then Council Member Fontana. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just want to announce to the University District residents that we're going to have another Christmas on Bailey event this Saturday from 3 to 5, where you can check in with Santa at the Bailey Check Cashing.
 i want to thank mr arif ali for this fantastic idea we had a great turnout on december 3rd for our tree lighting um people are seeing this vibrancy on bailey avenue it makes me so proud and people feel good about the neighborhood they live in we still have some work to do but in during the holiday season it's really festive so again from three to five this saturday december 17th at bailey check cash you can check in with santa free pictures um free uh hot chocolate
 arts and crafts for kids so it's a fun day for everyone. The last thing is on next Tuesday, the University District will be presenting a solar information session. If you want to get solar panels on your home and to be able to benefit from the energy that will be developed as well as get some of the money from it long term, this is a session that you want to attend on December 12th.
 20th, right at Kensington Bailey neighborhood housing services from 6 to 7.30. It's going to be sponsored by Push Green and Solar Liberty. So if you have questions on this, they will answer your question, tell you the cause. I was at one of the sessions where it was very informative. They gave you all the details. It wasn't anything that they were
 pulling the wool over your eyes, but I think it's something that again in our community we need to be aware of and take advantage of because it really helps us long term. So again that's 6 to 7 30 on Tuesday, December 20th and they will be providing food. Thank you. Alright and I was on Bailey last week, was it last weekend? When it was really full, there was a lot of events I saw that
 you know, them getting ready. But Santa Claus comes to your district a lot. Santa Claus has been coming. Santa Claus has been there. He's in your district more than anybody else's district, so I'm wondering, like, what's going on? How are you able to get Santa Claus two weeks in a row? Chris, has he been to South Buffalo yet? Did he come to South Buffalo? He's been there?
 I'm not even going to, go ahead Mr. Fontana, you had it because it's been an eloquent one time, I just don't get it. They have more chimneys in South Park. We feed them. It's those homes. Yeah, Wingo feeds them too. So we had a great Saturday over in Hennepin this week. We had a party at the school, a party at Hennepin Park, and then a party over at Ben's.
 a thankful church, as well as another church on Gold Street with Reverend Robinson. And then I looked at the calendar. I said, where's Pastor Towns' Christmas parties? And they said, oh, they canceled it this year.
 So I said, well, we're not going to let that happen. Kaisertown's kids need a party. They're going to be having a party. So we're hosting a party. That's why I'm announcing it here on the 21st from 3 to 6. It's a Wednesday right by the, well, 3 to 9, whenever they want to come. It doesn't matter. And we're going to be having pizza and pop and everything. And Santa will come to Kaisertown as well. Wow. I heard from Rasheed.
 And he's coming to Kysertown, so we'll have him on the 21st at the Magnica Center on Clinton Street. The kids of Kysertown are going to have a Christmas party, and I want to thank the guys from the office and my wife for doing it. Thank you. When you talk to Santa, could you please tell him I want a new car? A new car. Anybody else? You want a car? Joe, is Santa Claus coming over to your area? Yeah.
 He was there for our tree-laden ceremony, and he gave me a test, and I was a good councilman. All right. It was on Facebook, so it must be true. All right. Yeah, exactly, because it's on Facebook. It's true. All right. Motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. To adjourn. Thank you, gentlemen.