Okay, we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Roll call. Council Member Bowman? Present. Council Member Farrelletto? Here. Council Member Golombek? Here. Council Member Nowakowski? Present. Council President Pridgen? Here. Majority Leader Rivera? Present. Council Member Pro Tem Scanlon? Present.
 They are both present by phone. Just to remind them they would have to unmute themselves by phone. We probably just need them to say presence for the record. I can see them. So Councilmember Rivera and Scanlon, if you can unmute. Yes, sir. Councilmember Scanlon is here. Councilmember Rivera, just for the record. That's on mute. I think it's star six.
 Star six on your phone, Councilmember Revere. All right, Councilmember Revere, are you present? Present. There we go. All right, we have Councilmember Revere. Councilmember Wingo? Present. Councilmember Wyatt? Here. Quorum is present. All right, thank you very much from the top. Item number one, call for special session. This item is open? No, that would just be a receipt. Receipt file.
 Second by Council Member Winkle. Item number two, 2021 capital budget recommendations and 2022 to 2025 capital improvement program recommendation. Motion to send without recommendation? No, it's here without recommendation, so it'd just be motion to approve. Motion to approve. With amendments. With amendments. All right, second by Council Member Rivera. Roll call. Council Member Bowman. Yes.
 Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Golumbac? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Majority Leader Rivera? Yes. President Pro Temp Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. I want to thank the leadership and the council members.
 um we had several amendments that we worked through and tried to produce for every district recognizing that these are very tough fiscal times and working with the administration to ensure that our city even during tough times
 that we are still doing the roads, roadways that are so necessary, sidewalks and other things that are very, very necessary for our city and for our residents. So thank you very much for working very closely with me. Council Member Nowakowski.
 I'd like to state for the record and thank the leadership for their work on their capital budget and making sure that all districts are included and spoken for in this budget. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Nowakowski. All right. Council Member Wyatt. Thank you, Council President. Thank you again. Thank the leadership for their...
 their hard efforts in getting this done. I think that would be my request for the last two years has been actually to address what we've been addressing as far as safety in our district. The residents are looking for speed humps. They've been waiting for the last couple of years
 So I hope that next spring that we'll see those speed humps manifest in our districts. When we talk about safety, then this is one way we can safely protect our residents without penalizing them. But they basically say ensuring their safety by making certain that when you speed up those streets, you're not able to drag race and things like that. So I'm looking forward to that to be added for next year. Thank you.
 And for the record, those items that were important to council members, we worked with the administration and got the assurances that that would be in this year's outlay because there was money from last year that all of it was not spent. We know that, you know, construction season was a little weird this year.
 We went to the administration with them all there was no hesitation on the part of the administration of the mayor Commissioner Finn to say that those items would move forward. All right, there's nothing in motion to adjourn Council president did we get a second? I know when it's a roll call when we said approve as amended I believe we did but I'll put councilmember go long back on it. Okay
 if we didn't. So that'd be a double second. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm just wondering, we had an incident in Mastin District at 60 Headley where the roof caved in and I had suggested that this be put in the capital improvement and sent the information to the council staff. And you seem like you haven't, you didn't receive that information.
 This is probably the first I'm hearing about it. We can talk about, I'll talk about it offline. I don't want to talk. All right, that's fine. That's fine, we'll talk about it. I appreciate it. All right, no problem. All right, without anything else, what's the next, is that the last item? Besides number three. Nope, motion to adjourn.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know this wasn't what you would normally do, but Councilmember Rivera is having a computer problem, so he was the one prepared. So thank you for participating. Motion to adjourn, seconded by Councilmember Bowman. We are adjourned.