Roll call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombet. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. I key. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council member Winkle. Council member Wyatt. Here. Coram is present. I stand for the pledge of the United States of America to the Republic for one nation and justice for all. As we remain standing, our chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. So here we are, less than two weeks from Christmas, and the scripture that is so common at this time of year, the one that you'll hear over and over and over again, this was the one that was read when Deb and I were at the Rockettes a few weeks ago, Luke chapter 2, where the angel comes and stands before the shepherds, and the glory of the Lord shows, and they're greatly afraid. It's an interesting scripture. The angel says, don't be afraid. Bring good tidings, great joy, Savior born. And then verse 13 and 14, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying, glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, goodwill toward all people. On earth peace. Our Jewish friends are in the midst now of Hanukkah, the festival of lights. And I was reminded of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s awesome, powerful imagery. Darkness can't drive out darkness. Only light can do that. Only light can do that. And we're called to be light bearers just like the angels that day as they came into a place of great fear, of poverty, of slavery, of everything that was common to them 2,000 years ago. It used to be when I'd hear somebody interviewed and they'd say, well, what do you want? And they'd say, world peace. I would just, I was irritated by that answer. It just seemed such a pat answer. But you know now, my age, I really resonate with the angels declaration of peace on earth. When I look around and I see everything around the world and just how much war, how much bloodshed, how much rage, how much craziness. On earth, peace, goodwill toward all people. So as I pray, I'm going to pray that we be ones that as Dr. King challenged us, that we bring light that drives out darkness from our city. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for those angels and the words that continue to resonate today. Peace on earth. Father, we live in a day when you can't watch the nightly news and not see anything but peace all over the screens. Peace on earth. Peace on earth. No matter what the circumstances, no matter what's happening around us, peace. Your divine peace on earth. I pray for each of these. who represent the nine council districts of our city. I ask that you give grace and peace and light to them as they go into their districts. I pray, Father, that there'd be hope released. Not hopelessness, but hope released. And I pray, Father, that peace on earth would go forth this Christmas season, and may it start with me and with us here today. Let it be so in the city of lights, Buffalo, New York, I ask in your precious name, amen. Amen, thank you, Chaplain. Council members, any memorials? Council member Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to keep in prayers Michael Griffin and his family. Michael Griffin lives in my district and he just lost his brother Lance. His brother Lance was somebody who was influential in my young life. I lived over by Burgard and Lance would keep me out of trouble and he would keep the big kids away from me. He didn't want me smoking and doing crazy stuff. And so his loss is very hurtful to his daughter. He lives in Denver now. But I talked to her and she talked about this man. And as she's telling me about this man who would tell stories and he was so very intellectual, intellectual type of guy. He would always use these big words. I had to go look up. But he's always had fun, had a big smile on his face and would help anyone. So I want to ask the city of Buffalo to keep the Griffin family in their prayers in the loss of dear friend Lance Griffin. Thank you. Absolutely. Council Member Golombek. Thank you Mr. President. My former neighbor Ted Belly at passed away in the past week or so. He was literally the oldest neighbor on my street. I think they bought the house in 1950 or 1951. And he was, there's only two of us on the street now that bought the houses in the 50s whose families have been there that long. Ted was a World War II veteran. He stormed Omaha Beach, I believe he was the first wave at Omaha Beach. And interestingly enough, one of my other favorite neighbors across the street, Mr. Costello, also stormed Omaha Beach. They didn't know each other at the time, but they were both there at the same time. Mr. Belliette, up until about a year ago, he fell and broke his hip. and was recuperating, but he would be out every day. He was a dog walker with the SPCA, and he'd have two or three dogs with him, including pit bulls. And here's this 100 year old, 99 year old man walking the dogs down the street. But just what a great man, a great neighbor. He's meeting hopefully his wife right now. He's going to be very sorely missed by his friends at the Legion Post on Wyandotte Street at his church and his children and grandchildren. Thank you. Hearing no others, we always pause in these chambers to remember those who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries across this world. We now pause in this chamber for a moment of silence. Thank you. We have a special presentation by Councilmember Nowakowski. Thank you, Mr. President. We are joined by someone who recently retired as the CEO of Leadership Buffalo, my constituent, Althea. And when I first met her, I instantly was gravitated to her energy. And she's a spunky lady. She's very smart. And she... talked to me about parts of her career and how she went from really a secretary to a CEO and I connect with that ambition. Everyone in the chambers knows about my ambition and knows that it's important to want to strive to be something better than yourself and to learn and to grow and to take that experience to make lives better for other people. So I'd like to welcome Althea down to say a few words about her remarkable career and I can tell you she's probably crisscrossed all of our districts in our neighborhoods, bringing people to see our amenities, what needs to get fixed, connect with our constituents, to ultimately give large decision makers more of an on the ground view of of the problems, the issues, but also the beauty in the city of Buffalo. And she really finishes a tremendous career. But if I know anything, she's not going anywhere. She's gonna have a couple second acts. So I'd like you to say a few words. appreciate this he's making me cry i got tears in my eyes and i just it's ironic that i've worked with all of you um in your districts i'm dragging my people through the city showing them the challenges that we face in our community um it's been the the journey of the lifetime i have loved every single minute of my tenure at leadership buffalo and again as mitch said i'm not going anywhere i'm literally still staying involved in this community it means too much to me i'm not going to be a snowbird i'm staying right here and to do whatever I can do to help all of us to make Buffalo better. So thank you so much for this honor. I really appreciate it. Thank you. We're honored to have you here. Family Promise of Western New York has demonstrated unwavering dedication to supporting families experiencing homelessness, which we know is a big problem in our city. I remember meeting with one of the foundations about the tremendous amount of homelessness we have. And someone said to me, well I don't see them under the bridges. because they did not understand that homelessness is not only about people under bridges, but those who have to move back home, those who are couch surfing, those who are in shelters, and your organization has been on the forefront. And this just briefly says in collaboration with partners, Family Promise of Western New York seeks to create a community that envelops, homeless children and their families in hope. That they are committed to a personal and family focused approach, recognizing the inherent dignity and worth of every single individual. Champions of the principles of self-determination, building trust, fostering a goal-oriented environment for families striving to overcome homelessness. And whereas through your organization's tireless efforts helps families find their way back home. providing essential support during challenging times. And therefore, be it resolved by all of the members of the Common Council, let it be proclaimed that the Buffalo Common Council hereby honors and celebrates family promise of Western New York for your commitment to building a compassionate community and supporting homeless children and their families with hope, personal focus, self-determination, and goal-oriented initiatives. Thank you for what you do and all of your staff does for all of us in the city of Buffalo. My gosh, wow. Thank you, President Pridgen. This is truly an honor. I've run Family Promise for the last six years. And you go to work and you put your head down and you sweat and you bleed and you cry and you just try to get families home again. Family homelessness is about 35% of homelessness all over the place. And right now we don't have enough shelters and so your support, your recognition is so important for us to be able to continue the work that we do and to get the message across. Just so you know, we're planning on building another Family Promise. I'm probably going to come back here and talk to you about that at some point, okay? But God bless you. This is such an honor to be recognized like this. Well, thank you. Yeah. Right up to God. Thank you. Thank you. And I have some dollars. Stephanie, see her for some dollars. On a motion by Mr. Ramirez, second by Ms. Scaler. The minutes of stated meeting held on November 28th, 2023 are approved. Council members, you have the late files before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files before you? Not taking away your right to pause the meeting in order to be able to review an item that you may not have had a chance to review. Hearing none, we will hear the entire agenda that is before us. Item number one, collective bargaining agreement, Teamsters Local Union number 264. Motion to send the finance. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number two, appointment to planning board. Motion to approve items two through six. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, and just note that one of the planning board members, I don't know if both of them are here, who we're appointing today, Art Hall, who is very familiar with City Hall and was one of the hardest workers and humble workers. But he knows what he's doing, so I think that that's tremendous for you to come back. Item number seven, report a sale portion of 20 North Ogden. Motion to send the CD. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number eight, report a sale portion of 17 Warren. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 23-2086 has been withdrawn. Item number 10, request to enter into a designated developer agreement for 669-675-679-681-687-689 Genesee. Motion to send the CD. Second by Council Member Ferraletto. Item number 11, resend the sale of 249 Newberg. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 12, certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file items 12 through 14. Second by Council Member Glumbert. Item number 15, change order 12 for engine 25. Motion to approve items 15 through 20. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 21, appoint emergency services manager. Motion to send civil service items 21 and 22. Second by President Pro Tem Scalab. Item number 23, food store license 244 Allen. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 24, food store license 860 Tonawanda. Motion to approve items 24 through 27. Second by Council Member Golumbac, who has the floor? Thank you, Mr. President. Item number 24 on Tonawanda Street, we just approved this two weeks ago. There was a mix up with the application. So anybody back in the North District that's watching, it's the same people. There was just a little bit of a glitch. It's going to be exactly the same type of a store. I believe it's North African Halal store for members of the community. So thank you. Thank you, sir. Item number 28, restaurant dance license, 107 Delaware Avenue. Motion to send the legislation items 28 and 29. Second by council member for your letter. Item number 30, sidewalk cafe license 141, Bittwill Parkway. Motion to approve items 30 through. 36. Second by President Pro Temsky. Item number 37, cannabis license notice 1307 aka 1289 Jefferson. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 38, commingling event application. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 39, liquor license notice. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 40, leave of absence request. Motion to approve items 40 and 41. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 42, notices of appointments, tent, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Ferlotto. Item number 43, appoint legislative assistant. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Ferlotto. Miscellaneous, item number 44, local 650 refund check for union dues during provisional employment. Motion to receive and file items 44 and 45. Second by Council Member White. Item number 46, negative declaration and short environmental assessment. Motion to adopt items 46 and 47. Second by Council Member Bowman. You said 46? 46. Just 46, yeah. Item number 47, urgent request for risk assessment audit of City of Buffalo employees on page. Motion to adopt. Mr. Chair. Second by Council Member Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm just going to articulate this that I late filed. It's just really at this point it's an informational. I did speak with the Comptroller at about 12.30 today and it was an amicable conversation between us both. She stated where her and her department are at and that you know I've been you know being diligent and adhering to timelines and you know keeping the ball moving and so that you know I can show that that people in City Hall are working on the matter to resolve it. She also stated that they she doesn't have a problem with it being escalated up or having another entity look into the matter, that she has to allocate her own resources of staff time to compile information and will be presenting a report that her office is still working through. And so this letter really just notifies the state controller that if they do a risk assessment where they feel that they need to come in to do a further analyzing and review then, Then they'll make that determination and that's forced. So this is an item that's just for the review of the council members that articulates the timeline in moving forward this matter for further review. I will be staying on top of the matter. There's a few other items that are in civil service that we will talk on. And from my conversations with the controller, I'm assuming that she'll have something filed within a week or two. And that could be filed and other people and other entities can take a look into it as well. And it's about finding out facts. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, sir. All right, next item. Petitions, item number 48, special use permit 1388 Broadway. Motion to send that legislation to city planning board items 48 and 49. Second by council member White. Civil service, item number one, appoint chief diversity officer. Motion is to receive and file items one through and including four. Second by majority leader Revere. Finance, item number five, collective bargaining agreement for local 17. Motion to approve numbers five, six, and seven. Second by majority leader Revere. Item number eight, certificate of necessity. Motion to receive and file items eight and nine. Second by Council Member Columbus. Item number ten, inter-fund loan for pumper engine and aerial ladder. A motion to approve. Senator, Council Member Furlong. Item number 11, Buffalo Olmstead Parks Conservancy 2024 proposed fee adjustments. Okay, the motion on this item is to recommit, because none of the Olmstead Parks are in my district. So I wanted to, the council members who had Olmstead Parks, they're increasing the fees. So if they don't have a problem, we can either recommit it or approve it. I have two of the golf courses, so if we could recommit it. Okay, motion to recommit. Thank you. Cool. Second by Council President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 12, transfer funds for public works and permits and inspections. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Rivera. Community development, item number 13, report a sale 130 rounds. Motion to approve items 13 and 14. Second by Council Member White. Item number 15, request council consideration of certain special use permits. Motion to receive and file 15 through and including 19. Second by Majority Leader Riviere. Legislation item number 20, Fuster License 1251 Fillmore. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item 21, Special Use 139, Vermont. Motion to receive and file. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 22, Food Store License 1370, Broadway. This item is in the Fillmore District. It was sent without recommendation. Approve with conditions, please. Motion to approve with conditions that will be provided by the District Council Member in writing. Item number 23, Food Store License 187, Essar. Motion is to deny. Second by Council Member Golombak, who has the floor on the- Thank you, Mr. President. This is a long time problem property in the district. It sometimes goes by 185, sometimes 187 Esser. It's at the corner of Oregon. It was a delicatessen that was shut down about 15 years ago for a whole host of nefarious activities in that time. It was closed, it reopened for a short period of time and then it closed again. But it's currently in housing court as per the inspections department. And right off the bat, I don't want to approve anything that's in housing court with the problems that they have. They're also, they have done work with fly by night corporations. I've driven by on the weekend. caught them doing work without permits on a Saturday, on a Sunday. They've gotten, I believe they've gotten written up for that. There's also problems with no parking. There's literally, it's a street that has Parking on one side and what quite often was happening was when it was open, people would park there. And so you had one lane down the middle of Esser Avenue. So for all of these reasons, community objections, etc., I am denying this application. So noted for the record. Item number 24, special use 163 Kerns. Motion to approve with conditions items 24 and 25. Approve 26 and approve 27 with conditions. Second by Council Member Bolton. Item number 28, special use 209 Comstock. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 29, property manager license, Royal Capital Group. Motion to approve item 29 and approve 30 with conditions. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Plains, item number 31, branded P. Alice as guardian of Chelsea L. Alice, 43 million. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Resolutions, item number 50, fee waiver for a planned Hawton Parks Community Workshop. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 51, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to adopt items 51 through 53. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 54, BASH, Buffalo Affordable Safe Housing Initiative 1. Motion is sent to legislation items 54 through 57. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. And councilmembers, these are the initiatives that our task force brought to us in their first report. There will be more reports coming. The task force was concerned about having another sponsor added to this so when I leave after the next meeting that these initiatives will still be on the books for us to consider. So, does somebody like to co-sponsor? Council Member Wyatt. Yeah. Got it, thank you. So those remain. Item number 58, excuse Councilmember Wingo from full council meeting December 12th. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Noakowski. Item number 59, ordinance amendment chapter 12, call to ethics. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 60, criteria for the selection of the city of Buffalo poet. Motion to adopt item 60 and 61. Second by Councilmember Noakowski. Item 23-2141 has been withdrawn along with 23-2142. Item number 64, support for New York State Legislature bills, Assembly 3907 and Senate 4477 and pledge to address tobacco. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number 65, transfer of funds. Go ahead with the motion. A motion to approve item 65 and 66. Second by Council Member White who has the floor. Thank you Mr. President, and I'm going to be supporting wholeheartedly the ban on menthol and vapes in our city is something that I've been reading, doing a lot of research on. I know the governor has proposed something and I'm going to be supporting this because I think that the ills of how it impacts our community are very dramatic. And sometimes we know these things, but we just sit with our hands folded as if nothing else matters, and this truly matters. So I will be doing all I can to support the initiatives from the legislature, which this is. They have something in the Assembly and in the Senate, and I think it's critically important. We're looking at things that we see every day with our young people and we talk about how they're our future But we expose them to many negative things and vapes are definitely one tobacco Smoking those are things that are really critical to black and brown community. So I'll be working with our Roswell, I know consultant Mr. Stan Martin, his business had been working very diligently alongside with me as with other partners to make this come to fruition. We are very much working and I thank council staff for all the research they have done to make this resolution come forth and we'll have more coming very shortly. But this is one piece that one of the first steps that we're going to be taking to support the legislation that's already on the table. with the state to support and push that even further in hopes that others will pick it up. Because again, these are things that continue to hurt our community and we have to do something about it. We just can't keep talking. So again, thanks to my colleagues for their support. Thank you, sir. Is that the last thing? Announcement of committee meetings, regular committees. Committee on civil service will be Tuesday, December 19th at 9.45 AM. Committee on finance following civil service will be Tuesday, December 19th, 2023 at 10 AM. Committee on community development will be Tuesday, December 19th at 1 PM. Committee on legislation will be Tuesday, December 19th, 2023 at 2 PM. Council members, any announcements for your districts? Seeing none, motion. Motion to adjourn. Council member Bowman. Good luck.