Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council President, Council
 Jewish life. The months of its comeback have blessed our universe. Members of our council have bestowed upon them the joy of life and prosperity. We will celebrate Hanukkah, the Jewish festival heard over 2,000 years ago in ancient Israel. Blessed by a ruthless enemy, the traditions of the Torah and the rabbis have created the Torah. They shall be find undeterred. They live out the lapse for eight days and nights.
 The miracle of the oil and religious freedom is celebrated each year by a light of the neural candle. Each night will be a night of hope, yet profound. What was enough yesterday is one single flame, one selfless good deed to usher in a reality that once you have lived, one day will never suffice. The accomplishments of yesterday may be the expertise for goodness and kindness. This calls to story through the routine and consistent actions of goodness.
 Sovereign of the world, with wisdom and courage, to apply the menorah so that we may be of goodness and peace to ourselves. In honorable counsel of guidance, there will always be a strife when I flock. May our word be more than we can serve as a beacon of our heart and spirit in our lives. I am a white rabbi. I just want to give to the people of this city who have been attacked for it, who have done everything else about it. We stand with you. We stand with our visitors. Our friends.
 I'm very much grateful to you. I'm sorry. Joe, Joe in the Atlas, a big area. He lost his wife. I was able to attend her home, which was just fantastic. A lot of people witnessed me here, and so was his family. They were one of the first families to live. As Doris told me, Joe was a strong supporter of the block. Always out there supporting his community. But his wife was right by his side. So he asked for a prayer. He was only 87 years old. She had a handgun.
 Her favorite thing to do was to be with other social workers. She'd buy t-shirts of her b-tches and bring them back to the sky at the St. John's house. She'd stay right there. Remember those. Remember those. Courageously. Stop and pause. For most of the years, she was at the Sanford Divisions. 19 houseguards left. Before you got to the corner, those b-tches would appear to be tired of the independent force not taking away their right to pause the screening and meet the judge.
 Okay, of course, we're going to be taking at least one item. Yes, sir. Take five and second. Second by Councilmember Scalin is the Mayor of Capitol question for this year and next year. I'd like to speak first of all, let me thank the leadership, yourself, President Perlton, and Ms. Scalin moving forward with the budget, the interests of council members,
 in mind in terms of projects that they would like to get done in their district we did go through the budget and we had dollars to be done in each district in terms of infrastructure and in some cases parks as you know budgeted is a item or document priority the priorities for infrastructure for the most part so i just want to thank you for going downstairs or being on
 and making sure that the council's taking into consideration the current agenda. But thank you very much to yourself. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President, and I thank you as well, the leadership, for leading and assisting in this. But I will be missed if I didn't comment because I think I've said to my colleagues and my concern
 getting the money when we have ARP dollars available to us. And there's a concern about those dollars not being spent in a timely fashion. The control board has made reference to that. And so I do have a concern, however, I'm gonna work with my colleagues as far as this goes, and we'll see what next year holds. But I don't know if it's smart if some of the things that we've been told have not occurred to date. And we're still gonna expect those things to happen next year on top of the capital
 that are supposed to happen in our district. Sometimes we need to pause and look at things for where we are and what's been told to us, what hasn't happened thus far. I do agree that some of the dollars that are being in the capital budget are very important as far as school equipment, cars, police, some of the capital things for some of our community organizations, absolutely. Those other dollars that are spent, and we know right now we have allergies spending the ARP dollars do concern me. I don't wanna lose not one penny,
 federal government and give it back. I want to make sure that we exhaust every last nipple. And so I'm going to work with my colleagues on this and hope that this happens. But next year is a different time frame and we'll look at it then. But I agree with you, Majority Leader, I appreciate your efforts and how we got this done. And we got it in a way that was not less and going back and forth as we normally have on this floor at this time, this happened. So I appreciate that. Thank you.
 Mr. Chairman, the ERP budget has infrastructure dollars as well where it's allowed.
 I believe that we will see items coming before the County Council with regards to specific projects in terms of RFPs that have been given out and I hope those are forthcoming. I'm hopeful for a very busy construction year because we're the ones that receive the calls from the residents when there's sinkholes in the street, there's potholes and sidewalks are crumbling and overlay and lighting and you name it buildings.
 So we do receive those calls and I'm hopeful to get those dollars back out there. I'm hopeful that our Department of Public Works has the capacity to get these projects moving forward this construction season. So I'm hoping for a very busy construction year and I'm hopeful that those items start coming back to us so we can approve them. So yes, as far as the Niagara District, I just want to get this into the record because we didn't discuss it.
 The 500,000 that we've allocated for Niagara District, I wanted it to be specific for West Ferry between Hampshire and Niagara Street. And I just want that part of the precedent because it does show here Niagara District-wide, but I wanted it specific for that. So I'm hopeful, being that it's on the record now, that Public Works does honor that. Thank you very much. So let's note that that would be a part of, a specific of the amendment.
 because you said on the record we've also discussed it with the administration correct and they did not there was no negative so that just so it's a little lack of a method to hire the amendment is that the half million dollar does go to for infrastructure work both sidewalks and overlay west ferry between hampshire and niagara street anything else comes from us
 If not, I do wanna thank leadership and I wanna thank the Finance Committee and everybody who worked together and the administration. We started out with zero and we got to $500,000. And some of the priorities of this beautiful chambers that we sit in, we know the start of the tier is $100,000. And then there's another $100,000 to get us to LAP.
 Another hundred thousand dollars to begin work on LEDs in this building, which is not only cost saver, but also to keep one of those beautiful buildings in City Hall up to date. And then the baby of the electric vehicles, especially for our fleet, needed to start the infrastructure.
 The council had asked for this, it hasn't even been a year because it was, but it comes from Columbus joined in Wendell and others because I think it's important that we begin to move away from the fossil fuel to a more of fleet and see it in other cities. So I wanna thank the mayor and administration for including that in this budget because we have been working on that for a while. And because we're seeing
 This generation and all everybody better get ready for it because in a few years, it's not gonna be any more gas cars. But we have in our city right now, those chargers who need our city to really take that next week. For some cities we're farming. So thank you all for the great mayor, Mr. Christian. It was days of it, it wasn't easy. We got it done on both sides, for people, that's all kept reminding us.
 as amended second by uh president pro tem scatman item number six for your strategic plan motion to receive it by second by council member to communications regarding the 23 capital budget motion to be funded second by councilman freeland and number two november 2022 snowstorm report motion to send the c taken by council member columbia and number three amend and extend downtown stadium leasing agreement
 by motion sent by my council member no council item number four designated developer agreement motion sent cd items four and five council member poll item number six certificate of necessity for broadway garage facility to receive it item six second by council member field and number eight certificate of necessity for rail to receive advice and the customer one fiscal year 2021
 for 10 reassessment project professional services. Motion to send finance items 10 through 12. Second by Council Member Traylor. And Senior Data Controller. Motion to send civil service sent by President Brooks of Scott. Item number 14, notification serial. Receiving file. Matters, year 46. Group items 15. Item number 27, certificate. Civil service items 27 and 29. 29, permission to ascend. 20, 22, give. Group items.
 Second by council member Kahl. Second by council member Kahl. Motion to send civil service items 31 through 34. Second by council member Kahl. Item number 35, G-Tech, no contract extension. Motion to approve items 35 and 36. Second by council member Kahl. Motion to receive the file item 37 and 38. Second by council member Nolte.
 39, no civil claimant for labor. Motion to send civil service items 39 and 41. And that comes to number three. Number 42, bicycle pedestrian. Motion to receive items 42 and 43. Number 44, Mississippi Missionary Baptist Church. Request support. Motion to send the CD items 44, 45, and 47. Number 47, special.
 of themselves motion to receive
 Second by our committee. Item number eight, regard to City Honors, school 195. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Norikowski. I just wanna make a quick comment, thank City Honors, the alumni, the students, the neighborhoods. This is about the closing of the street right in front of City Honors, so that it can be back.
 to basically historically what it was and there'll be playing fields there. Our concerns for the neighborhood was about parking, where it goes. We know what happens in the fruit belt in the medical room. So we did a test with closing the street for a week while it was snowing, while it was, and actually some of the neighbors liked the test because it didn't work traveling out.
 area but um doing this was tough but this mission is tough for the high school to move this forward uh from this council into what was fostering master i think they called it now that school that restoration process so thank you especially i have number nine booster license 33 23 33 23
 Motion to recommit. Second by council member Bill Carlson. And number two, for license form 74H. Motion to approve items 10, 11, 12, to approve 13 with. Second by council member White.
 1881, that's going to be the sunset clause for one year. They'll have to revisit us. That was a property that I said, the Gander and the Coens, there were some issues there, it makes sense to clean them up. And I just want to make sure that they stand straight and narrow. So one year sunset clause. All right, so state of the record. At number 14, session, who's for, or you're in favor of the stream? Motion. Second by council member, the alumni. Anybody want to put up a three finger record?
 yeah thank you mr chair uh once again there have been back taxes that were owed water bills etc this was an ongoing issue with bad renters that have lived there uh drug activity that was taking place there uh the neighbors and the block club members i'm not sure who the fellow that spoke to the council last week said he spoke to he said he talked to the block club members said they were
 aware of speaking or of anybody speaking to him but this has been a non-problem problem in that neighborhood and if he wants this property uh to be an airbnb they better bring it up to shape first and foremost and get some sort of a positive track record those are the reasons why tonight thank you sir number 15 special use motion to approve conditions item 15 and to approve items
 installed within a year for them. So this has some sort of contingent on the parking. This is a location that is basically being prayer facility. One of the dangers was the parking and so they did say that they owned the property next door to it and when they actually said it was here in the public hearing that it was a parking lot. I went exactly it's not a real parking lot so they wouldn't have to do it.
 I think I had a separate thing. But they did go to the neighbors, they did meet with the neighbors, they did meet. So I'm satisfied in allowing this to happen. They didn't need to provide. So that's a good sentence. Second by Council. Item number 18, special 934, Water Avenue. Motion to recommand. Second by Council Member Polk. 19, special. Motion to approve item 19. Second by Council Member Skipper. Item number 21, special use of 87 East Elkland. Motion to recommand.
 Second by Majority Leader, Rick Beard. Resolution, I don't know if you're in the state office again. So done, resolved, made her to see me. Second by Council Member Bolton. Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to speak to this resolution a little bit. So we know cannabis is legal in New York State.
 and we want to hear from the Office of Cannabis Management, speak with our departments, including law departments and inspection on how the regulation of retail establishments will play out in their neighborhoods on our commercial corridors. Some of us from talking to council members have experienced locations popping up seemingly unregulated. I've had calls from residents as to council member why they do
 with this location one. In fact, we haven't. So we just want to make sure the quality of the products, the quality of the business is there. And just like any other business in the city of Buffalo, there should be a permitting process. So interested from the Office of Cannabis Defense Management, how is Walton Manley speaking to you? Council President Sparrow? Thank you, Council President. Let me start by saying that this resolution and any subsequent legislation that may arise on anti-cannabis, it's pro quo.
 I think on the back side of cannabis being regulated, the framework for establishment of retakes and distributives has not been fully implemented. As a result, as Councilor has mentioned, we're seeing shops pop up that are selling it, that are quote unquote gifting it, and it's leading to some problems. To their credit, the Office of Cannabis Management last year, a symposium of sorts for effective
 This issue actually came up and when we had these discussions, it was kind of going back and forth. What could and couldn't be done. The meetings started reaching out to the attorney's office and it's like this, pointing at one another, like this person can do that and that person can do this. And so this resolution is really calling, asking everyone to come together and figure out how to do this. We regulate tobacco and hookah, vape shops, regulate food stores. So again, this is just about public safety.
 No one in this room represents a district where these shops are opening up knows what's coming out of those shops to the general public. If it's safe, it needs to be regulated, which is being safe. It's also creating some difficult situations in all these shops and seeing how many people at times. So they're tracking over the course of their hours of the day. It stands to reason they have large and large
 in the buildings and we want to make sure that everything is regulated everything is safe for the general public so again the just asking office of cameras management district attorney's office buffalo police permits and inspections all to come in and have a conversation get on the same page so we can regulate this and make it safe Mr. Chairman a motion to send the CD second by councilor Arnabonga Mr. Chairman a few years back when we did away with the
 the cameras near the schools the common council received allocations and we decided to use towards street calming whether with the speed hunts speed readers striping so we have allocated money to put it in public works and they have purchased some of these speed readers however we have not seen them go up they're in the warehouse somewhere
 And we don't know when they're to go up. The whole purpose of it was to have them up to come speeding in the city of Buffalo. And so we're hopeful that somebody from Public Works can come in and tell us if they're not up, when they're going to be up. I'd like to get them up as soon as possible because that was the whole purpose of it, to get those up where they need to be. So we'll ask Public Works to come in and explain
 Why or if they're going to go up some time in the near future that's what the resolution is for Motion to approve items 55 56 and 57 Thank you, mr. President today
 especially approving this item. And as many know, I had a year resolution that was in the Civil Service Committee, and we had a really wonderful robust discussion about an ADA advocate and someone that would confirm those duties in City Hall. And we had numerous speakers from the city come in and wonderful testimony from their view and their living with a disability in the city of Buffalo. And we're joined with my constituent, EJ,
 council of hawaii university district president uh todd who i really wanted to make it really importantly known that until yesterday we even met with the deputy mayor and they were able to have a voice when it comes to you know it did you know typical work activities so it really had their scrutiny and their advice that even was not seen throughout this document and we anticipate out the administration uh when this uh this position will be posted in the city
 and really getting the word out there to get a really diverse applicant to apply and also make sure that we have those preferred skills that we're looking for. And we're really here today because of these two. They show up in every space. They're there for not only historical knowledge, but for job done. And that's really what had happened. And those folks that are following this are seeing that the administration and I were a parallel.
 on a parallel track to get this done. And today, folks in the city of Buffalo that are living with a disability have been seen and have been heard, but they will be now seen and heard at City Hall. And that's important. Visibility matters, and I certainly know how that feels. And I'm just really thrilled
 and honored to have the ability to work with these guys here. And I had a lot of good discussions with many advocates that said, well, how does my council member feel? And I said, well, if I haven't gotten to them and talked to them, I'll call for a roll and their council member can vote and they will be able to glean their support for this when we roll call. And I wanna thank you for following this and of course, I'm gonna have to give 40 days because they helped when we went to put an elevator
 And I remember being told when I said we, so that those with wheelchairs or have more different to get to the floor. It was the former control in touch and said, since you got to dig through my office to get there, because at first he said we couldn't do it because of the nature of the chambers. What else? So for me, there was a will, there was a way. And we had an African American architect who was working for the city and we partnered with him.
 And we figured it out and then they told us what was wrong with it. And I'm really grateful for today and for them because it does matter.
 Councilman Polk? Yeah, I just wanted to say, well, I'm grateful for this moving forward. And the committee meeting, there was a lot of, you know, we want to see action, not just talking. This is a great step in that direction. And I think we built a great team at that committee meeting with the advocates and the residents that came for this cause. And I think it is important, as Councilmember Nowakowski said, to make sure that we're
 physician needs to have, the person who fulfills this position needs that lived experience and understanding how it affects every facet of your life. So I'm just proud to be a sponsor of that original resolution. Thanks. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to commend Councilman Brenda Wachowski as well as BJ and Todd for their diligence. I think it just speaks to the heart of the people.
 there's situations that sometimes you complain and say, oh, they're never gonna listen to us. But BJ and Todd and others did not believe that. They forced their way in to be heard. And I have so much respect for that. And I think that at Durn, it could be
 Civil Service Committee meeting hearing. I think we spoke even more to not just having a facility for them to be in, they should be in the facility or in departments already. It shouldn't be we have one person speaking for everyone. We should have people in every area, every department who have disabilities so that we hear from them, not going out and cherry-picking somebody, but you hear from people who are dealing with it every day.
 So I'm looking forward to us having more. I mean, I know we do have some with disabilities that do come into this building. And I think Council Member Noah Crosby said he heard from many of them. And so, again, this is a great day and speaks how government is supposed to work.
 um we're supposed to work for the people we're supposed to hear their needs and hear their concerns and make sure that we make a better way from so i'm really happy and thank councilmember noah kowski for his lead in this and making sure that those with disabilities have a better day better access to those who are supposed to hear and do their new conference thank you very much mr chair your advocacy in the beginning and that was the impetus for the language disability access the actual implementation
 every department that's under our purview, the clerk's office, central staff, our staff here, would make provisions so people that are handicapped could make it down to the chambers. They can have things translated for them in their language.
 People with disability come to City Hall and we're hoping that that same implementation worked its way Worked its way through every single department in city government Public works in terms of planning from zoning design to make sure that we take into consideration People that are handicapped. So I think this is the first step we're looking forward to the actual implementation across the board to see and I think it should reflect on
 with disabilities from the time you enter through the doors of city hall and you make your way up to the 25th floor this isn't just one position as council member wyatt mentioned we should have people with disability working in city government not just being advocates for city government you see that in different places now you see people with disabilities that are actually working in those places and i think we should reflect that as well so hopefully um
 civil service can look at that somehow. What can we do to include people with disability for job opportunities in the city of Buffalo? So I think this is just the beginning and we're looking forward to more to come. I want to thank Council Member Wachowski, Bowman and yourself and central staff and our central staff that have implemented the things that we are putting forward. They're implementing it so credit to them as well. Thank you very much.
 You made a good point about the 25th floor. Now my brain is thinking again. Maybe we can start having those conversations about the 25th floor because we have to be still at the wall, up the step-by-step, those stairs. And so let's start having those conversations. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very good. Item number 58, Commissioner Needs Public 2023 renewal. Motion to adopt items 58 and 59. Seconded by Council Member Noah Kowski-Lewis.
 Oh, yeah. Put your hand up here. All right. Item number 60, set public hearing for 110 and 118 South Garden Avenue. Motion. So that resolves. We're made a CDA council member. Mitch Nolikowski would like to speak. This chair recognizes council member Mitch Nolikowski. He's a busy guy today. Today, we have a council vote to set the public hearing.
 the property is located at 110 to 118 South Park. This action follows the procedure outlined in the eminent domain procedure law, section 202. The hearing is set for January 10th, 5 p.m. in East Council Chambers for Corporation Council to inform the public to review the public use and potential environmental impacts of the proposed acquisition of these properties. The city is demonstrating its commitment to following the letter of the eminent
 the city will then make a final determination after examination of all findings from the environmental review. As you know, this is a well-documented site in the Cobb and Cobblestone District, and after exhausting all options, we are currently here. Yes, the demolition of these properties is a pending case in litigation currently in housing court, but the procedure
 procedure of eminent domain of these parcels is a separate payroll track the city is taking and i would like to say for one more time for the record that the public hearing will be january 10th at 5 p.m in exchange because we're going to speak for the person who is the owner of this property they'll be able to come to this public hearing all owners have been properly noticed by this and i'm just saying i said it before because i think that i think quite realistically last thing
 The entire time I've been here on this council, we have never had to do with them in a domain that is not something that I personally would take lightly. Government, unless it's absolutely taking people's properties, and so I hope everybody needs to be heard here, because right after we do this resolution, we'll start to hear from people on the other side, and as many of us will in the next few weeks, so I think it's important to hear, and then to be able to make a decision based on facts.
 that's very important at least for me transfer funds broadly arrived and i just want to make certain that we get the list of who we're meeting as well as summaries regarding the money because i know it's a couple of
 an emergency there should be money coming back to us and so i just want to get me clear that if there is money coming back to us that we put it back where we got it from um and i didn't want to hold this up because i know that we could have another snow emergency tomorrow so let's not be foolish but we definitely want to know the details about um where that who where that money went um as well as if there's additional monies if there's money coming back to the city because i believe it was an emergency
 emergency so hopefully we'll get some reimbursement thank you thank you sir
 I just want to announce to the residents of the University District, we have lights up on Bailey again, as well as Main Street. I'm really proud of that. We're starting to give people, even during the difficult times, some happiness. We're going to be doing our tree lighting on Friday, weather permitting, at 530. We'll have the tree lighting so people can come and children can hopefully see Santa Claus, but we don't know what the weather's going to be.
 So if it rains, does that mean it's permitted? If it's sprinkling, not if it's raining, because as I said, rain turns into ice, so we don't wanna put people in danger, but we just wanna wish people a happy holiday because we know that that's really important, especially when you don't see a lot of decorations around in our city. We wanna make sure we can light it up a little bit. Thank you. Thank you. Any other announcements? All right, any other announcements? The majority of the votes are in favor of the second by-consel member, Joseph Golombi.