Okay, we're live. 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. Council Member Bowman. Present. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Golombak. Here. Council Member Nowakowski. Present. Council President Pridgen. At key. Majority Leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Present.
 Present. Council Member Wyatt. He is present. Quorum is present. All right. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag, and to the nation, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you all. Our invocation by the Reverend Dr. Al Warner.
 Thank you, Council President. I'm sure many of you are familiar with the phrase blue Christmas talking about the
 the challenges that sometimes come at this season that keeps it from being merry as we oftentimes talk about. For us that has taken on a new meaning in the last few days. We had two pastors who passed away on Christmas day and yesterday we were in Syracuse for the funeral of a close ministry friend in Syracuse. As I was talking with a close friend of Deb's and mine, Rob Goldberg, Executive Director of the Buffalo Jewish Federation, who
 As the council president will remember, a few years ago, helped lead a delegation from here in Buffalo to Israel that included both you and us. His precious friend, a wonderful community leader and philanthropist, Gretchen Gross, suddenly passed away December 18th. And so I recognize that well beyond just within our community, but in many faith communities, there's loss, there's grief, there's hurt, there's pain, there's tears.
 There's sadness. And I believe that probably people in each of our council districts are also experiencing that as well.
 So before we have an opportunity to speak about a happy new year or a blessed new year, I just want to recognize the ongoing loss for us all. And before I pray, I know, Council President, you'll have a moment of silence in just a moment. But on behalf of those who have experienced loss, I'll pray in just a moment. But just for a moment, let's have collectively a moment of silence for those. Thank you.
 Our Father, the scripture that you gave me from 2 Corinthians, God is our merciful Father and the source of all comfort. He comforts us in all our troubles so that we can comfort others. When they are troubled, we'll be able to give them the same comfort God has given us. Father, today I thank you that you're the God of all comfort.
 And I think of our friends in the Jewish community and their loss for Deb and me and so many in those that we knew in our faith tradition and for those across the city that have funerals way too close, up close and personal for too many. Father, I ask that you, the God of all comfort, would extend your comfort and love, peace, grace, mercy and presence to us today.
 I thank you, Lord, that you're present. You were present always when there was loss. And Lord, today, the same is true for us. I ask that, Lord, you'd be with each of us. And Lord, you said that you give us comfort to give it away. So I pray, Father, that we would be comforted, but we'd be those who then are able to extend comfort to other hurting folks around us. Thank you for your presence even now at the end of this year. And Lord, we pray that you'd establish in the new year a vision.
 and a passion and Lord life giving Buffalo community. And we thank it all in your precious name. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Warner. Council members, anyone more? Council member White. Thank you, Mr. President. Just wanted to pray for the family of longtime coach, legend in Buffalo, Romeo McKinney.
 He's going to be missing by his son Danny and his wife for a long time. And Mr. McKinney was respected by a lot of men in Buffalo, basketball players, coaches,
 We talked about him on your show and got an outpouring of love and sympathy from people who he led. So we just want to pray for his family. He was 81 years old, but his memory will live forever because he blessed a lot of players. But more importantly, he created a lot of men. So we thank God for him and ask for the prayers. Also, a longtime friend of mine, William Gaiman lost his brother.
 Irving Gaiman suddenly, and we want to pray for that family. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. Anyone else? President Stamper.
 Thank you, Council President. I'd like to ask the Council members to please keep in their thoughts and prayers. Jessie Conrad and her family. Jessie was a long-time South Buffalo resident. She went to St. Ambrose School and Mount Mercy Academy, and she's the late sister of former South District Council Member Jeff Conrad. She passed away at a very, very young age, and she leaves behind her son, Mason, and her daughter, Arabella, and she can be terribly
 Absolutely. Anyone else? We remember Tariana Wiley, who we just buried a little earlier today, teenager who was shot in the car. And we're also praying for another young lady who was in the car. I'm not sure if she's still in the hospital, but to see again about three, four hundred young people in the church mourning one of their own is heartbreaking.
 Maryland Dominion, and also Danetta McLeod, we remember, who are all Buffalo residents and all who have gone on now. For them, and of course for men and women who may have given their life for the freedom of our country or any place in the world, we pause now for a moment of silence.
 Thank you all.
 hearing no objections we will hear the entire agenda as printed not pausing your right to pause the meeting if you need to review something i believe majority majority leaders say we're going from the top item number one 2712 bailey ave designated developer agreement motion three all right second by council member y item four m t bank broadway market lease extension agreement
 Motion to approve items four and five. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Council Member Buhlmann? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Council Member Scanlon? Yes. Council Member Wingo? Yes. Council Member Wyatt? Yes.
 Item 6, Seeker Nugdek 172 Goodell. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Holt. Item 7, Comptroller Response, first quarter gap. Motion to send to finance. Seconded by Council Member Fairlough. Item 8, Notification Serials. Please stand by. Sorry, you broke up, Majority Leader. I believe this item is the receiving file? Yes. Motion to receive in file, seconded by Council Member
 Columbo. Item 9, change order Bergman design of bus I have traffic coming. Motion to approve items 9 through 22. Second by Council Member White. Item 23, appoint police lieutenant. We just need a roll call on that Bethany. Oh, I'm sorry. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrell-Lito? Yes. Council Member Glombeck? Yes.
 Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 23, appoint police lieutenant. Motion to send civil service items 23, 24, and 25. My present pro tem Scanlon. Item 26, new Tyler Handler 2832 Bailey.
 Motion is sent to items 26 and 27. Second by Council Member Golomba. Item 28, new use card 177 military. Motion to approve items 28, 29, 50. Second by Council Member Wingo. Was number 28 with conditions? Yes, 28 is with conditions that are written right there in the item that does not use the adjacent yard store. The rest is covered up for me, but as written.
 Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Pridgen? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo? Yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 31, Liquor License Notices. Motion to receive and file items 31 and 32. Councilmember Wingo? Yes.
 Item 33, notices of appointment, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send this. Seconded by Councilmember Noah. Civil Service. Seconded by Councilmember Noah Kowska. Item 34, appoint senior legislative assistant for. Motion to adopt items 34 and 35. And Councilmember Wenger. Item 36, reasons for denial of food store license for 671 Fillmore. Motion to receive and file. And by Councilmember Noah Kowska.
 Item 37, Special Use 1052 Hurdle. City Planning items 37, 38, 39, 40, 41. Second. Civil Service, item 21, appoint street worker permanent. Motion is to approve. Item 5.
 Oh, the others are finance. I'm sorry. Second by council member, the majority leader. Council member Bowman? Yes. Council member Farrelletto? Yes. Council member Golenbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Pridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes.
 Finance item 2, Auction Scrap Vehicles. Motion to approve items number 2, 3, 4, and 5. I invite the motion to be reviewed and reviewed. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Perilotto? Yes. Councilmember Glanbeck? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon? Yes. Councilmember Wingo?
 Yes, yes. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Community Development, item 6, McCarley-Pilot. Motion is to approve. Thank you, Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember Bowman? Yes. Councilmember Farrelletto? Yes. Councilmember Glumbach? Yes. Councilmember Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Councilmember Rivera? Yes. Councilmember Scanlon?
 Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item 7, concerns regarding user fee assistance program. Motion to send to the Finance Committee. Second by Council member Wingo. Item 8, Casanova Park improvements bid protest. Motion to receive and file items 8 and 9. Second by Council member Feer and Levin. Legislation item 10, food store license 778 Genesee.
 Motion is to approve with conditions. By council member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member, the member,
 Item 11, used car dealer 2284 Genesee, aka 2280. Motion to recommit items 11 and 12. Second by Councilmember Bolden. Item 13, petition in opposition to ZMA on 4668-7074 Leland. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Item 15, special use 2284 Genesee for vehicle repair in N3C zone. Okay.
 Motion is to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Golombek. Did you get a second on 14? I think we might have skipped that actually. Right. 14, we need to get to 14. Item 14, Fooster License 1245 Bailey. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Bollman. Roll call for item 15. Council Member Bollman. Yes.
 Council member Ferraletto? Yes. Council member Glumbach? Yes. Council member Nowakowski? Yes. Council president Fridgen? Yes. Council member Rivera? Yes. Council member Scanlon? Yes. Council member Wingo? Yes. Council member Wyatt? Yes. Item 16, Fooster license 671 Fillmore. Motion is to deny.
 Mr. Chairman. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski, who has the floor. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to state for the record that the reasons for denial are filed under miscellaneous item number 35, which is 21-1830. And those are all the reasons that are denial in writing submitted to the clerk that will be reasons for denial. Thank you. Thank you. For the record, it has been stated reason for denial.
 Claims Committee, Item 17A1, Campbell, Jeffrey, 15,000. Motion is to approve 17 and including 38. All right, 17, including all items to 38, second by Council Member Beren Leto. Council Member, President, I would like to recuse myself from one of those items. We can put them straight up. Item number 17,
 19 and claims. All right. Item number 19, Council Member Wingo, I would like to recuse as moved by the majority leader, second by Council Member Wyatt. Council Member Bowman? Yes. Council Member Farrelletto? Yes. Council Member Golombak? Yes. Council Member Nowakowski? Yes. Council President Prichard? Yes. Council Member Rivera? Yes. Council Member Scanlon? Yes.
 Councilmember Wingo? Yes, with the exception of the item that I've refused myself from. Councilmember Wyatt? Yes. Item 42, Father Conway Park funding and lease agreement. Adjournment. Excuse me. Motion to adopt the resolves, the remainder to CD. All right. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item 43, finalizing all appointments for the Citizens Advisory Commission on reapportionment. Motion to adopt.
 Second by council member, if you want to adopt 43 and 44. Correct. Motion to adopt item both 43 and 44. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item 45, Old First Ward flooding concerns. Motion to adopt the resolves, remainder to CD. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item 46, Carroll Street, Brinkwood, right way abandonment set public hearing. Motion to adopt items 46 and 47.
 Second by Council Member Winkle. All right. Anything to be revisited? No revisiting. Announcements? Announcement of committee meetings. The following meetings will be streamed live on facebook.com forward slash BFLOCC. Civil service, Tuesday, January 4th at 9.45 AM. Finance committee following civil service at 10 AM.
 Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, January 4th at 1 p.m. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, January 4th at 2 p.m. We also have the reorg meeting on January 3rd at 2 p.m. And also just to note that after January, we had talked about in February switching CD and legislation.
 because one runs longer than the other. And then I believe both chairmen were okay with that. So if we wait until after the new year, so that notices go out right after February for any February meetings. So just wanted to make a note of that. Any announcements, colleagues?
 No announcements. Have a happy new year. And we'll see you in the new year. Thank you, everybody. Majority Leader? Adjourned. Second by Council Member Bowman.