Call. Council member Bowman. Present. Council member Ferraletto. Here. Council member Golombak. Here. Council member Nowakowski. Present. Council president Pridgen. Here. Majority leader Rivera. Present. President Pro Tem Scalin. Present. Council member Wingo. Present. Council member Wyatt. Here. Quorum is present. Let's stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Our council chaplain, the Reverend Dr. Al Warner. As we come to the last day of this council session for the year and change coming to the council as well. It's a privilege for me to bring my pastor to the microphone, Bishop Tommy Reed, 91 years old, his precious bride, Amir 86. Wanda, welcome to the chambers as well. A pastor some of you might know, pastor of the Full Gospel Tabernacle in Orchard Park for 50 years, is now Bishop Emeritus of that wonderful house, but continues to have amazing impact as a leader on our city. He truly loves Buffalo. I ask him to have our time of prayer this morning. Can we pray? Our gracious, loving God, we thank you that you are in this room this morning And as we approach another day, another year, and as in just a few hours from now, a few days from now, we will be in a whole nother year. We thank you for blessing it. In approach to receiving your blessing, we are grateful for those blessings. I pray, Lord, that you will bless Buffalo economically in a way that has never been blessed before. Bring new businesses to this city. Encourage and bless the ones that are already here. And return Buffalo to the greatness that it had one day in our nation. And may it become truly one of the great cities of this nation. Here it stands between two great nations. One half of the population of North America lives within 400 to 500 miles of the city. Bless this area through this city we pray. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, amen. Amen. Thank you. Council members and memorials. Council member Golombet. Thank you, Mr. President. Kevin Sonnenberg passed away, the dad of my tenant. He's going to be sorely missed by his family and friends, especially during this special time of the year. Thank you. Any others? Council member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would ask the city of Buffalo and friends to keep the family of Sheila Webb in prayer. She lost her son, Timothy Webb, who was a phenomenal musician here in the city of Buffalo. He had a second mother who took him under her tutelage by the name of Ella Robinson. She was the director of the New Beginnings Choral Ensemble. And she took Tim everywhere she went across the country and even this globe. Tim died a couple of weeks ago. He was only a year older than me, and he will be sorely missed. The music community will sorely miss him. He was a force to be reckoned with. Tim was the king of the pocket. And if you're a musician, he was a magician, but if you are a musician, you would understand how vitally important it is for musicians not to run and go rogue during a set. And Tim would always do his job. And when he was called on or pointed to to do his solo, it was a solo you would never forget. He's one of those people who could make the skins breathe and make them speak and talk. If drums had a voice, He would make them sing because Tim would take the time before every performance to tune each skin on each drum. So Tim will be missed. I've known Tim over 20 years. His mother Sheila we're praying for. And I'm just asking for the city of Buffalo to keep that family in your prayers. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Hearing others, we always for these last 12 years have remembered those who have given their life for our country and for the freedoms all over this world. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. Thank you. Special presentation by Councilmember Rasheed N.C. Wyatt. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to bring down Ms. Alnisa Banks and her daughters. for special recognition. She probably doesn't know this, but this is a tremendous honor for me to recognize the Buffalo Challenger, the Challenger newspaper that was founded in April 11th, 1963, and has been around for 60 years. 60 years. And she has been the owner, proprietor, editor for 45 of those years. And you know, in our city, we have a lot of businesses Some of them have been around for a long time. But I don't know of any that's been around that long. And so many times it takes us, we don't have the same commitment that those who came before us had. And for her to steadfast with this newspaper, really critical to our community and setting the standard, giving us information is so important. And so we thank her for her steadfastness. And we also wanna thank the founders Calvin Kimbrough, Mr. Arthur Eve, which many of us know, and John Moore, who were the founders. She went back and did the research to make the record clear of who founded the Challenger. And so when you are part of something, you want to make sure it's right for the history, for the record. And so again, on this day, we honor her and we honor the future of her daughters for continuing this powerful newspaper that I believe the headline says, the byline. For too long, others have spoken for us. Now we have to speak for ourselves. We thank you for what you've done. So I'm just going to read the last part of it. Well, I'll just read some of it. Since she's not going to say anything, I'm going to just read it. Whereas the founder, each contributing unique talents transformed the challenger into a platform for thought provoking writing. Graphic design sales demonstrating their commitment as a labor of love despite full time jobs. Over the past 60 years, the Challenger has transitioned through various ownerships, all of whom have been black, maintaining its legacy and its steadfast voice within the African American community. Whereas Elnisa Banks, a dedicated contributor turned owner in 1980, has been an instrument in steering the Challenger's course. Under her leadership, the Challenger became a family run newspaper with Ms. Elnisa Banks working alongside her daughters Leah and Shola. Now therefore the Buffalo Common Council hereby recognize and commends the challenger on its 60th anniversary. And we celebrate its enduring commitment to journalistic integrity, community service, and its role as a vital source of information for the citizens of Buffalo. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you. Thank you so much. I have a council chaplain who has served us for 12 years. When I got here 12 years ago, well 10 years, as president I asked for him and for his wife. Come down. They both are gems and I knew that we would need the power of God on this council and in our city. Don't slip on your last day. Not on their last day. And I'm just going to read a few of the whereases for Reverend Al, but there is a proclamation for both of you because we know that you both serve and have served this city. And I remember the controversy of having a chaplain back. Well, there's chaplains in almost every level of government, especially federal. I've been to Congress. There's a chaplain, full time chaplain. And you all did it with such integrity in making sure that all of us felt your presence and was here. Reverend Al Warner has faithfully served the Buffalo Council since 2012. The 12 year tenure of Reverend Warner as council chaplain, has witnessed moments of triumph, endured times of tragedy, and reflecting the ebb and flow of life within the city of Buffalo. I'm usually not emotional. I'll just read the last part so I can get through it. Now therefore, on behalf of the Buffalo Common Council, we extend our heartfelt appreciation to Reverend Al and of course to Deb Warner for the invaluable contributions to the spiritual well being of the city of Buffalo. And hereby, my last signature, honor him with the title of Buffalo Common Council Chaplain Emeritus. Thank you for your service. I think they want you to look right up here. Amen. Thank you. All right, from the top. From the top. From the top. Item number one, designated developer extension for Loads of Love LLC. Motion to send the CD items one and two. Second by Councilmember Bowman. I got beside myself. I've got senioritis. I didn't do the opening. On a motion by Mr. Rivera, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on December 12th, 2023 are approved. Council members, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Seeing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is in front of us. Not taking away your right to pause the meeting in order to review any item you may not have had the time to review. Next item. Item number one, designated developer extension for Loads of Love LLC. Motion to send to CD items one and two. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number three, local landmark 1119 Genesee Street. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember White. Item number four, report of sale 295 Bissell. Motion to approve items four and five. Second by Councilmember Feulon. Item number six, report of sale 282 Leroy. Motion to send CD item six. Six through nine. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 10, report a sale portion of 79 Strauss. Motion to approve items 10 and 11. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 12, cash flow report November 2023. Motion to send finance items 12 through 15. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 16, response to Council Member Wingo, agenda item 23-2140. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Wingo, who has the floor. Mr. Chair, thank you. I wrote a resolution regarding the comptroller's offices, expeditious processing of some outstanding contracts that some organizations have with the city of Buffalo. Over the years, the comptroller's office under the direction of then comptroller Mark Schroeder, had parameters by which we approved our contracts. Since Comptroller Williams took office, those perimeters have changed. They changed under Comptroller Schroeder's tenure and they've changed under Comptroller Williams' tenure. I'm only commenting on this letter because I hope that the Comptroller's office only holds the contracts that are outstanding up to the standard of the time that those contracts were open. And not to these new standards that they will never open up or close up under. Because if you hold an old contract under new contract parameters, and you don't have the information for the old contracts. But you have the information for the old contracts under the old parameters. But you won't close the contract because of the new parameters. I'm just hoping that future council members and anyone who has, and I'm not the only council member, this body who has outstanding contracts with the city of Buffalo from our district. I would hope that the comptroller's office would only hold those standards to the time by which those standards apply to the contract. That's all I want to say about that particular resolution. And again, we've submitted everything for the time period that was asked for for the contract, and we only ask in the resolution. For the information that was submitted for the time period for that contract, we only asked for it to be processed expeditiously. All of this, I don't understand it, had to be written, but at the same time, we only asked that what we submit be processed expeditiously. And I am not the only council member on this body of members who has had to deal with very slow moving parts within that department. I shouldn't say parts. I should just say one part because the person who's responsible for processing our contracts is grossly overwhelmed, so she says. So I'm hoping that that person can expedite and process these contracts expeditiously. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you. Item number 17, change order for Niagara Street Bridge. I'm sorry, what item are we on? 17. 17. Motion to approve items 17, 18, 19, all the way up to 23. Second by council member Nowakowski. Item number 24, Fooster license 2619 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation. Second by council member Wingo. Item number 25, Fooster License 1092 aka 1096 Clinton. Motion to approve items 25 and 26. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 27, Fooster License 529 Dodge. Motion to send to Legislation Planning Board item 27, 28, and 29. Second by Councilmember Ferlo. Item number 30, food store license 896 Niagara Street. Motion to approve items 30 and 31. Second by Councilmember Bowman. Item number 32, used car dealer 2650 Bailey. Motion to send to legislation. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 33, item recall from Mayor item 23-1633. Motion to receive and file items 33 through 37. Second by Council Member Ferlotto. Item 38, notices of appointments. Motion to send- Permanent, provisional, or temporary. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member White. Item number 39, appoints here legislative assistant for. Motion to adapt. Second by Council Member Ferlotto. Miscellaneous item number 40, Buffalo Preservation Board. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Bowman. Item number 41, Forge Community Council Concerns. Motion to send the CD items 41 through 44. Second by Council Member Golombet. Item number 45, opposition to appeal of Preservation Board regarding 444 Forest. Motion to receive and file item 45 and 46. Second by President Pro Tempscom. Item number 47, special use 1076 Elmwood. Motion to send the legislation to city planning board item 47 through 50. Second by council member White. Submission list, civil service, item number one, appoint emergency services manager. Motion is to receive and file. Second by the majority leader, Revere. Item number two, appoint assistant corporation counsel two. Motion is to approve. Second by the majority leader, Revere. Item number three, appoint communication specialist. Motion is to receive and file items three and four. Second by council member, Golombet. Finance, item number five, collected a bargaining agreement for Teamsters Local Union number 264. Motion to approve numbers five and six. Second by Council Member Bowman. Community Development, item number seven, report a sale portion of 20 North Ogden. Motion to approve items seven and eight. Second by Council Member Wingo. Legislation, item number nine, booster license 244 Allen. Motion to approve with conditions items nine and approve items 10 through 14. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 15, special use 420 grant. Motion to recommit. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item number 16, special use 248 Allen for Tavern. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Galamda. Item number 17, the preservation board decision regarding 444 Forest Ave construction. The motion is to approve the appeal. Is that the correct motion, Corporation Council? Approve the appeal, okay. I'm sorry, just approve the appeal. All right, second by Councilmember White. Resolutions, item number 51, appoint marriage officer. Motion to adopt. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 52, budget and personnel amendment. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Nowakowski. Item number 53, commissioner of deeds. Motion to adopt items 53 and 54. Second by Councilmember Golombic. Item number 55, fee waiver for Kwanzaa celebration. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Nowakowski. Item number 56, moratorium extension, extension or short term rental special use permits. Motion to adopt item 56 and 57. Second by Council Member Nowakowski on the extension extension. Who has the floor? The extension of the extension of the extension. Thank you, Mr. President. I'm only going to extend the moratorium for one more month as I'm working with the sponsors on the legislation. That we're kind of coming up with a compromise and creating what my district would benefit my district the most is something for historic districts. So while we iron that out and work that out, we are coming to a resolution, so I just need one more extension. One more extension of the extension, all right. Thank you, Mr. President. Motion to stand. That's the last item? Yes. All right. Announcement of committee meetings on regular committees. Reorganizational meeting will be Tuesday, January 2nd, 2024 at 2 PM. Committee on Civil Service will be held on Wednesday, January 3rd, 2024 at 9.45 AM. Committee on Finance following Civil Service will be Wednesday, January 3rd, 2024 at 10 AM. Committee on Legislation will be Wednesday, January 3rd, 2024 at 1 PM. And Committee on Community Development will be Wednesday, January 3rd, 2024 at 2 PM. All right, council members, announcements for your districts. Council Member Beard. Mr. Chairman, I'd like to take a moment for a special recognition. All right. At this time, I would ask the Mayor and President Pro Temp, Chris Galen, to come to the front. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Today's recognition is in response. to the leadership of our council president and council member Ulysses Wingle. First, I'd like to allow the mayor to make a presentation. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I want to recognize our two council members who are outgoing. Ellicott District Councilmember and Council President Darius Pridgen. And thank Council President Pridgen for his years of dedicated service to the City of Buffalo as Ellicott District Councilmember and as Council President. I want to recognize Mastin District Councilmember. Ulysses Wingo for his years of service as Mastin District Councilmember. A district that I represented when I was a member of this honorable body. I know that Council President Pridgen has served on the council for 12 years. Council Member Wingo has served on the council for seven years, eight years. Thank you for the correction. A lot of people don't understand and see the hard work that goes into these jobs. The long hours, the calls at all hours of the day and night, the people showing up to your home. These jobs are unlike any other jobs that people do. When you serve the people, Certainly as Buffalo City Council members, your lives are not completely your own. They don't belong to you and they don't belong to your family. And while certainly those of us in government don't always agree, those in the public don't always agree, these gentlemen have been elected to serve the people, to be voices of the people, to be representatives of the people. So as Mayor of the City of Buffalo, I am very thankful for this opportunity to recognize them both, to recognize their service. I have city watches for each of them. I just want the public to know and those who are taping this meeting to recognize that these watches are not Cartier. They are not Rolex. For those of you that listen to some of the young rappers, they're not Paddocks. These don't exceed any of the mandated limits for providing gifts by the city of Buffalo. So Council President Pridgen, thank you so much for your service. Council Member Wingo, thank you so much for your service. I know that there are family members present for both council members. Also want to say thank you to the families of the council members because you have sacrificed a lot. Many in the public don't understand the sacrifices that family members make. There is a lot of stress and strain. time away from your family that goes into these jobs. I want to thank the family members, and again, as Mayor of the City of Buffalo, on behalf of the more than 278,000 residents of our city, I congratulate and commend Council President Darius Pridgen and Mastin District Council Member Ulysses Wingo. Thank you all very much. Thank you everyone. I have a proclamation here on behalf of the eight other council members for council member Wingo here. And I do want to read the entire thing. The Buffalo Common, we typically don't, but on this occasion I want to. The Buffalo Common Council recognizes and honors Council Member Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr. for his committed service to the Mastin District as he prepares to conclude his term. Council member Wingo has been a steadfast champion for the east side of Buffalo, actively promoting it as East Buffalo to cultivate positive and inclusive community identity. Council member Wingo's unwavering commitment to community service and continuous efforts to enhance East Buffalo have significantly impacted the city. Embodying his dedication to positive change and advancement of Buffalo at large. Council Member Wingo's tenure has been characterized by robust advocacy and notable achievements that have not only benefited the Mastin District, but have substantially impacted the City of Buffalo. Now therefore, let it be proclaimed that the Buffalo Common Council extends our heartfelt gratitude to Council Member Ulysses O. Wingo, Sr., for his devoted service to the Mastin District and the City of Buffalo. We extend our best wishes for his future endeavors, confident that his legacy will continue to inspire and shape the city of Buffalo for years to come. Now, Council Member Wingo and I did not get off on the best foot. We had a few contentious interactions here on the council floor, a couple of interesting exchanges. But we've had this conversation a number of times over the years. And we've come to a place where we really appreciated one another. And I know that's because I knew if I asked him a question or if he asked me a question, we were going to know exactly where one another stood. As the mayor mentioned, these jobs aren't easy and it takes passion to do these jobs. And if nothing else, your enthusiasm is going to be sorely missed. And so I wish you nothing but the best in your future endeavors and I wish you the best of luck. It's my honor to recognize a person who I didn't initially support when he ran for city council. But it was probably the worst decision that I've made in my life. to learn a little bit more about Darius Pridgen and his leadership. He's been able to set a course of action and to influence other people, and that's what leadership is. It's your ability to influence others to take action. He has demonstrated compassion for his community, for those that are least fortunate. He has fought for affordable housing. He has fought for police reform. He has worked diligently on behalf of nine common council members. And that's not easy, to go downstairs and work with the administration at times. There is a little bit of tension, we can admit that. And that's okay. It's okay to have tension. But I've learned how to deal with it through the council president. He has the ability to show clarity when things are complex. Sometimes he's up here and he doesn't know it, but he's making things a little more simpler for us. And he has that ability to bring people together to bring them with him. He will be known not just by what people say, but what they do after he leaves. There's no doubt in my mind that people will do things that he has said here years before. I was sorry to see him. announced on the 6 o'clock news, he called me up just a few minutes before. I'm sure he called the mayor first. And he says, I'm not running, I was crushed. I said, that is a huge vacuum. And I know that you continue to be a voice for your community. I know that you're passionate. And I know that this is the beginning of something new that's already planned for you. So I know that we're not going to see the last of Council President Darius Pridgen. I want to thank you so much for on behalf of all nine, all eight of us besides myself and all the staff, the central staff, the clerk's office, the administration, all those people that you have impacted. I cannot say enough about you and I'm sure each council member will have something. So thank you very much. Here is a proclamation. I know you don't like to read proclamations. I'm not going to read the proclamation. Just recognize that we respect and honor your leadership. Thank you so much. I imagine you're both going to say something. I can't hear you. Who's going? Why don't you go first? Keep it short, keep it short. I'll do as best I can to keep it short as possible. Three minute limit. Joe, start the clock. This has really been my life's honor to serve the residents of the Masson District and the city of Buffalo. I've learned a lot of lessons, I've met some great people. And even though all of us don't always get along all the time, we all have the same goal, and that is to advance for the people of the city of Buffalo. I just have one thing I want to say before I leave here today, and that is thank you to all of you who allow me to represent you for the last eight years. Thank you. I really appreciate the opportunity. I really appreciate the confidence you had in me to lead these eight years. It's not easy living a private life in the public's view. And with that being said, thank you to my beautiful and adoring wife who has supported me every single day, every single night. People don't understand the ministry of the wife of an elected official. It is different because every night we come home, she's responsible for helping us heal so that we can do this work again the next day. So I thank God for all of you. I thank God for the easy things. I thank God for the higher things, but I really especially thank God for this thing, because this thing has taught me a lot. When nobody else would say anything on my behalf, I have to acknowledge and admit that Mayor Brown has been a mentor and a confidant. I know that we're on two sides of the government, but as a man, I appreciate you. People don't understand, people don't know the mayor. They don't want to get to know the mayor because they want to believe what they want to believe about people. I've had that happen to me as well. Council President has had that happen to him. But when you have people who you can trust, people who you can confide in, it makes this job a lot less hard. So thank you Mr. Mayor, thank you Council President Pridgen. Thank you to all of the council members for all of the lessons you taught me when you didn't know I was learning from you. And to my buddy Mitch, I appreciate you. You guys still have somebody left to carry on the passion and the fire. Thank you all very much. I'll just share what Joel said to me a few days ago. It's good to leave the stage while the audience is still clapping. Thank you. And just one thing, I want to bring down Denise Beyer from Fruit Bell Coalition to talk to Council President for a moment. I'm grateful to be here to have time and space because I want, I don't want you to walk away ever feeling like we didn't care. I want you to know, you know, if it had not been for your intervention, and I had to tug you a little bit, but if it had not been for your intervention, things would not be the way they are for my neighborhood, for this neighborhood, for your neighborhood. We had to fight about some stuff, but it was good because the end result was that it was for the good of the people. Since I have been drawn into this position, I have done everything that God has allowed me to put my hand to, to protect that community and to do what I can for those people. And I know that you're doing the same. We may not always agree. Yeah, we're on different sides. Just like you're on different sides, we're on different sides, right? It's a difference being boots on the ground and being out there like that. I would never have you walk away and feel like I disrespected you in any way. Because even when we didn't agree, I always said, I admire your brilliance. And I feel like you are always trying to work your way to figure out what is the best solution. And I want you to know that I appreciate you. There's, listen, this is from the fruit belt now, okay? There's no Rolex in there either, babe, let me tell you something. But I want you to have something that you can enjoy and take with you and will help you to just relax and enjoy your new year. Amen, thank you. I do want to note for the record that the mayor has, I think in my 12 years, this is, somebody brought up the third time you've been in the chamber? You were here for football and we had the rally. You were here for my swearing in. And I didn't know that mayors didn't typically come down for the swearing in. So when I invited the mayor to come down, he said sure. And he came down and everybody was surprised and now he's here as we leave. And I just want you to know, I appreciate you. I'm trying not to say too much. I appreciate you and I appreciate your leadership for the city of Buffalo and all of our staff who they really make it happen. We just show up and get our name up, but it's these wonderful staffers that every day come in, answer the calls. Thank you, thank you. We're going to conclude. I want to recognize our city controller, Barbara Miller-Williams. Thank you very much for honoring us as well. All righty, no other announcements? Last one. Adjourned. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Rashid N.C. Wyatt. We are adjourned.