Roll call. Council Member Farrelletto. Here. Council Member Fontana. Here. Council Member Franzek. Here. Council Member Golombek. Here. Council President Pridgen. I key. Council Member Rivera. Present. Council Member Scanlon. Present. Council Member Wingo. Grateful to be alive. Council Member Wyatt. Here. Quorum present. Stand for the pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 We are privileged today to have the new president of the Buffalo chapter of the NAACP, the Reverend Mark Blue. Scripture reading will be coming from 2 Timothy 2, verses 16 down to 25. I'm new at this. I don't know if y'all read all this, but I'm here today.
 But shun profane and vain babbling, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. And put, and their words will eat as doeth cankers, of whom Hamaeus and Philistus, who concerning the truth have erred, say that the resurrection is past already, and overthrow the faith of some. Nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure.
 Have this seal, the Lord knoweth them that are his, and let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. But it is, but in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and silver, but also wood and earth, and some honor and some dishonor.
 If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctify and meet for the master's use and prepared unto every good work. Father, we come, O Lord, to say thank you. We thank you for the councilmen, the councilpersons, O Lord, who are here. That you have ordained to legislate laws for the city, to legislate the good, the moral.
 to legislate for the poor and for the rich. Lord, we ask that you remove any barriers that will prevent them from acting, oh Lord, on behalf of this constituency and on behalf of you. Lord, we thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, President Blue. Councilmembers, any memorials? Councilmember Franczak.
 Yes, I would like to remember Jim Kane, who held many public offices, but I remember him best as a member of the Buffalo County Council. And I served with Jim here on the council floor.
 No more, indeed, dynamic, smart men you wouldn't have found. We had so much passion and energy. We engaged for South Buffalo, but also for the entire city. I used to watch him with admiration because I was newly elected. I watched him say, wow, this guy has really got it.
 And I recall once he was talking about policies for the fire department, and he's a home fireman, his wife was a firefighter. So he actually like jumped out of his chair and took the microphone and was like walking up and down just saying, you're not going to touch this fire department.
 And I was really impressed with all that. See, I said, I could never do something like that. Wow, that guy really, when he believes something, he really went to town with it and he was so passionate. I saw him in private circumstances and in, you know, restaurants. I've heard someone jump up on a chair to start singing an Irish song with all the verses. I said, wow, I don't know...
 if I could do that, you know. I couldn't sing the Irish song, maybe I could sing the Polish one, but I was just impressed with his, the richness of his cultural background, his intelligence as a councilman. And then I went to a debate that he had
 against Jack Kemp. He was running against Jack Kemp, and Jack Kemp was known nationally for Congress. And I went to debate at one of the schools, and I thought that Jim Kane hit Jack Kemp's rear. I thought he did so well in that debate, I said, this guy's got to win. And he didn't. He came very close, but he was challenging this nationally known giant. And here's a guy from Buffalo who I thought argued so well and intelligently against
 Jack Kemp was a very smart man himself. But so it's a great loss for the city of Buffalo, and certainly we feel a kingly here on our body here. Absolutely. Council members, any other questions?
 And I attended along with so many of you, especially to our colleague Chris Scanlon who actually has family relations. I don't know if I've ever waited that long in line at a wake. Councilmember White and I went in the line and how many people were there. And I don't know whether it was a South Buffalo reunion or a Buffalo reunion.
 But people who are all over the place and pictures of all kinds of people. And I believe that he was more of a statesman than a politician. And so we will remember him.
 So if there are no others, as we always do, we remember our servicemen and women, civilians who have given their life for the freedom of our country and other countries since our last meeting. We pause in these chambers for a moment of silence. You may be seated.
 The first presentation today is going to the Kwanzaa Committee. If they can come down. Yesterday marked the beginning of Kwanzaa, which is a way of living. It is not a religious holiday. It is a
 a way of living and bringing people together. I was honored to be there yesterday for the opening corner of the, this is the 50th year, right, of Kwanzaa. I'll let these folks talk about how long it's been in Buffalo, but when I took the resolution, it was just a resolution that was acknowledging it.
 And I went back and we redid that resolution because it needs to be more than acknowledged. And I know usually it's the mayor who declares, but council can declare also. So we decided not to make it Kwanzaa Day, because as I sat there last night, they kept saying, it's not about a day.
 Kwanzaa should be every day, working together, cooperative economics. I'll go through them all, but I would mess them all up. You know, I learned a whole lot of new African words last night and all kinds of stuff. I could probably do a little dance for you all, but it would be a mess. But I want to say to this committee from the council, thank you for keeping people working together in our city. So we have proclaimed the day of Kwanzaa, and I said this last night, we're giving you a whole week.
 from December 26th to January 1st, Kwanzaa Week in the City of Buffalo on behalf of the Common Council. There's some photos here, and you all talk about the Kwanzaa and what's happening in Buffalo, because as I understand it, this is one of the biggest in the country of Kwanzaa celebration.
 Greetings, everybody. My name is Venetta Tashika-Rhodes, OC. And I'm Brother Sam Raffer. As if you didn't know already. Thank you.
 Greetings to you, happy holidays And especially a happy blessed Kwanzaa Kwanzaa is as Pastor Pridgen mentioned A cultural holiday And by saying it's a cultural holiday That means everybody can celebrate it You can be a Christian and celebrate Kwanzaa You can be Jewish and celebrate Kwanzaa You can be a Buddhist, Muslim And all come and celebrate Kwanzaa It's a celebration From December 26th to January 1st
 of African culture and all of our achievements and fruits of improvement for our community. And it restores us as remembering we are a part of humanity, we are a part of human family. And it also, it has seven principles that I'm not sure if I'm supposed to go through now, but that we keep alive all throughout the year, every day, 365.
 days a year. And yes, it is the 50th anniversary. It started in 1966.
 by Dr. Milana Karenga. It has been practiced in Buffalo since 1966 by different committees and different individuals throughout the community. However, it came together as a committee, the Kwanzaa Committee of Buffalo in the early 1980s and has been going strong ever since. And so we thank our foremothers and forefathers for bringing that together for us. We thank the Buffalo community, all of the Buffalo community
 for making it a part of the history and culture of Buffalo, New York, and we especially want to thank the Common Council because without the Common Council, we would not receive the support and the reinforcement among the communities to show that there is a need for Kwanzaa here, and so we hope that our presence and our relationship continues for another 50 years. And we want to thank Reverend Pastor Brother,
 Pridgen, Council President, this is my first time ever being here, so pardon me. Council President Pridgen for coming out last night and sitting through the program, and boy, you know, when he comes, he lights a fire to it, and that's what he did. So thank you.
 Yes, and so let me just tell everybody, Dr. Malana Karenga, the creator of Kwanzaa, is here in Buffalo. I just picked him up. He's here in Buffalo, so he comes to Buffalo every year. He's only going to two places. He starts in Los Angeles, and he said this year, the 50th anniversary, because Buffalo has been so loyal and so supportive, he was making Buffalo the first place he came outside of Los Angeles. Yes.
 Yes, so he'll be at the Performing Arts High School tonight at 450 Madison Avenue. He'll be there at 6 o'clock for a book signing. He has a book on the history of Kwanzaa. Then he will be speaking at 8 p.m. So join us at the Performing Arts School tonight, and you can hear directly from the creator of Kwanzaa.
 And the second principle is just to do what I was told, given my merchant orders. Every day represents a principle. The first principle was yesterday, which is Umoja. Can you repeat after me? Umoja. Umoja.
 which is Swahili for unity. And then the second day, which is today, is Kujijakalia, you can try that please. Kujijakalia. Which is self-determination. Okay, tomorrow is Ujima. Ujima. Which is collective work and responsibility. Ujamaa. Ujamaa. Which is cooperative economics. Next is Nia. Nia. Which is purpose. Purpose. Okay, and next, sorry, I'm a teacher, so now it's starting to kick in. Okay.
 So, and the next one is Kuumba, which is creativity. And finally, the seventh day and last day of Kwanzaa is Imani. Imani represents faith. And those are the seven principles that you keep alive in your heart, your spirit, and in everything you do so you can produce the greatest fruit for our communities and our people abroad, locally and across the globe. Ashe. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 This is wonderful. I don't want to do this. I want you to do this. And maybe the clerk. So we have a special presentation and usually council members do the presentations. But I want, is Millie down? Oh, she's running the office. I want the clerk, if you all have been married in the last couple years, how long you been here, Jerry? Well, 34 years.
 His name is on your marriage certificate if you were born here. His name is on your birth certificate. I think the only one of us on the council whose name might be Chris and Joel, if you look at your birth certificate, it probably has Jerry's name. So together, they have a special presentation. Whereas the success of democratic governance...
 Paramount to any resurgent city is built on the bedrock of the civic commitment demonstrated by many public servants, whereas one such public servant who has gone above and beyond to stand out as a shining example among many through a career in the city for 33 years in the Office of Treasury, Parking Violations Bureau, Board of Education, and the City Clerk's Office is Laura Rosinski.
 Whereas her personal decency and technical proficiency will be a legacy to last in these halls long after her retirement. And whereas in her many years of selfless service to the city, she has earned the great admiration of her many colleagues, family, and friends. Now therefore, we members of the City of Buffalo Common Council hereby proclaim that, in observance of the end of a distinguished career,
 Thursday, December 29th, 2016, shall be Laura Racinski Day in the City of Buffalo. Thank you. Oh, thank you. I said I didn't want to cry. Don't make me cry. Thank you very much. It's been a wonderful, wonderful run. I can officially say I have my own day. So thank you. Thank you.
 When I got to the council, Laura's daughter was working in the office part-time, and she used to call me her dad. So whenever people would come in and I'd be in office, she would say, Dad, and obviously her daughter looks like her.
 You have people always turning around, kind of looking. And the more people would look, the more she would lay it on. And I would say stuff like, did you tell me what you wanted for Christmas yet? So we're going to miss you so, so very much. Just a stellar employee and just a beautiful person. And when you have people like that, you honor them. And so if you ever want to come back and work part-time or do something like that, we'll leave the light on for you. Thank you.
 On a motion by Mr. Revere, seconded by Ms. Scanlon, the minutes of the meeting held on December 13, 2016 are approved. You have all of the late files in front of you. Are there any objections to any of the late files that are in front of you? Seeing no objections to any of the late files in front of you, we will proceed with the entire agenda. It does not take away your right to object as those items come before us. I believe the Majority Leader is going to take two items out of order.
 Mr. Chairman, motion is to take items 34 out of ledge and items 15, Green Coat Development Ordinance. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt.
 Item number 50, finding statement for green code, SEQR. Motion is to adopt. Motion to adopt, seconded by Council Member Franczak. Item 15, out of legislation, green code, unified development ordinance. Mr. Chairman, it's a great day here in the city of Buffalo, and I'd like to thank the mayor and his Office of Strategic Planning for the hard work
 for this great piece of legislation. I'd also like to thank Executive Director Brennan Mahaffey and his team, Nadine Moreo, Chris Pauley, Nate Newman. There's so many people, central staff, our staff, the chairman of the Legislation Committee,
 John Fell, and Chairman of the Legislation Committee over the period of almost six years. We had Chris Gallen chair it for a while, and then we had Councilmember Dave Franze. We went to literally hundreds of meetings. We had input, engagement.
 And we came up with a document that is much better than what we have today. This is a document that's going to lead the city into its future development. And certainly it couldn't have happened without all of the work and participation of the public. This has been the most transparent document.
 process that I've ever been through here as a council member. So there's so many people to thank, and this document, certainly there were people that wanted to include certain things in this document that aren't included in the document. It's never perfect, but there is a process for amending documents, and hopefully there won't be too many amendments to this document. But with that, I'd just like to turn it over to you, and you can present some of the people that are here.
 Well, I think you did a wonderful job in presenting. I want to thank you as the Majority Leader for really helping, especially when we got into the thick of it. Yourself and Councilmember Franczak, of course, held meetings at night, which we don't normally do, but it was important to do that so that the public can be involved.
 I think that maybe John and all those other folks will finally get a night's rest because no matter where, what district, how many times we asked them to come into the districts, they came and they came with their entire team and they listened to everybody. Sometimes I didn't know whether they were listening because it was like they had to listen to so much, but when you look at the document at the end,
 They did. And this council, to every council member who is on this council, every council member went into their districts, every single one of them, and worked with constituents. And that's important. And to the administration, to the mayor, because it was from the administration that this was birthed.
 And as a matter of fact, I wasn't even elected yet, and I was on the committee that chose the folks to bring this through. And that took, so that was even, you know, half a year beforehand. And Buffalo is about to step into its own through this code. The last code was made to make Buffalo look like the suburbs.
 Now Buffalo is going to look like Buffalo. And I think that's what we can celebrate all together, that Buffalo is going to look like Buffalo. Everybody might not be happy, but as Councilmember Franczak says, who is the longest serving Councilmember here, if everybody's just a little unhappy, then we've done a good job. And so I think that we have Councilmember Franczak, I'm sorry, I see that there are some speakers here. Is this on this item? Let me get to the speakers that have registered in.
 Council Member Franzen. All right. Thank you, Mr. President. I want to give credit to the administration of Mayor Byron Brown for tackling this giant enterprise, for correcting a code that was the early 1950s, probably around the year I was born, to make this code to go back to the basics of what urban living really is after we fell off the track for all these decades. So as to his credit, he could have ignored it. He didn't have to do it.
 But he tackled it and he unleashed the talents of his staff, Commissioner Mahaffey certainly, and Ms. Morero pointed out that I'm wearing my Buffalo waterfront tie, which I said, I am? I guess I am.
 Mr. Pally, Mr. Newman, Mr. Fell, and many others. And this Common Council leadership from yourself, a majority leader, and certainly former legislation chairman Scanlon, who initially pioneered a lot of those meetings for the Green Code, the plenary session Green Code meetings out in the community and schools and elsewhere. Those council members that had their meetings,
 and the public. The public came and made it a better process because we were receptive to the wise findings of the public who needed certain things that had to be done, whether it was the Elmwood Village on Heights or the Waterfront Village. People were very vociferous and consistent about
 There's not everything in there that we would like to see. There are certain things I probably would have, I know I would have voted to have no housing on the outer harbor, but let the onus be on the state. But we're not going to see everything we want. We know we can amend this in the future, whether it's inclusionary zoning, but I thought it was a very good process.
 made it easier for us, and I'm glad that this council stepped up and showed its leadership by making this a much better document for the future. I agree, Council Member. Council Member Golombi.
 Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to also thank and congratulate Mayor Brown and all of the many, many different people from the Office of Strategic Planning and the volunteers that helped to make this possible. As Mr. Francik said, this isn't perfect. There's no such thing as a perfect code. But it's a much, much better code than what we had
 five years ago than what we had last week, for that matter. There's going to be tweaks that we're going to have to make on it. There's going to be mistakes and problems as we go forward that we're only going to realize because it's being put into operation. But
 As Mr. Fronchick and you said that this is the first time that we have updated since the early 1950s. And it's not exciting to revamp the code. I had numerous meetings in my district and I had people say, I don't want to go to that, that's stupid. And I said, well, no, no, no, it's not. And when you explain to them, people understood how important that is.
 But the average person, it gets, I don't want to say that it's too complex, but it's boring. It's like somebody, you know, that is a tactician that's doing all the tactics. They want to see the end results. They want to see something that, you know, you prepare on Monday, it's done on Tuesday, and it's operating on Wednesday. Well, for something to work fine, it does take a long time. I was ready to vote on this a year ago because knowing that we would be making tweaks and changes periodically,
 as things went on, but I think that, you know, this might actually be one of the one things from the Brown administration that will be sort of the claim to fame in the future. I think there's a lot of positive things that have gone on in the past ten years or so, but I think this might be one of those things as...
 you know, low key as it seems in many regards, it's probably one of the most important things that could have been done. And it couldn't have been done without all the staff, all the volunteers, all the people in the community that work together and as you all said, you know, they were, I very, very much was appreciative. I could call the staff, I was emailing them, I was texting them saying, well, how do you explain this? How do you explain that? And they taught me a great deal during this process as well. Thank you. Council Member Furlow.
 Thank you, Council President. I just wanted to thank everyone in the Mayor's Office of Strategic Planning for all the hard work that they've done on this and all the input that they've taken from the residents that live throughout the city. There have been 242 public meetings on the Green Code. There have been staff answering people's questions.
 Anytime people have questions or comments, the Office of Strategic Planning was right there to respond, to comment, to help people go through the code and explain different things. And in this version of the code that we're voting on, there's been an enormous amount of comments. They've always been there to listen, so I just want to thank them for all of their hard work.
 Council Member White. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I want to commend the staff for their outstanding work on this document. Just to echo my colleagues, I mean, the amount of time that went into this, to hear from the residents, it was very heartwarming because I think that sometimes we do things like this and they're not heard. But we listened attentively.
 very patiently and with great intent. But I have to say this, this document could be even great more of historic value had we had inclusionary zoning.
 Of all the comments that were made, inclusionary zoning was the second most comment made. But I'm encouraged that we've gotten commitments from strategic planning that inclusionary zoning will be put forth in due haste in February. And I'm looking forward to that. The study will be done. The study will be done.
 So I want to make certain that we stay focused on that. But I do want to celebrate this because I think the staff have done an outstanding job. The patience that they had and the fortitude that they had to go through a painstaking process. Because you know, you can't please everybody, especially when you've got thousands of people.
 But they did it, so I want to commend Nadine and John and Chris and Brendan, all of them, for their efforts because even for the long meetings, they stayed to the very end. So that speaks volumes. And again, I second what my colleague said, but I want to make certain that inclusionary zoning is a part of the next round. Thank you, sir. MR. And thank you, sir. Councilmember – President Pro Tem Scanlon. MR. Thank you, Mr. President.
 While I echo the sentiments of my colleagues in thanking the Office of Strategic Planning for all their work, it really was incredible the amount of time that they put in on this document. I want to thank the public again to stay engaged as long as they have.
 attend all these meetings as councilmember. Farrell mentioned you're talking 250 meetings. To stay engaged for six years, come to these meetings, hold us accountable, and make sure we're including the things that need to be included in the document. I want to thank them, and then on top of that, thank this body, strategic planning, and the public for working together. As councilmember I believe Franczak mentioned, this has been extremely transparent, and I
 This body's worked extremely hard the last few years to become as transparent as possible. And so I just want to thank all of them for being part of it. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Mr. President. Let me just say that I as well echo all of the sentiments of all of my colleagues regarding the green code and the time and effort that was put into ensuring that it reflect what the public could live with. However, we also can't neglect to appreciate the hard work of our council staff through our –
 Chief of Staff and our Deputy Chief of Staff how they took the time to become experts on the Green Coast so that we could be somewhat understanding of what is happening with his unified development ordinance. So let me just commend all of the staff in City Hall and again too, I really appreciate the sentiments of Councilmember Scanlon and Councilmember Wyatt of which we all knew this was going to come out of Councilmember Wyatt's mouth regarding the inclusionary zoning and
 And I extremely appreciate those comments and echo those as well. But again, we just want to make sure that everyone understands that this was a lot of hard work. I cannot appreciate it to the extent that some of you can because I was not here from the beginning of the process. But from what I did see, from what I did understand, everyone worked very, very hard to make sure that this was a painless or it wasn't as painful as it could be. Thank you, Mr. President. It was painful for some time.
 And the staff is here. With all the staff from Strategic Plan and all those who work, would you stand so we can see you all here? And Brenda Mahaffey. Yes. Thank you.
 The second will be made by Councilmember Franczak, the longest serving councilmember and the chair of the legislation committee. Buffalo, congratulations, you have a new green code. And for the first time, well, one of only three times in his tenure, the mayor of the city of Buffalo. Mayor, we're going to bring you out this way so we can get you on camera.
 to the Honorable Council President Pridgen.
 Honorable members of the City Council, citizens, it is my pleasure to be with you on this historic day in the City of Buffalo. I just want to simply thank and congratulate the Council on its extraordinary partnership with my administration and working with our citizens in getting us to the point where we have passed the Green Code today. Let's give the Council another round of applause.
 The Green Code, the city's new unified development ordinance, certainly is a long time in coming. This process has lasted for more than six years. I just want to again recognize...
 Brendan Mahaffey and the entire staff in the Office of Strategic Planning. They have lived with this document every single day for more than six years. Let's give them another round of applause. Thank you.
 And when I say extraordinary partnership, so many members of the council have lived with this process too in many different ways. We certainly thank you for that. We thank the citizens. Us all working together created a process that was truly citizen driven.
 More than 240 different meetings on the Green Code. Thousands and thousands of city residents that decided to comment on this document. This is the first major zoning rewrite since 1953 in the city of Buffalo.
 more than 63 years to get this accomplished. And we are the people, collectively, administration, council, citizens that got this done. So this is a proud day. And we are one of few municipalities in the country that have done what we have accomplished. So again, just want to thank the members of the city council for your great partnership.
 your great work, your diligence in making this happen. Thank you all very much. Thank you, Mayor. And I am sure that all of the folks from strategic planning would love to stay for the rest of the meeting, but we will pause to let you leave out quietly. And again, I think this is one of three times that the mayor has actually come to address the council. And the number, I think, that Fair Leto gave folks was 242.
 Don't go out and play it, Council Member Wingo. Now, you... They cut my mic off. I don't gamble, Council President Pridgen. I don't play the numbers. I don't gamble. Oh, okay. I'm going to call my aunt then.
 And we are honored to have in our midst a council member from Niagara Falls, Council Member Ezra Scott. So thank you for being here. He wanted to witness this. Wanted to witness it. A rising star in Niagara Falls and at Roswell. Works at Roswell. So thank you. Roswell is here. And so all kinds of folks are here and I guess our meeting isn't that exciting that they wanted to stay.
 Isn't that us? We'll give a few more seconds for the clear to change. Thank you. It's good to be thanked. Get the mayor into the house and everything. All right. From the top. Item 1. Designated for Ballabar 1349 Broadway. Motion to send the CD. Sent by Council Member Wingo. Item 2. Report of sale 343 and 345 Rhode Island. Motion to approve.
 second by councilman for your life on a three report of sales 602 South division Motion to send the CD second by a consult member at white from the controller item for certificate necessity Motion to receive and file sitting by president pro temp scam item five appoint supervising accountant Motion is sent to civil service like president pro temp scam from Public Works item six notification cereals motion to receive and file
 second by councilmember Golomba and wait for 45 days and wave the 45 days I'm seven change order Genesee Street gateway Watts inspection motion to approve items second by councilmember Golomba I made contract extension watch CDBG year 42 motion to approve items 8 through 14 second my customer wife item 15 food store license 1345 East Elvin motion is sent to ledge thank
 second by council member Golomba item 16 food store license 1129 East Ferry motion to send to ledge as well second by council member Franza item 17 second hand dealer 2207 Elmwood motion to approve second by council member Criollo item 18 used car dealer 247 Maston motion to send to ledge second by council member Watt item 19 comprehensive annual financial report 2015-2016 motion to receive and file items 19 through 23 second by council member Wingo
 Item 24, notice of apartments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Second by Council Member Fran Zek. Miscellaneous items 25, DEC delivers brownfield cleanup, Elk Street. Motion to receive and file items 25 and 26. Second by Council Member Frioletto. Item 27, petition protesting property rezoning 605 and 607 forest. Motion to send to ledge. Second by Council Member Villambe. Item 28, parent and family engagement. Motion to send to education committee.
 Second by Councilmember Winkle. Item 29, fruits and veggies company support letter. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember White. Committees. Civil Service, item 1, appoint chief building inspector. Motion to approve item number 1. Second by Majority Leader Rivera. Item 2, notice of appointments temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item, Finance Committee, item 3, bond resolution police and fire headquarters building.
 Can you call the orders? Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Freeler. Community Development Committee, Item 4, Designate Developer, Various Properties, East Ferry, True Community, and Mastin. Stevie. Council Member Winkle. Thank you, Mr. Chair. This item came before it was in my office regarding true development becoming the...
 designated developer for quite a few of these properties and matched in district. True Development has been an asset in the community with all of the development that they've been able to accomplish. And we trust that Janice McKinney, the executive director...
 of True Development will continue to operate with integrity. And we just want to approve this item with the conditions that should True Development Corporation designate any other entity as developer for this project, that this developer must appear before this common council for approval.
 Thank you, sir. So that's approval. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. I'm sorry. I need to recuse myself from this only because of an arm's length relationship that I think is important to keep the true community development. So I'm asking to recuse that. I've received no financial remuneration from this, nor do I serve on the board of this entity for the record. So recuse was accepted and seconded by Council Member Trilley.
 item 5 a men's sale 243 245 kensington motion to approve items 5 6 and 7. second by council member franzek legislation committee item 8 food store license 778 genesee number 8 approved with conditions second by council member wingle item 9 food store license 195 high street 9 motion to approve by council member wyatt item 10 buffalo cannabis act 10 is motion to receive and file you're not approving it
 I'm just kidding. If you want. Just since you brought it up, Mr. Chairman, I spoke to the gentleman afterwards, and I said most of what they asked for related to state law. Right. If there was really enough that this body could do so. Second by the council member and attorney, for your level.
 Item 11, 2075 Seneca, restock of existing pizzeria. 11 and 12, motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Lomba. Item 13, adoption of land use plan. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Majority Leader Ripvila. Item 14, repeal conflicting chapters of code. Motion is to approve. Seconded by Council Member Lomba.
 By a majority leader of era item 16 ordinance member chapter 265 property managers 16 through 23 if there are no objections motion to receive in class second by councilmember why I'm 24 except as complete the South Buffalo Brownfield area plan 24 and 25 motion to adopt I
 Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item 26, repeal chapters and sections of the Buffalo Code as part of the Buffalo Green Code. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmajority Leader Rivera. Item 27, repeal the Union Ship Canal Urban Renewal Plan. 27, let's take it down to...
 Oh boy item 40 motion to approve by councilmember wingle Item 41 repeal the Genesee Village urban renewal plan All right, 41 42 and 43 motion to receive in file second by councilmember Be Romano and 44 repeal the downtown entertainment district phase 4 and 4 a There no objections items 44 through including 50 motion to approve second by
 Present pro tempore. Scanlon. Item 51, request to review public draft unified involvement ordinance. Motion to receive and file. Present pro tempore. Scanlon. Resolutions. Item 30, bond resolution McKinley Monument restoration. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 31, transfer of funds, Dillon Courthouse. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Franzen. Item 32, condemning remarks by Carol Palladino. Motion to adopt.
 Second by Councilmember Wyatt. Councilmember... Councilmember Golumbik has the floor. Thank you, Mr. President.
 Right after I heard the comments that were made by the school board member, I think I almost immediately got in touch with you to let you know that I thought that the council needed to go on record immediately to condemn the comments, the remarks that were made by Mr. Palladino. I think that there is no excuse for the comments that were made, however, however, the issue
 that I see that has come in front of the city of Buffalo is that he used just a terrible, terrible choice of words. Whether they're protected by the freedom of speech or not, they were still a horrible choice of words to use, knowing that they were going to go in front of representatives and people from the entire city of Buffalo. I condemn those remarks 100%.
 I believe that they never, ever should have been uttered. I was not one of those people that was asked by Art Voice what I wished for 2017. Had I been, I would have asked for the development in downtown Buffalo to continue to spread throughout the rest of the city of Buffalo. As we all know, it's starting to hit most of our districts.
 to one degree or another, it's starting to hit black rock. I want to get it into Riverside so that I can say that all parts of my district have been successful. However, now what I would say is that my wish for 2017 would be that Mr. Palladino would resign from the Buffalo Board of Education. I believe that he is going to be a lightning rod for criticism and problems if he stays on that board.
 my wish would be that he would leave, that he would of his own volition realize that. Thank God we have not had the problems that other cities have had, policing issues, scandal issues, etc.
 But it's just frightening that as hard as all of us have worked, the administration, the council, and other representatives of the city of Buffalo, from blue collar to white collar and everyone in between, that it just takes this type of careless remarks, you know, ignorant remarks.
 To be said, once again, freedom of speech, he's absolutely got the right to make these horrible, horrible comments. As we've spoken before, you know, our freedom of speech is guaranteed when we do say these horrible things, because when people say nice things, nobody needs someone to defend them for saying them. But that gives me and that gives us on this council that same freedom of speech to condemn those comments.
 that were made by him. So, you know, this resolution simply condemns the words that were said, the phrases that were said, and I am asking as an individual council member that Mr. Palladino would do the right thing and he would step down from the Buffalo School Board so that we could take away any type of
 issues that are going to distract us from the real issues, and that's the children, and that's the reforming and the fixing of our schools under the new administration. Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Colombo. Next slide.
 item 33 reconstruction of the trico plant motion to send the CD a second by councilman going back and on that on this trico situation we get I'm getting mixed signals this council did not this this council voted to wait and hold off allowing there to be demolition on trico a couple years ago
 until hopefully that within that six months or a year that there would be a developer phone there was a developer phone and we've been given promise after promise and I still have not seen one item before this council
 Recently I've just learned that it is possible that Emerson Commons is not going to go in this building because it is taking so long for the development to happen. So what we're asking for here is for the developers of the Tricol building to appear before the committee of this council and to update this council in real terms of what their plans are.
 I think that we need more than just this is our dream, but where's your money, where's your scheme, where's your plans, what are you doing? Because if this designated developer, and that's all they are right now, they're designated developers, and if they're not coming through, then they should no longer have the contract, the designated developer status. And I also want to make sure that they are paying the designated developer fee every month.
 because this is just an eyesore sitting there, and if they can't do it, then they need to give up that designated developer status, and if they can do it, they need to explain to this council what they're doing. Thank you for your support. Next item. Item 34, call for removal of Carl Palladino from the Buffalo Board of Education. Motion is to adopt.
 Motion is to adopt. Council Member Franczak, you have the floor. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I am in support of this resolution. The last resolve here asks that State Education Commissioner Ilya investigate whether she has the power to remove him from his position, which I believe is
 I ask Commissioner Ilya to remove him if it is in harmony with state education law, and he should be removed. Now, there is, you know, we are protectors of free speech in the First Amendment. There's no question of it. We unalterably protect the First Amendment rights.
 There is precedence that Mr. Rivera evokes here in his resolution about Commissioner Mills who in the past had removed a trustee with a pattern of certain behavior in remarks and the person was removed. So there is precedence here in Buffalo. Let's look at state law. Under housing law.
 A commissioner of the Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority was removed after a process in hearing from his position on that board for reasons very similar to this. He litigated that. He had a very good First Amendment attorney, Mr. Cohen. I know Mr. Cohen. And that person in the state Supreme Court is...
 Removal was upheld in court under Judge Michalski, who actually also made remarks about this individual's behavior was deplorable.
 So he was removed. I didn't see anybody really anybody of any merit who was rushing to this individual's defense because of the First Amendment. The First Amendment does exist. But I would say that in certain obviously in state law and in certain institutions, there are certain codes of conduct conduct that do exist. I think at the caucus, Mr.
 Wombeck mentioned Joseph McCarthy, who was criticizing everyone for being a communist and destroyed many people's lives. The Senate did in 1954 vote to censure him. They censured him because his behavior was contrary to the traditions of the Senate. Now the question is, and this is for the legal experts to investigate, is that is there a provision in state law?
 that states that a conduct of an individual in an elected position is, uh,
 able to be removed because of that behavior. And that's what Dr. Ilya would have to determine if there's a process. The process, I think there's 10 days. I don't know if the school board has to vote to put that information before her. But the fact of the matter is, is that these rules exist. They were upheld in court. There was a federal court that did upheld a removal of school board officials for behavior.
 and that was upheld in a federal court. Not in this state, but in another state, because each board is different. So the question is not here of protecting someone's First Amendment right. The question is, is under the law in the state, is there certain codes of conduct that would be injurious to fulfilling the mission of that organization, whether it's a Buffalo Municipal Housing Authority, where the state courts as of today have upheld that Mr. Masha had to be removed,
 And we don't know yet if Mazilia will deliberate that and if she will remove him. I believe she should remove him if there's that provision in Staloff. There is, and this research shows there is. He should be out. He should be removed.
 He has that First Amendment right, but he's a person of power and responsibility. I mentioned in council chambers there was this unfortunate soul by the name of Karl Hand that almost probably nobody here remembers who he was. He was a member of the American Nazi Party. He'd come out in front of City Hall with his swastika and espouse Nazi beliefs, which he had every right to do.
 But he was wrongly criticized by the wider community. But he had no power. He had no ability. He was not sanctioned by an organization that's governed by state law. He just got up in a soapbox and said whatever he said. And Palladino has every right to jump on a soapbox and say whatever he said. Palladino is no Nazi. However, as I pointed out in caucus,
 What I was frighteningly reminded of when I read these comments in our voice about the First Lady and the President, First Lady, it reminded me that I've heard these words before, you know, in my readings over the years in history. And there was a beloved First Lady of the United States. She cared for the poor. She worked with the poor. When my wife and I were visiting West Virginia, we saw the homes that she built for those people.
 who were coal miners at that time in the 30s, and that was none other than Eleanor Roosevelt. Eleanor Roosevelt was called, quote unquote, a mongrelized Negro. Now who would say such a thing? Well, it could only be one person. It was Adolf Hitler. Adolf Hitler called her. And when I read these words, I was reminded of those kinds of words. And I just
 We're not saying that he espouses the views of National Socialism, he doesn't. But if you use that kind of language, you are putting yourself in the company of the most deplorable figures in human history. So if that's what you want to associate yourself with, you have a right to say what you have to say. But there are certainly consequences.
 And if in state law there are consequences, he must leave. Look at the influence on the young people. Well, he said it. Why can't I? He's an elected member of the school board. He can say it. Why can't I say it? And that's the influence. What are you going to tell the child? Now, I also read that a child has freedom of speech and rights of the First Amendment, but they are somewhat restricted.
 They are somewhat restricted because they are immature. You have to have, you know, you can't say anything you want in a private place. You can say whatever you want about a public figure.
 You can't say anything you want about your neighbor if your neighbor is not a public figure. Anybody that jumps in front of a camera is a public figure. That was tested. That was tested in a very famous court case when the vulgar men's magazine Hustler printed a picture of Jerry Falwell, the evangelical minister, having relations with his mother in an outhouse. It was a lot more vulgar than I described it.
 And Falwell sued. The lower federal court upheld his right as freedom of speech. No, they ruled that Falwell was guilty of that. He was guilty of slandering Falwell. But that went all the way to the Supreme Court. And when Larry Flint, the hustler owner, went to the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court ruled he had every right to do that to a public figure as satire. Now, when I read Palladino's...
 statement here that he just released today. I don't see anything about satire that's here.
 And all he does is he just goes back and he just restates his criticisms in a different way. He gives this cursory apology. Then he talks about Obama has not led America to a better place by disregarding the rule of law and standing with his elitist brethren as above the law. Now, I don't know anywhere where the president has violated the law. Where is he? Okay, you have a right to say that.
 You know, if he says something like this, that's one thing, but the statements that he made may in fact be contrary to New York State education law because of the position that he holds. He's not a guy in a soapbox on a corner where, you know, people can look and snicker as they walk by because a person of power and wealth who people fear.
 There's consequences with that. And, you know, I mentioned when I listened to some radio commentary about people calling in, they were defending. Some people were calling in defending and saying, well, what about this and what about that? And why is he trying to make, they're trying to turn him into a victim. And I read his apology here, and all I see is more information. He says it's been a sick, combative year in America. So would his comments be regarded as sick? I certainly don't see him as satire.
 So I believe that this resolution should be supported. It should go, First Amendment rights are protected. There are consequences, and the point was made of what if some right wing nut comes in,
 and says that, you know, Wingo can't go and put his arm up, which was already, by the way, ruled by the Supreme Court as protected speech, or you say something on the floor that somebody doesn't like, that's when the revolution starts. That's when I get involved in a revolution. If someone, if I don't show a pattern of commentary,
 by at least violating, if nothing less, the spirit of public officers' law. And I go out in a repeated pattern, which evidently or may, in fact, govern New York State education law, that he may be in violation of. I want to know. I want Ilya to look at the information and say, if public officers –
 If education, state education law says that he can be removed, he should be removed. And he has a recourse like every American. No, not being put in jail. No, not being, you know, abandoned to, you know, some island somewhere. He can litigate. He can go to court. He can go to court and he can fight that. Masha certainly did. And Masha lost in court. Because of what he said and because of the code of conduct that is governing those agencies under state law.
 Our United States Senate, they censured a senator because he violated the traditions of the Senate. And this man used vile comments that were analogous to the comments made by Adolf Hitler. Or they're certainly very similar. Am I calling him that? No, he's not. He's not that.
 but he is certainly using that type of language about people, about the First Lady of the United States, about the President of the United States, which you have every right to criticize. He had a right to say what he said in that paper or anywhere else, but then there are consequences. Why couldn't he, if he wanted as a member of the board, show some example to people, show some example to the students? Don't think about the students, think about the kids.
 We tell the kids to behave, to not use foul language, to be respectful of their leadership. You can criticize people, but do so in a way that is mature, mature. This sort of, you know, maybe he thinks he's macho. That's not macho. That is the language of national socialism is what it really is. And you can't say it isn't. I'm not saying that he is. He isn't.
 Now, here's the thing that worries me. I'm not worried about Trump saying you can't say this or that or some right-wing government or left-wing or any kind of communist, any kind of government saying you can't. I'm not worried about that. One of the things that this individual, by these intemperate and stupid remarks, that he knew very well because he's just saying, okay, I'm sorry, but these people are no good.
 And so this is not an apology as far as I'm concerned. It's a pattern, as it says here in state law, a pattern of behavior that included personal attacks, racial slurs, and antagonistic behavior. A continued failure to demonstrate both a lack of remorse or appreciation of the inappropriateness of his conduct, an inability or willingness to conduct himself with civility and decency, which is thought in the schools. Now, what worries me most is that Mr. Palladino had said,
 He was close to some extent with the president-elect. What really worries me is this. The president-elect has stated he wants to do a great infrastructure program in the United States. I support that. I hope he does it. I want him to do it.
 Well, guess what? This individual, they're not going to take his phone call. Are you kidding me? The Trump group has their team or transition team has already said this is deplorable, it's reprehensible. And I think they would be out of their minds to take this man's phone call. How can he advocate for Buffalo now?
 Now, he went on and he said there should be a picture of the President Trump and the Vice President Pence. I agree there should be, as there was Obama and the Vice President and, you know, Mr. Biden. And, you know, going back and, you know, whether you like him or not, Mr. Nixon and Mr. Johnson and President Kennedy and everybody else. And they should have those pictures.
 you know, if that's the protocol. I mean, that's not the issue. The issue is that now you have a president that won't take this person, the person who was, you know, lucky enough or worked hard enough to get influence, the most powerful man in America could say, Mr. President, could you help us with a Buffalo $2 billion? Could you do something for us here? You know, Trump might have done it, but do you think he's going to listen to him now? He'd be out of his mind to do that.
 And just, you know, for the emotional argument, I'll leave you with one words by one of our former colleagues many years ago. It was Herb Bellamy. Herb Bellamy was a councilman at large, and he heard someone saying some foolish things. And so Herb said, Herb gets up. Herb was quiet. He didn't speak much. But when he did, it was, you listen. And he said to the person who said some very stupid things, he said, fool, you better put mind in gear before you put mouth in motion.
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Franczak. Majority Leader? Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Before I come in, I just want to, for the sake of disclosure once again, state that I have received...
 over the nine years, approximately $2,700 in contributions from Ellicott Development or any of its political PACs. And for the record, I just want to state that I will be sending that money to charitable organizations, at least three organizations that will be receiving the money.
 He has done great things in the city of Buffalo in terms of development. There's a number of developments in my district in downtown and different parts of the city. He has been very charitable. So this is not about his charitable. He is a nice person, a very likable person in person when you speak to him. However, there has been a pattern of...
 Comments that have been hateful, racist, derogatory, homophobic over the recent years. And then just recently in the Art Voice article, and you mentioned comments such as I disagree with you on policy, I disagree with you on a various range of things. I understand that.
 I can accept that. However, when you say the things and not only say he doubled down and reaffirmed what he said. And these are comments and I just want people to know that these are the kind of comments that comes from a school board member. He says, what would you like to see in 2017? He says, Obama catches mad cow disease and being caught having relations with a herper
 He dies before his trial and is buried in cow pasture in Villeret, Jaret, who died weeks prior in being convicted of sedition and treason. For Obama, Michelle Obama, I'd like her to return to being a male let loose in the outbacks of Zimbabwe, where she lives comfortably in a cave with the maxi and the gorillas. Homophobic, racist, and hatred. This is the man that represents
 a large portion of our student population. For us to sit back and just condemn him is to say that this is the new norm, that this is acceptable. If it's acceptable for the school members, then it's acceptable for the teachers and the principals and the students. What message are we sending by staying silent? This is something that I have thought over the weekend. He is a friend. I consider him a friend.
 However, the statements that he has are inappropriate, destructive, and only fosters hatred and racism. The city of Buffalo is known nationwide today for the comments that he made. If you look on Facebook, if you look on social media, if you look on news, what you hear is Buffalo and a person named Carl Palladino making those types of statements.
 I'm asking for the State Department of Education to investigate. And if they find cause, they determine and find cause. And I'm not asking them to be impulsive, to make a knee-jerk reaction. I'm asking for an investigation. If it meets the threshold of the law, then I ask them to take whatever appropriate actions they feel. If it's removable, so be it.
 I think at some point we have to stand against things like this. And I felt that whether it was 1 to 8 or 4 to 5, I had to take a stand against racism, intolerance, homophobia, you name it. And this is wrong. And he shouldn't say this about anybody, let alone the president and the first lady of this country. So I thank the council members that have spoken up.
 for what they see is racism, derogatory comments, and I condemn the comments as well. And I don't object to the resolution filed by the Common Council member. I'll join on to that resolution. But I think if we don't take a strong stance, this is going to become the norm. This is going to be allowed. This is the new norm. Thank you.
 Thank you, and I apologize we're having a little computer difficulty. The computer is jumping on its own, but Council Member White is next. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I want to second what the Majority Leader said. And, you know, Pastor, you preach us as service to love the sinner but hate the sin. And so love Mr. Palladino, but I hate the comments that he made, and it's a pattern of comments. And I think that as elected officials, we all know the sensitive nature of our words. Yes.
 Our words speak volumes for who we are and what we represent. And you can't tell me you say something in 2010 and you don't mean it in 2012. Your words are who you are. So, but I'm going to go high, I'm not going to go low. And I think this resolution speaks to that, that we're asking for the state to do what is appropriate within their guidelines.
 Because Mr. Paladino represents children. And I think that's the little piece that is so critically important that we can't miss, that you're a leader of children. And when children hear your comments, you're not leading them. You're taking them down the wrong path. And I know in this new era of Trump, saying whatever you want to say, it seems like it's okay. But it's not okay. And I don't think any of us want to get...
 bogged down into this so-called new norm, because that can't be the new norm. We have to have civility. Our words have consequences, and they affect people. And I think it's so important for us to send a clear message that this is not something that we're going to stand for, and that the state should intervene as the laws permit to take an appropriate stand. As a lawmaker, we understand our First Amendments are very important to us. So we certainly don't want to
 turn around and try to change the First Amendment but certainly for a person in the position that Mr. Palladino was in there should be consequences and I hope the state will find a way to make certain that his consequence is something that speaks to what we as a community, what we as a country believe in and it's certainly not to disrespect the President of the United States and his wife in a way that says that they should be killed, that they should die
 those type of hateful things that children, again, are looking at him and hearing these comments. These comments are flooding our airways. And in some cases, it brings out some of the worst in us, because if you listen to some of the radio stations and hearing people stand in support of him, and you've got to shake your head and say, what is our world coming to, that we would say comments like that that would encourage, that support someone who talks about someone's death.
 We can differ in a political realm of opinions, but it should never be personal. So I stand in support of Council Member Revere's resolution, and I know that there was another piece on there regarding the board that's going to be removed, and I want to make certain that we stay in concert with what the law allows. Thank you, Chair. Thank you very much. On the second page of the resolutions, number one through four,
 We're going to remove number one. It says call on the Board of Education to remove Park District Board Member Carl Palladino for official misconduct. My understanding is that we cannot do that. But number two is the one that we're going to go with. Request that New York State Commissioner of Education, Mary Ellen Elia, investigate Mr. Palladino's action and determine if there is cause for removal. So that one point will be struck for the record? Yes.
 thank you mr stanley thank you council president um i've known carl caldine a long time and
 As a result, I've been privy to his generous side, the side that gives of himself and his resources to the betterment of the community, and the side of him that found the challenge of joining the school board. You know how difficult that position is. And the side of him that truly believes that people throughout this community are being left behind. However, his comments that came to light last week in our voice were ill-conceived and irresponsible, to say the least.
 and have absolutely no place in the public discourse. Prior to Council Member Rivera amending that resolution, I was going to vote in the negative on it. I felt that it's not my responsibility or this board's responsibility to decide the fate of the members of the Buffalo School Board.
 that should be left to that board and the appropriate oversight agencies. So I'd be willing to, I'm not willing to change that and vote in favor of it, considering that that's been amended that way. The residents of the Park School District,
 voted Mr. Palladino in to represent them. And if, while his comments, like I mentioned, were absolutely horrendous, if the appropriate agencies don't find that he's violated any of his duties and don't see fit to remove him from office, that responsibility belongs to the members of that district. They voted him in. And if they're tired of the pattern of behavior, the pattern of language, they can vote him out.
 And just finally, one last thing I wanted to touch on, and you and I talked about it earlier today. It's while we're sitting here in chambers and we're discussing this issue, and there seems to be some slight objections, some slight differences in opinion, the beautiful thing is that we're all on the same page for the most part.
 We might see differently how we want things to take place the next few steps, but we're all on the same page as far as realizing that this language, this pattern of behavior has no place in the public discourse and that it should not be tolerated on any level. So, again, I would be voting in favor of this now with the amendment made to it. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wingo. Thank you, Council President.
 I just counted four ministers and chambers. That'd be yourself, council president, Majority Leader Rivera, myself, and the president of the NAACP, pastor of the Second Baptist Church in Lackawanna, Mark E. Blue. And we all prescribe to the Bible, which teaches us that it's of the abundance of your heart, your mouth speaks.
 And we also believe that what's on the inside will ultimately come on the outside. And I just can't believe for the life of me that a person who formed their mouth to say such hateful, racist, homophobic, incendiary, deplorable things has much love of their heart for the people that they're saying that they're serving with the words that came out of their mouth.
 We were taught as children, sticks and stones may break my bones, but words will never hurt me. That was a lie we were taught as a child. These words hurt. And I can for the life of me understand how again he could say these things and then say this was a mistake. He's sorry, but he's sorry that it got out.
 He's not sorry that he said it. Otherwise there would not be this pattern of hate speech coming from this individual. I don't know Carl Palladino, but what I do know of Carl Palladino is that he's always been divisive. He's always been one who has brought a lot of confusion and contention to whatever area he's in. I've watched him on the school board and I can for the life of me understand why he hates the sisterhood.
 Everyone on that school board is trying to do the best to their ability to ensure that the children they represent are being represented. I don't believe Mr. Paladino is representing the children in the school district by saying these things about our president, who just happens to be an African American man, and his wife, who just happens to be an African American woman.
 Now, Art Voice published this piece on December 22nd. There were several people who had mentioned some things that they wanted to go away. Some folk wrote that they want hate to go away. If you want hate to go away, then Carl Palladino needs to go away. There were also people who said they were like, for love.
 For love to be the number one priority for some people, for us to come together. So therefore, how can you spew such hateful words about someone you don't know, someone you've never met, just because of their policy that you disagree with, and still say that you're doing this for the betterment of the community, you're representing the children. These words do have power, regardless of what anyone says, these words have power.
 Now, when he said these things, what he did essentially was embolden everyone who prescribed that same rhetoric that he talked about in his Our Voice article. And they're coming out in droves. All of a sudden, this Trump effect has taken residence in Buffalo now. So now, because Trump can say what he wants to say and get away with it, now we have our own elected officials.
 in the city of Buffalo, saying whatever they think they can say and get away with it. So I agree with Council Majority Leader Rivera. There has to be a very strong stance against what Mr. Paladino said. They were hateful, racist remarks.
 both all in the same. They were both hateful and racist. Now, we also have heard people speak about the interviews that have transpired all over the airwaves. And there were people who tried to make some type of comparison regarding my personal protest during the Pledge of Allegiance with the First Amendment right that we both have expressed. The only parallel between the two is that we both
 exercised our First Amendment right. That's the only parallel. I would caution and urge anyone and everyone after me to never, please don't put me in the same category with Kyle Palladino. Number one, number one is because my personal protest during the Pledge of Allegiance was about standing up for
 the life of people whose lives are being devalued across the country. Period. My personal protest was an expression that said, Listen, enough is enough of killing a black innocent lie. That was my protest. And here you have a man who's saying, I'm wishing two black people, one to die and the other to live in a cave. I'm sorry, sir, but we all got here at the same time.
 So, for you to suggest that Mrs. Obama go back to Africa, where are you going back to? He should not be in a position and not have any remorse whatsoever for the statements that he made. And that's one of my biggest issues. One of my biggest issues is that he has expressed no remorse whatsoever. So for those people who think that there's some type of comparison between my protest or exercising my First Amendment right.
 with Mr. Paladino, I would say you need to do your research and make sure that you understand why I put my fist in the air in the first place. Because right now, I don't think people are really understanding the gravity of what this man is saying. And just to what Councilmember Franz, like I said earlier, when he said this,
 Not only is he saying things that are hurtful and deplorable and irreprehensible, he's saying things that now that because he said it, there are people who look up to him. Now they feel like they can say it. Well, Carl said it. Well, I can say it. Maya Angelou, she said, people may not remember what you said. They may not remember what you did.
 they will remember how you made them feel. And we're talking about what he said about the President of the United States of America. I think Carl Paladino needs to resign. I really, really do. And I hope that he has enough in his heart left to know that that's the right thing to do, which it is to resign. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Mr. Wingo. Councilmember Golombi. Thank you, Mr. President. So what exactly are the resolves that we're going to be voting on?
 I'll let the sponsor speak to that. Thank you very much. The one that we're going to eliminate is the first one, the whereases, the results. We're going to take out number one, if you have it there in front of you. We're going to take that out, calls on the Board of Education to remove District Board Member Carl Caladino for official misconduct. We're striking that. Okay. That's no longer there.
 Two will become number one, though. Request that New York State Commissioner of Education, Mary Ellen Elia, investigate Mr. Palladino's action and determine if there is cause for removal. So that's an investigation. And then the other two condense Mr. Carl Palladino's statements in our voice as a condemnation. That's what we've done.
 I send a copy of this to the Board of Education Superintendent Brian O'Cash, New York State Commissioner of Education Mary Ellen Heria. Mr. President, I only have items 1, 2, and 3 on my laptop. I don't have the same set of...
 as were just spoken out. And I would like to explain the position that I have on this. I don't think there's anybody here that would doubt that I think that Mr. Palladino should resign. I don't think there's anyone here that would question that I think that the words that he said were terrible, inappropriate, unacceptable. The issue that I have is that, and my concern is that I don't believe that
 a duly elected representative should be removed for saying something. I deplore what he said. I think it was horrible. I think there's no excuse for what he said. There's a reason, the First Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, but as far as I'm concerned, it's unacceptable. And I hope, as Mr. Wingo just said, that he does have some decency in him and that he resigns from his position.
 because he will be a lightning rod from, I mean, he's been a lightning rod, but it's going to be even worse from this point forward. I think that he should just go away and salvage whatever is left from the board and for the city of Buffalo in 2017. That being said, though, I have to agree with what Mr. Scanlon said, or Mr.
 paraphrasing what Mr. Scanlon said, you know, Mr. Palladino was duly elected. Unfortunately, he was duly elected. I believe that there is a way to eliminate people, and that is by voting them out of office. You know, I mentioned during caucus that, you know, over the next four years, we're going to have a very, very different Supreme Court that's going to come in.
 coming to the United States. And I wonder what would happen if some of us made comments that were suddenly deemed to be hurtful or negative or against the majority or against the
 uh... supreme court or whatever for there would be i mentioned in caucus that just because there's laws doesn't mean that those laws are moral or that those laws are just and i mentioned that senator mccarthy uh... follow the set of laws in order to read people and destroy people he was wrong but he felt a lot
 I hope that I would have had the guts to stand up at that time and opposed him. I don't know if I would have. It's a moot point, but the same thing happened in the South during Jim Crow. There were people that were held down by Southern Democrats at that time, refused to be allowed to vote, refused to be allowed to be held as second-class citizens, and there were laws that defended them. Those laws were wrong. I believe that...
 Removing somebody because of something that they said as horrible, reprehensible, disgusting as it is,
 flies in the face of the right of free speech. And I agree with everything that everybody here said. He's in this position, he does have influence, etc. But he has that position because he was elected. And I would hate for somewhere down the road, for one of us to say something that we don't necessarily think is wrong, that we don't necessarily think is harmful or hurtful, and suddenly be removed from office because somebody disagrees with what we said.
 When we talk about something like our right of free speech, free speech is easy when everybody likes it. The problem is that when you say something that is horrible and that is disgusting, like he said. Now, I'm just simply going to end this by saying, depending on what that final resolve is, will depend on whether I can vote for this or not, but I hope
 that Mr. Palladino does the right thing and steps down. I hope that he does the right thing. I've worked with Mr. Palladino in the past. He's been a very, very decent man to work with in the North District on Tonawanda Street. The last five or six years, though, I've worked more with his son, Bill Palladino. We've renovated much of the street. I'm sorry.
 And I just hope that he looks at himself and he thinks about this, and that he does do the right thing, steps down from the Board of Education, and he can make all of these issues moot and go away and we can move forward. Councilman Franzen? It was the law that created the censure of the words, the words of Senator Joe McCarthy. It was the law. Laws, if you think they're unjust, change the laws.
 But there's, we are governed by New York State Public Officers Law. Uh, Paladino and the other school, any school board member in New York State is governed by New York State Education Law.
 If there are provisions in those laws that answer this kind of behavior, they need to be known and used if the individual is in violation of their oath of office. We have an oath of office of the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of New York State, and we obey our charter.
 You know, there was a provision in this charter for the removal of council members in the past for certain behavior. Now, it's never happened in my term. But the problem with Palladino is that what he is doing is he is using his power to erode the social contract which governs our laws and our Constitution by his coarse and destructive language. Democracy can only work with a social contract.
 And what is a social contract? So a social contract is a majority of people agree to a certain standards of acceptance of the law, an acceptance of behavior. If you want to change the law, you change the law. In our First Amendment, we're not like in Canada, you say something, you can be arrested for what you say. England, other English-speaking countries, you can get seriously sued for, you know, making some statements about even a public figure.
 you don't like the queen, whatever, you're in serious trouble. But the beauty of this country and our social contract is that you have the right to say pretty much everything you want to say, short of yelling fire in a theater, inciting violence, and things of that nature. But what he and those callers in that radio show were doing
 where incrementally and drip, drip, drip, eroding the notion of the social contract that we have created a so, now, they're fond of saying is that we want the literal interpretation of the Constitution. We want the Constitution as the greatest Constitution on Earth. And what they're doing by their coarse language is a psychological propagandistic, it's a propagandistic attack on the social contract of our country. The president is a criminal.
 The president should get a disease and die. The first lady should be turned into sex change and turned into living in a cave with a gorilla. Those are the things which are allowed, but it's a coarseness of people in power
 And he is governed by education law. If that law is considered to be unjust, then fight to change it. But if it's there and it provides for his removal, then it should be removed. But the more insidious thing what he's doing is a corrosive to our democracy by his erosion of the social contract that people agree to, that decent people agree to.
 And every time he opens his mouth, he's doing that. Now it could be a comedic thing, it could be a dismissive thing, it could be a thing from someone that you might not think is all there, but it's doing it from someone in a position of leadership and responsibility who is violating the notion of what makes a democracy that social contract that he is spitting on. Thanks, sir.
 Council Member Golombek asked me to show him the whereases. I'm going to hand the whereases to, as amended, we strike number one. Those are the whereases that I read out. All right. Council Member Golombek, you have the floor. Is that appropriate? We definitely, I think it would be appropriate. And then I'll speak. The Clerk will read.
 One requests New York State Commissioner of Education Mary Ellen Elia investigate Mr. Palladino's actions and determine if they are cause for removal. Two condemns Mr. Palladino's statements in our voice of December 22, 2016 edition. Three sends a copy of this resolution to the Board of Education, Superintendent Kriner Cash, and New York State Commissioner of Education Mary Ellen Elia.
 Council Member Glombeck, you have the floor. Thank you. Yes, I can vote on it with that first resolve removed. And I just wanted to say that when Mr. Francik and I get back to Buffalo State College in the spring semester,
 We share an office together. It's going to be some very, very interesting discussions because we're going to talk about the social contract and I'm going to remind them that Mr. Palladino got there by a majority vote as well and that that is part of democracy as well whether we like it or not. But thank you very much. Well, Mr. Golombek, I will say this and I was thinking about it and you just brought it up. So I was thinking since you both teach at the college,
 I don't know who I would want to write a paper for because I think you would grade it one way and I think Councilmember Franczak would grade it another way. I believe that our colleague, Councilmember Wyatt, is pleased because he was on the phone with me after caucus.
 And his desire, he kept saying, Councilmember, I'd love for us all to be on the same page. I mean, he was adamant about that. And I kept saying, Councilmember White, I don't know if you're going to get that on this one. But I want to commend Councilmember Rivera for hearing people and for all of you. Today, now, you all might not think this. I am very encouraged today. Not just because of this council, but because of this city. As Mr. Franczak brought up.
 Was it last year, myself and other African American leaders were called out of our name. It was almost silent as far as the response. I didn't have big organizations come out and say, that's wrong. It was so silent people could go to sleep on it. And he was removed. This is the first time in a long time
 that I've seen people, yes we heard negative comments on a radio station, but I listened to that station. Every comment was it. There were some people who called in, one guy when I listened, he said, I like Carl, he said, I just wish he would close his mouth. If anybody should be saying, get rid of Mr. Paladino, it would probably be me. I got an email upstairs from a couple years ago, which I was told I better stay out of his way.
 and that my disciples at my church were probably the ones who I was influencing to block his project. I didn't know what he was talking about. If anybody should be upset, it probably should be me. The piece that they did in the Buffalo News, I remember the Buffalo News coming to me and saying, the only person who will publicly speak against you is Mr. Paladino, and he did. From where I live to the way I live. But I think that there is a point.
 Where you separate your personal feelings and you just look at the facts of the matter. I'm one, and I don't remember when I'm going to tell you this, I try to always bring everybody together. I like to kumbha, that's me. Man, I forgive, I forgive more people. I forgive people who write fake and negative news articles. I let it go. All the time. I let it go. What can I do? Just let it go. You keep on living. People will know the truth about you sooner or later. But when you get to the facts of this,
 If we were quiet and said nothing, it would be a shame. But Buffalo is saying something. Every community, I'm hearing something. Every community. And now with this resolution being unanimous,
 The council, even though maybe one word or one way of looking at it, one person want to change to another, but everybody, as the president pro temp said, everybody agrees that it's not acceptable. What you say in the bed, at home, is one thing. What you put out, we're not talking about somebody overheard.
 Somebody misinterpreted. What you sent an email responding to a request as a person of power, that's different.
 So I think that this council has done the people's business in this and then respected each council member. And that's all this is about. That's all we're talking about is respect of other people. And so what happened here on this floor by the rewriting, the running around, scratching out, that's I think that the America and the city that people want to see.
 Make the changes. Have the hard conversations, because this was a hard conversation. I thought we were going to have to bring some fire extinguisher to caucus for a minute. It got hard, but it's good. That's what you got to do. You got to have the hard conversations so that whether it's Chris' child or my child, Wingo's child, Firletto's future kids, that
 that they'll be in a Buffalo that, oh, our Jones future kids, he looks at me, that they will be in a Buffalo where the leaders say, how do we make the wrongs right, and how do we work together and have the big and huge conversations. Having the president of NAACP, by the way, here today was not on purpose. He was already scheduled to be here. And then I reached out to him to just be here, and he said, I'm already scheduled to be there. That's the Buffalo I think we all want to see. So I too, I would love
 And I think he should, Mr. Palladino. And I've talked to him. I called him on the phone. Billy, his son, called me today to make sure that people were not lumping him in. Billy has been a stand-up guy. He's just been a stand-up guy. And I never heard one person try to lump Billy Palladino into this. This is Kyle Palladino's words.
 Carl Palladino has to account for his words. And if the state commissioner does not remove him, it is the people of Perk who have to make a decision. But at least we are on record saying it's wrong. Thank you, council members. This is the way it goes. Second by Mr. Wingel.
 Next item. Item 35, recognition of previously determined homestead properties. Motion to adopt items 35 and 36. Seconded by Council Member Freeland. Item 37, waive fees for Star Swimming Program swim team practice. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Franzen. Item 38, Council Member Fontana, excused from attendance. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. Item 39, fee waiver Christmas and Wonderland at MLK Junior Park. Motion to approve.
 Approve second by councilman Wingo and for to say yes to education motion to adopt 41 budget and personnel amendment citizen services motion to approve items 41 through 47 Second by councilmember why I'm 48 Commissioner D's public duties. I'm sorry councilmember the lumber Yeah, this is I'm not sure what's going on councilmember. Why do you have a floor? I?
 Can we go back? I just want to speak to number 45, telecommunications. We're still in the block. Okay. Just want to first congratulate Mr. Cardell-Ross.
 for this promotion. I think it's definitely deserved. However, I've had a conversation with Commissioner, Mr. Heffler, and he stated that we're going to make sure we're clear on telecommunications in their role. It's very important to us. We've had some challenges with the communication, and I think it's extremely important. As I stated in caucus, I have nothing against the message of the mayor and all the things that he does. He does a number of
 things in this community and I'm glad that people can see what he does. However, I don't think our viewpoint should be muted. I know that I'm a very active participant of government access and I want to make sure that our message from the Council and for us is communicated just as much. So Kevin said, Commissioner Hufford said that they will make sure they meet with us on a weekly basis to make sure the communication is solid on this part because if I have one criticism it's been that
 that we have not been included and it seems as though our message is not um valued and we're at midnight and all that no it shouldn't be that way we're not muting the mayor's message by including our message i think we're all on the same page but we're going to make certain that this individual in this position
 knows our heart and makes sure that our message is just as valuable and valued as being seen on government access as everyone else's. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I did talk to the mayor about this today, and this position is going, he's moving it to the Department of Public Works.
 So that the supervision will not be coming out of the administration as much. We'll have it back like we had it before When mr. Tera Pathy was here so that Steve stepped me at although it's a weird place but this the only place where it fits because of in the past was put there because I
 The person in this position was supposed to be doing more than TV. They're supposed to actually be active with, at that time, Time Warner or whoever it was for our franchise negotiation. So I think by going back to the department, and that's what the mayor told me an hour before the meeting, going back to the Department of Public Works, it gives us greater access. But I think our message is loud, our message is clear, that we want to make sure that our voices are being heard on that channel.
 And again, I'm hopeful because Mr. Green, I can say of all individuals in telecommunications, has been very responsive. So I'm hopeful that he will be given the clear reign to make certain that our message is just as visible as the mayor's. Absolutely. Thank you.
 Council Member Williams. Thank you very much. Just, you know, I spoke with the Mayor as well just before the meeting and he said exactly what you said regarding moving a position to public works. So that's good news for the Common Council. I did express the concerns the Council Members had making sure that councils were notified of projects within their respective districts.
 There are projects going on citywide, and we want to make sure that council members in their respective districts get the courtesy of getting heads up. And he told me that he did speak personally with some council members regarding notifying them. I thank them for including us on his press releases and everything that's gone out. So he is willing to work with us through his department. And so it's an open door for us to perhaps deal with some of the little –
 The pitches that we still have but I think we're working on enough. Thank you. I agree Thank you, sir. Next item and 48 commercial deeds public duties motion to adopt item 48 49 and 50 second my consular golem back of Announcement customer wife
 Yes, sir. I just wanted to go back to number 46, the ordinance for property managers. Item is back before second by Council Member Glemmert. And again, I want to thank Corporation Council Lauren for her awesome job on this as well as Sean Mulligan for his input. This is an item that we want to approve.
 because we had a previous item that we needed to have some additional comments made to ensure that this council could call the individual property manager to the council if we have issues so that, you know, again, we did not want to have glorified
 slumlords with this particular ordinance and I think we've done a lot of work to make sure that this process is work going to work and Be effective for the residents who are underneath the responsibility of a property manager That they have some input back to us So that if they're not working that their license will not be renewed. So this is a one-year and
 responsibility of a property manager that they have to come back for the council, I believe, every November. So I'm happy with that because I don't want to, again, put someone in a position of being a property manager that has shown that they are irresponsible and they continue to lend themselves to the blight of our city. And so this is a very strong ordinance. I want to, again, thank the Corporation Council for their support in making this happen and my colleagues for their support as well. Thank you.
 It's a good a good piece of legislation sir next announcement community meetings Committee on civil service Tuesday January 3rd 2017 9 45 a.m. We had finance following civil service Committee on community development Tuesday January 3rd 2017 1 p.m. And legislation Tuesday January 3rd 2 p.m Special committees Committee on education Thursday January 5th 2017 at 1 30 p.m. I
 Council members, any announcements for your districts or otherwise? Council Member Wingold. Thank you, Mr. President. Of course, again, we want to announce the fact that we'll be having our Mastin District stakeholders breakfast meeting and breakfast, which will be held at 830 in the morning, January the 14th at 830 at the Delavan Grider Center. And we invite everyone to come out and eat and get informed with us.
 Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, sir. Council Member Wyatt. I didn't get a chance to wish the residents of the city of Buffalo Merry Christmas, but I want to definitely wish them a happy new year, a prosperous new year, and just thank them for their support and engagement in the city of Buffalo this year. All right. Any other districts? I want to announce that the Buffalo Board of Education will be here in the council chambers on Thursday, the 29th, 2 p.m.,
 A special meeting called by the president, Dr. Nevergold, so the chambers will be in use on that day at 2.30.
 Anything else? If we have nothing else, I think, oh, Council Member Golombet. I did forget. Thursday night, that would be December the 29th, there will be a menorah lighting on Canal Side, of which I may be the person lighting the menorah. We're not sure yet. But the Jewish community of Buffalo is going to be having a little parade from their community,
 synagogue on steering Avenue and they're going to be going down the canal side lighting it at I believe 630 on Thursday December the 29th well that's exciting thank you and don't forget Kwanzaa's all week yeah all right I think that's it right we did everything motion to adjourn second by councilmember fear old little