Member Francis here Councilmember Glombe here Council President Pridgen. Councilmember Rivera present Councilmember Stanley present Councilmember Wingo present Councilmember White here. Forms present. Let's stand for the pledge of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, for one nation under God indivisible with liberty and justice for all. as we remain standing for our council chaplain, the Reverend Al Warner. As we gather for the last session in this calendar year, yesterday I sat at the keyboard and typed a reflection to those who went to Israel with us, Mr. Council President. And I'll just remind you of the verse in Luke 2 that many of you may have heard yesterday when the angel says, Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace to men. One translation says, Goodwill toward men. This was my thought yesterday, as I looked out on the winter wonderland above. Looking out our windows, snow blankets all, the trees, the grass, the cars, the houses of our neighbors, the drabness of leafless trees replaced by a robe of pure white with crystal light, like stepping into a Norman Rockwell moment. It seems like a metaphor for our world. It's easier to see the flaws than the beauty. Could God be working in the winter season of our world? And then I paraphrase the benediction of one of my longtime mentors, Dr. Ray Bochmey, who you've got a chance to meet. Would you just bow with me? I'm going to read this over you as sort of the reflection as we close out one year and begin another. To God be the glory. To the earth be peace. To people of faith be courage. And to our cities, including Buffalo, be hope. Amen. Amen. Council members, memorials. Council Member Franczak, Council Member Wingo, then Council Member Golombi. Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to remember former Councilman-at-Large Jerry Whalen, Gerald Whalen. Back in the 1960's when my father Stan Proknek had Mr. Earth's job as Chief of Staff, he had to organize various meetings and events. And one of the events was actually an association of councilmen that was in Cooperstown, New York, in what I think is Hall of Fame. So, Jerry Whalen and his wife Helen and the other councilman were on our whole movies because we could see them when they went at the meetings, you know, fishing and boating and hanging out. So, I got to know all these folks and it's a lot of fun doing it. And he also was the father of Jim King's, late Jim King's wife who's a councilman, Margaret, as well. So, I finally remember Councilman Whalen. Thank you, sir. Councilman Wingo? This afternoon we would like to remember in our prayers the family of Doris and Archie Locke. They lost their son this morning, Paul Locke, of the Antioch Baptist Church. We would like them to know that they are in our thoughts and our prayers, as well as the family of Ellen Flemmister. She passed away last week. She was a long-term member and a resident of the city of Buffalo. She will be sorely missed as we mourn that loss as well. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Lomba? Thank you, Mr. President. Dan Nucerino passed away, was a former owner of the Nucerino liquor store on Tonawanda Street in Riverside, and longtime Black Rock resident. Mary Kenny passed away, and by long time, I mean 98 years young, she passed away, will be very, very sorely missed by her family, her friends, especially her daughter, Ann Marie. Mr. Fontana? Yes. To the Messiah family, Ms. Valrica, Messiah passed away this past week. We all know Frank, long term person here in the City of Buffalo fighting for the residents of the City of Buffalo and fighting for a better Buffalo and his wife is always there at his side. So to the Messiah family, from our family, we send our best. Great. Any others? And I echo Ms. Messiah and her passing and her whole family is really dedicated uh... to really the rights of all people people being treated fairly and the way that they should be in the united states she will be missed she was also an educator we have an educator in our midst today with her students some of her students uh... but those who give their life to education we know they don't become millionaires we pay millions for sports we pay very little for probably one of the most honored professions that we need and that's educators. And so we, she will be missed. And of course, for all of the men and the women who have given their lives for freedom across our world since our last meeting, on this last council meeting of 2017, we pause for a moment of silence for those names that were read and those that were not. You may be seated. Thank you. We have special presentation by the majority leader, Rivera. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I don't know if we have a member of the Burundian community here today. Do we have anybody from the Burundian community? Oh, yeah. A whole section. A whole section right there? I'm so sorry. Come on down. Thank you very much. Today we're going to express our gratitude. I'm going to ask them to please come. is it going in and out i don't know if it like we'll fix it for 2018. thank you very much as we all know in i believe it was september 21st of 2017 hurricane made landfill throughout the united states and among them was the island of puerto rico and the island was completely ravished by the hurricane creating damages to homes, to electricity that is still going on on the island of Puerto Rico. And there were many groups throughout the city of Buffalo felt compelled They were motivated for very magnanimous reasons to help in the delivery and services to Puerto Rico. And among them, of course, were the ones that came before us during the previous council meetings. But along with them was the Burundian community who also felt compelled and showed compassion and worked hard. And through their fun drive, they delivered 85 cases of drinking water. 86
 cases of flu. Now to the people of Puerto Rico that means quite a lot. To the families of people like us that live here in the Buffalo it means a lot and I just want to thank you on behalf of the whole Common Council for your dedication and your commitment to alleviate many of the problems on the island of Puerto Rico. And we have some proclamations here. Now we have Claudette, Claudette and Zena. We have We have a number of proclamations certificate we'd like to give to you in the Burundian community. And I want to express on behalf of the Common Council our heartfelt gratitude for all the work you've done. Would you like to say a few words? I would like to thank you for recognizing us. I would like to thank Jessica Razarin for making this possible. And the whole community of Burundi would like to thank you. Thank you. Applause Thank you so much. And if you would please hand those out to the certificates. Thank you. Along with them we have members of our Brother's Keepers. As I said before, September 21st, the storm hit the island of Puerto Rico. I believe it was November, sometime in November, our Brother's Keeper, which is a program funded or created by Obama, President Obama, funded programs to intervene in the lives of African Americans and Hispanic males. Who is here from my brother's camp? I'm going to ask Joanne, Dr. Morale, please come down. Those of you who might not know, this is Council Member Wingo's wife. He's over there smiling from ear to ear. Council Member Wingo. And I certainly want to commend Joanne and Dr. Morrell for the work they do with Brothers Keeper. I believe approximately 35 students, the faculty at East High School, administrators came together and they did a fun drive at East High School, and you should see the smiles on these kids' faces when I walked in and I saw them packing up all these boxes of food to deliver them to the homes of approximately 85 families. um who were relocated here to buffalo and i can tell you you were greeted with warm faces and smiles by all those people at those homes so on behalf of the common council a debt of gratitude for all the work that you've done and i'd like for both of you to say a few words here today just with an awesome learning opportunity also in the rear thank you for having us here today to recognize the hard work of our young male scholars whom we are training up to be the great young men of our community that they are already expressing and showing through the legacy of our prior president Barack Obama we're so grateful that they saw the need themselves and then with guidance from the administrators and the teachers, they were able to fulfill a need. And the families were just so welcoming and greeted us so warmly at their doors. And it was just, it was a great learning experience for us all. So thank you, but most especially thank you to the Mell Scholars. Happy holidays, everyone. just want to continue on with what Dr. Morrell said. At My Brother's Keeper, we really are trying to build the capacity of our young scholars where they learn how to help their community and be leaders, not just in their community, but in their schools and in their home. And we are very appreciative that the city of Buffalo would support us in those efforts because we continuously tell them that they're here for their city so for their city in their community to support them through you we really appreciate it and it continues to reinforce the message that we're sending home to them so thank you once again thank you very much proclamation on behalf of the Common Council thanking you for the great work that you've done in your dedication thank you so much I want everybody to take note that this is a day off from school today. So these students are here on their holiday when they are off, and some of their parents are here with them, and their teachers, and of course the leader of their school who is a very, very dedicated principal in our school system. I've been over to school several times, and she is a take-no-prisoners, no-nonsense, leader who really cares about the students. So thank you, Doctor, for being here on your day off. And Mrs. Wingo, on your day off, we appreciate you bringing the students. And we will try our best, if you'll stand for the council meeting, to be as brief as possible so that they can get back on. All righty, anything else? On a motion by Mr. Revere, second by Mr. Scanlon, the minutes of the stated meeting held on December 12, 2017 are approved. Gentlemen, the late files are before you. Are there any objections to any of the late files? Hearing no objections, we will hear the entire agenda that is in front of us. Now take away your right to object to any of the late files that you might see before you. And those from the Brunei, you don't have to stay, believe me. But, yeah, you can go home if you like. We know it's the day after the holiday, but if you'd like to stay, we'd like to. We welcome you. From the top. Item number one, report of sale, 92 Berghar. Motion to approve. Second by Council Member Glumbeck. Item number two, report of sale, 1277 Delaware. Motion is sent to C.D. Second by Council Member Freyland. Item number three, report of sale, 312 Thistle. Motion to approve items three through five. Second by Council Member Wyatt. Item number six, comprehensive annual financial report. Motion to receive and file. Second by Council Member Fontana. Item number seven, certificate of necessity. Motion to send to finance. Second by Councilmember Wingo. Item number eight, appoint permanent member. Motion to approve. Second by Councilmember Golomba. Item number nine, notification serials. Motion to receive and file and waive for forty-five days. Second by Councilmember Frenzik. Item number ten, contract time extension. Motion to approve items eleven, we're number ten, right? We're ten. Motion to receive and file. Second by Councilmember Ferreira. Item number 11, National Grid. Motion to approve items 11, 12, 13, and 14. Second by President Pro Tem Scanlon. Item number 15, Appoint Maintenance Assistant. Motion to send the Civil Service items 15 through 17. Second by Councilmember Golombet. Item number 18, Food Store License Renewals. Motion to send the legislation items 18, 19, and 20. Second by Councilmember Fontana. Item number 21, food start license. Motion to approve items 21 through 25. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 26, Be Well Medical Consultant. I'm sorry, we can pause. Council Member Glumby, I'll go to the floor. Thank you, Mr. President. For items number 22 and 23, I'd like to have the normal conditions placed upon them. And also for item number 22, I'd like to have the added condition that it... the uh, an Asian food store predominantly. Um, there are quite a few uh, delicatessens in that immediate neighborhood. And this one is being opened specifically for parts of the Asian community. So I want to make sure that that's written in there so that hope, you know, hopefully this doesn't happen. But somewhere down the road I don't want some just regular deli opening up there because they're literally within um, three blocks of about a half a dozen delis. Thank you. Alright. So noted. We have the note. Item number 24, be well, medical consultant. Motion to approve items 24 and 25. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Council Member Wyatt. Yeah, I didn't get a chance to read this thoroughly, but don't we typically put this sort of committee before we approve it? Which number are you talking about? 24, 25, be well, the case manager. It doesn't always have to go to committees. It's up to what the council members want to do it. there's a contract so every contract doesn't have to go to committee doesn't have to go to committee right i mean is there urgency with this one can we send it i wasn't informed of any urgency we can send it to finance if you'd like mr chairman i don't know if it's time sensitive nobody we had hr at our caucus meeting earlier today to discuss this one okay question desire You guys were okay with it? I mean, I was the heir, but... So somebody did come in, and we had discussion of it in caucus. Okay, we can go with it then. Motion is to approve?
 Yep. Yep, so the motion stands. Did we already approve it? Motion to approve items 24 and 25. Item number 26, liquor license application. Motion to receive and file items 26 through 30. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number 31, notices of appointments, temporary, provisional, permanent. Motion to send to civil service. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 32, public comment. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 33, objective project, 627 North. Motion to send to legislation. Seconded by Council Member Golombek. Item number 34, Remembering Cities. Motion to send the CD. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Item number 35, Buffalo Niagara Waterkeeper. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Franza. Item number 36, Waterfront Village Advisory Council. Motion to send the CD, items 36 and 37. Seconded by President Proton. Item number 37, Waterfront Village Advisory Council. Item number 38, concerns conducting of civil service. Motion to send the civil service. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 39, site plan. Motion to send the legislation. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 40, negative declaration. Motion to adopt. Second by Council Member Fioriletto. Item number 41, principles to be in. The Inc. into LL. Mm-hmm. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Galambe. Item number 41A concerns the Jakuta project. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member Wingo. Where is the floor? Thank you, Mr. Chair. Where the work of the New York State Department of Transportation is commendable and the fact that they want to realign the the natural use of the area around Delaware Park, Olmstead, which is an Olmstead park. They want to reestablish that as something that would complement the area once again. It is too also my disappointment that it seems as though if Maston District has been excluded into those drawings and those plans. It seems as though if again all of these attention has been given to the redevelopment of the 198th Skajakwita regarding safety and other issues, it seems as though if the area from Parkside to Delavan has been neglected again. The community on Humboldt Parkway, the Restore Our Community Coalition, the residents of Humboldt Parkway, and the residents of Maston District have all have been expressing their disdain with the fact that we have this 33 Expressway bisecting two communities that at one point were united with a very beautiful parkway in the middle of their street or their boulevard, their parkway. And now at this point we have a development because of a very, very unfortunate event that had transpired, seeing as though if they've propelled their plans to ensure that this development happens sooner than later, where the residents of Mastin have been crying and complaining and wailing about the issues and the detriment to the community and their district and to their neighborhood for several decades now. And for Mastin again to be excluded, those residents who live alongside the 198 and the 33, to have been excluded again into this final draft of this plan by the New York State Department of Transportation is just heartening to me. The fact that the comments have not been considered or seems as though they have not been considered. The fact that the residents have been giving us their stories of soot and everything on their houses for decades has not been considered. The fact that they have no longer the ability to just walk across the boulevard or have their children play in the park has not been considered. The fact that cars have driven over the edge of the 33 and have fallen into the expressway have not been considered. Those are unfortunate incidences as well. I'm not lessening anything. I'm not trying to mitigate any of the other incidents that would have propelled them to expedite the process for the 198. But going only from Grand Street to Parkside... is a snub for Mass. and District residents. And I think that is very unfortunate. And I'm praying that all of the residents who have been expressing their disdain with this project or the lack of the inclusion of this project, I'm hoping that they would all come out during that open hearing and express their concerns along with the Delaware residents, along with the Niagara residents so that we can all come together and be unified in our attempt to try to ensure that the DOT is being inclusive of all of the residents who are going to be impacted and affected by the design and development of this 198. Now, last but not least, the project states in their own language that Route 198 is, and I quote, at odds with its rich cultural and recreational surrounding, acting as a, unquote, these are their words, and I quote, physical barrier between two sides of Delaware Park, end quote. Yet and however, we have the 33 that has divided a community for decades. The people have been expressing their concern with this division for decades. The Hemlin Park Taxpayer Association community has been complaining about the detriment to their community by the bisecting of this neighborhood for decades. But yet, here and again, there is a new design and there is redevelopment that's occurring that the residents of Madison District are not being included in again. I'm praying and I'm hoping that the New York State Department of Transportation hears our concerns and sees that we also are residents of the city of Buffalo. We also pay taxes and we also need to be included in this redesigning and redevelopment of the 198. And that, sir, will be my comments for now. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. Mr. Colombo. Thank you Mr. President. I say this a little bit tongue in cheek, but maybe the residents of Mastin were the lucky ones because they didn't have to waste their time going to meetings and then being ignored by New York State. That's unfortunately what happened to a lot of the residents of the North District. We've had meetings at Buffalo State College and at other places. Residents have gone in there and made their position known on what they want to see happen to the Skagitakwita. And basically, the DOT, New York State DOT, came back and ignored the majority of the recommendations from the residents, from the participants in these discussion movements. And, you know, it was very, very frustrating. It's almost like, you know, you have a Band-Aid on, and they're... not really taking it off and they're not really leaving it on. You know, they're making proposals that don't really help but don't really hurt. They don't really make any changes there. I have said to the residents in the district that, you know, if they leave it at 55, which I wouldn't be happy with, but I could understand that. I said I'd much prefer that they make it some sort of a parkway, but the whole thing, from... of the river all the way to downtown Buffalo, encompassing all the residents that live in those corners of the city of Buffalo. I don't think doing nothing is an option, but I don't think doing something halfway is an option either, because I'm on the expressway on a regular basis, and I try to go about 30, 35 miles an hour, there's cars flying by me. And I'll tell you, if they end up putting it at 40 miles an hour or 45 miles an hour, that's going to mean 55 or 60. Unless we're able to have police enforcement there on a regular basis. And I know in my district, I have enough issues that we want police in the neighborhood not on the expressway ticketing people. But they should be doing something much better for this than just this half-ass approach that they're making. I think they should start all over again and truly listen to the residents from all the districts, all the areas that are impacted in the city of Buffalo, and especially those residents that live in the city of Buffalo that are adjacent to where the expressway is. Thank you. Thank you. And I agree with both of my colleagues on this, especially in this year in which Clark Eaton from the Mastin District, worked so hard in his life to talk about the covering of that 33, of the rejoining of those neighborhoods, of talking in New York State, watching so much happen and for very little to happen from the state. So I agree with you, Council Member Wingo, that when that discussion started, it probably should have started, you know, right in Maston, and there's a portion of... Elegant as you go down. And I don't think that change is necessarily bad. Usually what happens is the way change happens. And I think that's what Councilman Golombek said. fields and many people in this council. So hopefully our state representatives will hear and the state of New York will hear, again, that I don't think anybody on this council is against change. It's how it's happening and considering the people who have to live in these neighborhoods also and have to work and play. So thank you for your resolution. Next item. item number 42 special use permit 568 niagara for alcohol and tobacco and refill food store motion to send items 42 through 44 to the ledge of city planning board all right i'm just getting the agenda back here second by council member wingle submissions list item number one from civil service point real estate specialist civil service motion to approve what's your number one second by customer Item number two, appoint dispatcher. Motion to approve items number two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight. Seconded by the Majority Leader, Revere. Item number nine, notices of appointment, temporary, provisional, and permanent. Receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Revere. Item number ten, DMHA benefit eligibility audit. Ten, eleven, and twelve, motion to receive and file. Seconded by Council Member Wyatt. item number 13 report of sale 110. community development motion to approve items 13 and 14. second by the majority leader item number 15 report of sale 39 holland place oh uh that's fine motion to approve items 15 and 16. this is the last council meeting that here i think we're all about the part now second by council member franzack too much turkey Next item. Item number 17, notification material. Motion to receive and file. Seconded by the Majority Leader. Item number 18, report of sale 735 Woodlawn. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 19, property owner requested to appear for 13 Sherman. Motion to receive and file 19, 20, and 21. Seconded by Council Member Freelander. Legislation. Item 22, food store license 163, Westbury. Motion to approve with conditions items 22, 23, and 24. All on file by the council members, second by council member White. Item number 25, letter from the city of Rochester regarding concealed carry reciprocity. Motion to receive and file. Second by President Protil. Item number 26, use permit 187, Esser. Motion to approve with conditions. Second by Council Member Fontaine. Item number 27, rezoning 867 to 925 Abbott Road. That item originally came without recommendation. The motion is now to approve. Second by the Council Member Scan. Item number 28, use permit 197 Allen for a tavern in an N2C zone. Motion to recommit. Second by Council Member Wingo. Item number 29, Lodging House 45 West Chippewa. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Fontana. Item number 30, Property Manager's License, ABC Property Management. Motion to approve with conditions. Seconded by Council Member Scanlon. Item number 31, Property Manager's License, Cheyenne Castro Santos. Motion to approve. Seconded by Council Member Golombet. Resolutions. Fee waiver for Lovejoy Pool. Motion to approve. Second by the Council Member Fialetto. Council Member Fontana, you have the floor. I know we're talking about fee waivers. This is for some school children that go to 43... Uh, school and there's a summer program there. There's a Saturday program there. The city invests a lot of money with the Board of Ed. The pool, um, Council Member Backus built the pool there because it was right next to a city school. And there was actually supposed to be a bridge that connected the pool to the school. And that was never done because of money, but the pool still stays there because it's so close to the school. So... I know I'm waiving fees, but this is a situation where I think the school kids really deserve to use the pool and shouldn't have to pay all that money because it's a school-sponsored thing. So that's just the gist behind why the fee waiver is put there. That we have to have a fee on it? It's ridiculous. I mean, it doesn't really cost us much more to have the kids there. The pool's already open, and we know they're coming, so it's not a big surprise. So that's why we do this. Just in case someone asks why I'm doing a fee waiver, that's the reason why. Thank you. Thank you. Next item. Item number 46, Buffalo Golden Gloves. Motion to send to CD. Seconded by Council Member White. Item number 47, Commissioner Beetz. Motion to adopt. Seconded by Council Member White. Announcement of committee meetings. Committee on Civil Service, Tuesday, January 2nd, 2017 at 9.45 a.m. Committee on Finance, Tuesday, January 2nd at 10 a.m., following Civil Service. Committee on Community Development, Tuesday, January 2nd at 1 p.m. Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, January 2nd at 2 p.m. Special Committees, Special Committee on Legislation, Tuesday, January 9th at 1 p.m. And we also, Councilmember Scanlon will host the reorg meeting for the council on January 2nd at noon. Is that at noon? For a very exciting meeting for our reorg. We know that everyone will come and the house will be packed because everybody is so excited. Councilmember Wingo. If we could, Mr. Chair, go back and revisit item number 46. item which which number 46 46. custom and there was something else um the motion is to revisit item 46 second by Councilman Freeland it's in front of us I would just like to be added to this resolution with Councilman Weiss-Mercer because I believe that he is really on to something. I know that my children at one point, they were in a boxing program. We also know Coach Terry from the Flair Boxing Squad. He's there doing phenomenal work with all of our young people. So if you could encourage these young people who are disciplining themselves, because I know boxing is not an easy sport. It is very, very rigorous as far as the training is concerned. So what I would like to do is, if it's all right, to be added to this resolution and also encourage everyone else to attend these bouts and these tournaments because I really believe in the work that they're doing as far as mentoring these young people. So thank you, Councilman White, for even considering to write a resolution like this, and I would like to be added. Thank you, Mr. Chair. That's it. Thank you. And there was one other item. Was it 7th? all right uh majority leader item number seven was marked for finance but it would no and this one is it says finance what did we do item number seven it should have been received in five years yeah so can we revisit item to revisit item number seven second by Council member Fairletter motion to resend the previous motion second by Council member Wyatt motion is now to receive and file saying by Council member Franzen thank you to our Clerk's office. Any announcements? No breakfast? Yeah. Are you kidding me? We do have a breakfast in January. All right. It will be January the 13th. We're inviting everyone to come out for the new year. We do have a special event every new year for our attendees, so please come out, get this information. I was out in the community last week and I will, you know, take, like I usually do, take pictures of different things that need attention. And fortunately we have a great working relationship with the administration that they come out immediately and work on these issues. I would like everyone to know who's watching that we do have these forums so that you can become informed. So that you could get the information that's needed to improve your own quality of life, We're trying to build capacity, which means we're not just trying to do it for you all the time, but to give you necessary information and resources so that you can take advantage and do these things for yourself, thereby going to train someone else, increasing everyone's capacity. So we want you to come out to these stakeholders meetings because they're helpful. And as I was out this past week, there was a man who did not know who I was when I walked into his business meeting. And unfortunately, when I introduced myself, I was accused of not being in the community. And when I informed this gentleman also that, well, we have a stakeholders meeting right next door to your shop every month, he couldn't believe that that was something that was going on. And when I explained to the gentleman that this has been going on for much longer than the last two years that I've been in office, but at least for the last decade, they were shocked. And then when I began to name all of the establishments around him and all the people who own the shops around his, it was like, oh, I'm sorry. I don't want that to happen ever again, and that's why we stress every single month that we have these stakeholders meetings. We are doing the very best that we possibly can to disseminate all of the information so that everyone can have access to these opportunities, access to these employment opportunities, access to all of these grants and whatever dollars that are available if you would like to write up a grant or something. But – We want you to know, that's why I stress every month, on the second Saturday of every month, we have the Mastin Stakeholders Meeting where we serve you breakfast. Yes, we feed you, and it is good food as well. And during this meeting at 830 at Delavan Crider, and the address is 877 East Delavan. We are only going to have you there for the first half an hour. We will feed you at 9, then at 930 we'll come with people who have information for the community. I hate to take up too much time, Mr. President, but I want everybody to understand, I want everybody to know, in the radio land, at home, on TV land, everybody anywhere, please come out to the stakeholders' meetings and get this information. If you want to receive our newsletters, call the office at 851-5145 and sign up so that you can get the information in paper form, too. Thank you, Mr.
 Chair. Thank you. Council Member White. Council President, have we made a... have a date for the pre-conversation around the budget? Have we decided that for January as of yet? Yeah, there's a date for it. Malcolm Earth, the City Council Chief of Staff. Sir, the date has been set for January 16th here at Chambers. Okay, January 16th. So I just want to make the residents know, I know the folks in my district are very excited about it, to have that conversation. I think it was a great idea of yours last year to bring people together before the budget is actually done, to have some input. I think it's totally fair. But people are really excited about it, and I think I'm happy that people want to know what's going on in their government. It shouldn't be something that they should be shocked about. I think all that we've done to make it transparent, because you can see it live, you can see it over and over again on Channel 22, It's things that I'm really hoping for the new year that people get more engaged. There's a lot of things going on in our world and you can't be a part of it if you don't know what's going on. So you've got to pay attention. Next year we know our taxes are going to be changed somehow, but we've got to be informed and I'm thankful that you're doing this and I hope people will pay attention January 18th here in, 16th, 16th in Chambers here and here about the free budget. Thank you. Thank you, Mr.
 Wyatt.
 All right. Thank you, gentlemen. This is our last Councilman of the Year. I want to thank the Majority Leader for working our budgets and our agendas all year, our President Pro Temp, who has been right there on so many issues and worked with the Council and each one of you. Our city, I believe, is better, as Al says, when we work together. I think that, you know, when you start reading articles and they say, wow, Buffalo basically gets it. They're transparent. They have their executive, when they have to go in executive session, they're telling the public. We put our agenda now. out for everybody to be able to see and read. There are no secret meetings. There are no four men or three men in a room that make the decisions for everyone else. And to see a council in which, when one district needs something a little bit more than the other, this council has recognized that and done that. And so I want to thank you for not, I don't think that it is a right to lead you all but for the privilege of leading this Common Council. And I believe that residents should know how much work goes in to every office in our city hall and outside from those elected officials who sit before us now. And it has been an honor to serve you now for two terms as the president of the Buffalo City Common Council. Thank you.
 Motion?
 Motion to adjourn. Motion to adjourn. Second by Councilmember Frenzik.