by Chaplain Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
 Father, tonight we ask that you come and guide the minds of these councilmen, Lord, as they make decisions for the city. Guide the mayor as he leads them. We also pray, Lord, that you'd be with our fire and police departments as they go out and protect us day by day, that they may return home safely at the end of their day.
 We just pray that you'd have your way in everything that's said and done tonight, and Lord, that everything will be done decently and in order, just like your word says. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. He said here. Here. Here. Here. Here. All right. So we have a quorum. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings. Second. Excellent. So that was a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 5th. If there's any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign? Okay. Motion passes.
 Next up, we have a proclamation. I believe Mary McDade, board president, and Linda Carroll, board vice president, as well as other members of the Irish Marching Society may be here. Oh, they're leaving, yeah. Good. Hi. Hand this to you.
 Whereas Irish Marching Society Rockford Chapter 1 is strictly a not-for-profit organization chartered in 1977 and was established to preserve and promote Irish heritage within our community, and whereas Irish Marching Society continues to contribute financially from its various activities and events to charitable organizations.
 And whereas Irish Marching Society's 41st Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade will be held on Saturday, March 10, 2018 at 3 p.m. beginning on 7th Street and 5th Avenue and ending at the Prairie Street Brewhouse, 200 Prairie Street. The Paddy Fest will be held at Prairie Street Brewhouse from 4.30 p.m. to 10 p.m. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 5th to be Irish Marching Society Week.
 Would you like to share a few words? It is March 17th is actually the day. Of course, the Irish mayor has the wrong day. So it's March 17th. We're having the parade right on March 17th. We're really excited about that. So we're expecting a really nice crowd that day. We're praying for nice weather. So please, we hope it's nice weather. Last week we froze, right, Daniel Shea? We've been around since this is our 41st annual parade this year. We're really excited about that.
 A purpose that we do is to encourage and promote the Irish culture in the Rockford region area, and we have started a community foundation endowment fund to help students, the younger generation in Irish step dancing or pipe, learn to pipe, and to help them out with that.
 So we're really excited about that, how we changed it. We came to 501c3 last September, where we were just a not-for-profit, but now we're 501c3 rated, which is very good for us, for donations, because you can write it off. And we really appreciate the proclamation and so glad to be here. Thank you so much. Thank you for all that you do. And I know Chief O'Shea is looking to participate in the float contest. So thank you. Sheriff's Italian. Thank you. That's it.
 I think O'Shea beats Caruana on St. Patrick's Day for sure. Okay, next up we have Petitions and Communications. Alderman Durkee. Oops, hold on here. I have one item under Roman numeral 3, Petitions and Communications, the Rockford Area Convention.
 A visitor bureau, also known as RACVB, will present their quarterly report for fiscal year 2018, quarter two, which is October through December 2017. This will be referred to planning and development.
 Thank you. And for codes and regulations, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have six items this evening. First is a zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 21st, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on February 26th, 2018.
 The second is a Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held February 21st, 2018. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on February 26th, 2018.
 The third is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding proposed revision of Ordinance 17-2, Weed Cutting Liens. The fourth is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the transfer of city-owned properties.
 to Rockford Corridor Improvement under the Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement. The fifth is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code, Chapter 3, Article 1, Section 3-60 and 3-63.
 And the final is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding the upcoming special events, which include Rockford 4th of July Committee Parade and Fireworks Celebration, MELD July 4th Fun Run, and Swedish American State Street Mile. All six of those will be referred to the codes of regs, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Thank you your honor. I have a memorandum from Vicki Manson housing and program manager regarding transfer of city-owned properties to eligible homebuyer at 224 Foster have a memorandum from Carrie Eklund finance director regarding ordinance note modifications recommended by the Finance Task Force and I have a memorandum from Human Services director referral actually and
 For the application for Head Start and Early Head Start services for the 2018 to 2023 period, I would like to refer these to finance personnel. Thank you, Alderman Beck. And I believe Director Meyer has some information from Comcast for us. We are in receipt of the quarterly franchise fee payment from Comcast, the amount of $456,161.57. Thank you.
 Next up we have public speakers. I'll remind our public speakers that they have three minutes to talk to counsel. First up is Prophet Yusuf of Rockford, Illinois. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Sirach, the 40th chapter, the 27th verse, it says the fear of God is a paradise of blessing. What I want to speak about tonight is.
 bus service essential to Rockford economic growth. In many ways the bus transportation infrastructure should be utilized by public transportation. A bus transportation system intended to provide a more better way to get people to work, to healthcare, to education and to shopping. These are all components of commerce and when provided to a larger number of people in a single system can reduce energy consumption, reduce wear and tear on the roads and provide
 a cost-effective and consistent means for people to be productive participants in the economy. Presently, I am seeing the growing definition of a need for such a system here in Rockford to support our future. The present system in Rockford is a good start, but it is locked within the city boundaries.
 More comprehensive systems would be better matched workers with jobs. We have companies that are looking for workers and a barrier to getting good employees has been the lack of bus service. We have been working with potential new companies looking to come to Rockford. And one of the first questions they ask is what type of bus service system we have. If a company is going to bring 10 to 20,000 good job paying jobs with benefits to Rockford,
 They want to know that these workers can get to and from work every day. I've also noticed that the cost of transportation is getting much more expensive, especially with fuel prices. The cost of transportation is taking more and more of the paycheck and putting pressure on both employer and employee. It is not hard to see that some families have to make tough choices between buying gas or food
 A comprehensive start to a better bus service program here in Rockford is a vital component to moving Rockford economy forward. Programs are available to fund such a system without any local tax or cost. The design of such a system is based on an eye toward the future and not the habit patterns of the past. Without it, our economy in Rockford would not become stronger like it should. By using my two systems, the MISS system and your 12 resources, and have the bus run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week,
 fix and flex rock. You could put 80,000 people to work in rock. This would help lower your unemployment rate, your homeless rate, your poverty rate, and your crime rate because people would be working. This would help raise more revenue for rock so your budget would be balanced. You wouldn't have to depend on the dysfunctional idiots in Washington or Springfield to help. You have to be more creative and help yourself. If you use my two system, you can bring in rock with 4 billion
 $950,375,150.08 a year. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. The next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley from Rockford.
 Right. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men, all the women, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Dear Lord, help me every single morning to find faith in the midst of chaos. Give me the desire and ability to see you, hear you, talk to you, and give thanks to you. And as I do, I pray that I will draw nearer and nearer to you, you and that my faith will multiply us fondly. And as I understand in new, deeper ways that you are everything I hope you will be and so much more. Amen.
 Donald Trump's tweet failed to acknowledge the role that Florida-led gun law played in the shooting, bearing institutionalization is extremely difficult to keep someone with a history of mental illness from buying a gun in Florida. The accused killer legally purchased an AK-15-style rifle using the slugging, his family attorney said. The president also ignored the fact that he actually made it easy for people with mental health issues
 buy guns by revoking Obama-era gun regulations last year. This weekend, Saturday and Sunday, we went to the library, went to the Veteran Memorial Hall, celebrating African-American veterans with some of the renewed Turning Point youth.
 And wow, you only had one month. I hate the fact that I did not see her before she passed. However, I was informed that she left everything in my name. And so I'm planning on going on Monday, February 26th, on the train. I'm still working on how I'm going to raise the funds to pay for the train ride that's going to cost me $100 one way, plus room and board during the time that I'll be staying down in Jackson, Mississippi.
 I'm happy to hear that my youngest son want to go with me. He have a sister that live in Greenwood, Mississippi. On top of all that, my family baby sister will be burying her grandson this Thursday that was killed in Chicago Heights.
 And guess what? I want to thank our sponsor for giving me a call today. They will be giving us some tickets and a van to be able to take some, a bus rather, to be able to take some youth to see the Black Panther movie. Also got an email, a call from Scott Davidson for Grab Director stated that, I've been a while since we've talked. I hope that getting in touch with you last week. We have a meeting we want to talk with you about.
 I'm not sure how much you have heard about the Invest in Kids Act in Illinois, but I want to ensure you that you have information. Don Cunningham and I believe in the work that you are doing and the family you impact with Renewal Turning Point. We also believe that an investment in the kids program can help families that you are working with. I also want to thank all the sponsors that helped me to raise enough to be able to take
 on ice and also this year thursday we having the black history month this will be our 11th year during the uh renewal turning uh during the neighborhood network having our soul food dinner at uh north lane manor so i got a lot on my plate i'm uh not happy about going to jackson mississippi but i don't have no choice and i'm playing on this one i'm gonna be doing monday and thanks for all the sponsors that have been supporting us and me and my kids thank you
 Our next public speaker this evening is Larry Padgett, Jr. of Rockford Elementary. Thank you, Mayor. What I came here tonight for was to make the city aware of the crossings between West State, on West State, between Burbank Avenue and Horseman Avenue. There are four places of business there that generate a lot of traffic, walking and driving.
 Waylo gas station, Steve's Grocery, The Catch, and the West 8 Grocery. There have been several people hit crossing the road there and a large number of near misses by cars in the last three years. I spoke with three of the four business owners this morning to gather more information about the problem, and they all agreed. The problem is no crosswalks and no lighting.
 The latest incident was when a police officer hit a woman crossing in front of Waylo, and the news kept reporting that the police department told them the woman is in the hospital but just fine. Well, I'm friends with the family members of the victim, and the facts are that she has a cut across her forehead that will leave a scar for life. She had her teeth knocked out.
 She has a broken nose with stent and stitches. She has a broken arm with plates and screws, a broken leg with plates and rods, memory loss and other complications. If this was a loved one of yours, would you think everything is fine, or would you think it's time for the city to step up to the plate and put in a lighted crosswalk? Uh-oh.
 I know there's not a lot of money generated in that area, but I live in that area, and I'd like to be able to cross the road without putting my life in fear. So that's all I have. Thank you for listening to me. Thank you, Mr. Padgett. Next public speaker is Mr. Dan McCarty from Rock City, Illinois. Dan McCarty. Next up we have new committee reports. Alderman Durkee. Under Roman numeral V,
 Number A, letter A. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of the renewal for a license agreement with Zion Development Corporation for the use of residents at 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place this up for passage. Sir, I need discussion. Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman? Rose? Beech? Quinones? McNeely? Chiarelli? Frost? Aye. 14 ayes.
 thank you and alderman shirelli for coats and regulations committee thank you your honor under roman numeral five b one the committee recommends approving the tentative plat of the peary school subdivision and number two the committee recommends approval of 1300 rock street barbara coleman remediation site groundwater use ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance place those two committee reports up for passage your honor thank you is there a discussion on the two items before us
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. 14 ayes. Those items pass. Alderman Beck for finance and personnel. Aye.
 thank you your honor i have five items first one is recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of seven million ninety eight thousand three hundred and twenty three dollars and 75 cents next is a recommending approval of the 2018 budget discussion packet number four
 Next is recommending approval of the application of balances for workers compensation fund and unemployment fund to eliminate $2.7 million of the projected deficit in 2018 with one time transfers. Next is recommending approval of the sale of property located at 1246 Corbin Street to the highest bidder, Emma Sautereau of Rockford for her bid of $1,300. She's the adjacent property owner. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And the final is the recommending approval of the sale of property located at 1329th Street to the highest bidder, Donald and Diane Johnson of Rockford, for the bid of $525. They are the adjacent property owners. The legal director should prepare the appropriate ordinance. That is your honor. Will do. We have items 1, 3, 4, and 5 in front of us right now, so we'll separate number 2. Is there any discussions on items 1, 3, 4, or 5? Alder.
 Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to number three, moving these account balances, I guess my question is from an overall standpoint, what is our cash position in all of the accounts combined? Because I know we still have, I believe we still have the $12 or $13 million revolving loan fund that we can tap into. I think it's $12 million.
 are you talking about a line of credit line of credit i said revolving loan i'm sorry i'm thinking of um never mind the the line of credit which we pay i don't remember some ten thousands of dollars for each year if we've got fund balances
 That would help us in our cash position. What is our. Fund balance in our other funds. In other words, do we have a deficit in our fund balance in any of our other funds? And if we do, should we be applying this because. I still firmly believe the state of Illinois is going to.
 pin us to the wall on something as their cash position, as their, not cash, as their position gets worse. My understanding is they've already recommended that they will abscond with the same amount of the distributive fund that they did last year, and they're going to continue to charge us to give us our money back to the tune of $330,000. I'm sorry, I just can't say it with a straight face. Dollars a year, so if that's going to continue,
 Do we need to be in a better fund balance position and cash position in light of that? Yeah, I'll turn you over to Director Eklund, but I would just say the only thing you have to change in your sentence is that they will pin us to the wall. I'd say they already are, but...
 Yeah, continue to. Director Eklund. Certainly. So we are in a cash position that allows us to continue to pay our bills until we receive the bulk of our property tax distributions, which begin in June. We have had the line of credit in place for a number of years and not accessed that for cash purposes. Keep in mind, too, we have...
 significant cash balances and things like our CAP, MFT, and water utility funds for capital expenses that those funds incur that don't necessarily happen on an annual basis, right? You've got projects that span multiple years and you've got funds committed. So while the general fund cash position is not where we would want it to be, the common cash position is healthy.
 And we don't anticipate that taking $2.7 million out of common cash is going to significantly affect our ability to continue to maintain payments flowing in and out of the city.
 As I said, one of the reasons why I want to maintain that line of credit is specifically for the reasons that you've mentioned, that if we have, if at some point we, distributions from the state stop entirely, we have the line of credit available to us to access,
 in the event that we exhaust all of our common cash resources and need to tap into that. That has happened in my time here. General fund cash did get to zero at one point, which is why we needed the line of credit, but we're a long way away from that.
 I feel completely comfortable applying this $2.7 million to the general fund. This isn't money that can be applied to any other negative fund balance. The workers' comp and unemployment funds are funded by transfers from the general fund. So we're basically paying the general fund back for overpayments. Sure. Any other discussion on items 1, 3, 4, 5, Alderman Toomber?
 Thank you, Mayor. This is probably geared towards Director Eklund. On the vouchers, Midwest Tape, are we just clearing that for the library, but is that actually library funds that are paying for that ultimately? We process payments on behalf of the library. We serve as their fiscal agent. But it's not any city funds. It's all library funds. Great. Thank you. Any other discussions on 1, 3, 4, and 5? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. 14 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have under finance and personnel, item number two. Is there discussion under item number two?
 Alderman Thompson-Kellett. I just want to make a note that I will be voting no on quite a few of these for my own reason, especially RMTD.
 There's a lot of my constituents that utilize that to get to work every day to go to go to Shopping go to the doctor that have no other means of transportation 20% cut at one time is devastating to any budget it even would be to ours So if we could do a gradual percentage
 uh... to have make them prepare for their budgeting years and forthcoming but i just cannot support a twenty percent down budget time td and that we also have to set up to so every alderman's aware uh...
 Much like the previous package, if you want to vote no on a particular item, the clerk will have that set up. So just as Alderman Thompson-Kelly indicated, if you want to vote no on a particular one but approve others or vice versa, you'll have that opportunity. Alderman Hervey? Just a few comments on the R&TD subsidy.
 There's a penalty to RMTD if we reduce their subsidy. The vast majority of their subsidy comes from the state of Illinois. I mean, I made some notes because I used to be on the RMTD board. Ten percent from the federal government. And by the way, the federal government pays all the capital costs. They pay for the new buses. None of that is coming from City of Rockford, and it's not coming from RMTD. Okay.
 Capital is I'm sorry. It's 80% feds and 20% state but no local dollars for that if we Start to remove that subsidy that we're required to provide to get the subsidy from the state and the federal government That's going to be a deduction for our NTD. We did it three years ago. I think was about three years ago and I
 I mean, we didn't get dinged for it, but it definitely perked up some people's ears and they basically said a payback is still a payback. That's still a reduction in your subsidy. And you can't cut your subsidy to balance not well, it wasn't to balance your budget, but to take care of your own budget because you're not fulfilling that obligation.
 Playing around with that to me is just dangerous Everybody around this horseshoe either has a car or has access to at least one if not more That's not the case for many of the people that some of us represent. They don't have transportation. This is not about You know taking a shuttle to the the fireworks or something this is about getting food medical care kids getting to school people getting to work and the work is a huge one and
 My understanding is someone thought maybe we should should expand uber services So I had someone check and to take uber for example to the mall If you have a job in the mall, depending on where you are in the city is is almost $12 And I don't think uber is set up to handle all the riders that that RMTD has I just wish we could look at some other source of
 You know, let them sell advertising and give the advertising money to the city. I just don't want to play around with that subsidy. So I'm asking that we look at a different schematic.
 for some of that money, but to do something different with it. And I wouldn't want to do anything at all because I want to see them expand their routes. Routes have been reduced over the years. We now have four routes, by the way, that go to Belvedere, and Belvedere pays for that in total. So people are able to get some of those decent paying jobs attached to the Chrysler plant, whereas before they couldn't unless they had transportation.
 I have some other ones that I have some concerns with too.
 One of which is the stormwater. And by the way, I want to thank staff for answering some of my questions. We're looking at assessing a stormwater fee that's going to go on water bills, which again, an essential and required service. If you don't pay your water bill, your water is shut off and your house becomes condemned. You can't live in a house where you can't flush the toilets and have clean drinking water.
 Even if it's less than a dollar we still have not come up with the way to charge people for parking as an enterprise fund And parking is still a drain on our general fund I can't see assessing another fee to our taxpayers another burden to people before we charge people for parking which I
 a whole lot of it is is is optional or recreational and i know people have threatened if you charge for parking i'm not going to come downtown and i'm not going to shop downtown and i'm not going to eat downtown that's a risk i'm willing to take i just think it's we are beyond the time that we can keep subsidizing parking
 but fully charging people for garbage, for water, for all of our other enterprise funds. And I want to take a position that until we remediate how we operate the parking fund, we're not going to add the stormwater fee to people's bills. I understand.
 Is there a follow-up or did you have, I don't want to cut you off? Oh, I mean, I have more on here. Or should I cut you off? You might not want to ask that. All right, I'll have Dr. Eklund address some of your comments.
 Director Eklund? Yeah, I just want to clarify that the general fund doesn't subsidize the parking fund. If there are negative balances in the parking fund, that's covered by common cash. We don't provide a subsidy to the parking fund directly from the general fund on an annual basis to make it whole.
 The fund maintains a negative balance that is covered by cash from all funds throughout the city if there is that shortfall. I also want to point out that there is a recommendation related to the parking fund in package five that you'll be able to consider. So next week we actually will be talking about the parking fund.
 can we hold on storm water until we talk about the parking fund you are an alderman and can make any motion to do that if you'd like okay i'll do that i don't want to mess up chas's sequence there so miss bailey so are you making a motion to withdraw that for this week or i would okay if that's the appropriate time i would move to lay over i don't okay there's a first and a second so you're moving to lay over the storm water right
 Is that number 10? I'm sorry. I'm on the wrong one. I'm on January 22nd. My apology Yes item number 10. So there's some motion and there's a second to lay over item number 10, which is the storm water Drainage assessment all those in favor say aye aye No, suppose. Okay alderman frost and I'll come back to you alderman. Thompson. Yeah, I just wanted to comment on all of them Herbie's point about the RMTD is
 Being on the financial task force, we had the privilege of having some folks come in from RMTD as we did. We had every department in the city come in. And it was always a concern of ours was to cut city services and to avoid eliminating city staff as well and cut any services to the constituents of Rockford, including bus service.
 You know, I just want to let people know that, you know, I understand that if money is cut or the subsidy isn't given to RMTD, that it does affect them in other ways with respect to getting other dollars. But, you know, I mean, a 20 percent cut or a $300,000 cut,
 To that is a $300,000 gain to this to the city of Rockford to use in other ways to chip at a very large deficit. And so when you look at the scheme of things between the city of Rockford's deficit and the RMTD, I mean that's something I think people need to consider. There is no requirement, as Alderman Hervey said, that we are compelled to
 to fund at a level of 1.5 million dollars in annual subsidies rmtd and i i do appreciate that that ridership uh i mean i i was my understanding that ridership is up and that there are there actually have been an expansion of routes not not a not a uh elimination of routes so again i know it's just just it's a very hard decision to make and that these all these proposals involve hard decisions and i just didn't want anyone to think whether from the rmtd or otherwise that
 that we you know any of these considerations were taken lightly but at the end of the day um i i can't protect or i i have no say in how the federal government the state government funds the mass transit district i only have the ability as we all do here is to vote on how some of this funding affects the city of rockford thank you thank you alderman thompson kelly and then alderman
 Yes, I'm going to go to item number 13, the opt-out business license. I know there was a lot of talk about that, and also it was going to be referred to doing business to the ANHOC committee doing business in the city of Rockford. I'm just curious if any decision has been made with that committee recommendation or anything.
 They're tracking. Yeah, the opt-out business licenses We're waiting for council to vote yes or no to that item before it gets referred to the doing business committee So until until you guys say until City Council gives staff the direction that this is something to pursue We will not move these items forward. So until council approves furthering that particular item it would not be referred to the doing business committee and
 Was item 13 recommended by staff? 13 was recommended with a modification from an opt-out to an opt-in license. So it's no longer, if you vote aye for it, it's no longer an opt-out, so it's not mandatory until you take it out. It's one that businesses would have the opportunity to opt-in for.
 So once it's approved alderman now once it's approved it would then go to alderman Shirely and alderman beaches committee And I believe I believe alderman McNeely was next Thank You mr. Mayor Certainly, I agree with my colleagues regarding RMTD There's no question that Most cities our size and larger need
 public transportation And it's for work for school over the years. I've heard Rock Valley College That the bus service isn't all that it should be but it's better than not being able to get there at all People that have jobs certain time of the day or the evening that
 They would like to be able to use the bus and to reduce bus service for those that are using it now Certainly would not help our city. We want to be a city that's inviting and Accommodating not just to the current residents, but the future residents and the same with businesses I believe profit you use upset in his statement tonight Having
 good public transportation would invite or encourage businesses to come to the city. And there's no question that that's true. And I'm sure that this committee that came up with these suggestions
 are very much aware of the need for public transportation. And a reduction by the city, my understanding, of 300,000 to the RMTD is actually 600,000. So to have that reduced in any way, and I know, I take my dad to dialysis, and RMTD has a service that takes
 patients to dialysis and pick them up. There are some people I've talked to within the city that would like to go to Cherryvale and thanks to RMTD they can go to Cherryvale and we're talking from
 teenagers to senior citizens for various reasons, health reason, entertainment reason, the public transportation is used. So I certainly join my colleagues that have spoken and said that they can't support this. There are a number of other items that came from this group.
 that are listed that I can't support as well. So I don't intend to vote positive for this item at all. Thank you so much. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? Is that me? Yes. I wanted to also ask that item number 14, the rental registry fee, not necessarily be put up for passage tonight, but be carried over into package number 5. Two minutes.
 I would move that we lay item 14 over and represent it in package 5 after we have time for additional discussion. We have a motion and a second to lay over item 14. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. So now we have item 14. And what was the other one that's been laid over? I just lost track of that, Chaz. Aye.
 Thank you. Thank you. We have item 10 and 14 that have been laid over. Alderman Thunberg. Mayor, item 4, RMTD. Do we have any kind of estimate on one of the suggestions on bringing in advertising to offset cut in cost or any cut in budget?
 Because that was one of the recommendations to allow advertising on the bus stops which are not allowed right now Director Eklund is there The rough estimate that was provided to us by RMTD was approximately $80,000 in revenue that they thought they could generate from those advertising changes Other discussions Alderman Quinones, yes, I don't want to speak up. I'm against the reduction at 20% of the
 for the RTD. People in my ward, they can't catch the bus on every corner. Any kind of reduction, they might have to catch the bus every three blocks. But also, I'd like to recommend, the advertisement sounds good to me, but what about them looking into more vending to raise more money? Could you repeat that? I've been to a city where they had vending machines where they catch the bus. Vending, okay. We can let them know that?
 Alderman Hervey. Quick question. Just a question. Are we permitted as a city or are there any other than medical malpractice obstacles to allowing private users for the wellness center? If it was cost efficient to do so. In other words, I'm not a city, if somebody's not a city employee, that we could allow private use?
 Maybe some deal with marathon or something if it again cost-effective I don't know about private citizens, but I'll let director has been some interest in regards to not necessarily using the Wellness Center, but the I
 outward structure of the building. I haven't had anybody approach me in regards to the conference room, you know, within the wellness center, but I believe we will be open to it. No, I meant for medical services. I don't think we've had people approach us for that, but what we have been working towards is finding other employers to utilize that same facility. We are working on that. Yeah, when we all...
 Well, some of us approved the wellness facility. One of the things I mentioned was that they could potentially get outside businesses or other governmental bodies to participate in that center as well. And I know they are actively pursuing that. That was the other side of the coin, either private citizens or other employer groups. Thank you. Follow up on the private individual citizens, but I don't know about that. I do know about the larger groups. Alderman Beach.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I do remember, I know Alderman Frost and myself as part of a group that went to tour some of these facilities, but that question came up, and if I remember right,
 Mayor Morrissey at that time had said there's no reason why we cannot open it up to anyone else, except we choose not to do that now. They wanted to get it established in Rockford first for employees. So I think if we push that out, there'd be no reason in the world why that couldn't happen. I'm not sure it would be popular, for example, with other institutions, but I don't think that would prevent us from doing that. Thank you, sir.
 One second. Sorry. Alderman Hervey. I know we looked at budget, things that we could reduce in many instances. But I also want to ask that we look at the revenue side. Alderman Beach at one time asked about the feasibility of bottling the city's water. I don't know whether that's good or bad.
 We talked about the fact that there's no other than like the boot camp, the heavy duty exercising, which I can't do one exercise there, but we don't really have an exercise facility in.
 for the most part downtown and southwest rockford i know curves closed i don't know if there are any like peak or something is there an opportunity that the city could open we talked about putting an exercise facility in the back part of the wellness center the part that we didn't renovate
 Again, there's some upfront costs, but I don't know. I'd love to see a task force or a panel to look at ways to raise revenue through the city. The advertising on city buildings, naming rights, that's a good one. What about some others? Of course, others about renting out space to go along with your same thoughts. Renting out space, yes. Thank you. Now I'm done. Alderman Logman.
 Administrator Cagnoni, I think this might be directed to you, but for number 12 on renting out vacant space at City Hall, are we to assume that first, and let me preface this. I had the pleasure of riding up the elevator with Director Davis, who said that Head Start would be, the plans are in the works for Head Start to come back to City Hall. So my question is, are we to assume that before we rent out vacant space at City Hall that we would first,
 kind of call back so to speak some of the public services connected to city hall back to city hall so the short answer is is yes that we're evaluating opportunities to
 Look at all our departments to maximize efficiencies with our existing spaces and the second floor and coordination Uh with georgia's departments or other departments would be an opportunity that we want to fully vet out before we would lease that space out Okay, thank you for clarifying I'm, sorry. It was just too tempting Um, I know that we have some space that we're renting from the county over at 555 north court for some of our spaces
 i believe they're human services is that where head start is so i'll just address it county i want to make sure we try to get out from under those fees first i'll just leave the discussion at the point that those items are being vetted out may not be ready for prime time right now but they are being vetted out okay i'll i'll withdraw that one i just wanted to make sure that
 the top consideration was to not pay out money. Yes. Thank you. Yes. You are right on the same track that we are. And that is my last comment for tonight. I don't believe that. You said for the night, by the way. Is there any other discussion on item two under finance and personnel? Okay. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Sure. Aye. No, I'm for. Aye. Aye.
 No on 4. I on the remainder. No on 4, 12, and 13. Was 4 set to next week? No. No it wasn't? No it wasn't. On 4 and 13. There is any. Hoffman? No on 4, 12, and 13. Rose? No on 4. Beach? Quinones? Can you repeat that? I got no on 4 and 5. 13. Thank you. McNeely? Chiarelli?
 Items 1, 2, 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 4, 9 noes, 5 ayes. Item number 5, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Item 6, 7, 8, and 9, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 11, 13 ayes, 1 no. Items 12 and 13, 9 ayes, 5 noes. And item number 15, 13 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. Okay, moving along under officer's reports. The only item I have for everyone is to make everyone aware that the Rockford Area Arts Council has an awards ceremony tomorrow, February 21st, 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. at the Rockford Art Museum, providing...
 Awards for visual arts performance and music will also be there. So just making you aware that the Rockford Area Arts Council has an award ceremony tomorrow for the community At the Rockford Art Museum from 5 to 7 p.m. Is there other officers reports alderman back? Thank you for that announcement as well and understand that you and chairman Haney are singing a duet I believe yeah Yeah, we'll both be there, but if he's gonna sing a room on the street as you guys are gonna. Yeah, I
 um couldn't do any worse than fergie at the all-star game though that's true there's the bar has been set much lower now i just want to make a shameless uh plug for a park district activity going on right now um the riverview ice house is they've been in a voting battle for um a don't a donated led lighting system um
 And it's all about the community voting for our ice house to get the award over other cities, ice arenas or whatever. And the River Ice House made it through the first round and now they're one of ten. They need to make it down to the final four. The voting is gonna continue from now until March 2nd. And you can access, it's lightlikethepros.com is the website.
 If you don't remember that or don't write it down right, you can also get it from the Rockford Park District's website.
 And also you can get it from our Facebook page. So a lot of people have been voting, and we appreciate it. It would be a really nice boost to get that lighting system for the Riverview Ice House. It's about a $50,000 value, plus the energy savings it would provide ongoing. So if you can just take the time every day between now and March 2nd to go on that website, lightlikethepros.com, there will be 10 choices, and you can scroll down to where the Rockford website
 riverview ice houses and vote for it and hopefully we can bring that home for record and that's fifty thousand dollars of lighting correct that's a great point uh alderman thompson kelly uh yes i i voted four times already yet um but anyway i wanted to um
 Thank Public Works Department, Finance Department. The tree removal for the seniors, the dead tree removal for the seniors is working fine. Flying trees have been all over my neighborhood. I want to thank you. I think it helped by me putting my name on the applications. Also, I want to find out from Public Works, are we behind or on schedule with pothole patching? Director Sackler?
 We're ramping up at this time. Obviously, over the past seven to ten days, with all the weather we've had and varying temperatures, our roadways are starting to suffer considerably. So staff is ramping up to bring additional people into the fold from other areas of public works that typically don't patch potholes, you know,
 and You know possibly adding or extending hours of patching Whether it be during the week adding a couple hours a day at the end of the day or on weekends Just until we can get ahead of the curve
 Thank you. I wanted my constituents to know, because I'm getting quite a few calls for pothole patching, to let them know that we are addressing the issue, and we are bringing in additional staff to get caught up with the potholes. Because of the weather and the condition, we're fighting a somewhat losing battle. Thank you for that update. Yeah, and just to further your point, if any citizen wants to call in a pothole, they can call 779-348-7260. That's 779.
 That's my cell, yeah. 779-348-7260 if citizens want to call in potholes. Alderman here, Herbie? Yeah, I lied just a little bit. I just wanted to...
 Turn your mic off. Now this is- You want to say how good we're doing with the potlots? Yeah, how great we're doing with the potlots. No, seriously, I wanted to let ward residents know this normally would be our fifth ward meeting. It's a little shorter because of the February and how it falls. But we will not have a fifth ward meeting this Thursday. I apologize, I've got some health issues, so I'm kind of in and out.
 And I won't be available on Thursday. So there will be no fifth ward meeting for the month of February. We will reconvene in March Thank you. Thank you Alderman Hoffman. Thank you I just want to say to everyone in my ward and the surrounding Awards that are part of district 3 that tomorrow at 10 a.m Is coffee with a cop and I think you're the speaker. I will be there. I'm looking forward to it. Thank you. I
 Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand raised? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Going through the newspaper in the last few days, a number of individuals that have passed away that were very much a part of our community. It's sad to see them go, and I certainly offer my condolences to the family. One was a previous officer, Bruce Ling, that passed away. Another one who was one of the...
 original owners or started the grocery store, Poggio Pacemaker, which, unless you're around my age or a little older, probably don't remember the name of that store or that store. And Pello Pep Del Pra passed away. And I think Victor, not Victor, Frank is going to...
 Your Honor. Yes, sir. I was going to also mention, thank you, Mr.
 linda about jim bettida i mean the the father that basically started the whole bettida brother chain and in around this area and while there's many wonderful people that we read about in the pit patroles there are some that really have contributed a great deal to our community and uh wanted to just remember them and their families in this time of loss thank you your honor mr mayor if i may continue of course um
 There's also an article in yesterday's paper regarding the President wanting to cut energy assistance to a poor light heap. As we face our own personal financial crisis here in this city, as we look for different ways to come up with funding to address that crisis, we have to keep in mind
 all the other things that are going on, not just at the local level, but at the state and federal level, that certainly is going to affect our city. And LIHEAP is certainly one of those. Since I've been alterman, I have submitted to staff a number of individuals, all senior retired individuals that have had
 problems with their furnace or air conditioning, and in times when the weather is extremely cold or the weather extremely hot, these individuals reach out to their alderman or their state representative to try and find some type of program to offer them assistance because they didn't have money.
 As recently as this winter, an individual within my ward, elderly lady, her furnace went out, and she had no clue how she was going to pay for a furnace. Her neighbors had offered her a number of,
 Heater space eaters to set around her house to keep warm and I offered her space eater as well to try and keep warm And she was nearly in tears When she was talking to me Explaining to me that she just didn't have the funding to she didn't know what it would cost But she wouldn't have the funding and I said well, let let me turn it in and see what staff says and
 staff was to get back with her the next day and had a serviceman come out and Look at the furnace. The furnace was repairable. It still took nearly a week before she had Regular heat in her home. She was using the space heaters I say that because we should encourage and and I would hope that we as a city could send a letter to DC requesting that and
 this program, along with a number of other programs that the president is looking at cutting that would drastically affect our city and certainly a number of our residents here. I hope that we could send a letter suggesting that or informing the president that this is a program that we desperately need, not just this city, but thousands of cities across the country need to lie heat. Thank you.
 Thank you alderman toonberg. Thank you mayor. Uh a couple weeks ago. I called out a financial institution on council floor I'll actually say it was associated bank in this case For what I was Saying was rather derelict in their duties, uh regarding a blighted vacant home in our ward the third ward
 I'd like to elaborate a little bit on that. The next day I had received a call from the regional president of Associated Bank regarding my comments. He stated he was surprised to say the least, but he had taken the initiative and brought it up with their offices up in Milwaukee and Green Bay.
 and was very prompt in getting back to me and had stated they are ready and willing to work with us as a city to combat blight in our neighborhoods. And so I'd like to extend a thank you to Associated Bank for that and their regional president, Tom.
 They also, I recognize, do some good deeds and are good stewards of the community in other ways with their sponsorships. I think we many times take for granted the...
 corporate sponsors of a lot of these events that we attend for not-for-profits and things that benefit our community and need those corporate donors to make these happen and so I'd like to recognize Associated Bank and stepping up to the plate and hearing Not just my concern but our concerns as aldermen and residents of this community for stepping up I'd also like to
 Say that as aldermen that we are combating this blight in such a way that yes I called out that company in particular, but there's plenty of others out there That need to step up to the plate. I'm also dealing with an LLC in Utah That probably has no idea where Rockford is on the map but yet they own property here that is set vacant with nobody in it and We're going after you and
 Dealing with another company in North Carolina that bought the back taxes on another property we're gonna we're gonna write this ship and we're working on it, so any of these companies or Investors that are especially outside of our town that could give two hoots about Rockford and probably couldn't even pinpoint it on a map We're coming after you and you're gonna do something about it. Thank you
 Thank you. Alderman Rose? I just wanted to share a second to Alderman McNeely's idea with a letter to the president. He also has made cuts to Meals on Wheels, which is a program that, I mean, that
 It's just astounding that something like that would be on the cutting block in our national politics, but unfortunately it's still going on. I think it's something that our city needs to stand up for and say enough is enough on those kind of things. We've done it with the...
 It's something that I really think for seniors who are struggling, especially in our region. Our city should advocate for and so I would second what Alderman McNeely had mentioned. I also wanted to just share an event that's coming up and there's contacts. I'm not sure if there are still tickets available but
 I went to school with a wonderful young lady, Amanda Reed, back at Boylan.
 Unfortunately, she went through a relationship, an abusive relationship, where she was brutally murdered and her spirit lives on. She had a smile that she'd walk into a room and just light it up. So her fundraiser memorial is coming up on Saturday, March 3rd. It's 5 PM to 8 PM at Monotee C Country Club.
 If you are interested in supporting this organization, they do a lot of work with domestic abuse issues. Mary Bartleson, you can give her a call at 815-494-8290. Thank you.
 Thank you. In addition to Alderman McNeely, it's in your comments it's also fantastic to see, I say tongue-in-cheek, that President Trump is funding his $1.5 trillion infrastructure plan with $200 billion. So I wish I could fund things the same way.
 Alderman Irving's I just thank you your honor. I want to ask if I could be dismissed either a neighborhood watch meeting to go to Of course you can yep. Thank you any other officers reports alderman hurt no, I'm joking Okay, moving on to motions and resolutions under planning and development alderman Durkee There's one item under Roman numeral 7 a and
 Changes to the National Highway System designation for the roads in Rockford. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next up we have codes and regulations, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I should be gracious to Alderman Thunberg and have him read six of these seven items in, Your Honor, because they're all in his ward, but I will be gracious to you, Alderman Thunberg. So the first item is the Irish Marching Society St. Patrick's Day Parade on March 17, 2018, from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m.
 The parade starts at 3 o'clock and begins at the 500 block of 7th Street and ends at Prairie Street. Second is Melt Fest and 5K Run, Saturday, March 24th from 10 AM to 5 PM in the parking lot of Prairie Street Brewhouse. The third is North End Market.
 It is scheduled for every Saturday beginning May 12th through October 27th. The market will be located in the southeast corner of North Main Street and Auburn Street in their parking lot. Market time is from 9 AM to 1 PM. The fourth is the Rockford City Market. It's scheduled for every Friday beginning May 18th, and the event hours are also posted on there. The fifth, the Rockford Fire 9-11 Fun Run.
 The event is scheduled for Saturday, June 2nd from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. It will begin time at 9, 11 a.m. The sixth is a Rockford Vintage Market scheduled for Saturday, June 23rd from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m.
 The locations are listed on the agenda. Your item, Your Honor. The seventh is the Rockford Bike Night in the City Market Pavilion, scheduled for Saturday, July 28th from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Their locations are also listed on the agenda. Place those up for passage. Thank you. So we have seven items before us. Is there discussion on any of the items before us, Alderman Durk? Thank you, Your Honor. I think next year the Irish Marching Society will be well served to move
 the parade to the first ward where a real Irish alderman lives. And we really have a place called Murphy's. So I will support it this year, but it'll be hard next year. Alderman Thunberg. I might have to remove my Swedish flag for this one. Irish Marching Society, feel free to keep that in the first ward. I apologize to my alderman colleagues for...
 for hogging all the fun in Rockford into the third ward. Thank you, Mayor. Other discussion? Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 bunches of items so we'll try to read through these quickly first is an award of non-competitive bid for renewal of agreement for FMLA third party administrative station care works absent management of Dublin Ohio for an anticipated annual cost of thirty three thousand six hundred five dollars and sixty four cents the duration of contract is three years
 with two single-year renewal options. Next is the award of non-competitive bid for firefighter turnout gear to Lion of Dayton, Ohio, for an estimated annual amount of $150,000. The contract duration is two years with three optional one-year renewals. Next is the award of bid for citywide internal repairs for 2018 to TCI Concrete in the amount of $195,350. Contract duration is December 31 to 2018.
 with an option to renew one year. Next is award a bid for Strathmore Drive Extension, clearing project to an N-track group of Loves Park in the amount of $50,910.50.
 Next is the award of bid for Charles Street box cover repairs to Alliance contractors of Woodstock, Illinois in the amount of $897,739.14. Next is the award of non-competitive bid for automated meter reading endpoint supplies to ITRON of Liberty Lake, Washington for an estimated amount of $240,000. The contract duration is one year.
 Next is the engineering agreement for Charles Street box culvert repairs to HR green of Rockford in the amount of one hundred nine thousand one hundred one thousand nine hundred. I'm sorry. Yeah. One hundred one thousand nine hundred eighteen dollars and ninety nine cents.
 Next is an engineering agreement for Harmon Park drainage improvement phase number nine and ten to Willett Hoffman and associates of Rockford in the amount of 66,000 eight hundred twenty three thousand fifty cents next is an engineering agreement for kishwaukee resurfacing to CMT of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of one hundred seventeen thousand three hundred thirty four dollars and eighty cents and
 Next is an engineering agreement for State Street a Newtown Drive to fair Graham Rockford in the amount of twenty seven thousand nine hundred and fifty one dollars next is awarded professional services for 2018 water system improvement the fair Graham of Rockford for an estimated budget of three hundred twenty five thousand dollars based on hourly rates the contract duration is twelve months and
 Next is a resolution for improvement on our Illinois Highway Code for Code RI Planning Council funding and the amount of 76,292 dollars next is resolution for improvement on the Illinois Highway Code for citywide general maintenance 2018 Streetlight electric energy and citywide pavement marking the amount of 2.8 million dollars funding sources motor fuel tax next is resolution of the city of Rockford authorizing negotiation of electrical aggregate aggregation contract
 Next is resolution to take proposals for police resource allocation study One more and the last one is a rejection of bids for district to rocket intelligence special operations video wall I place these items up for passage Thank you. So we have 16 items Before you is there any discussion on any of the 16 seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? turkey
 Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irving. Thompson-Kelby. No, 113, aye. O'Rourke. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1 through 12, 13 ayes. Item number 13, 12 ayes, 1 no. Items 14, 15, 16, 13 ayes. Thank you. Under new business, Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under Roman numeral 8A. It's an ordinance renewing a lease agreement with Zion Development Corporation for the use of a residence at 908 8th Avenue as a stronghouse. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on the item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. The item passes. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 8B1, an ordinance approving the 1300 Rock Street Barber Coleman Remediation Site Groundwater Use Ordinance. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Is there discussion on this item?
 Alderman frost I said a question about the funding of this is this one that involves both federal state funding Director Stockman, I don't want to put words in Mr. Dust Wayne dust mouth, but it does I believe it doesn't fall in both federal state and some local match City administrator cake known so this is part of the requirement to get to a no further remediation of
 Letter for the property. So the essence of just creating the ordinance is no cost To the city and as you're aware the water utility or our code of ordinance already has a requirement that there's no wells So in many ways we're perfecting what our ordinance already is But it is a requirement to get a note further remediation letter from the Illinois EPA. Thank you. Any other further discussion? I
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Luegaman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Excellent. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. The first is an ordinance approving the sale of property located at 1246.
 Corbin Street to the highest bidder Emma Sodor all of Rockford for a bit of thirteen hundred dollars and Next is an ordinance approving the sale of property located at 1329th Street to the highest bidder Donald and Diane Johnson of Rockford Illinois for their bid of five hundred and twenty five dollars and I place these items up for passage Excellent. Is there any discussion on the two items before us seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll jerking? Logeman Toomer frost
 Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Groves. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Excellent. That item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? If a motion is second, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. We are adjourned.