Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Tuesday, February 21st, 2023. And this evening, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Norma Barrero with us. Let's pray. Father God, I pray for this council meeting tonight. Give the council members and all the leaders of this city that are present today wisdom and guidance as they deliberate on the items before them for the good of the city of Rockford and every citizen. Amen. Congratulations to the flag of the United States of America, the republic for which it stands. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logoman. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Wilkins here Hoffman Rose here Beach Meeks McNeely Bonnie 11 present excellent we have a quorum this evening we have no proclamations tonight we'll move to petitions and communications and we'll start with planning and development committee and Alderwoman Meeks Thank You Your Honor under planning and development committee THE MEMORANDUM FROM IFEANI MAGBANA, CITY ATTORNEY REGARDING THE ROCKFORD AREA CONVENTION AND VISITORS BUREAU QUARTERLY REPORT FISCAL YEAR 23, QUARTER 1, JULY THROUGH SEPTEMBER 2022, AND THE QUARTER 2, OCTOBER THROUGH DECEMBER 2022 REFERRED TO PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. Item 2 is the memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction for the Workforce Development Initiative, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Number 3 is the memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the second update report for the 2022 Rockford Area Economic Development Council, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item four is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the award acceptance of the Illinois EPA Public Water Supply Loan Program for lead service line inventory grant awards or grant funds. This is also referred to Planning and Development Committee And number five is the memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager, permits and special events regarding the 2023 Forward for Fund Initiative. And this, too, is referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 22nd, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 27th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on February 22nd, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 27th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee meeting. Item 3 a memorandum from Kyle Saunders Public Works director regarding a recreational lease agreement between the city of Rockford and Commonwealth Edison for the Fordham property referred to code and regulation committee item for a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events for st. Patrick's Day parade and Memorial Day parade referred to code and regulation committee Item 5 a memorandum from Scott Capavilla planning and zoning manager regarding the final plot of number three of Ashland subdivision referred to quota regulation committee and Lastly item 6 a memorandum from Scott Capavilla Planning and zoning manager regarding the final plat number two of fairway green subdivision referred to quota regulation committee. Thank you. I Thank you, Alderman. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the Illinois Housing Development Authority Home Repair and Accessibility Grant. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And number two is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding release of liens on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels. This will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost next we're gonna go to legal director Nick Meyers Thank you. Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of three hundred eighty seven thousand $780.68. Thank you director Myers Next up we have Public speakers and there's a microphone on the back left as well as back right of council chambers you have three minutes to address City Council and And at that time you will hear an alarm ring and ask that you close up your comment. Our first speaker this evening is Kylie Haggard of Roscoe. Kylie with us. See Kylie. Next speaker we have is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Numbers, the 23rd chapter, the 19th verse, they say God is not a man that he should lie, nor a son of man that he should change his mind. Does he speak and did not act? Does he promise and not fulfill? What I want to speak about tonight, they say there were no African American officers in the Navy in World War II. That is a lie. In January 1944 there were nearly 100,000 black sailors in the Navy that none were officers. change when a group of 16 black enlisted men were assembled at Recruit Training Center Great Lakes in Illinois for officer training that month. The odds were initially stacked against them as there was still a strong sentiment within the Navy that blacks was not qualified to be officers. The normal officer training course was 16 weeks. However, these men were expected to complete it in eight. a move that they believe was an attempt to set them up for failure. The Navy also expects a 25% attrition rate similar to that of white officers. However, the group of 16 were determined not to fail and support one another throughout the brutal pace of the training. Though lights out was at 2230 each night, the group placed blankets over their windows and studied together by flashlight, each man bringing his expertise to help strengthen the skills and knowledge of the other. When the course was over, all 16 passed their exam. In fact, their mark was so outstanding people in Washington were certain that the men had cheated. When the group was forced to retake the certain exams, they scored even higher with an average rate of 3.89 out of 4, the highest average of any class in Navy history. Despite the fact all 16 had passed the course, the Navy still wished to only commission 12 or 75% as officers. 12 were selected and a 13 was made a chief warner, hence the nickname the Golden 13. The other three were sent back into the listening race. And the reason why I know my mother's cousin Frank Sublett was one. I also have been wanting to tell the director, Ms. Pollan, this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, my good friend. Happy birthday to you. God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Bramley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I mainly want to holler at our citizens from Rockford, Illinois, because if it wasn't for y'all, my van wouldn't be getting fixed as we speak today. You see me talking? Turn around a little, girl. These are my youth that I call my baby kids to go to Lewis University. I mean Lewis, I mean Lewis Elementary School. I want to read that Proverbs say, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this Proverbs could be restated positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they would do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply all all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? This past weekend I had three different parents who got kids locked up in jail and they used to say instead of giving them money on their books, they said give it to Brother John because he's looking out for our kids. It brought me in tears even behind the walls day looking at what I'm doing. On the radio station, and by the way, we're going to the Underground Railroad this Friday. The school is providing us with a school bus. And on the school day, they get credits for their school grades. And I just wanted to read a little bit from this article. I tried to email as many of y'all as possible as to what the radio station said. And matter of fact, after the radio station put this article out about me, Nassau County Inn Church called me, Providence Church called me, Lutheran Church called me. they are reaching out to see how they can help me doing what I'm doing, because I'm moving 30 kids, but that number is way higher. They said only two of them make it to school, when half of the elementary school have no buses, the community take action, which they should have said Renewal Turning Point take action. A group of Rockford Elementary School students stand against the front of Lewis-Clement Elementary trying to stay out the cold. They are wearing colored winter coats, which is tough since it's It felt like four degrees. If you can see that in the school attendance number, it's 84% Lewis Mennon students were chronically absent last year, meaning that they missed at least 18 of the schools for a contest that is nearly triple the state average. In the winter, when the temperature can dip below, blow zero in the morning attendance get worse. Louis Amendment principal Alex Jones say not all parents have transportation in the school sometimes get called from them saying it's too cold for them children to walk. John Tack Brantley want to make sure these kids have a ride. Some folks in the Rockwood community know him as Bubba John. For the past two years, Brantley have used his own vehicle to take Louis Amendment students to and from school. Just like the kids wait. out in front of the school today, sometimes if he can, he take them to the library and other local events too. It started with just a few students, but this fall, Principal Miss Jones asked him if he could start taking more. I got 16 kids today, he said. I've been averaging between 20 and 25 kids every day. This group of 16 wait for him to get ready every day. I'll finish this at another time, but thanks for your allowing me to speak. But most of all, I want to thank the community for helping me raise the fund to get my van fixed. Thank you. Thank y'all. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. And there arose a new king and Joseph died. And there arose a new king who knew not Joseph. And they, the Egyptians, set over them taskmasters who afflicted them mightily, and they built for Pharaoh treasured cities. See yourself, black citizens? And they made the children of Israel to serve with rigor, with bitter and bondage. The sinful side of humanity segregated these societies into social castes, pitting the haves against the have-nots. the black citizens in America and the Israelites in Egypt were and are reduced to non-person as racism institutionalized. It is very dangerous for a people when their primary aspiration is assimilation. For the largest society will always assume the right to define possibilities according to their benefit. Start doing well for yourselves as your primary benefit where someone else considers the turf theirs and the winds will change on you. The sky's the limit when you find and work on your own turf. The great god of greed and a train of lesser gods who sponsored the social, political, and economic mechanism that effectuates and maintains black citizens in an inferiority and second-class existence. 21 million blacks live in poverty, 21 million and below, which is the existential equivalent of slavery. This renders the nation unable to fully utilize the enormous God-given genius of black citizens. Therefore, we will continue our unrelenting pressure on every level of society with our plan to effectively address this immoral sickness. Thank God we are starting to see results. And guess what, Rockford? You're going to see them too. Thank you. We will see is Kylie Haggard with us. Don't see Kylie. So we'll move on to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning development committee. So we'll go to code and regulation committee and order woman, Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items. Item number one. The committee recommends approval of the annexation of 2162 Lamar Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The owner of the subject property has requested connection to City Water. Item number two, the committee recommends approval of the plat of QuickTrip store number 7206 subdivision. And lastly, item number three, the committee recommends approval of the proposed text amendments to sections 17 through 41 and 17 through 42 in the City of Rockford Court of Ordinances. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'll place these three items before you. Thank you, Alderman. So, counsel, we have three items. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Meeks. McNeely. Fonny. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. When the committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of twelve million three hundred and forty thousand four hundred and thirty dollars and twenty one cents as approved the finance of personnel committee meeting on February 13 2023 I Number two, the committee recommends approval of a letter of understanding between the city and the state, finalizing each party's participation in financial responsibilities through various projects. The LOU represents the culmination of exchange of costs for agreed items between the following projects, North Main and Auburn Roundabout, South Main Street. North Main Street and the South Main Street two-way conversion from Cedar to Chestnut Approving this LOU effectively commits the city to providing a final project reconciliation payment of 1 million 248 thousand 769 dollars and 29 cents to the state the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these two matters before you Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Kirk will you please call the roll? Logum in to burg Frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Meeks McNeely Bonnie 11 eyes excellent. Thank you next up is officers reports any councilmember have a report alderman rose Yeah, I just wanted to say a deep appreciation to the Blackhawks organization for the night they put on last week, Friday, which was Pride Night. I know in the political arena right now, sometimes those kind of get under fire between different groups. I really think it says a lot about their organization and working towards equity for our community and seeing people post pictures on social media and talking about the importance of them being welcomed in our community just I think shouts out to their organization and what they're doing to impact the lives of those families so just wanted to give them credit when we're credits do thank you all the woman Trina thank your honor this Friday February 24th At 911 Michigan Avenue, there's going to be an open house for the Jenkins Community Resource Center. It is the building that's adjacent to Providence Baptist Church. That building has sat idle for many years. And through a partnership with Forest City Church, the building has been renovated. And now it will be open as a resource center to the community. So I definitely want to invite anyone who's interested to come out. Again, that's Friday, February 24th. 9-11 Michigan Avenue and the hours the open house will be from 10 to 12 and we'll have lots of special surprises once you get there thank you thank you well the room makes thank you so much Just have a couple of thank yous. My first thank you goes to Kyle and Public Works Department I just want to thank you for the coordination efforts during the recent winter storm We had a couple of people make some calls after I know the trucks were already out and you did a great job of Coordinating things after the fact so I appreciate that very much. I I want to thank the Rockford Park District. Recently on Valentine's Day, they honored my father, Tommy Meeks, during Black History Month for his over 30 years of collaboration efforts in partnership with the Rockford Park District. I want to thank you mayor Tom McNamara for speaking at that event Austin Taylor J Sandeen and also Tim Dempke who came over zoom to speak over 50-year relationship that my father and Tim Dempke have had over the years and it was really great to see that all come together so that really made his year and I want to thank the Park District for putting that together and And then lastly, I wanted to thank Vicki Fogle, the president for the North and – help me here – Bill North and – Northern Square neighborhood. Thank you For helping with coordination of the recent vigil for Peggy Anderson I want to thank alderman Bill Rose for speaking at that event also mayor McNamara for coming and speaking at that event where we honored Peggy Anderson who was the victim of the recent killing at Pennons and to see so many people that came out to that event. It was a beautiful, beautiful night. And it really showed the efforts that we're all taking as a community to move forward from this incident, and it really showed this community coming together in a great way. So it was great to see it, and I just wanted to thank everyone for putting that together. Beautiful. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I received a flyer from our Rockford Police Department at the – West gateway coalition meeting which are held on every Wednesday from 10 to 12 at our d1 station They would just like me to announce that bingo is back and that is open to our 55 plus community It is a free event with non cash prizes. It takes place every second Friday of the month from 930 to 1130 again, and that's at district 1 located at 1045 West State Street and Thank you. Thank you any other reports other woman McNeely Thank You mr. Mayor. I want to thank mr. Bradley for bringing the kids in I want to thank him for his efforts of trying to get the kids all the kids to school my understanding is Lewis lemon is on state list of schools and there's some significant problems with the learning for the kids. So to have someone take interest in them and come and get them to school, especially during the wintertime, is quite significant. So I want to thank him, and I want to thank the families for trusting him and helping to get the kids to school. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toomer? Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Frost looks forward to getting to your bingo over there. Alderman Wilkins, since it is for those 55 and older. So I'm unable to make it, unfortunately. I would like to thank the Rockford Park District for a great... Ice the Illinois State ice sculpture championship and the mayor and I were there Laura give Gibbs green from the Park District did a fantastic job and I know she's a partially the one to organize that and putting together a lot of the festivities there so hats off to the Park District and and Laura Gibbs green on that and Also, I'd like to mention alderman Beach and I are on the rave board representing City Council in the city there and we were made aware that they have now turned the first profit They're in the green. I believe for the first time in history In mr. Cagnone may have my right on that in that kind of capacity So generally, yes, they've made significant... All right, we'll just leave it there then. Sorry. So... One quick interruption. We are scheduling a presentation by the RAVE board to the entire council in the coming weeks. It's just there is some really good news coming down the pike with the Rockford area venues and entertainment. organization. I had the pleasure to be at the Old Dominion concert. I think I was tugged by the ear to go partially there, but that was a just an FYI and they will probably elaborate a little bit on it. But that was a big deal for Rockford to have a band of that caliber come and it was kind of a test run in the sense that the promoter there was seeing how it all turned out and these promoters to my understanding do talk to other promoters and This promoter went away with a big smile on his face after that concert how Rockford pulled that off. It was just downtown was electric. We couldn't get into one establishment and we then went down and Went into the hotel and that was full the capacity there was just people in the streets and it was just really neat to see and And I I suspect we're gonna have some more good good concerts coming to that venue Coming down the pike. So I would like to thank the rave board and those involved Gretchen Gilmore and Doug Johnson from I guess would they be with ASM technically, but – or – yeah. So they really have done a fantastic job in lining up entertainment coming in and those involved in administration and such. So thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. And I think you're right on when you talk about that promoter. My understanding is one of them. Biggest promoters in the industry so big deal to make that promoter happy any other Comments I would just say I had to had the opportunity today to do a preview tour of the Riverview ice house Park districts investing just over eight million dollars into that facility New ice is probably the biggest thing new ice new chillers all of that and That facility brings about 350,000 people each year into the downtown and for their recommitment to that facility is commendable and It's really coming along nicely Last item I wanted to mention was myself and Alderwoman Wilkins were at the Think Big graduation on Saturday. And they graduated 37 individuals, which represented more than 30 new, I will say, emerging businesses. Some of those businesses have started but are at various levels of expanding. And what's neat to see is now... Since this council has invested in the nonprofit, the facility is not up, but they are already seeing businesses moving into actual brick-and-mortar storefronts and actually filling some storefronts and buildings that have long been vacant. So they're doing good work and just wanted to report back to you about the number of businesses that were present. So we'll continue to update you on their progress. Seeing no other reports, the appointment, it's laid over. It doesn't come up until after March 9th. So we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the Rockford City Market. Rockford City Market will be held every Friday beginning on May 15th and ending on September 29th from 4 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. The event location will be on Water Street between East State Street and Short Jefferson Street, Market Street between Water Street and the railroad tracks, and the City Market Pavilion. Number two is a resolution approving a claim settlement for Anderson Japanese gardens and on this item. We'll need to suspend rule 9 Thank you. Thank you. We have two items before us First is there a motion to suspend rule number nine for item number two? We have a motion We have a second. Is there any discussion on just suspending rule 9 for item number two? No discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed. I Okay, so now we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. number one the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for tire and tire repairs the pumps tire and goodyear tire for an estimate annual value of 160 000 the contract duration is through march 31 2024 with four possible one-year annual extension options annual price adjustments for cpi would be considered a contract renewal only the funding source is the equipment fund operating budget number two the committee recommends approval of the award of rfp for liability claims administration to pennsylvania manufacturers associates Association of Bluebell, Pennsylvania. For a contract amount of $55,000 for the first two years, extension years two through four are subject to a 3% rate increase. The contract duration is one year with four optional one-year extensions. The funding source is the Risk Management Fund. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for turnout gear advanced cleaning, inspection, and repair to Gear Wash of Milwaukee in the amount of $76,551. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. 4. The Committee recommends approval of the Contract Renewal Program Enhancement Specialty Drug Prior Authorization Review for Prescription Drug Coverage for the City PPO Health Insurance Plan to ELMC of East Norton, Pennsylvania. For contract amount rates, there is no administrative fixed fee. Expenses are 25% of recovered savings, which would exceed $25,000 annually. The contract duration is one year with the ability to renew annually for two additional years. The funding source is the health insurance fund. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for stormwater master plan and ordinance review, to hr green of mckenry in the amount of three hundred and thirty two thousand eight hundred and forty eight dollars the project is estimated to be completed by the end of 2023 the funding sources cip general fund number six the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for the parkview sidewalk Phase III Construction Engineering to Fairgram in the amount of $62,129. The project is estimated to be completed in 2023. The funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution approving the appropriation of an additional $1,534,175.38. MFT for South Main Street from Pond to Cedar Street. The total amended MFT authorization is $1,841,093.38. Almost there. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the award of the joint purchasing contract for the Coronado Building Automation Center. modernization to alpha controls of rock for the amount of six hundred and eight thousand eight hundred and twenty one dollars less an estimated incentive of one hundred and eleven thousand seven hundred and sixty four dollars the funding source is the American rescue plan funds of which are a hundred and fifty thousand dollars in the property fund which equates to four hundred and fifty eight thousand eight hundred twenty one dollars this project will utilize utility incentives offered by both nicor and comed efficiency programs which results in that net previously discussed bringing the city's total out-of-pocket cost to 497 thousand fifty seven dollars number nine the committee recommends approval for the children's home and aids sub award agreement fiscal year 2023 the city was selected to receive a third award from the icjia reinvest and renew grant in the amount of 520 790 that extended the term by 12 months through january 31 of 2024. the third designation will bring the total amount of worth the city of rockford under the project to one million five hundred and sixty two thousand three hundred and seventy dollars through this time period Children's Home and Aid has submitted an amendment to the agreement in the amount of $218,862 for the 12-month project term. The amendment and extension do not require a match and are budget neutral. I place these nine matters before you. Thank you. We have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number nine, the Children's Home and Aid, amended the agreement by $218,862. I'm not sure that I understand what that means. How is that changing the grant amount? Is it reducing it by that? I don't know if they're reducing their amount. I believe they're getting additional funding. That's additional? Yeah, Children's Home and Aid does on-site play therapy, some case management for kids who are exposed to domestic violence through the Family Peace Center. Thank you. Yes, thank you. Any other questions? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Abstain on one, aye on the rest. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Meeks Neely Bonnie item 1 10 eyes 1 abstain items 2 through 8 11 eyes and item 9 10 eyes 1 abstain excellent. Thank you. We'll go to new business. There's nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino. Thank you. I have two items I Item number one, an ordinance approving the annexation of 2162 Lamar Avenue. And item two, an ordinance approving the text amendments to sections 1741 and 1742 in the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those two items? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logoman, Toomber, Frost, Tarina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Meeks, McNeely, Levinize. Thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you. We have one item which is the ordinance approving the letter of understanding between the city of Rockford in the state of Illinois finalizing each party's participation and financial responsibilities throughout various projects The LOU represents the culmination of the exchange of costs for agreed items between the following projects North Main and Auburn roundabout South Main Street and North Main Street and the South Main Street two-way conversion Approving this LO you effectively commits the city to providing a final project reconciliation payment of 1 million 248 thousand 769 dollars and 29 cents to the state. I place this one matter before you. Thank you. I need discussion on this one item Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logum in timber frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. 11 ayes. Thank you. We have someone very eager, but is there a motion? Is there first a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. We have a second. Any discussion? Anyone want to talk about all the warm and training? Do you have anything else you want to add tonight? Nothing? Okay. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night. Thanks for using WebEx.