We got Kevin who's outside. Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Tuesday, February 20th, 2024. This evening for our invocation, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Kenneth Henley with us. Let's pray. Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we come before you tonight asking that you would guide the city council as they make decisions for the city of Rockford, and Lord, that they would be for the benefit of the population here. We ask now that you would be with the mayor as he leads the city, be with the council as they make the rules and regulations and what laws that need to be passed here in the city. We also pray, Lord, that you would be with the fire and police departments as they go about their daily task of keeping us safe from harm and danger, that they might be able to know when they go home at the end of their shift that they'll be safe and be able to be back with their families. Guide through this meeting, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? TUMBURG. Here. TURINA. Here. PRINCEY. Wilkins. Here. HOFFMAN. BEACH. BARRIOS. Here. BAILEY.
 Here.
 BONNIE.
 Here.
 9 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on January 29, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Thank you. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on January 29, 2024? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. All those in favor say aye. Awesome, now we got people. Okay, any opposed? Wonderful. So next we're going to move on. We have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move right into petitions and communications. And we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. item number one we have a memorandum from Todd Hughes information technology director regarding an agreement between the city of Rockford and sci-fi networks Rockford LLC for smart city managed services referred to planning and development committee item number two we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni city administrator regarding a proposed funding agreement with the International Women's Baseball Center IWBC for field and capital improvements at 311 15th Avenue referred to planning and development committee Item number three, we have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, RACBB, for made of Rockford Campaign Phase 2, Rockford Marketing Program, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number four memorandum from Todd Cagnone City administrator regarding a proposed funding agreement with Goodwill industries of Northern, Illinois Goodwill for the establishment and cost related to excuse me to capital improvements renovations and upgrades for an Excel Center located at Excuse me located at 1052 West Riverside Boulevard referred to Planning and Development Committee. Excellent. Thank you next we're going to go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino and Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items. The Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on February 21st, 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 26th, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on February 21st, 2024. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on February 26, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three, a memorandum from Kelly Milks, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding requests to vacate right-of-ways for three locations, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you. There's four items They will all be referred to the finance and personnel committee number one is a memorandum from finiqua Hughes Head Start director regarding the Consideration of a contract with high scope educational research foundation for preschool curriculum training number two is memorandum from Rob Willoughby brownfield redevelopment specialist regarding an interim intergovernmental agreement with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for household hazardous waste collection and Number three is also a memorandum from Robert Wilming regarding the consideration of acceptance of the application and award for the U.S. EPA Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund grant supplemental funding. And number four is an add-on. It is a memorandum from Mike Hankinson, our land transaction officer, regarding the proposed purchase of 214 North Church Street. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. So next we're going to move to our public speakers. Reminder to our public speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address city council. You'll hear an alarm ring and ask that you close your comments at that time. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet. Oh. Oh, I forgot about this. No, you do not need to apologize. We have the Comcast check. Yes. We are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $351,007.21. Thank you. And I had it right here, and I just failed to do it. So thank you, thank you. Alderman Beach. Sorry to interrupt you, Your Honor, but that seems like it's going down. It's half a million dollars, the last check. Every... Every check seems to be getting smaller. It wasn't a half a million. I believe it was in well We've typically seen I think we were discussing upstairs at one point to six seven years ago. It was about 450,000. Thank you. Thank you. So back to our public speakers You'll have three minutes to address asset you close your comments when you hear an alarm Our first public speaker this evening is prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, it says the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, 12 pilots, African-American pilots who flew in Korea and Vietnam. One pilot. Colonel Fred Van Cherry flew 51 missions in Korea, 52 missions in Vietnam. Two, Charles Edward McGee flew 100 missions in Korea, 172 missions in Vietnam. Three, Daniel Chapley James flew 100 missions in Korea, 78 missions in Vietnam. William Wild Bill Campbell flew 50 missions in Korea, 40 missions in Vietnam. Five, James Randolph flew 75 missions in Korea, 51 missions in Vietnam. Six, Lord W. Pig Newton flew 269 missions in Vietnam. Seven, Giddy Ass Bluford Flew 100 missions in Vietnam. Frederick D. Gregory flew 70 missions in Vietnam. Nine, Charles Bolden Jr. flew 100 missions in Vietnam. 10, William Brown flew 100 missions in Korea, 125 missions in Vietnam. John L. Dr. Delf Whitehead flew 104 missions in Korea, 70 missions in Vietnam. 12, George E. Hardy flew 45 missions in Korea, 70 missions in Vietnam. African American people, don't believe the lies they say about our people. I have fought and died for the United States of America. Oh, I've also been wanting to tell Ms. Antonia, I'm glad you're here, and my good friend Mr. Allen. For a long time he was in Vietnam with me. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday. to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Ken Dickens. Good evening, Mayor, and to all the Alderman and Kyler Wren and everyone in their respective places. I'll be brief. I will most likely use my full time and then leave. My concern is simply this. I was one of the individuals that protested in Rockford. I know it's It's personal to debate whether it was peaceful or not, but there was no, no buildings were burned, no one was killed, and there were no major issues. I mean, there was a lot of chalk that was power washed away, but given in other cities, when it went to place, this was relatively peaceful. And it's lasted as one of the longest protests in America in regards to the context of George Floyd. Now, my concern as a citizen, because I'm not a quote unquote protester, I'm actually a, Social activist. I got involved. I wore a bulletproof vest for almost a year. A year. Because of the death threats that I saw constantly on Facebook. We should just put a bullet between Leslie Ross' eyes. We should kill Terry and that guy, that funny guy with the mask on that stands next to Leslie. Add a vest on to protect his life. Or we should just take him out. I said this to Ms. Red at the time and she said, Well, if there's any active threats or anything that gets close to you guys, just let us know. Nothing was followed up on Facebook. I don't know the protocol. I'm just bringing that up as a point. I'm a citizen. I'm not a police officer. I'm not a Marine. I'm not an Army soldier. I'm not a veteran. Thank you for your service, sir. I'm a person who cares and who was concerned, and I'm still concerned. So please, after this meeting or at any time you see me in the public, do not refer to me as a protester. Please acknowledge me as a minister and a social activist. Why am I here tonight? Officer, I do want to direct my attention to you as well as Ms. Redd. If at any time something is found out in this chamber to be illegal or illicit, are you prepared to arrest the individual if it is in fact found out to be a misdemeanor or a felony offense against the public? That's all I want to know. My biggest question, and I'm going to ask this once over this microphone, I don't want anyone to walk up to me when I leave. I don't want anyone to walk up to me in the hallway. Where is the cannabis regrowth grant money? Haven't heard about it in almost two years. I guarantee all the minority aldermen will tell me they have no idea why there's no application on the website. City doesn't have an application. The link is broken. I'm just going to use you for one hot second. Told me almost a year ago, you have the only physical copy in existence. I can't even get one for my constituents that are asking for the regrowth grant money. Where's the money at? Because if there is an account, sir, you may have to have a formal audit and find out if there's some embezzlement there. That's why I asked you, are you prepared to arrest someone if something has gone awry here? Thank you. Where's the money? Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Andros Morel. I have some stuff that I want to pass to the aldermen before I speak. Is that possible so they can understand what I'm saying? We can have our clerk hand it and make copies and make sure everyone has it. They may not have it before you speak, but... Yeah, please. You have three minutes to address the council. So I can do this now? You are to do it now. Yes, sir. All right. I am Andrew P. Morell. I'm a Republican. I'm running for precinct committee chairperson of Rockford 6th Precinct 7th Ward to save taxpayers' expense. The reason why I'm running are because of the following. Rockford is going backward with time. That's number one. Number two, overspending taxpayers' money. We don't need planting trees along easements. City of Rockford feels they're not held accountable for keeping the trees trimmed, wanting to violate citizens for cutting these branches and removing trees along the easements that pose potential hazards to sidewalks. underground pipes caused by the roots, destruction of curves, branches over the roadways where vehicles pass through, and obstruction of these plants was put there by the city workers, not nor from God. Number three, the grass along the easement should be removed in the residential areas to allow vehicles not only closer to the residents, but away from traffic instead of grass put there, asphalt in its place. 3. Remove the standard curbways along the easement and install monomo curbs. Looks like a gutter curb from the street and asphalt where grass used to be onto the street and roadways. 5. City of Rockford makes plenty of excuses not to have street cleaners clean the public alleyways that allow citizens to drive to the rear garage or driveways. Garbage companies, county cable companies and police officers drive down these public alleyways. And sometimes they block the residents from accessing the property to the rear and are also obstructing the law, forcing them to park on our street and anything or damages they don't want to be held liable for obstructing. During in the winter, it also needs to be plowed, salted and get access to the rear of the property of residence. In conclusion, City of Rockford tells citizens to be responsible of cleaning the alleys out of their own pockets for debris and glass nails from other contractors, public citizens and residential area. that rents and landlords don't feel the need to be held liable for cleaning, including landscapers, when cutting the grass and leaving it in our alleyways. That's why we, the taxpayers, request the city of Rockford to have these street cleaners to sweep the public alleys as part of the public streets. Thank you for listening. And hopefully the citizens of Rockford and Touch Fairs have a vote in the matter, and the mayor of Rockford has to comply by the citizens' request or resign from all duties. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers. Next we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have a committee recommends approval of the workforce development agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction to provide an estimated total of 4,300 hours of workforce development skills and on-the-job experience to six city-hired summer interns through coordinating the improvement of approximately 40,000 square feet of sidewalk. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Please call the roll to burr frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Thank you next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Tarina Thank You your honor item number one the committee recommends approval of the final plat of hard rock and of Rockford Hard Rock Subdivision. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor and sale of tobacco in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4477 Linden Road. Subject to amended conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends the Standing of the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Lastly number four the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval of a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank You counsel we have four items before us is there any discussion on those four items? Is there any discussion on those four items that are before us right now? alderman, Toonberg Thank you, Mayor. I would like to motion to lay over item number four. Or, I'm sorry, I'm having technical issues here. Which item are you trying to lay over? Item number three. Just three or three and four? No, just three. Just three? We have a motion right now to lay over item three, is there? And we have a second. Thank you. So now we have a motion and a second to lay over items or item number three. I'm sorry, Mayor. Could I put in a different motion on that? I'm sorry. Item three and four for layover. So you're taking back your layover of item three. Alderman Bonney, are you taking back your second? Okay. So now we... Okay, took a lot. Yes, we're media pull his arm to do that But so now you are making a motion alderman to Merck to lay over items three and four. Yes, sir Okay, one of those days today. So is there a second to with me? What was that? Okay Is there a second to alderman tumors layover of items three and four alderman beaches is second and Cannot recall if this has been laid over once already But I believe it would need a full vote to have a majority way Okay, so we have a motion in a second to lay it over clerk Could you please call the roll on the way over? I'm sorry. We need discussion and We'll love this alderman, Bonnie, I think that there would be some sentiment on the council to move on not lay over item 4 and I I guess I'm wondering why alderman Toonberg switched his motion well it's so one second you're not going to answer that one alderman on the third Ward yes and all aldermen have the prerogative to lay over any item that they want if aldermen want to address that they can address that any other discussion Alderwoman meets I just I just wanted to point out some of the reasons that I Myself have not moved forward with item number three under the district is because of the Calls to service that were at the building the history of that building and the management of that building I don't share that same sentiment in the half-baked and business that happens to be on that 908 West Riverside in the 12th board it's a smaller business there's the I believe the goodwill will be in that whole area I believe that it could work out you know in that situation so moving forward with this in in that setting I think is something that we should consider But if we're laying it over, I don't think we can do that today So I just wanted to point that out for when this does come back forward to council. Thank you. Thank you alderman vine So I guess I would request the alderman from the third Ward to reconsider and switch the motion back in light of The alderman from the 12th Ward comments considering that number four is in her ward. Thank you alderman frost yeah, I think the reason I I'm not trying to put words in anyone's mouth, but The reasons for both of them being laid over is there there are some we didn't get to it yet But there are some amendments to the committee report that add some Conditions and it appears that the conditions one through four are the same for both for both locations both the Riverside Boulevard and the West State location so I mean I can see why I I'll do one lay them both over because both of these conditions apply to both and it should be considered probably collectively Yeah, and I'll state Ask miss hammer or mr. Cagnone if I miss state something Please chime in My understanding is that there was aldermen who had requests for potential amendments to be put forward and so I know the legal department I tried to connect with aldermen, understand their points of view on these different matters. My understanding was that the amendments laid out, I don't want to put words in anyone's mouth, but had more of a direct correlation to the downtown establishment as opposed to the West Riverside and the 12th Ward establishment, was my understanding. Am I misstating that? Your Honor, I would just note that the... proposed potentially proposed amendments that legal was contacted about authoring were identical for both locations so i don't know if what the intent was beyond that okay i could be wrong uh so right now we have a motion and a second to lay over both of these items uh and i'm sorry did you have alderman bonnie thank you so just despite that that's how they're drawn up that wouldn't necessarily preclude us from amending those proposed amendments to apply to only the one that we would be advancing with if we switched the motion and Or not, correct. So right now these are just amendments so you don't need to amend them Someone could just not read in the West Riverside amendments, right or read them in I mean that or read them, right? Correct. It doesn't necessarily All right. Okay Having them cribbed for you all does not mean that they have to be done. It's just that we require them to be in writing, so we ask for them in advance. Alderman Thunberg. Yeah, I was just going to mention, Mayor, that there is a motion and a second on the floor. There is. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, please call the roll on the layover of items three and four. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios makes believe it's just one vote correct Thank You Bailey Bonnie eight eyes three nose Okay, so I don't stream for a laid over. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items clerk? Will you please call the vote on items one and two Tuber all right frost Serena fronty Wilkins Hoffman Beach? No. Barrios? Meeks? Bailey? Bonnie? Item 1, 11 ayes. Item 2, 10 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $11,747,583.71 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on February 12, 2024. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the request for authority to hire a new senior engineering technician within the engineering division of the public works. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Fort River Sanitation, outlining the roles and responsibilities for the city's Whitman Street reconstruction project. The preliminary cost estimate for FRSA work is $1,017,155. FRSA will reimburse the city 100% of all related construction Items legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of an MOU between the city of Rockford and I dot Outlining the roles responsibilities for each agency regarding the land acquisition obligations for the Rockford complete street revitalization program The MOU states that the city night out will split the project costs associated with land acquisition 5050 the city will purchase the necessary land for the project and In the name of the state and I doubt reimburse city 50% of costs and retain jurisdiction of land The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five the committee recommends approval of the city state state agreement for Illinois to South Main Street and for the smart surface maintenance at the right time overlay from pond street to clifton avenue the agreement proposes that the state shall make sidewalk improvements pavement patching smart overlay and traffic signal improvements the city is responsible for the traffic signals manholes and valve box adjustments the total cost Well, the project is estimated to be $741,750, of which the city's share is estimated to be $9,086. The city's share will come from the MFT funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Council, we've got five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Ghani. Ayes. Ten ayes. Thank you. We'll move to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. Four items. First. Number one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of North Pierpont Avenue from 200 feet south of Auburn Street to 1100 feet south of Auburn Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number two the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for the renewal of a special use permit 047 dash 1 8 for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels and An i1 light industrial zoning district at 57 XX Cunningham Road Subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and outdoor seating area and video gaming terminals at a zoning district at 48 46 State Street subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and And number four, the committee makes no recommendation as to the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink, Class A, in conjunction with the tavern with outdoor smoking area, live entertainment, dancing, video gaming terminals, and 100% stock purchase in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 1609 South Alpine Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. As it relates to item 4, the Code and Regulation Committee was unable to arrive at a recommendation for this liquor license application at 1609 South Alpine Drive. So the question before the council is on approval of the application, thus to sustain the recommendation of the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board. An aye vote is in favor of the application. A nay vote is in opposition or against that application. So these four items are up for passage. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I'd like to – on item one, I'd like to motion to lay that over. Second. I believe that – is that just two on that one? Okay, automatically laid over we got items two three and four is there any discussion on those items alderman frost? Thank you with respect to number four your honor. I have spoken To the lawyer representing the new buyer who's who I believe has worked with city staff And I believe for all them and Hoffman as well to add numerous conditions everything from lighting to cameras and Safety issues a new fence taking down The the sign that's on the building That the notes as a dance club or adult entertainment club now would be removed. So I think it's within the best interests of the city and the community and frankly the neighborhood if The current owner is probably no longer there and a new owner with a level of experience in this business would come in and agree to all these conditions. And obviously, just like anything else, if the new owner was such that it was just saying yes, yes, yes, you know, the LTAP would have the ability to suspend, revoke, or modify if the conditions aren't met. And I think based on those circumstances, hopefully the property and the business will be run better then and be a better neighbor than it currently is. Thank you, Alderman. Other discussion? I misspoke on item number one. It has previously been laid over, subject to the two Alderman rules, so it will need a vote. I'll come back and do that for you, Alderman Bailey. Give me one second. Do you mind, Alderman Bailey? Okay. Sorry about that. We and I'm sorry, we had two hands. I believe alderman Durkee and then I believe alderwoman Hoffman had her hand up. So alderman Durkee. My apologies to chair. I was late. Where are we in the agenda? No, thank you. And I was going to tell you that. So we're under unfinished business. Roman numeral six. Be under code and regulation so be and just so you're aware alderman Durkee Item one had a motion to lay over. I misspoke and so we're gonna have to lay that over right now We're talking about I guess all four items, but one has a high likelihood of potentially being Roman numeral six Yep, two three and four alderman Hoffman Thank You mayor, but all I was doing was bringing my microphone down Thank you any other discussion? And this is just for items two three and four all their men frost with respect to number two your honor I just had a question. I saw that this is um Renewing the special use permit has is this property have these solar panels been ever? put into the in this in the stream or they've been constructed and utilized at this point I Director Franzen I apologize Alderman. I'm not sure I understand the question. Could you repeat it? Sure? Um with respect to the to the solar panels on Cunningham Road Were they ever constructed and are they operational now? On this parcel? Yes. No. So they have not yet submitted for their RECS, the Renewable Energy Credit, to the state of Illinois. And so part of the process to have a successful application is the entitlement and such, the renewal of the special use permit. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. On item four, has that been laid over? No, it has not. All right. So I'll reiterate my objection to the liquor license for this establishment. I believe that we have the opportunity to reject the liquor license based upon nuisance. And personally, I see this establishment as a nuisance. Although I laud the new developer for coming in and trying to redevelop the property and you know make uh i think i made a sarcastic remark making it more family friendly um i hate to use uh this analogy but it's like putting lipstick on a pig this is this is no way to develop rockford this is a nuisance business it creates a nuisance in the neighborhood it's in the wrong spot it borders on residential and the use of alcohol there just perpetuates that although the building is new The staff, the people are still old. You still will have the same problems in an old building. And again, I obviously don't go here. I suspect that there are women that are trafficked here. There are women that are exploited and pushed into this business. And that area is in great need of redevelopment. And there is no purpose there. in supporting a liquor license for this. The business has a right to be in business because it's the state of Illinois and it's allowed, but they don't have a right to have a liquor license. And businesses that are nuisances do not have a right to have a liquor license. So I view this as a nuisance business. We have an opportunity to demonstrate that. So we can all go home and say, hey, guess what I did? I voted to support a strip club tonight. We can go home to the women in our lives and basically say no I pose this because it's a nuisance it doesn't deserve a liquor license and They can do what they want but we don't have to help them and we don't have to have a nuisance in that neighborhood and We can look forward to that neighborhood being improved So I'm strongly opposed to item number four for Bigfoot. Okay other discussion alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor I guess I would also reiterate my objections. I was the other vote against this in committee. I think that We've again a repeating repeating this conversation committee but city who's gone to great lengths to remove these kinds of businesses while permitted from our downtown business district and our Midtown business district and I think Now have an opportunity to do that on the southeast side I think the southeast side deserves the same courtesy that we've afforded downtown and midtown and the five points area where this is located is in great need of redevelopment and even if improvements are made under the new owner. I I don't think that You could unless you're gonna create a whole district around this that it is Something that would I think would hinder redevelopment rather than enhance it and I just I believe, you know, the Alderman for the ward is in planning to vote. No because it is difficult to justify supporting this to a her constituents and my ward is immediately across the street and i find the same issue and i think that um alderman from the first word has a has a valid argument just you know because it was deemed suitable or okay location for the neighborhood by a previous council Two or three or more decades ago that that means that we should be bound to that same decision I don't think we should be thank you. And I would also just add Anywhere in the city if you have complaints bring them forward. We'll investigate them no matter where it's at Other one makes thank you. Your Honor. I just want to say as much as many people on this council may not like it There is a market for this particular business in this community. So, um, as for the nuisance, I won't deny that there have been issues that have gone on in this location in the past. Um, maybe even currently, and I would like to kind of shoot my question really quick to chief red to ask, is there a A history of trafficking that you're aware of that's going on at Bigfoot For me to define it as a history of trafficking that we actually had individuals come forth and say they were trafficking the Reporting for you know trafficking is a bit different so it doesn't fit into the typical box as one might think and So have we previously received reports? I would say yes. However, I would have to look at data in regards to what has actually been substantiated. We've had a gentleman come in here and spoke before council many, many, many times in regards to giving his statement about individuals being trafficked at that location. Okay. Okay? So just to kind of continue on that, I just believe that keeping the current owner is a decision that could leave us in a position in the neighborhood, in a position that they definitely don't want to be in. And the alternative is opting for someone to come in that does have experience to turn things around in this community. So, yeah. I just have a hard time with morals being thrown into this conversation. It's very difficult to swallow because I think what a lot of us want to do is what we think is good for the city. And there's alcohol flowing throughout the city. And with the exception of one particular alderman, nobody has an issue. So thank you so much. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. All right. Yes on the on the 12th Ward Alderman's statements so really what we have here then is is a Establishment that if we vote no This that this establishment does not have to meet any conditions that have been put forth so the ownership and the establishment can continue on as is and we know that there has been issues brought up from the alderman of the ward and that That's unsatisfactory So if we have the opportunity for a new owner to come in it to make these changes that we have implemented as conditions I think would be favorable as as far as I can go in saying favorable for the establishment it is and That's where I think the concerns are among some of us, and I think bringing up the moral issue is, yes, that is justifiable and it's tough. But looking at it from the business sense, that I just don't believe any of us want the continuation of what is present. And we can now hold someone else accountable to the conditions that we as a city are putting forth. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonnie, thank you. So this isn't about morals or just about morals. It is about Economic development. It's about we just got done laying over for a second time an applicant similar application because of largely because of people's concerns that the business is detrimental to the ongoing efforts to redevelop downtown and now You know, I just I take offense in the idea this that the southeast side doesn't get the same courtesy that downtown gets and if there is a problem in both cases if there is a problem with criminal activity and nuisance Nuisances arising out of these two businesses under their current owners. We're not doing a good enough job enforcing our own ordinances and Why is the answer trying to, you know, input? I don't understand why we don't, we just assume that we can't do better in enforcing our ordinances against the current owners. Thank you. Thanks. Other discussion? Other one makes I just have a question in relation to the sign and I don't know who can answer this question Is there any legal reason why they would need to remove the sign currently with the current owners? so question is is there any legal reason why the current owners or Or even an ordinance that states why they would need like is it non-conform? Is it too big for the area? I So for the signage, just so I understand this, Alderman Meeks, the signage under current owners, this item wasn't before us. Is there any reason why that sign could come down? Correct, to enforce that. Director Fronson? Alderman, I believe the answer would be no. In this case, legally nonconforming sign certainly doesn't meet certain sign ordinances, but is in current use and doesn't meet a trigger point to require its removal. I think that was a sticking point for some people as well, the sign and... what it represents and I agree with alderman to remember it's very difficult for me to say that sometimes but I do agree with him in the sense that I missed the whole I lost it all I had a finishing touch there and it's gone so I got it Other woman Hoffman. Thank you mayor. I just want to say I don't want a or B, but we don't have a C I'm not trying to make light of it, but I hate both options And so I just want because I know people are wondering why aren't I saying anything? I I hate both option Thank you any other discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll and this is items that? Just so I can give alderman Bailey an opportunity. This is items two three and four We're gonna hold out number one until I come back to that. So items two three and four clerk Will you please call the roll to work? I'm sorry jerky. I'm so sorry To work frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey, Bonnie. Oh Thank you. All those pass. We're going to go back to Item 1. Alderman Bailey, I believe you had a motion on Alderman 1. Not Alderman 1, Item 1. Would you like to repeat that motion? Yes. Yeah, to lay it over. Okay. We have a motion to lay over Item 1. Is there a second? We have a second in Alderman Bonney. Is there any discussion on Item 1 being laid over? Alderman Wilkins. Aye. This item was laid over before, correct? It was. And what was the reasoning for the item being laid over before? I do not recall the reasoning of the item being laid over before. Yeah, I can. Alderman Bailey? Yeah. With some of the research I've done, I've found out that there's a fee that students have to pay at all public school parking lots. And I'm just concerned about what that fee is. I know I've been in contact with the executives over at RPS 205 to – learn more about the fee structure and seeing what we could do about that, because this is going to go before the school board representatives in March. My understanding is folks are parking out on that street to avoid paying the fee, and now folks want that to have no parking. So then it would push individuals into that parking lot who would have to pay more fees. Other discussion on laying over this item? Okay. All those in favor of laying over item one, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Whew, we're moving along. We have nothing under finance and personnel. We have officers' reports. Any reports? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to commend the Rockford Police Department for the memorial and funeral services for K-9 NICs that occurred on Saturday. In speaking with members of the public's community members who attended I know the ones I talked to were very very appreciative of the opportunity to Come and pay their respects. I also want to make a shout out to the Friends of the Coronado for the magical Monday series that that the friends uh coordinates and finances and promotes and uh what that is is it is an it's a free concert on the theater's historic grand barton organ that is open to the general public yesterday i being that it was a state and federal holiday was able to take my 89 year old mother there and it was um About 250 people attended. It's really a great opportunity for People who may not be able to afford to attend full, you know ticketed events at the Coronado to be able to come and appreciate its Majesty and it's you know impeccable restoration that occurred now a century ago and I I just wanted to bring that forward because It would be great to see More a lot of people don't seem to know about it more people to be aware of it and take advantage of it It's on currently. It's a it's on monday afternoons to you know take advantage of times when the theater is often not in use it does not occur on a set monday unfortunately and dependent on scheduling in the theater and it uh occurs approximately every other month six times a year thank you thank you uh alderman beach thank your honor i want to add some comments to all the bodies regarding the service for NICS. I appreciate City First over in that building for the service to take place, but it was an opportunity, at least I'm talking about myself personally, and I'm sure the other aldermen that were there may feel the same way, to sit for a while and think about what the canine-trained dogs do for us. And I know we've seen them in action. We've had them at block parties, and we've seen all of that. But to realize that dog was trained to protect life and property and took a bullet that could have gone to one of our officers. And so for that reason, Chief Brett, I appreciate you moving forward to have not just some casual service, but a full military police service for that animal. And I'm... better today person for being there and to witness that so congratulations to you and our sympathy to the department and to the handler that I'm sure really had lost there it is his life thank you your honor thank you any other reports alderman toonberg Thank You mayor yes a moving service that was and I would reiterate what was set up to this point I'm wondering if there's any progress or thought on the topic that we brought up a few weeks ago on the signage into our city. Has there been any progress or discussion on that that we made aware of? Sure. Mr. Pagnoni? I was contacted by multiple constituents on that, and thank you. Thank you, Chairman. So two sign programs, one related to neighborhood signs, and we'll be working with our Community Economic Development Department to build a program which would allow neighborhood associations to apply to refurbish their signs or install a new sign. As it relates to the larger entrance signs, Public Works and their team has been pulling some data related to traffic counts to see where we might get the most visibility on signs, and then we're gonna take a closer look at those locations. But at this point, that's as far as we've moved forward. Any other? Sorry alderman timber. Sorry, and I also like to thank you I know there's been discussions within the police department on the possibility of dashboard radar And so I thank you for the discussions that are continuing on that and I think our community is happy to see that as well Thank you. No, thank you There are other women Wilkins. Thank you your honor. I just wanted to give another shout out to edge Community Fellowship On Kilburn Avenue. They had a black history month celebration on the 18th and this is Probably their sixth community event that they've hosted over the past like six or seven months So they are definitely reaching out in the community and getting out there and getting to know the residents So I just want to give them a shout out Thank you. Other, uh, reports just make you aware on, I believe it's this Saturday, the 24th rock Valley college women's basketball, uh, Potentially may do something Rock Valley College women's basketball or any sport at RVC to my understanding has never done before Which is go completely undefeated for an entire regular season? I think if all goes well to that point they'll be going for 30 and 0 Their game is the 24th at 1 p.m. also there was discussion about a free event at, uh, the Coronado want to make you all aware that there's a couple of free events coming up at the Coronado. One is on February 27th. It is, uh, Cirque, uh, mechanics, Zephyr, and it's free to anyone who wants to come in, uh, to the theater doors open at five 30 and, uh, the show starts at six 30, uh, And also there is an event on Thursday of the 22nd So this Thursday and that's the NAACP's Black History Month Event that will be taking place at the Coronado as well Those are all the events I have that I can share with you alderman Bailey. Yeah, I'd like to thank the American Legion I think it was last Saturday that they invited City Council members to arena and myself and just recognize our what we're doing in the city and the achievements. So they had guest speakers that spoke on behalf of Box's history here in the city, and I'd like to thank the American Legion for doing an outstanding job in the community for coming out to support it. Thank you. Other one off. Thank you, Mary. I almost forgot Saturday 24th 10 a.m. At Heritage Museum Aauw is going to be presenting Rockford's black history and judge Yarborough is going to be one of the presenters Anybody is welcome 10 a.m. Heritage Museum Saturday, thank you. Thank you. I We'll move right along to appointments laid over. Appointment of Joel Zirkle to the Zoning Board of Appeals and Liquor Tobacco Advisory Board for a term ending June 2025. This appointment will fill the vacancy created by the resignation of Dan Ryskowski. Pursuant to Rule 18, this appointment is up for passage. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. printing Wilkins Hoffman Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie vice excellent next well we have our motions and resolutions and we go to planning and development committee alderwoman Wilkins Thank You your honor item number one we have committee recommends approval of the grant application and award acceptance for the u.s department of transportation fiscal year 2023 through fiscal year 2026 bridge investment program the grant award would fund improvements to the 15th avenue bridge Item number two, committee recommends approval of the grant application and acceptance of the U.S. Department of Agriculture Forest Service Urban and Community Forestry Grant through the Illinois Department of Natural Resources for a maximum amount of $150,000. This grant funds the improvement of urban forests within disadvantaged areas of communities with population of over 75,000 residents to better prepare Illinois urban forests for the 21st century environment. Item number three, committee recommends approval of the request to allocate $140,000 for the Forward for Fund initiative and an expedited special event permit process for multiple events throughout the city in partnership with Alderman and the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. The funding source is American Rescue Fund Act funds that are paid out of the redevelopment fund. Thank you. Council, we have three items before us. Is there any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. All right. Frost aye Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie Tumbert Aye 12 ayes Thank you. thank you ronald we have two items the committee recommends approval of the st patrick state parade and idot resolution this event is scheduled for saturday march 16 2024 from noon to 5 p.m parade will step off at 3 p.m the parade will follow the traditional route beginning at 7 street and 5th avenue north on 7th street to state street west on state street to main street south on main street ending at the embassy suites hotel Item number two the committee recommends approval of the life scape fourth of July classic. This event is scheduled for Thursday, July 4th 2024 from 6 a.m. To 11 a.m. The run will begin at 7 a.m The run begins and ends on North Madison Street at Lower Jefferson Street utilizing the Rock River recreational path. Thank you Thank you. We have two items any discussion on those two items clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? timber frost Tarina printing Wilkins Hoffman Beach Oreos Meeks Bailey bunny 12 ice Excellent. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost You know, and I just recommend 1 through 20 all number one The committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds to be used for the South made smart and OVERLAY PROJECT, THE AMOUNT OF $20,000. NUMBER TWO, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF NOT COMPETITIVE CONTRACT FOR FIREWALL REPLACEMENT UPGRADES TO SAYERS OF VERNON HILLS, THE AMOUNT OF $234,497.75 IN YEAR ONE AND $145,000 ESTIMATED ANNUAL IN FUTURE YEARS. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE YEAR WITH THREE POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR EXTENSIONS. ANNUAL PRICE JUDGMENTS FOR CPI WILL BE CONSIDERED CONTRACTS AND ONLY. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY FUND OPERATING BUDGET. 3. COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF AWARD OF BID FOR PROPERTY CLEANING TO A&A LAWN CARE, SCHLABAU AND SONS, ANNALIE MADRANO, CMM & ASSOCIATES, AND ODIVIO PROPERTIES FOR AN ESTIMATED ANNUAL VALUE OF $185,000 BASED ON UNIVERSAL PRICING. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS ONE YEAR OR POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR EXTENSIONS. ANNUAL PRICE JUSTIFICATION FOR CPI BE CONSIDERED CONTRACT RENOVAL ONLY. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICES OPERATING BUDGET. 4. COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROV Ford Automotive Parts and Supplies, Anderson Rock River Ford. An estimated annual contract amount of $75,000. The contract creation is through December 31, 2024, with four possible annual extensions through December 14, 2028. The funding source is the Central Garage Fund. Number five, the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for Ford Parts to Brad Manning Ford of DeKalb, an estimated amount of $75,000. The contract is through December 31, 2024, with one possible extension. Annual extensions through December 14 2025 the funding sources the equipment fund operating budget number six committee recommends approval award of construction engineering agreement for the Shaw woods drive sidewalk gap connection to CES of over here in the amount of 55,290 dollars and 75 cents. There's that's going to be complete by August 2nd 2024 this funding sources than 1% infrastructure sales tax and Number seven, the committee recommends approval of waterbed for the Shawwood sidewalk gap connection to EPI construction in the amount of $404,192.61. It is estimated to also be completed by August 2, 2024, and the funding sources is a 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the water bid for citywide streetscape preservation to DPI construction in the amount of $118,720. This is estimated to be completed by June 28, 2024, and the funding source is a 1% infrastructure sales tax. page number nine kenya recommends approval to award a bid for the city-wide cyber repairs package number one to campus construction in the amount of 181 190.75 is estimated to be complete by may 31 2024 the funding source one percent infrastructure sales tax number 10 the committee recommends approval of water bid for the whitman street reconstruction to end track in the amount of nine million six hundred fourteen thousand four hundred and forty dollars and twenty seven cents phase one of the projects estimated by october 2024 and phase two by october 2025 the funding sources are the one percent infrastructure sales tax the water replacement improvement account and the fort river sanitary authority number 11 the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for the auburn street over kent free bridge to Crawford Murphy Tilly in the amount of $471,707 estimated to be completed by March 2025. The funding sources is 1% of the infrastructure sales tax. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of award of engineering agreement for the Auburn Street improvements to Crawford Murphy Tilly in the amount of $885,375. The process is estimated to be completed by March 2025. The funding sources is the general fund 2022 surplus funds. 13, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds rebuild, rebuild Illinois bond funds to be used for the Rockford complete street revitalization project, including preliminary engineering, construction and construction engineering for an additional amount of $600,000 for a total amount of 3.5 million. Number 14, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the Brockford Complete Treat Revalidization Project to HR Green in the amount of $1,593,386. It's estimated to be completed by December 2024. THERE ARE VARY FUNDING SOURCES INCLUDING REBUILD ILLINOIS, IDOT STATE FUNDS AND THE RAISE GRANT FUNDS. NUMBER 15, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF WATER ENGINEERING AGREEMENT FOR WELL NUMBER 45 RESERVOIR REPLACEMENT AND SITE MODIFICATIONS PHASE 2 ENGINEERING TO STRAND ASSOCIATES IN THE AMOUNT OF $692,750. IT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY JUNE 30, 2025. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE WATER REPLACEMENT AND IMPROVEMENT ACCOUNT. 16. The Committee recommends approval of the Water and Engineering Agreement for Well 46 Storm Sewer Extension Design to Fair Graham in the amount of $44,700. The project is estimated to be completed by July 1, 2024. The funding source is the Water Replacement Improvement Account. 17. The Committee recommends approval of a Water Professional Services Contract for Enterprise Asset Management Software to Beehive Industries in the amount of $86,250 for the first year for development and implementation and $56,520 annual recurring license. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number 18 the committee recommends approval of water professional service contract for the water model support services the Baxter and Woodman But estimate annual contract of one hundred and three thousand four hundred dollars It is a one-year contract with four possible annual extension options with annual price adjustments for CPI to contract only the funding sources the water fund operating budget and Number 19 the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the 2023 burn justice assistance grant program grant awarded the amount of $189,312 it does not require a cost mansion Grant term is from October 1 2022 through September 30 2026 This will be used to improve and coordinate inter and intra departmental radio communications through the purchase of of enhancement of the Control 1 and 2 dispatch networks and necessary hardware updates to the 911 Dispatch Communications Center. number 20 the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the grant award for the integrated mobile partners action crisis team from winnebago county community health board in the amount of 1 910 394 this grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from june 1 2024 through may 31 2027 the purpose of the grant is to assist mentally ill and or substance addicted unhoused individual that are Winnebago County residents navigate through the services they may need or require Along with housing I place these 20 minutes before you We have 20 items before us is there any discussion on those 20 items clerk will you please call the roll Durkee Logoman, I'm sorry to bird frost Serena Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Beach various I Meeks, Bonnie. 12 ayes on all except for number 20 and there's one abstain. Excellent, thank you. Next we're going to go to new business ordinances and we'll go to planning and development. Alderman Wilkins. Item number one, an ordinance approving the workforce development agreement between the city of Rockford and LT Construction to provide an estimated total of 4,300 hours of workforce development skills and on-the-job experience to six city-hired summer interns through coordinating the improvement of approximately 40,000 square feet of sidewalk. Thank you. One item before us. Any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee all the woman Trina Thank you your honor. I have five items as items three four and five were laid over and Number one an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 4477 Linden Road number two an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 4477 Linden Road number six an ordinance approving the renewal of a special use permit 047 dash 1 8 for the installation of a solar farm and freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 57 XX Cunningham Road. Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and outdoor seating area and video gaming terminals in a C-3 general commercial zoning district at 4846 East State Street. Number eight in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern with outdoor smoking area live entertainment dancing video gaming Terminals and 100% stock purchase in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1609 South Alpine Road Thank you. Thank you council. Is there any discussion on the items before you Alderman Durkee? Thank your honor I just want one more crack at persuading my colleagues with my natural charm Just a reminder on 8th, it is a consequential vote. There's no way to support this kind of business. It's no way to transform our city. None of us would want this in our wards. In thinking of the future, it sends a message. And regardless of what the building looks like, this area will never be redeveloped with that there. I can't think of a single business that would move except another one. And so looking into the future of the city... You've got to ask yourself, what do you see? Would you want this in your ward? If it's not good enough for your ward, would you want it in someone else's? And is this supporting business like this with a liquor license, a nuisance business, is this the way you want to transform Rockford? Is this the kind of future that you see in Rockford? Is this something that you would be – would you stand up in a campaign debate and say, I was glad I supported that, especially if there's women in there? Would you do that? Is this how we're going to transform Rockford? So thank you, Your Honor, for one last crack. Okay. Alderman Barney. I would just second the alderman from the first awards last crack. I'm going to add to it. And probably no more persuasive or appealing to the rest of the horseshoe than he is. So thank you. Other discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. No, I'm not. I am not. Logman. No, I'm not. I am not. To bird frost Tarina printing Wilkins Hoffman on all each Mario's Meeks Bailey, Bonnie no on eight I on the rest I Item number one, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item two, 13 ayes and 6. 13 ayes, 7. 12 ayes, 1 no. Item eight, 8 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. number one is an ordinance approving the request for authority to hire a new senior engineering technician within the engineering division of public works number two is an ordinance approving intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and frsa outline the roles responsibilities for the city's whitman street reconstruction project the preliminary cost estimate for fr frsa work is 1 million 17 155 dollars FRSA will reimburse the city 100% of all FRSA-related construction items. Number three is the ordinance approving an MOU between the city and IDOT Outlining the roles responsible for each agency regarding the land acquisition obligations for the rockford complete street revitalization program The MOU states the city night that will split the project costs associated with land acquisition 5050 the city will purchase necessary land for the project in the name of the state and I don't reimburse city 50% of costs and Retain jurisdiction of the land number four is an ordinance approving the city state agreement for Illinois to South Maine smart and overlay project the agreement proposed that the state shall make sidewalk improvements pavement patching smart overlay and Traffic signal improvements the city's response for traffic signals manholes and valve box adjustments the total cost of projects may be 740 1,000 750 dollars of which the city shares as maybe $9,086 the city share will come from the motor fuel tax funds that matters before you Thank You council we got four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? I Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Crunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.