be done according to your will and the way that you would have them done. We also ask, Lord, that you would have your protective hand upon the fire and police departments as they protect the city from harm and danger. And, Lord, be with them as they go throughout their tour of duty, that they might be able to go home to their families safe and sound. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. So, yeah, we, I'm being told, hold on one second. Is Girl Scouts Troop 773 and Browning Troop 329? If you ladies just want to come around here. You ready? Anybody else joining?
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you Mr. Partridge for catching that for me and for the young ladies thank you very much for joining us tonight and doing a great job on the Pledge of Allegiance. And now I would ask the Clerk, can you please call the roll?
 McNamara, Frost, Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Beck, Chiarelli. Eleven present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal of February 21st? It's been moved and seconded. Is there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 We have two speakers sign up for public speaking tonight. I'll remind all of our speakers that they have three minutes to make their comments once they begin. They start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Isaiah, the ninth chapter, the sixth verse, it says to us, a child is born.
 To us a son is given, and the government will be on his shoulders, and he will be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. What I want to speak about tonight, blacks must have money to get out of the hellish condition that here I am.
 I attended a breakfast panel discussion last week hosted by Chicago so-called blacks in finance, at which I was excited to be in the company of black wealth builders. Boy, was I wrong. This was a one-and-a-half-hour chat session with a panel of three and over 50 people in the audience, most from the world of finance. We had the chance to ask questions of the intellectual panel, each chosen to aspire and guide us.
 But I was astonished. They discussed building political leverage and Donald Trump. Not one time did anyone on the panel in the audience raise the important issue of building wealth in the black community. This is not the first time I've been in the company of the educated blacks and never has the debate of wealth accumulation led or concluded the dialogue.
 This is scary to me. How can black people, young or old, educator or uneducated, employer or unemployed, rich or poor, come together and not engage in the one important topic that will get us out of the hellish condition we are in? If we want to have political power, we need money. If we want to control the development in our community, we need money. If blacks want to truly generate collective influence, we must first find the fountain of wealth. Freedom is not cheap. We can't keep begging the establishment to help us.
 Blacks must have money to bargain with, not beg for our freedom. Today, being in shackles and begging for something that's rightfully ours has helped others build kingdoms. They are legacies of inheritance built off the backs of blacks that has been used to repeat the cycle of control of the poorest class of people.
 There are studies that highlight the collective income of black people. We have the money that is in terms of what we generate yearly through various means. What black folks are missing is the constant flow of cash that continues to increase five to tenfold. We must be in the business of creating a massive flow of money on hand. This will ensure that we provide jobs, good schools, and a safe community for our people. It also influences policymakers who need money for their education.
 political survival. I utilize different places to talk about building wealth. And blacks have asked me why do I talk so much about money? What else is there to talk about to get us out of this hellish condition we are in? I've told multiple people to resign from their jobs today and see me in about three to six months. There'll be
 begging to have a money conversation with me, especially how to get it. Each one will practically work anywhere and do almost anything to generate money to feed their family. This wealth gap between the races is real. And black people can't be scared of saving their own lives because that's what accumulating wealth does. It allows you to be free from the burden of begging. Today is the time to set yourself free. Building wealth is the only way. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Well, finally, good evening, Mayor Marcy. Glad to see you back in the seat. And good evening to all the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb is to be reinstated positive.
 Those who open their eyes to the poor people would be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs?
 President Trump exploded on Twitter early Saturday morning, blasting former President Obama for allegedly wiretapping his phone before the election. He provided no evidence to back up the claim, and a spokesman for the former president branded the accusation simply false. The FBI asked the Justice Department on Saturday to refute President Donald Trump's assertion that President Obama
 Barack Obama ordered a wide type of Trump phone last year. Two sources with knowledge of the CNN said that wasn't true. Well, so much for Donald Trump. We've been having riots, and people have been protesting all over the country and across the world about Donald Trump. So what does that have to do with Rockford?
 This past week, I ran for a third war alderman. I ran as a democratic without a campaign manager or staff. I ran on the will of the grassroot peoples in Rockford. First off, we want to thank all the people that came out to vote, and most of all, the ones that lived outside of the third war that wanted to vote for me. I want to thank those that funded me as far away as Chicago, Pecatonica, Love Park, and others. Thank you, and may God bless you. This was the first time running for public office.
 We had no funds, no ride, no mailing address. I ran because the people had been asking me to run for over the past few years. The end results, I had 96 votes to her 223 votes. I got a lot of calls and emails and people talking to me in person that they sorry that I did not win. Also, some that informed me that I did a great job. Plus, that I'm a great community activist and precinct community. Guess what?
 I'm not hurting. We won after all. We show Rockford that our voice will be heard and that Brother John Tech is no joke. We need more than three minutes speaking in City Hall. Plus, we need a van and a bus. By the way, I killed them at the Royal Tap meeting with the three of us. Everything they asked, I had to answer for. And plus, I'm already doing. So...
 Channel 13 talked about how over 200 people came out to vote in the primaries, where the last primaries they had less than 50 people come out to vote and less than five and one in some areas. We are looking at working with other youth in programs and events that will give them something to do during and after school on the weekend. We do not have any funds, but what we do have is faith that the work will be done. I'm running because we need more than three-minute speeches
 and someone that is going to stand up for the people. I want to thank you, and we need to work together and bring our community activists that are going to head up with the problems and other problems that plague our community to the table. Guess what? I have not yet begun to fight. I will be back. Peace out. Thank you, Ms. Brantley. Thank you to our speakers this evening. Next on our agenda, petitions and communications. Do we have any P&D communications? Yes.
 Alderman Shirely. I have two items tonight. One is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding upcoming special events, which include OSF Heritage Run, North End Market, Rockford City Market, Hooters Swimsuit Event, Rockford Vintage Market, and Rockford Bike Night.
 That will be referred to the Codes and Regulations Committee. The second item is the Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on March 8, 2017, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs meeting on March 27, 2017. That will also be referred to Codes and Regs, Your Honor. Thank you. Ellen Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Carrie Partridge, Interim Legal Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement for the operation of a juvenile assessment center
 I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start Program Governance Monthly Review of Documents. And I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding an application for federal grant funds for the annual continuation of early Head Start child care services for the period of July 1, 2017 to June 30, 2018. And I refer these three items to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Madam Chair. I refer the petitions and communications.
 Alderman Getchis. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a proposed change to city council rules. I'm referring to the codes and regulations committee. Thank you. That will be referred. Proclamations. First proclamation is regarding Youth Art Month, the power of art. I'd invite Sharon Nesbitt Davis and any of her students and other partners that are here to accept the proclamation to please come forward. Thank you so much for talking to me. Thank you. I'll give it to you. Roll the catalog just right here.
 I'd also like to acknowledge former alderman Doug Mark that is here in the chamber with us again. Welcome. Whereas the city of Rockford, Illinois, recognizes the arts, defines dance, music, theater, and visual arts as a core academic subject and essential element of a complete and balanced education,
 Whereas the arts enrich the lives of children in Rockford and throughout the country, helping students to develop creative ability, self-expression, self-reflection, cognitive skills, discipline, and a heightened appreciation of beauty and cross-cultural understanding. Whereas imagination and creativity are seen increasingly as capacities needed for success in the 21st century. Whereas high-quality school-based arts education involves a wide range of partners, including educators, parents, artists,
 community members and local, state and national organizations. Whereas we applaud the efforts and dedication of arts, educations, educators and advocates in our city and we call for school and community leaders to continue to broaden and strengthen efforts to provide art education for every student and every school every year. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 2017 to be Youth Art Month
 the power of art in Rockford and we urge our citizens to help us celebrate the arts with meaningful student activities and programs demonstrating learning and understanding in the visual and performing arts.
 Well, Mayor Morrissey, I know you've given us a proclamation for a number of years, and this will be the last. But thank you so much for the support you have given the arts in our community and the city council members. In your packets, you'll see all the things that the Arts Council does, and that's because of the support that you give us. So thank you so much. And here are a few examples. We have, you know, Rockford is really amazing for a city our size. Yes.
 We have professional dance company and orchestra and an art museum that is superb. And I'm forgetting something. But we have, what did I forget? Theater. Yes. How could I forget theater? I'm a theater person. But we have it here. And there are not very many communities our size that do. And that is because this community does support it.
 And what we're doing in the schools is incredibly important. The Arts Council's mission is the arts for everyone. And I've been with the Arts Council for over 20 years, and every time we have a strategic plan, the person in charge will say, your mission is too large. The arts for everyone.
 But who would we exclude? We can't. But we do have strategies, and one of those is to focus on education. And here tonight you see just a few examples of people who have been touched by the arts, young people who have been touched by the arts. And actually, no matter what age, because all of us here are here because as children, as youth, we were touched. So we'll just introduce a few folks, right? Okay. Toby Thomas.
 Sam Coons. I'm Jocelyn Coons and I'm here with my brother Sam representing the Rockford Writers Guild. Hi there, I'm Kyle Jacobson, second year member of Phantom Regiment. I'm from Rockford, Illinois. Rick Valenzuela, executive director of the Phantom Regiment. Bonnie Sperling, director of fine arts, Rockford Public Schools. Lisa Eaton, I'm a teacher at King Elementary School. Doug Mark, president of the board of the Rockford Area Arts Council. Mayor Morse, just appreciative of all of our artists.
 Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Congratulations. Next, we have a proclamation for the Tabala Air Squadron Day. I invite our Tabala members, including Jerry Minor, President of the Tabala Air Squadron, to please come forward. Thank you, sir. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Whereas the Tabala Air Squadron was formed in 1970 to provide air transportation for burned children to shrine burn centers across the country at no charge. And whereas in order to cover these costs, six custom-made replicas of F-16 fighter planes, better known as the U.S. Air Force Thunderbirds, were built in the mid-'80s to perform in parades.
 Whereas the Air Squadron now performs in 20 to 30 parades per year and has raised an estimated half million dollars to support the Shriner's Hospital for Children, Chicago, and the Transportation Fund at the Tabala Shrine. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 6, 2017 to be Tabala Air Squadron Day. And we urge our citizens to applaud the Tabala Shrine for their efforts and visit www.burnawareness.org.
 to learn about taking appropriate precautions to protect families from devastating burn injuries. Would you like to share a little bit more? Yes. Thank you, Council. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank you for the community of our area. As he said, we started in 1970 by having private pilots actually fly children and their families to the burn center in Cincinnati.
 And as he said, approximately mid-'80s, we had six custom-made F-16 fighter jets made. And we take those jets to different communities and parade where companies and communities will sponsor us so that we can raise funds to do that. And thank you again, and I'd like to let these guys introduce themselves. Chuck Slater, Parade Chairman. Paul Cronin, Vice President. Tom Besser, Vice President.
 Thank you again. Thank you. Our final proclamation this evening is for the Irish Marching Society Week. I invite James Seamus Hughes and Terry Goral to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. God bless you. Thank you for coming tonight. Thank you for joining us tonight. Thank you.
 Whereas the Irish Marching Society Rockford, Chapter 1, is strictly a nonprofit organization, chartered in 1977, established to preserve and promote Irish heritage within our community. And whereas the Irish Marching Society continues to contribute financially from its various activities and events to charitable organizations. Whereas the Irish Marching Society's 40th annual St. Patrick's Day Parade will be held Saturday, March 11, 2017, 3 p.m.,
 beginning on 7th Street and 5th Avenue, ending at Prairie Street Brewhouse, 200 Prairie Street. Patty Fest will be held at the Prairie Street Brewhouse from 4.30 p.m. to 10 o'clock p.m.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 6, 2017 to be Irish Marching Society Week, and we urge our citizens to recognize and support Irish Marching Society's enthusiastic efforts to celebrate and preserve Celtic heritage. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And for the 40th time, again, we do thank you for acknowledging the Irish Marching Society, and we really want to thank the citizens of Rockford.
 who for 40 years have made our party a success. So again, we wish to thank you and Jim Hughes. Well, I'd just like to add to that. We're going to have our great parade this year. Starts at 3 o'clock. There's over 68 units in the parade this year. And rain or snow or rain, snow or cold is not going to stop the Irish from marching, that's for sure.
 The Paddy Fest is going to be great this year, too. It's $12 at the door or $10. And if you want more information about it, please go to our website, irishmarchandsociety.com. And I'm sure you will enjoy a lot of fun that day. Because you're all Irish. I can see it in your eyes. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you to all of our proclamation recipients. Committee reports. All the McGutchis. Thank you.
 Your Honor, Alderman Durkee is here. I'm sorry, Alderman Durkee. I didn't see you sneak in there. Congratulations. Welcome. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under Roman numeral 5A1. Committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the use of the residence located at 2221 North Winnebago Street.
 For resident officer program, the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. First, I'd like to ask for a rule suspension. Second. Thank you for this motion. Second, I'll suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place this item up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Newberg. Thank you. That's right. Okay.
 Yes, this happens, 2221 North Winnebago happens to be in my ward. I am very, very proud of Rockford Housing Authority and the Chief of Police and the city for coming up with this program. This is where they are going to put an officer as a resident in the ward, in a neighborhood. And I feel this is a very productive thing. We do have strong houses, but I feel this is a very strong,
 picture to the residents that we are Rockford police officers and we are in Rockford to stay. Thank you, and I'd like your support. Thank you. Further discussion? Here, Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor. Just out of curiosity, do we have an approximate start date or when someone would move in or if there's construction that's even? Thank you. Chief O'Shea, could you help answer that question, start date for the project?
 We are looking at mid-April. We're hoping early to mid-April, but once we get this finalized, then it's just kind of the last-minute tweaking with RHA, and we're in the process of selecting the officer right now. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Otoj. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 Shearelli. 13 ayes, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B, 1 through 14, I move to suspend rule 11. I suspend the motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5B, items 1 through 14. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those 14 items up for passage.
 Matters are for passage is their discussion Separate number one will take two through fourteen first Questions on those alderman frost. Yeah, I had some questions regarding two through eight. It appears that These all relate to the connection of trainer Road To Shiloh Road and I guess I just where someone could give me a little more detail on what what's taking place What the plan is this document? Did you answer that question? I?
 Yes, Alderman, the construction for the connection of the train or Shiloh Gap should happen sometime this summer. The engineers are already drawing up plans for that as well as the underground infrastructure. The traffic items that are on here are just to have everything in place in terms of where stop signs are going to be and other traffic control once the project is completed.
 Mr. Frost. What's the financial cost to the city of doing this connection, and I guess why are we doing it now? I believe this was already approved in our CIP plan for 2017. Is that correct, Mr. Stockman? That is correct, although I don't have the exact number at my fingertips right at the moment. So it's not out to bid yet. We're still completing the...
 the engineering. It's still in engineering and design right now. So it'll be back before the council for final approval on the bids and letting out to bid and final approval. That's correct. Alderman Hervey? Related to that, is the entire, I know what part of it is, is all of this within the city limits of Rockford or are we connecting? Mr. Stockman?
 Yes, this is all within the corporate limits. Okay. Right of way has already been, had been acquired many years ago when the subdivision was planted. Thank you for the discussion on the items 2 through 14. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Gerke. Getsch. Aye. McEmer. Aye. Frost. No on 2 through 8, aye on the remainder. It is separated. We separated one. We'll come back to it after. Herbie. No on item 13, aye on the remainder. Connell.
 Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Elliott Beck Aye Chiarelli Aye Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 12 ayes, 1 no Item 9, 10, 11, 12 13 ayes Item number 13
 10 ayes, 3 noes, and item number 14, 12 ayes, 1 noe. Thank you. Matters all pass. We'll come back to item 5, Roman numeral 5B1. Roman Thompson-Calley, do you want to speak on that? Yes, Your Honor. I have a question for staff. No parking from 200 feet to 800 feet on Auburn, south of Auburn on Pierpont. Who's parking there at the present time? Ms. Stockman, do you want to take that? No.
 Currently it's primarily students that are parking out there. The request for no parking came from the school district itself because of line of sight issues for people that are actually pulling out of the parking lot as well as any pedestrian traffic that tends to cross the street whether there are crosswalks there or not.
 And where are the students supposed to park now? Because I know the parking lot's full. We did a study of that intersection last summer in the Public Works Department, and we're looking at that intersection because of the traffic and the buses and the children and the crosswalk.
 So the parking lot's full, so where are the students supposed to park? Did the District 205 give some type of explanation? Mr. Stockman? I can't speak to the school district themselves. I don't have any of that information, but I can certainly make contact with them and find out if they do have adequate parking, which I'm sure they do or they wouldn't be asking for. And also the parents picking up their children also park on Pierpont Avenue.
 Would you like to have the matter laid over so we can get some follow up? Yes, I would. I would, really would because we are studying this intersection as it is. There's been a motion to second to lay the matter over. That will lay over. The council will. Thank you. And Mr. Stockman, if you could do some follow up with the district and try to get some explanation for the questions that Alderman Tomskelly asked about. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Room number 03C.
 Items 1 through 7, I ask for suspension of rules. The motion is second to suspend the rules on Romanum Rule 5C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. So we will be suspending all of the applicable rules, Rule 11 and 15, 4, 6, and 7. And I assume, if you can amend your motion to make sure it includes those elements. Yes, I do.
 And the second also stands. So all those in favor of spending the Rule 11 and Rule 15 for 6 and 7 on those items, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Savitt, thank you. Thank you. And I place them up for passage. That is up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott.
 I cheerily I am one two three four six and seven 13 eyes item number 59 eyes for notes as all past thank you officers reports I know additional officers report tonight no reports night others are on her we thank you honor just want to mention there was some
 a second shooting in probably the last six weeks that occurred at the Aragona nightclub on Kent Street, and I got a number of calls from people
 You know, some saying what Mayor Morse and I were on the telephone Friday for a good 45 minutes because there had been a previous issue. I've talked about this before, this mentality that seems to have settled into our city that the way to resolve your disputes is to take a gun and go to a public forum where people are trying to have a nice time and literally ruin their livelihood and their business.
 I've had a couple of calls from people basically demanding that we shut the club down. Other people who are basically saying, are we just going to shut down every club? People won't have anywhere to go. The last thing I need is another 100-year-old three-story building in the Fifth Ward that stands vacant with no reasonable use. I do want people to rest assured that...
 the club did take all the precautions that we asked them to take. Neither of these people were inside the club with their gun. In both cases, one caught on tape, the individual left
 went out to their car, got a gun, and shot towards another individual. The incident that occurred this weekend, we believe, from what they could tell so far, Chief O'Shea's staff are reviewing videotape. It looks like someone drove by and took a shot at two people who were arguing with each other.
 I'm not sure how we resolve those things without, again, just shutting down everything. But we are working on it. I will be meeting with the mayor and probably some of our legal staff and Chief O'Shea and others sometime this week to see what kind of resolution we can have or some way that we can make sure the public is safe.
 Just as an FYI, I have had some follow-up as well with staff, and you and I spoke at length on Friday. I'm going to be out of town for a couple days leaving Wednesday, but I'll be back Friday late and available by phone if we need to take action. But the reports are being reviewed, and I appreciate your engagement on it. It is a very challenging issue and one in which we want to make sure we're taking every precaution to protect the public but also being fair to the people trying to,
 conduct a business. So I look forward to following up with you and our staff and appreciate all the concerns that you've raised. I would ask that the legal department I don't know if we have any special rules for private clubs in Rockford, but I'd ask for a link or something to that because I think one of the solutions for people is to go back to the private clubs where unless you are a member you simply can't come in. So we'll be happy to share any of the
 current ordinances and statutes that pertain as well as the permit that issue specifically with this club. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? First of all, I do have to apologize to you, Your Honor, and Todd and George and Vicki for the email I sent all of you Sunday.
 As you can tell by my email, I was very upset to the fact that we had an individual that was seeking help in this community, and she did not receive the attention that she should have. But I do appreciate the response from everyone, but you, that has given to me, and is responding to the needs of a citizen of this community. Thank you, Todd. Thank you, Todd.
 George for responding to me in addressing this concern of one of our seniors in the community.
 I also want to thank residents of the 7th Ward for having the confidence in voting for me in the primary. I appreciate your support that you've given me over the past. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey and then Alderman Odo. Yes, I'll be skinned alive if I don't also thank the wonderful residents of the 5th Ward for honoring me with a third term to work on their behalf. Alderman Odo.
 Thank you. And I, too, agree with Alderman Hervey. However, this isn't a new problem with Aragona. This is an ongoing problem. And when we came down on a business in my ward because of two shootings, I'm certainly hoping that we're going to, because parking lots are,
 Business owners have to understand they have to be responsible for what's in their parking lot. It means they're doing something wrong in their business and they're attracting the wrong kind of people. This isn't the first time. This isn't the second time. This has been an ongoing problem for four years with Aragona. This isn't the first shooting. It's not even the second shooting. There have been multiple shootings at the Aragona over the years. So we're either going to...
 Get with these business owners to properly educate them on how to have proper security, how to have a proper environment not to attract the wrong crowd because dusty boots change themselves around, and I haven't had an issue. They stopped serving and having things that attracted the wrong people.
 So I'm not looking to shut anybody down, but people do have to understand they're responsible for their parking lot. They are responsible for what they bring in there and the people that they attract. So if we want better businesses, we've got to start attending to it now. So thank you.
 Thank you for the officer's reports, Alderman Getschus. Thank you, Your Honor. Just as a heads-up to my colleagues, the rule change that I'm sending to codes and regulations is, in my view, almost purely administrative, and we'll talk more about it next week. What I'm looking to do is get rid of all these rule suspensions we have to do, which we are doing routinely since we changed our committee structure, but we will retain the two-person layover, which Alderman Thompson-Kelly did here tonight. So, yes.
 What I plan on doing is essentially putting in the rules, what has been our practice, and hopefully getting that in place so it doesn't cause confusion with the new city council coming in. Thank you. Alderman McNamara, then Alderman Edwards.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to make individuals aware that Northern Illinois Food Bank's mobile pantry is going to be over at Northwest Community Center, which is located at 1325 North Johnston tomorrow, Tuesday, March 7th from 330 to 530. And residents just would need to bring photo ID and or and a bag or boxes for food. But again, the food pantry, the mobile pantry.
 pantry will be over at Northwest Community Center tomorrow. Thank you. Alderman Newark. I just wanted to remind the residents that the North End Square has their monthly meeting this Thursday, the 9th at 6 o'clock at 3rd Presbyterian Church and it starts at 6 o'clock. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thomas Kelly. Thank you, John, for calling me again. I do appreciate it. I would like for staff to announce the yard waste pickup for residents in the community.
 The dates that the yard waste will start. Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor. Yard waste collection will start Monday the 13th, next week. We'll start the yard waste collection throughout the rest of the year. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Unfinished business on Durkee. Special council meeting. Council meeting. Council.
 So, and I would just say, so the, do you want to hold it out or do you want to move to lay it over? That's fine. And I would just say that I've had conversations with all of them in earnest today, as well as some of the supporters and the movers of the proposal. And my hope and expectation is that we could.
 Resolved any final matters there were a number of amendments that were already drafted And take them as a group and get it done ideally next week, but thank you those we held out the additional unfinished business motions and resolutions all the Under Roman numeral 8 a motions and resolutions playing development and
 Number one, proposed resolution approving the request for information for additional development at the on-site wellness center.
 Second number two 2017 proposed properties for demolition using approved ranking system place these two items up for approval Remember eight a items one or two are for passages their discussion all of them in Thompson Kelly Do have the alderman received the latest demo list the ranking lusts that we have we adjust daily Have we received that? this other Cagnone
 Thank you, Hunter. Yes, it was included in the packet last week prior to planning and development and should be in your city council packet. There's approximately 30 to 32 properties that we brought forward for this first batch, and we anticipate bringing additional properties forward in the coming weeks as we continue to evaluate and identify the properties most suitable for demolition under the ranking system. Thank you.
 Alderman, I'm sorry, Hervey's that, do you have your hand up? No. Okay, all right, Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I have a question on the list. The ranking, I thought we were supposed to go by the ranking. I noticed that there's number 31 is only ranked 41. It's at 904 8th Avenue. Could you tell me why that's on, and it's like a good 22 numbers? Mr. Cagnotti, do you want to take that? Lower than the rest?
 I would need to confirm with Mr. Mack as we reviewed that, but I believe there was, I can't recall if there was a gap in the number system or if he had explained that as a property that didn't get picked up under the ranking system because it was adjacent to the cop house in which we received a request for demolition. I'd be happy to double check. I don't know off the top of my head. Any additional questions?
 Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. This is Roman numeral 8A, items 1 and 2. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13-9, Your Honor. Matters passed. Thank you.
 Codes and regs, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 8B, 1, 2, and 3, number 1 is the RPS District 2.05 fund run, the second is the Unitarian Universalist Church Rummage Sale, and the third is Ramp River Run. Place those three items up for passage, Your Honor. Roman numeral 8B, items 1, 2, and 3 are up for passage as a discussion. Hearing none, please call the roll. Getschis. McNair. Frost.
 Herbie Connell Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Ellie a back Cheer Ellie I told I sure thank you matters passed. Thank you on back. Thank you under under Roman numeral 8c Items 1 through 6 I would place up for passage Thank you for passage Roman numeral 8c items 1 2 3 4 5 and 6 Sarah discussion. I
 Alderman Beach. Thank you, Ron. Just to refresh my mind on this Golden Agers insurance settlement on number one. Is there something from something previous that just sounds available? Who wants to take that? Ms. Eklund? So they were tenants in an old fire station and there was a fire in the facility. Their insurance company paid out to the city as the property owner for
 a portion of those funds were used for demolition and the balance was allocated specifically. At the time the settlement was accepted, it was designated specifically to pay for this transition. Thank you very much. For the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Ketchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye.
 Aye. Chair Rowley. So advised, Your Honor. The matter is passed. Thank you. In business, Alderman Durkee. The Address of Alderman Durkee stepped out, Your Honor. Sorry about that. I'm going to get you. Your Honor, I have a place up for passage of Roman numeral 9, Alpha 1, the ordinance approving intervail agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority for the use of residence located at 2221 North Winnebago Street for resident officer program. I move to suspend rules. Thank you, Your Honor. So, I'm going to get this passed. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your
 Thank you. Up for, I'm sorry, there's been a motion in second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 9A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Matters then placed up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye.
 Back. Aye. Chiarelli. 12 ayes, Your Honor. That is passed, thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. On Rule 9b, move to suspend the rules on Items 2 through 13. Item number 1 was held out. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Rule 9b, 2 through 13. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items, element number 9B, 2 through 13, out for passage. Thank you. 9B, 2 through 13 are for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. No, 112. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. No, 112. Elliott. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 I am 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 11 eyes 1 no item 9 10 11 12 eyes and number 12 10 eyes to knows I am number 13 11 eyes 1 no matters I'll pass thank you back thank your honor under a criminal 9 C items 1 through 6 I have to suspension rules thank you I'd be 15 11 and 15 on 5 and 6.
 I'm sorry, yes. There's been a motion second to suspend the rules, including rule 15, 4, 5, and 6, under Roman numeral 9C, 1 through 6. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Those no, ayes have it. Thank you. Those items placed up for passage. Place one for passage. Place one for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Duchess. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Connell. Thompson. Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Odo.
 Beach? Elliott? Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 12 ayes. Item number 4, 9 ayes, 3 noes. That is passed. Thank you. Any further business before the council? There's been a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.