Irvins? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Hanley? 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on January 25th, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logerman? Second.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 logeman toonberg frost hervey irvins thompson kelly offman rose beach quinones handling 11 eyes thank you uh is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on february 16 2021 we have a motion we have a second clerk could you please call the roll logeman
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 in the amount of $415,717.87. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to Planning and Development Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two memorandums. One is a development agreement between the City of Rockford and Syfy Networks, Rockford LLC, for utilization of public right-of-way for the establishment of a citywide fiber optic network system, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 The second one is a Comcast cable franchise agreement to the planning and development committee for the discussion at next week's meeting. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Beach. Thank you. Under B, number one, traffic commission agenda for meetings to be held on March 10th, 21, and minutes from the meeting consideration of the Code and Regulation Committee on March 22nd. Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thanks. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's a memorandum from Lisa Warren, Human Services Head Start, regarding the approval and acceptance of the Administration of Children and Families Office of the Head Start Annual Continuation of Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Grant. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we do not have any public speakers that are with us this evening, so we'll move to new committee reports.
 Alderman, it looks like we have no planning and development committee report. So we'll move to alderman beach codes and regulation committee Thank your honor under B one committee report recommends each the proposed hookah ordinance chapter 3 article 5 the city roger code of ordinances and
 Number two, committee recommends approval of revisions to the City of Rockford Smoking Section 19-101 through 19-104 include an indoor smoking prohibition with the exception of hookah lounges. Number three, committee recommends sustaining ZBA.
 for a special use permit for new and used passenger vehicle sales with the motor vehicle shop and c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3068 mcfarland road and 33 excuse me 30xx mcfarland road number four
 committee recommends sustaining the liquid tobacco advisory boards approval of sales tobacco in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the c3 general commercial zoning district at 2207 and 2211 charles street number five
 Committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for A, the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the grocery store and gas station, and B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store and gas station at 3005 North Rockton Avenue. Number six. Committee recommends sustaining Traffic Commission approval to repeal no parking at any time restriction on the west side of Thime Drive from Crested Buttle Trail to Innsbruck Drive. Number seven.
 Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish no parking anytime restriction on both sides of 22nd Street from Pilgrim Court to Pleasant View Avenue. Number eight, Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for traffic on 15th Avenue to be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Remington Road.
 Number nine, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval for traffic on Beach Street to be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Seward Avenue. Number 10, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval that traffic on Portland Place be required to stop to enter the intersection with Florida Drive.
 Number 11, committee recommends sustaining the traffic approval. The traffic on Sexton Drive is required to stop prior to any intersection with Louise on a drive. Number 12.
 Committee recommends sustaining traffic commission approval that traffic on 16th Avenue will be required to stop prior to enter the intersection with log cabin Avenue. Number 11, committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission approval that all traffic be required to stop to enter the intersection of Louisiana Road and Colorado Avenue, thus repealing the yield control on Louisiana Road at Colorado Avenue.
 14 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval that traffic on Melrose street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with cottage grove avenue. Thus repealing the two way stop control of cottage grove avenue stopping for Melrose street. Number 15 committee recommends, um,
 Sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation to no action on the following. A, handicap parking on the south side of Market Street from 75th Street east of 4th to 95th east of 4th. And repealing the two-hour parking restriction on the south side of Market Street from 75th east of 4th to 95th east of 4th. B.
 Pastoral zoning zone on the south side of Market Street from 135 feet east to 4th to 155 feet east to 4th, thus repealing the two-hour parking restriction on the south side of Market Street from 135 feet east to 4th to 155 east to 4th. Number C.
 Handicap parking on the north side of East State Street, 95 feet east of 4th and 115 east of 4th, thus repealing the one hour parking restriction on the north side of State Street from 95 east of 4th, 115 east of 4th.
 And finally, D, I'm D, passenger loading zone on the north side of East State Street from 155th Street to 4th, 175 feet east to 4th, thus repealing the one-hour parking restrictions on the north side of State Street from 155 feet east to 4th to 175 feet east to 4th Street to 175 feet east to 4th. And I place all of these up for passage, Your Honor.
 Oh, I'm tired. Yeah, me too Makes me excited that we're no longer on virtual meetings. No What I had to read all that in is there a motion? Oh, I'm sorry. Is there any discussion on those 15 items that is before you alderman? Ha ha I just wanted to say number six through thirteen are all in the eighth Ward and I would appreciate a yes vote and
 thank you any further discussion let's go first inside council chambers any further discussion inside council chambers all right any discussion online yes your honor alderman go ahead yeah i just want to reiterate without belaboring it to death i just want to reiterate my point from last week that i believe it is bad policy for the city to take with regard to number one and two
 To engage in this much activity to facilitate smoking. It's one thing to say we okay somebody to license them to sell cigarettes. But in terms of establishing establishments for people to smoke tobacco that we know causes cancer, that we have sued the manufacturers for, that we've had multiple...
 educational programs going on to discourage people from smoking. I just think it's bad policy. And based on the calls that I've got, people don't believe we should be taking this much activity to facilitate smoking and make it something that's allowable. And I don't know what all other aldermen have heard, but there are some concerns from some of the bars,
 Not restaurants, but the actual bars who felt that they got hit really hard when indoor smoking was banned. And as one gentleman put it, I understand tasting a cigar. If you're going to spend 300 bucks on, you know, a box of, he said the name, I have no idea about cigars. But he said, yeah, you want to see if it's really the right thing and you're getting the true product. But he said this.
 it seems like we're taking something that was intended for one purpose. And now we're, we're stretching it to accommodate something else. And, um,
 Somebody who's really been a big contributor to the city, and I understand their point. I will not be supporting this, not because I don't want to see cultural expansion of activities and traditions that are a part of other cultures. I think those things are great. But if it involves smoking or other activities that are just...
 bad activities. I don't think the city should be supporting that. And certainly not jumping through all these hoops to facilitate it. If they want to do it on their own, go do it on your own. If Illinois law allows it, which a number of States don't, but if that's the case, but I just think it's bad for us to be taking this much action. Thank you. Okay. Thank you. Any other discussion online? Hearing none. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Okay.
 Aye. TUNEBURG? Aye. FROST? Aye. HERVEY? No on 1, 2, and 3, and 5A. Aye on the remainder. IRVINS? Aye. THOMPSON-KELLEY? Aye. HOFFMAN? Rose? Aye. BEACH? I just want to clarify, that was no on 1, 2, and 5A?
 Thank you. Quinones? Hanley? Items 1, 2, 9 ayes, 2 noes. Item 3, 10 ayes, 1 noe. Item 4, 11 ayes. Item 5, 9 ayes, 2 noes on letter A. Item 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Next up, those items pass. Next up, we'll go to... I'm sorry, Your Honor. Your Honor, may I also just note for the record that number 5, the address, is missing? I mean, we know what it is because it's in some other items. But just the committee report in the agenda, and when it was read in, it does not give the address. The address is in 5B. Yeah, it's there. It's 5B-3005 North Rockton Avenue.
 Oh, okay. I just didn't know if that was just for the tobacco or if it should have been in the... Never mind. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,624,111.30 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on February 22, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a tax-exempt lease to...
 for cardiac monitors to Phillips Medical Capital of Wayne, Pennsylvania for a lease term of 1.94% with the first year payment of $250,000 and payments two and three in the amount of $236,754.78 for a total amount of $723,509.56. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 Number 3, the committee recommends approval of the revision to the city of rock for domestic violence policy contained in the rules and regulations. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 4. the committee recommends approval of an agreement with Swedish American hospital for laboratory services for coven 19. Testing for of city employees, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, number 5 is an intergovernmental agreement.
 By and between the county of Winnebago and the city of Rockford for the emergency rental assistance program. I see Zanzi for you. Thank you. So we have 5 items before you is there any discussion? We'll start 1st inside council chambers. Any discussion on those 5 items. All right now we'll move to any discussion on the line on those 5 items. Could you please call the roll? All right, hi, Herbie.
 Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent. Items passed. Next up, there are no appointments laid over, and we'll go to motions and resolutions. And I don't have any items for planning and development, so we'll go right to codes and regulations. Alderman Beach? Thank you. Under B1, committee recommends approval of a block 5 trucks and tunes.
 This request is for a series of dates as going to be outlined here and to be held at the corner of Walnut and North 2nd Street at the Old City Body Lot. And the dates are as follows. March 17, April 21, May 5, June 9, July 21, August 11, September 13, October 21, and November 24. The event time, 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Place it up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion? We'll start first inside council chambers. Any discussion on that one item? Any discussion online about that one item? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey, just a question. The event is being held in sort of just that empty space over there. There's no utilities or anything. Why not at the pavilion? You know, we spent millions on that. That's still...
 city property and I'm just wondering why of an event of this sort would not be held at the pavilion so this is adjacent to one of the organizers two businesses uh which I think would probably be a lead uh into why they chose there and the other reason is they okay they chose no that makes sense yeah there's actually a museum connected I was I didn't make the connection at first so thank you okay uh clerk could you please call the roll look at me
 To work frost herbie. Hi, Irvin Thompson Kelly. Hi Hoffman Rose Beach. Hi, Kenona's family. 11 eyes. Excellent. Thank you. We'll move on to finance and personnel alderman frost. Number 2, there's no Mike alderman frost. Could you move your microphone up a little bit? Just so that thank you.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for globe firefighting turnout booths to Air One of South Elgin, Illinois. For an estimated amount of $30,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchase contract.
 For turnout gear, advance cleaning, inspection, repair to fire decks, gear wash of Milwaukee, Wisconsin in the amount of $65,917.50. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the change order for turnout gear for fire department to Honeywell First Responder Products of Dayton, Ohio. The original contract amount was $150,000. The change order is $100,000 for a new contract amount of $250,000. The additional expense is a result of numerous unexpected equipment failures and the outfitting of a firefighter recruit class. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number 5, the committee recommends approval of award of engineering agreement for the 8th Avenue over Keith Creek bridge replacement to I am each. I am EG of Rockford in the amount of 109,471 dollars and 76 cents. The project is estimated to be completed in 2021. the funding source.
 approximately $22,000 in motor fuel tax and approximately $87,000 in the Federal Surface Transportation Program Bridge STPBR funds. Number six, the committee recommends approval of a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for 8th Avenue over Keith Creek Bridge replacement which requires authorization for the use of the motor fuel tax funds in the amount of $25,000. I place these matters before you be voted on.
 Thank you Alderman Frost. So there are six items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers first for those six items? Seeing none, is there any discussion online on any of those six items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley.
 11 eyes Excellent those items pass next up. We have new business. There's no items under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Beach. Thank your honor under be One the ordinance approving the hookah ordinance chapter 3 article 5 the city of rockford code of ordinances number two ordinance approving the revisions the city of rockford smoking ordinance section 19 101 through 19 104
 Number three, an ordinance approving the special use permit for new and used passenger vehicle sales with a motor vehicle repair shop at 3068 McFarland Road and 3066 McFarland Road. Number four, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco with a gas station and a convenience store at 2207 and 2211 Charles Street. Number five, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor.
 With a grocery store and gas station at 3005 North Rockton Avenue. Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a grocery store and gas station at 3005 North Rockton Avenue. Ordinance repeating there's no parking any time.
 On the west side of Thyme Drive, from Crested Boot Trail to Innsbruck Trail. Number eight, ordinance establishing no parking any time. Restriction on both sides of 22nd Street from Pilgrim Court to Pleasant View Avenue. And I'll continue on there. I was going to do a shortcut, but I guess we need to read it all in.
 The ordinance approving the traffic on 15th Avenue is required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Remington Road. Number 10, ordinance approving the traffic on Beach Street is required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Seward Avenue. Number 11, the ordinance approving the traffic on Portland Place is required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Florida Drive. And ordinance approving the traffic...
 On section drive, you're required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Louisa Drive. Number 13. In ordinance approving the traffic on 16th Avenue, you're required to stop prior to entering the intersection with Long Cabin Avenue. Number 14. In ordinance approving that all traffic be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Louisiana Road and Colorado Avenue, thus repealing the yield control on Louisiana Road and Colorado Avenue. Number 15. Number 15.
 an ordinance approving the traffic on melrose road is required to stop prior to enter the intersection with cottage grove avenue thus repealing the two-way stop control of cottage grove avenue stopping from melrose street and your honor that is all of the items from 8b1 through 15. thank you so we have 15 items before you is there any discussion on those 15 items is there any discussion online on those 15 items
 clerk could you please call the roll toonberg frost herbie urban thompson kelly hoffman rose beach um no on one and two and alderman quinones i didn't break that alderman quinones your vote tuffy your vote alderman hanley i mean was that a yes on all or no one
 Kenones is it yes on all Alderman Kenones was your vote a yes on all items or a no on all items yes yes on all of them okay thank you your honor I'm sorry I have a correction Alderman Hervey Alderman Hervey go ahead I was a no I should have said I was no on items one two and three I on the remainder and five I'm sorry I apologize I keep
 i got my the wrong agenda no on one two three and five okay the vote good luck with that one chas items one and two nine eyes two nose item three ten eyes one no item four eleven eyes item five nine eyes two nose and i am six through fifteen eleven eyes thank you those items pass uh next we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the tax exempt lease for cardiac monitors to Phillips Medical Capital of Wayne, Pennsylvania for a lease term rate of 1.94%. With the first year payment of 250,000 and payments to
 2 and 3 in the amounts of $236,754.78 for a total amount of $723,509.56. The funding sources the fire department operating budget. Number two is an ordinance approving the revision to the city of Rockford domestic violence policy contained in the rules and regulations.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the agreement with Swedish American Hospital for laboratory services for COVID-19 testing of city employees. And number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for rental assistance grant program. I place these four ordinances in front of you. Thank you. We have four items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those four items? Is there any discussion on those four items on the line? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? Eleven ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next up we have officers' reports. We'll start on mine. Alderman Hervey? Alderman, thank you. I'm sorry. You said Goose.
 First, I want to apologize to Fifth Ward residents or anyone else who tried to reach me on my home line since Saturday. I am switching services, and it has been much more than a headache. So if you were trying to reach me for a service request, please.
 inexplicably it just came back on about two hours ago but this should all be resolved by Wednesday in the meantime if you contact City Hall they'll be able to either answer your question or get me an email and I will call you back again I apologize for the inconvenience but it should be over with as of Wednesday at 5 o'clock thank you Thank You Alderman Irvins
 Your Honor, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? I know, Your Honor. Thank you. Those aldermen inside council chamber, does anyone have an officer's report? Alderman Quinones? Yes, Your Honor. Thanks for allowing me to speak. I want to thank all the people at the 11th Ward who voted in the Democratic primary. And since there is no opposition in the general election in April,
 And whether you voted, were you on the winning side or the losing side or didn't vote at all, I will serve all the people at 11th Ward as long as I'm in that position. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Roasted, do you have your hand up? Yes.
 Just two items. I just wanted to share that. I wanted to say thank you to the Nesden neighborhood for hosting a Zoom call on crime issues that we're facing. They just do a fantastic job on pulling our police department and citizens together on that. I did get our ninth board plan signed off for today. So if people want more information on that, they can reach out to me. But another quick item I just want to share with residents is...
 More recently, the federal government has approved the COVID response for citizens trying to get them the $1,400 that people have been waiting for for multiple months. But one other quick item that a lot of people are not talking about is the student loan industry and how that impacts a lot of Rockfordians. My generation was impacted by a lot of predatory loans,
 predatory private loans and public ones. A lot of people are hurting through the COVID crisis. I know that they've waived payments through, I think, November. But I don't believe it's enough. And I hope our legislative lobbying team will take a look at some of these. But I wrote a letter to Sherry Bustos, Senator Dick Durbin,
 Representative Adam Kinzinger asking them for some reforms around student loan issues. A few of the items, and I'll just kind of mention them real quick, and then I'll pass on to the next person. One of them is we waive student loan interest for businesses on certain loans that they get, but they don't waive student loan interest on students. And so while students are paying an interest on their student loans, they're—
 I just feel it's just disingenuous that we can offer that to businesses, but not to individuals that are really struggling right now.
 you know when when a business or an organization can't pay their loans fortunately for them they can default on them but under student loan rules no individual can default on their student loans and to me that's a huge issue i think that that's a number one reform that the state of illinois should be looking at and my hope is that we as a legislative lobby would would look into because there's a lot of rockfordians that
 would have some relief if they were able to default. So many of them are under so much debt due to their student loans.
 Another one is because of our past administrations kind of, well, I'll put it in a good way. They had people in top positions that actually worked for the predatory student loan companies. Those regulations don't exist right now. And so looking at developing a commission that investigates predatory student loans for those to protect consumers.
 I believe that all that past 10 years of payments should be waived. That's just a personal thing, but I think that if you've paid off your student loan with interest and you're still paying, that's something that we should take a second look at.
 And then the other one, and I think it's a credit to what the Rockford Promise organization has done in our community, but I think others could work on and possibly even colleges could do, is every college has a major endowment program. And I just think that if you're a college and you're not offering the ability for students to go to your college for free on a much higher scale, that college should be an opportunity for students to,
 to move up. And I know a lot of generations don't agree with this, but I believe college should be free for students. And the reason I say that is that a high school degree just doesn't cut it anymore.
 you know you're competing in a world economy where college is necessary whether it's a four-scale or four-year college or a two-year college or a trade school or something like that some post-secondary training is necessary and so I just think that the
 the state should take a look at mandating that state colleges and other colleges that receive funding should have an endowment program similar to what rock for promise has where they can offer. That free college, and I know, and I use on the cusp of that and doing some great things, but I think every college should do that. And so that's kind of the layout I had in the letter to those. Um.
 uh representatives and senators and i hope that the city of rockford would um you know kind of take a second look at these things and and make it a part of their legislative lobbying agenda thank you thank you alderman hoffman thank you mayor i just want to say that i had the opportunity to meet with representative dave bella this weekend and he wanted me to make sure that i got the information out that if people are having problems signing up
 for their COVID vaccination, his office is willing to help. And there's a lot of people that just don't know how to navigate on a computer or a smartphone. And so he said, please just have them call his office. Thank you. Other Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just wanted to thank the mayor and city staff working with Chairman Shirely and the county staff. I think this, the intergovernmental agreement tonight, um,
 involves the federal government, our local government here, our county government, and it's nice to see it streamlined through and be thoughtful and get out to actually help the residents that are going to need it. So I think all the staff work on that.
 kyle i don't know if you're off the hook yet for snow but uh as soon as you probably are there uh i i've i've noticed a lot of potholes and pavement joints uh on certain roads already so i'm just gonna wish you luck now in in helping solve all the residents issues with potholes and expansion joints thank you yeah you got a winter full of compliments kyle now here comes the fun stuff
 But on a serious note, Alderman Frost, we did just make a post today social media wise. I know we had two trucks out today going around. If you do have those concerns, Alderman, make sure you're submitting them either to staff or online and to those residents watching. The more you can submit, not the better for Kyle's staff, but the better for our city. And we certainly would appreciate that. Was Alderman Toonberg, did you have a? Thanks, Mayor. Mayor.
 I know Alderman Rose and I have a lot of discussions and I appreciate those so I would like to Continue that discussion on his part. I also look at Universities and the and the folks who run our many of our universities have run roughshod for countless years on tuition raising far beyond the rate of inflation and
 and the easy money that individuals are able to take out for student loans. So yeah, there's a lot of discussion on that topic. So thank you. I've had a few calls on the flags and I'm sure I'm not the only one from various individuals. And I realized the state has put their plan in place with the flags at half staff.
 but I have had in the past couple weeks a handful of veterans that have reached out to me regarding that I don't know if it's a coordinated effort or not but if it is fine if it's not that's fine too but but if there's something that we could find out about that because they do have some valid points as to flags being at half staff and how it the
 the military you know ways of the flag doing that but okay so next one I appreciate everyone who is physically able and that have shoveled their walks during the past few weeks months couple month or two I appreciate everyone that really on some of these streets they are tough to keep clean and you notice when they are done so I appreciate everyone that's physically able to that has done that a little bit more about the military
 lastly speaking of which there was a car in the that ran into a snowbank and a couple young gals were stranded and and I just so happened to be coming along with my son and we it was it was pretty tight getting that out but I just want to say thank you to Andrew Stankiewicz who was plowing that night
 And there was a hill right there, and he parked his truck right on top of that hill so cars couldn't come over. And you guys would have been coming to my funeral, I think. So maybe that wouldn't have been all bad for some. But that was just a stand-up move. He salted it, and Kyle, I'd like to really thank you.
 Show my appreciation to Andrew and that was just a stand-up move He waited until we got that truck out or that car out with shovels and another guy came by the name of Shane didn't catch His last name came by with a pickup truck hooked it hooked the car up and yanked it out But Andrew stayed there the whole time with a city plow truck blocking the street It was right at Parkview and it was actually in the second Ward alderman Logan and uh, uh
 So it was at Parkview and rural. So there's that hill right there. And thank you, Andrew, for keeping an eye on everyone's well-being there. Thanks, Mayor. Any other reports? I'll just add, last week we had a host of, I would call wins. I want to say thank you to all the voters and the citizen-led groups
 Board that pushed through the renewal of the road referendum. That's obviously we know that council it's critical for our infrastructure But that's a huge thing for the next five years in our community second a big thank you to the Park District and to the RACVB for a
 winning the very competitive bid to bring the women's NIT tournament here to Rockford. I think if you look at the assets that they're leveraging, it's two that the city of Rockford played a key role in, being the sports factory as well as embassy suites.
 13, I want to say thank you to all those who help in short notice. Get the vaccine site up at up on Sandy Hollow up and running from our private partners at 1st Midwest group to the health department to the fire department and the team public works.
 Carl and community and economic development with the lease agreement I mean so many different people played a role in that and just want to say thank you to that and
 and then a big thank you to the state for uh providing some much needed funding uh i have i'm happy i get to say this when alderman durkee's not here uh much needed funding to the development uh right adjacent to the library over 700 000 to bush uh constructions development that'll bring about 80 plus units to our downtown so not a bad week let's hope this week is just as good with that is there a motion to adjourn
 motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing none clerk would you please call the roll Tumber Frost Kirby aye Irvins aye Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose aye Beach aye Quinones Hanley 11 ayes have a good night