Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, March 6, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Prenti. Wilkins. Here. Rose. Beach. Here. McNeely. Here. And Bonnie? Here. Nine present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the strategic planning session held on January 30th, 2023? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 6th, 2023? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Aye. Seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed and passes we've already done our proclamation this evening, so we'll move to Petitions and communications and we'll begin with planning and development and alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you your honor Item number one memorandum from Sarah Brinkman housing and program manager regarding the approval of the home ARP allocation plan a substantial amendment to the 2021 annual action plan referred to planning and development committee item number two memorandum from Anna Garrison economic development manager regarding a resolution for public hearing and Convening a joint review board in connection with the new tax increment financing TIF district Referred to Plenty and Development Committee item number three memorandum from Carl Franzen committee Excuse me community and economic development director regarding a proposed redevelopment agreement with Jay Jeffers and Co LLC I Referred to planning and development committee item number four memorandum from Jacob Rubin Assistant city attorney regarding proposed amendments to the agreements for the city me for the Rockford community investment fund CDFI Referred to planning and development committee. Thank you. Next. We'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor under B, Codes and Regulation Committee. Number one, Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on March 8, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulation Meeting on March 27, 2023. These will be referred to Code and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Alderman. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Alderman. With an assist from Alderman Logan. Yes. Couldn't do it without him. All right. We have three items. Number one, memorandum from Owen Carter, Health and Human Services, regarding the acceptance of the amended Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies DHS Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant Award, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Owen Carter, Health and Human Services, regarding the acceptance of amended Illinois Department of Human Services Homeless Prevention Grant Award, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number three, memorandum from... Mike, Mike, Mike, Michaela. Thank you. Michaela Harris, Contract and Grants Compliance Officer, regarding the Renewable Intergovernmental Agreements for Mental Health Corresponder Programs, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman Thunberg. Next, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction for a Workforce Development Initiative. The legal director shall purport their appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So, Counsel, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. So, LT Construction, is that a local company? It is a local company. How long has it been in business? And have we as a city worked with them before? So I can't answer the question of how long they've been in business, but it's been some time. It's owned by Pastor Albert Tank Weathers. We have done work with them most recently. We did this exact same program with them last year where we took at-risk young adults and we trained them with Pastor Weathers' assistance. We train them to build sidewalks in our neighborhoods. Last year they built two miles of sidewalks. This year they're doing primarily the same thing. There's going to be an additional young person with them, so they'll be up to six. And then this year, last year they built a lot of sidewalks where there weren't sidewalks. This year they're going to be doing a lot of ripping out and replacing around key areas like churches and schools. Okay, great. Thank you. Of course. Any other questions? All those in favor say aye aye those opposed item passes next we're going to go to code and regulation committee and alderman Durkee Thank you under B. Coals and regulations committee number one South 6th Street, 4th Street, I'm sorry, 4th Avenue and 5th Avenue Traffic Commission recommends approval to repeal a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 6th Street and 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, removal of section 16162. Traffic Commission recommends removal of section 16162 from the City of Rockford code of ordinances. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, Locust Street, North Church Street, North Court Street on the north side of court. Traffic Commission recommends approval to repeal the two-hour parking restriction on the north side of Locust Street from 45 feet west of North Church Street to North Court Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, Locust Street, North Street, and... North Court Street Southside traffic Commission recommends approval to repeal the two-hour parking restriction on the south side of locust Street from North Church Street to North Court Street the legal director Shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number five Greenwood Avenue and Vale Avenue traffic Commission recommends approval requiring that traffic on Greenwood Avenue yield prior to entering the intersection of Vale Avenue and Greenwood Avenue The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, these are no action items taken by the Traffic Commission. Traffic Commission recommends no action be taken on the following items number one Request to establish a three-way stop control at the intersection 25th Street and rooting close number two Request to establish an always stop control at the offset T intersection 25th Street and Pleasant View Avenue number three request to establish no parking any time on the south side of Jacqueline Drive from Jacqueline Court to 200 feet west of Jacqueline Court 4. Request to establish a one-way stop sign control at the intersection of Reed Farm Road and Clover Nook Road. 5. Request to establish a one-way stop control at the intersection of Reed Farm Road and Academy Trail. 7. Final Plat of 3. Aspling Subdivision. 8. Final Plat 2. Fairway Green Subdivision. 9. 109 Showplace Drive Suite 133. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine. a Class PKG license in conjunction with a carryout restaurant in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 109 Showplace Drive, Suite 133. Leslie Reinbach, strictly business corporation, doing business as Via Sofia's Italian Kitchen is the applicant. This is subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, 312 North Alpine Road, Suite 104. The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends denial for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store and gift shop in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 312 North Alpine Road, Suite 104. Ali Hamoud aligns tobacco and vape incorporated doing business as Alliance tobacco and vape as the applicant number 11 215 and 217 East State Street liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval for sale of beer and wine by the drink and and a class NGWB license and sale of packaged beer and wine under a class PKG license in conjunction with a craft brew pub, restaurant, beer garden with outdoor seating, and 100% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 215 and 217 East State Street. Annie Deastis, Joseph Frank Deastis. Carlisle Brewing Company Incorporated doing business as Carlisle Brewing Company Incorporated as the applicants. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. We place all these up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman. We have 11 items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. item number two section 16 dash 162 staff can share with us what that is for absolutely director Saunders so ultimately this particular section in our ordinance related to 10 hour parking I believe that parking restriction only existed in the street it was either vacated or the street name changed so this really isn't irrelevant Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other discussion? Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Mayor. I'd just like to thank the owners of Carlisle and the new owners coming in, Joe and Ann. Everyone's looking forward to that, and not just in the third ward, but also within our community and looking at great things to come at that establishment. Thank you. Would second that just it's been a long-standing business in downtown and has really helped with the revitalization of Downtown and then to have new owners who have also been such wonderful owners and Civic partners to downtown but also our community at large. It's really wonderful to see so thank you other Comments we have 11 items before you Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? Logoman tuber fronty Wilkins Rose McNeely fun items one through eight nine eyes item number nine eight eyes one No items ten and eleven nine eyes. Thank you. Next. We'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman to work I We have four items. Number one, vouchers in the amount of $9,174,377.56. Number two, release of liens to facilitate sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 821 South 3rd Street, 921 South 5th Street, 318 Alliance Avenue, 1101 Bluefield Street, 1325 South Court Street, 608 North Horace Avenue, 3620 Preston Street, Willard Avenue, 11-16-354-003, Willard Avenue, 11-16-354-004, 601 Willard Avenue, 605 Willard Avenue, 623 Willard Avenue, 1032 North Winnebago Street, and 612 South Horace Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, approval of recreational lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Commonwealth Edison Fordham property located at 505 South Water Street. The term of the lease is through January 31, 2033. The lease may be extended an additional 10 years by mutual agreement of the parties. The rent will be a one-time payment of $1.00. Made out to Commonwealth Edison and the city at its own cost shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining The open grass area in a clean safe and landscape condition the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four lastly extension of the memorandum agreement between ask me see in the city of Rockford for retention and Attendance incentive for head start employees the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you, Alderman. So we have four items before us. Any discussion on those four items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Beach. McNeely. Bonnie. Nine ayes. Thank you. Next, we have officers' reports. Any council members like to share a report? Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to say thank you to Jennifer. Jennifer Anderson from our code and Enforcement team who's doing some work on addressing? numerous homes that have been problem areas throughout the ward and And also Vicki Fogle from the Nesna neighborhood who has been kind of on this for some time. And so I just wanted to share that kind of collaboration between the neighborhood and our code enforcement is coming to fruition and improving the homes in the area. So I just wanted to say thank you to our staff and Vicki for that continued relationship and work amongst each other. Thank you. Alderwoman McNeely. Thank you. I just want to recognize Alderman Quintanillas and his family. I attended the service at the church. It was a really nice service. I shared with some of his family that I'm going to miss him. He will be missed here on Council. and praying that God comfort them as they go through this. It's not anything easy, I know, because I have lost all of my siblings and both parents. So I encourage them to seek their church and help get comfort that way. And Mayor, I don't know how long the future of him will be there, but I know it's quite common for us to, for In a situation like this to have the chair covered with a cloth and I don't know if we can do that or not No recognition. Thank you very much. No, thank you, and we can certainly do that Also our flags are at half staff for alderman can you know as I add to that? He was kind of in many ways in a league of his own and how he operated and how he worked throughout the community he was someone who I If a citizen would call him with a question or concern, what always stuck out to me is he's not someone who's going to take your question and concern and just say, thanks so much, I'll report it and be done with it. He's going to say, okay, thanks so much. Can I meet you at your home and take a look at this? And then when he would call city staff, he'd be like, and now I want you to come out and take a look at this. He was very hands-on, and I think it's unique, especially nowadays when people are so, let's talk over phone or send an email. He was very hands-on and someone who, wanted to hear from your mouth where the issues are and bring the solution to you at that time. And he just had, I think, a pretty remarkable way of... Somewhat being quiet but also having a unique relationship with each council member and each community member and certainly with staff and talking to staff had Really a special relationship with each person. He's come in contact with And I certainly share your thoughts on To the entire can you know his family? Specifically his daughter Martine with all that they are going through if it's okay with council I'd like to do a moment of silence There are other reports from Council other woman McNeil, I'm sorry, I just wanted to extend myself out to chaffee's constituents until there's someone put in place and They certainly can give me a call and I'll do whatever I can possibly do or direct them to the right department here at the city. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you. Well, I had a chance to go to the hospital to see Hitapi and he was a special person. And when I went out the funeral, saw all the flags flying. I must say I wasn't aware how much he loved those flags. And I asked the funeral director, is this something you do at the home? No. He said, this is something the vets came to do. And then when we got to the church on the funeral day, there were flags in the area around the church. Then we got to the cemetery, flags out there again. And I just think that speaks to why this great guy, good friend. I'm sorry for the emotion. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Alderman Mogman. Yeah, I just want to share real quick that I absolutely saw his picture a lot on the news and in the newspaper. What a beautiful picture of Tuffy's. I loved what Alderman Bonney said, his Irish eyes were always smiling and you couldn't catch him in a bad mood ever. On a lighter note, I think I will certainly miss about every week him coming up to me, as I know he did to all of you, call you by your last name. Amy McNeely you doing all right Logan me doing all right, but with the good things we can do for the people You know I'll miss that every week, so thank you Any other reports alderman bottom? Thank you. Uh yeah, I am You know I was quoted in the newspaper saying that I was also quoted and I think joked on the council floor about how I could never get a Alderman Quinonez to meet me in my ward It was always in his ward or somewhere on the would not cross Alpine and so at his visitation I tried to telegraph to him that I was really really Heartbroken that I had to get him into my ward in this in these circumstances and I mean he really was I believe somebody who I lived life to its fullest. He really was a champion for the little guy, and he really was... I think we all know how thoroughly he enjoyed representing the people of his award. On a personal note, I feel like... Tuffy was also, you know, he was a little bit mischievous and a little bit of a jokester. It's something I've a little bit of a pot stirrer, something that I'll own up to myself. I think we were kindred spirits in that regard. I think Anne Rundle. I mentioned tonight about the important talked about the important decisions we make I think the other thing about toughy was Despite all that he just he never took anything too seriously. I don't think anything really If things really ate at toughy you didn't know it and I think you know with that in mind You know what? We should all try to walk away with is you know that? That we should be happy for having known him and worked with him more than we are sad that he's gone. Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry, one other thing. I did speak last night or the night before with one of Tuffy's constituents who is organizing, I know the mayor's aware of this and I think maybe Director Franzen is as well, a Townhall meeting that Tuffy was working with called Broadway reimagined And there's a date that has been set aside for that of April 29th I believe April 29th, I'm not sure I actually have a time for that but part of that town hall meeting is now going to be a devoted to a a remembrance of Tuffy and the organizer that is So I'm someone by the name of Samantha Bentley Um, and I don't see in the email here at time that she sent sent me but April 29th I'm sure there'll be more to come on that. No, I don't see a time in this email Yeah, I didn't get the time either. Alderman Thunberg? I just I would like to say thank you to the other aldermen. I think many of us in the administration We're asked to give public comments And I I was able to see some of those and appreciated everyone's angle on Tuffy and and I think it really spoke highly of him and our thoughts about him and Also that I had multiple calls from third ward constituents that were calling me just to ask how tough he was doing when he was in the hospital and And so they were, it showed just the amount of people who cared for Tuffy outside of his ward even. And the, just the outpouring during the visitation and even the celebration after the funeral which I was able to attend there too. and the amount of individuals and just the stories that flew around. I was able to meet my new friend over here in Chambers and sit with him and his family and the county chairman and just highly, he'll be highly missed. Highly missed and was a good person to have on council and a good person. Thank you alderman rose. Yeah, and I just wanted to add, um, you know, like it was said so many times before his attention to people's personal needs was something that I learned a lot about and just Sometimes you know doing it over the phone and sometimes doing it over the email isn't the right thing way to approach every situation. And that was something I think Tuffy, you know, did all the time. It was, I'm going to meet you at your place or where you're at. And that was a huge takeaway that we had. And I just remember one thing that I remember was the, respect that some of the other Former alderman had a and I won't speak for Ann Thompson Kelly, but she would always speak so highly of Tuffy and the thing that kind of stood out about him was his charisma and, um, ability to connect with people. And, and I always, uh, remember the, the hats and the, the shirts and the different types of clothes that he would wear, um, which just showed his charisma. And, um, and, and him coming up to you, just like Alderman Logerman said, how's it going, you know, and always being in that mood of, like, what's the next thing we're going to fix or what's the next problem we're going to fix. And it was one of those experiences where, you know, the guy just never slowed down. I mean, I wish I I wish I had his energy now like That he had it. He just never slowed down and I think that that's a takeaway I'll get from alderman canona's and one of the things I remember most about them Thank you I uh appointments are still laid over brett owens is still laid over until after march 9th next we'll go to motions and resolutions and planning development committee and alderwoman wilkins item number one 2023 forward for fund initiative number two award acceptance for the illinois epa public water supply loan water excuse me program for lead service line inventory grant thank you so we have uh two items before us council is there any discussion on those two items Seeing none, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toomer. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. McNeely. That was no on one, aye on two. Thank you. Bonnie. Item number one, eight ayes. Item number two, nine ayes. thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman durkee thank you your honor um under codes and regs number one st patrick's day parade this event is scheduled for saturday march 11th from noon to 5 p.m the parade step off time will be 3 p.m number two memorial day parade this event is scheduled for monday may 29th from 8 to noon The parade will stop off. The parade stop off time will be 9 a.m. Please see this matter is up for passage. Thank you. There's two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. Again, four items here. Item number one, approval of the acceptance of the Illinois Housing Development Authority's Home Repair and Accessibility Grant, grant awarded in the amount of $400,000. The grant has been awarded for the purpose of supporting home ownership and rehabilitation. The City of Rockford intends to use the funds to support full rehabilitation on seven or more properties with the possibility of up to $45,000 being spent on each property. Item number two, Award of Engineering Agreement, Rockford Water Led Service Line Inventory to Energy Engineering Enterprises, Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $79,976. The project is estimated to be completed by the spring of 2024. The funding source is Water Replacement Improvement Account $29,976 and the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency grant. for $50,000. Item number three, award of supplemental engineering agreement, 9th Street two-way to trans system of Schaumburg, Illinois. Original amount, $1,678,972. Change order, $357,000. $1,525.00. Amended amount $2,036,497.00. The supplemental work will consist of additional scope including ADA design at more intersections, traffic analysis and public engagement that is required due to plan review. The majority of the additional scope would have been done during phase two design but is now required by IDOT to ensure additional right away needs are realized earlier in the process. the project is estimated to be completed in 2023 the funding sources rebuild illinois grant funds item number four change order license plate reader camera flock camera systems to flock safety of atlanta georgia which included a six-month no-cost trial of their services and cost of two hundred ninety four thousand nine hundred dollars for one year the trial period consisted of sixty four lpr Cameras, however, during this time it became apparent there were gaps in coverage. Therefore, we are requesting an additional 36 LPR cameras be added to the system. The city contract will cost $284,900 for the first year and $251,000 annual cost thereafter. The funding source is police department operating budget. In addition, I would make a motion to suspend Rule 9. Thank you, so we have four items before you first we will we have a motion I believe from alderman toomburg to suspend rule number nine on item four We have a second so let's just take the vote first to suspend rule nine on item number four Sir, I need discussion on suspending rule nine Seeing no discussion all those in favor of suspending rule nine on item four say aye those opposed Okay, so now we have four items before the City Council any discussion on those four items clerk. Will you please call the roll? Oh, I'm sorry. Sorry No, you're good. I didn't see a alder woman McNeely Thank you. I'm item see one. How are the seven? Properties selected so it could be up to seven could be more than that depending on the needs So how they'll be six accepted and chosen is there will be a an application that needs to be completed once those completed applications are sifted through and make sure that those who applied do qualify for it then there'll be a lottery based on the amount of money that we have available how many service lines where so item number two where we won't be putting in any service lines uh the state came out with a mandate that we need to inventory all of our lead service lines We are coming into compliance with that mandate by doing an inventory of where all those lead service lines are. We also previously, and maybe even again later on, will approve a $50,000 grant that we received from the city to help, or from the state to help offset that cost. So this isn't putting, fixing any lead service lines, this is simply making sure we know where all the lead service lines in our community are. It's one of the mandates that the state has. Thank you. I thought we had done that before we start putting the lines. Director Saunders. So, Mayor did a great job explaining all that. Alderman McNeely, we started in 2016. doing our work in identifying all of our unknown service materials obviously is that 2024 date is getting closer and closer we're identifying that our typical means of capturing those service materials aren't going to align with that that schedule so we're actually doing something really cool here we're actually going to be developing a predictive model that will take in a bunch of different inputs you know information on housing stock information repairs, history in the neighborhood, information on water main age and makeup, and then we're going to input all of that data and develop a model that can then provide us a much higher confidence in the material type of those remaining service lines. Great, thank you. Walt? Doesn't it sound like we're doing something really cool here? Yes. Sorry, I just have to make fun of Director Saunders when he talks about water. Any other questions or concerns on the items before clerk, could you please call the roll? Logoman to bird Prunty Wilkins Rose Beach McNeely funny Nine eyes excellent next up. We will go to planning and Development Committee and alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I Ordinance approving an agreement between the city of Rockford and healthy construction for the workforce development initiative. Thank you We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Could you please call the roll Durkee? Logoman tumor Prunty Wilkins Rose Beach McNeely Bonnie Nine eyes excellent. Thank you. Next. We'll go to code and regulation committee and alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor I Under 10B, Codes and Regulations Committee. Number one, an ordinance approving the repeal of a two-hour parking restriction on the west side of 6th Street from 4th Avenue to 5th Avenue. Number two, an ordinance approving the removal of Section 16162 from the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. Number three, an ordinance approving the repeal of the two-hour parking restriction on the north side of Locust Street from... 45 feet west of North Church Street to North Court Street. Number four, an ordinance approving the repeal of the two-hour parking restriction on the south side of Locust Street from North Church Street to North Court Street. Number five, an ordinance requiring that traffic on Greenwood Avenue yield prior to entering the intersection of Vail Avenue and Greenwood Avenue. Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine, a Class P KG license in conjunction with a carryout restaurant in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 109 Showplace Drive, Suite 133, Leslie Reinbach, Strictly Business Corporation doing business as Via Sofia's Italian Kitchen. That's an applicant. Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink, a class NGWB license, and the sale of packaged liquor and wine under a class PKG license in conjunction with a craft brewery pub, restaurant, beer garden with outdoor seating, and 100% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 215 and 217 East State Street and D-Astis. Joseph Frank Dias dis Carlisle Brewing Company doing business as Carlisle Brewing Company Incorporated as applicants you place these seven items up for passage your honor Thank You alderman We have seven items before us any discussion any discussion on those seven items all the room McNeely. Thank you. I On item number seven, in that paragraph, it has 100% stock purchase. I'm not sure I understand what that means. Director Franzen? It just means that the business that existed as Carlisle is being completely sold over to a new ownership. Okay. I would never guess that one. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins Rose Beach McNeely Bonnie I am six on six items one through five nine eyes item six is Eight eyes two nose and item seven is nine eyes excellent next we'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman to burg Thank You mayor We have three items. Number one, an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 821 South 3rd Street, 928 South 5th Street, 318 Alliance Avenue. 1101 Bluefield Street, 1325 South Court Street, 608 North Horace Avenue, 3620 Preston Street, Willard Avenue, 11-16-354-003, Willard Avenue, 11-16-354-004, 601 Willard Avenue, 605 Willard Avenue, 623 Willard Avenue, 1032 North Winnebago Street, and 612 South Court Street. Item number two, an ordinance approving the recreational lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Commonwealth Edison Port on the property located at 505 South Water Street. The term of the lease is through January 31, 2033. The lease may be extended to an additional 10 years by mutual agreement of the parties. The rent will be a one-time payment of $1 made out to Commonwealth Edison and the City. At its own cost, it shall be responsible for keeping and maintaining the open grass area in a clean, safe, and landscaped condition. Item number three, an ordinance approving the extension of the memorandum of agreement between AFSCME-C and the City of Rockford for retention and attendance incentive for Head Start employees. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to put those up for a motion and wonder where Kevin Frost is. If anybody has a location, please let me know and I'll send out an APB forum or just maybe do a goodwill check. Thank you. Okay, so we got three items before us is there any discussion on those three items I would say the goodwill check should be done on Lisa because she deals with Kevin but um So we have those three items no discussion clerk. Could you please call the roll? Durkee Logum in tumor fronty Wilkins Rose Beach McNeely fine nine eyes Excellent. Thank you Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.