Lives of those around us, write your law upon our hearts, O God. Guide our leaders to choose what is right and inspire the people of Rockford to love this city and to love one another. And empower us all with the courage and the ability to make this part of your world an even brighter place than it already is. To you, O God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, be all honor and glory now and forever. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. McNeely.
 Chiarelli. 13, I'm sorry, 12 present. Thank you. We have a quorum. Alderman Frost, did you have a comment to make? Your Honor, at this time, I would ask for a moment of silence for the tragic loss of both Christopher and John Ruckman, who were murdered last week. We don't know when. And my heart goes out to the mother, Heidi Ruckman, and to her family.
 Thank you. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on February 20th, 2018. So moved. Second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just wanted to point out that Alderman Thompson was referring to Roger Farrar, who passed, and the services were this past Saturday. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for the National Junior College Athletic Association Division III Women's Basketball Championship Week. If members from the RACVB and Rock Valley College would like to come forward, not all at once. How are you? I'm Tom. Maddie. Hi. Jessie. Jessie, I'm Tom. Hi. How are you? Great. How are you? Good to see you. I am going to have you hold this. Oh.
 Whereas Rockford is honored to be chosen to host the 2018 National Junior College Athletic Association Division III Women's Basketball Championship Tournament, March 15th through the 17th. And whereas this is the first time this championship will be hosted in the Rockford region. And whereas the Rock Valley College will kick off NJCAA Division III Championship Week on March 13th with a free girls training camp at Guilford High School's Fieldhouse.
 And whereas the opening banquet will be held March 14th at 6 p.m. at Prairie Street Brewing Company with keynote speaker Tamika Dixon. Ms. Dixon is a former WNBA All-Star who Rock Valley College head coach.
 head women's basketball coach Misty Opeth coached during her time at Rock Valley College and whereas RVC will host the championship tournament at their PE Center March 15th through the 17th with the top eight Division III women's teams in the country competing
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 12th through the 17th of 2018 as National Junior College Athletic Association Division III Women's Basketball Championship Week. Would you like to share a few words?
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council. We really appreciate it. We're very, very excited. And in case you didn't know, we also qualified for the national tournament. So we'll have the opportunity to win our fifth national championship right here at Rock Valley College in the PEC. We'd love to see you all join us out there. Thank you. I also want to mention that Dr. Jensen, president of Rock Valley College, is in attendance with us this evening as well. So thank you for coming, Dr. Jensen.
 Okay petitions and communications Dr. Durkee for planning and development Thank you, your honor under Roman numeral 3a a memorandum from lack of area bond assistant city attorney regarding the Rockford area economic development council also known as Radek the 2017 year end and first quarter 18 reports these will be referred to planning and development Thank you in alderman Shirely for codes and regulations. Thank you your honor. I have two items that
 First is a traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on March 14th, 2018. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting are March 26th, 2018. The second is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, deputy operations manager regarding the upcoming special events which include Hooters Swimsuit Event and Red Shoe Run. Both those items will be referred to the codes and regs committee, your honor.
 Thank you Alderman Shirely and Alderman Frost for finance and personnel. First there's a memorandum from George Davis, Director of Human Services regarding an application for federal grant funds for early
 Head Start Child Care for 2018-19 budget year for the Human Services Department Head Start Division. This matter will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Your Honor, if I may, I'd like to add on a second item, which would be an amendment to Section 2-31, Rules of Procedure and Order of Business, requiring a supermajority vote to amend or delete Home Rule self-limiting ordinances. And I would refer this matter to the Finance and Personnel Committee for discussion. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost.
 Next up this evening, we have three public speakers. I'll remind all public speakers that you have three minutes. And the first public speaker is Mr. Chad Larson of Rockford, Illinois.
 Hello. Thank you for allowing me to speak to you today. I'm Chad Larson. I'm president of Rockford Neighborhood Issues. It's a social media group. We're trying to bring social media into the ranks of the other media. Joe Neopian is my moderator. He's in the house today, and it's getting warmer out, which is good.
 One of the things we've been talking about is home rule, and I think both of us are going to be glad when it gets over with and they find out one way or another what we're going to do because it's going to change our city pretty drastically. I've talked to a lot of people, and a lot of the young folks are really catching on to it, but Jagat is a credibility problem with the old people, and I don't mean to say that dreaded old word, but
 the norm carnia told me in some of his classes that the little old lady with the bonnet in her hair is going to get you every time so we need to put a forward fast on getting to these people explaining what it is and what's going to happen and uh we have a lot of people that are
 Asking a lot of good questions and things are really going well We're almost got 2,500 members and I know a lot of the alderman here on it The mayor his honor is on that and we're going to try to see if we can bring it in But we need your help Springfield is far away and only three or four people and
 represent us or they got a bargain to represent us we got 14 people here that come from here that know what's going on around here I know each other personally it would be so much more than just taxes that we have to worry about we got to worry about
 trusting each other and the mayor got elected by a landslide and we got to go out and run with that because a lot of people wanted him to be mayor and we got to trust him and we got to convince these people that are opposed to home rule to reach out and trust. They're afraid of the unknown. They're afraid of what the next city council is going to do. Well, we got a lot to do just to get through this first city council.
 So I want to thank all of you for what you've done and for copying on my page. It's not my page. It belongs to its members. But I want to thank all of you for what you do every day. You've got the knowledge, the education, the experience to make it happen. You've just got to go out there and get the tools to make it happen. And hopefully March 20th we can get that done for you. Thank you very much.
 Thank you, Mr. Larson. Next public speaker is Prophet Youssef of Rockford, Illinois. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Philippians, the fourth chapter, the 13th verse, it says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthened me. What I want to speak about tonight in Rockford, Chicago, and across America, let's talk about guns.
 Now is the time to talk about guns. This is the perfect time. We are wasting so much time not talking about guns. This is not about politics. I don't care if you are a Democrat, Republican, Independent, or somebody from Mars. Something has to be done. I completely disagree with one of the National Rifle Association's slogan, Guns don't kill people. Guns allow people to kill people at abyss and with ease. Does anyone believe we will be more than Chicago police?
 Commander Paul Barton, my good friend, if his alleged killer did not have a gun and certain guns, semi-automatic rifles allow people to kill lots of other people really quickly. Other devices like the bump stock used in the Las Vegas massacre last allowed guns to operate as automatic weapons and kill people even quicker. Why is an intelligent thoughtful dialogue followed by intelligent thoughtful action forbidden? Why is it never
 the time to have this conversation. It is time to discuss why it is lawful for people to buy military assault weapons. It is time to discuss why semi-automatic weapons are legal. It is time to discuss why people can legally buy a high capacity magazine that holds up to 100 rounds. It is time to discuss why we allow the sale of guns at gun shows that are impossible to regulate. It is time to discuss why we forbid federal law enforcement
 and a database on guns so weapons used in killings and other crimes can be tried. It is time, guess what? There's no limit in federal law on the number of guns someone can buy, even though we know that gangs use strong purchases who buy four, five, six guns. Why are we afraid of the dialogue? My friend and assistant United States attorney, help lock away gangbangers who's terrorizing people in Chicago. The laws against assault rifles, help.
 lock up some really bad people. But Congress allowed those laws to lie. They do not exist today. So today, there are gang members on our streets carrying assault rifles. My friend, a prosecutor, was very frustrated by the gap in the law. As a junior prosecutor, he refused to believe that we could not
 trace guns. How is it that we can keep records about cars, but we cannot have a gun database? They had to send government agents to come through handwritten records in gun shops in Indiana, Tennessee, and other states in a quest to find who was supplying gangs with hundreds of weapons.
 I don't see no good reason to allow people to fire 100 bullets at a time without reloading unless they are in a military in a combat zone. I don't see no good reason to allow Uzi submachine guns, AR-15, AK-47 and bump stocks on our streets in America. Americans have the loosest gun laws and the largest numbers of mad shooters in the world. Let's talk about it and after we talk, let's act. Assistant United States attorneys are the best bargain going. They work tirelessly for modest pay.
 They need our help. They need effective laws and we need to give them new laws nationwide, not state by state. And if our lawmakers don't pass these new laws, we need to get them idiots out of Rockford. Thank you for the line. Thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Next public speaker is John Tack Brantley of Rockford.
 I believe in the mayor, Tom McNamara, all the women and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. I ask God for the wealth of his glory to give me power through his spirit to be strong in your inner self. And I pray that Christ will make his home in your heart and through faith.
 faith. I pray that you may have your roots and foundation and love so that you together with all God's people may have the power to understand how broad and long and how high and deep in Christ's love. This is our fifth year going to the Disney on Ice. We had tickets to take 62 people, but we wound up taking 66. And when I got to the BMO...
 Harrison Center. I mentioned to them there is 66 of us instead of 62 and went to the supervisor So they let all of us they let all of us in on the 62 chickens. Want to thank our sponsors for paying for a hundred pieces of a Popeye's chicken we was able to feed feed to you after this is on my birthday after my birthday I left and went down to Jackson, Mississippi and
 I was blown away by the hospitality and the love that the people showed me down there in Jackson, Mississippi. They talked about my mom. I haven't seen my mom in over 50 years. What they told me about my mom, she worked with the publishing newspaper company down there. They said she was deep into politics. They said she was deep into religion. And they said she was a no-nonsense woman, and she spoke.
 she spoke her mind when a politician was running for office they came and saw her before they could even come into the community so i'm listening to them telling me all these different stories about my mom and i say where the apple don't fall far from the tree because i haven't seen my mom but yet she's seen what i'm doing up here in rockford and she preferred for me to continue they told me she preferred for me to continue to do what i do so in less than a week time i was able to wrap up
 her business. I was able to wrap up her two bank accounts and I was able to come back home. On my way of coming back home for the first time on the Amtrak train before we could leave Jackson, I mean before we could leave Mississippi, two individuals tried to play chicken and didn't make it and we was held up for three hours.
 because they got killed by the train. I want to conclude by thanking the chief of the fire department for hooking me up with a sponsor. This sponsor is going to pay, we're going to have a whole room, the whole show to ourselves where I'm going to be able to fill up that showroom for the hour use to be able to go see the Black Panther movie and we are going to either go the weekend before
 the Easter break or either we go go during the Easter break and my top priority this month is that we are going to get us a bus before this end of this month we need to have our own bus because I do have over 168 kids and that the chief told the sponsor that don't worry about me getting the youth I can get to you my problem is is transportation and I want to thank y'all and then other thing I want to say that I did vote
 I went already out there and vote, and I am saying, I'm going to conclude by saying this, vote for home rule, because a lot of people follow a lot of things I say. So vote for home rule. Thank you. Okay. Next up, we have a new committee report. It doesn't look like we have anything under planning and development. Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B.
 First item is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a variation to reduce the required setback for a freestanding sign from five feet.
 to one feet at 2640 North Main Street, Village Green Nursery of Rockford, subject to conditions. The second committee recommends the State and the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a variation to increase the maximum height from 18 to 24 feet for a detached accessory structure at 637 North Calvin Park Boulevard. Sue Christensen is the applicant, subject to conditions.
 The third is 4760, 4701, 4707, 4709, 4713 Murphy Woods Drive. The committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from R1 single family residential zoning district to R2. Two family residential zoning districts for lots 7 through 11.
 The second is the modification of a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 18 two family residential units in an R2, two family residential zoning district at 4760, 4701, 4707, 4709, and 4713 Murphy Woods Drive. Marvin Keys for Peace Capital Investments is the applicant, subject to conditions.
 The fourth, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 3001-3053 North Perryville Road. 815 Cajun is the applicant subject to condition. Item number five, Your Honor, I'm going to move to the end of my committee reports because I have an amendment for that item.
 The sixth, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and outdoor seating area at 223 East State Street. The applicant is Buddha Belly Incorporated. It's subject to conditions. The seventh, the committee recommends approval of the proposed revision to ordinance section 17-2, weed cutting liens.
 The 8th the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford liquor code chapter 3 article 1 section 3-60 duration prorating fee effect of transferring businesses There's an ordinance approving the sale oops apologize your honor Okay, so the ninth is the State Street Main Street committees recommend sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish an
 All way stop prior to entering the intersection of State Street and Main Street Thus repealing the existing two-way stop control at the intersection the tenth is Christina Street Blackhawk Park Avenue the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish two-hour parking Monday through Friday 6 a.m. To 5 p.m. On both sides of Christina Street from Blackhawk Park Avenue south to the end of Christina Street and
 Number 11 is Magnolia Street, Black Hawk Park Avenue, Seminary Street. The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a two-hour parking Monday through Friday, 6 a.m. to 5 p.m. on both sides of Magnolia Street from Black Hawk Park Avenue to Seminary Street.
 The 12th, Blackhawk Avenue, Christina Street, parking restriction. Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on both sides of Blackhawk Park Avenue from Christina Street to 50 feet east of Christina Street. The 13th is Christina Street, Blackhawk Avenue, 50 feet north of Blackhawk Avenue.
 excuse me the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of Christina Street from Black Hawk Park Avenue to 50 feet north of Black Hawk Park Avenue
 Number 14 is the Christina Street no parking committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction On both sides of Christina Street from 18th Avenue to 30 feet north of 18th Avenue number 15 the Christina Street 18th Avenue committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of 18th Avenue from Christina Street to 30 feet east of Christina Street a
 Number 16 is West State Street, Court Street, Winnebago Street. Committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime, except buses restriction on north side of West State Street from Court Street to Winnebago Street. Number 17, the Court Street, West State Street, Mulberry Street. Committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime, except buses on the west side of Court Street from West State Street to Mulberry Street.
 Number 18, I think we have enough in the House. We need require ten votes on this item, so I think we have enough Alderman present, Your Honor. Number 18 is committee recommends reversing the traffic commission's recommendation of no action to be taken on the request to establish yield control at the intersection of Bruner Street and Gray Street. The committee recommends approval to establish that traffic on Bruner Street be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Gray Street.
 Number 19 the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation of taking no action on the following items request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Rockford Avenue and Oak Lawn Avenue and The request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Rockford Avenue and Princeton Avenue Very good. Excellent. I'll just hold off on item number five. Is there discussion on item one through four on?
 Or 6 through 19. Items 1 through 4, 6 through 19. Alderman Hervey, did you have a question? That was number 2. 5B2. Are you going to vote on the structure? No. Any other further discussion? We're going to be voting on 1 through 4, 6 through 19. Seeing no further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. I'm sorry, Toomer. Aye. Frost. I'm going for it. Hervey. Thompson-Kelley.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? No, I'm voting 5. Did you say 4 and 5? Okay, we're not voting on 4 and 5. We're not on 5. We're left, held that out right now. Quinones? McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye.
 items one two three eleven eyes item number four nine eyes two nose item six through 19 eleven eyes excellent is there a motion to have prophet yusuf now read alderman shirely's uh code and regulations it'll be done in three minutes and we know it'll all be accurate i agree with you alderman shirely you want to read in five in your amendment i'm going to go back to item number five
 I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports Roman numeral 5B item 5 to reflect sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's recommendation of approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming.
 908 West Riverside Boulevard, North Town Restaurant LLC doing business as Stockyard Rock Burger is the applicant subject to the amended condition as follows. I'll read those amended conditions, Your Honor. Number one, must meet all applicable building codes. Number two, compliance with all City of Rockford liquor codes. Number three, submittal of a revised interior floor plan that includes seating, tables, and gaming machines for staff review and approval.
 Number four, the sale of liquor by the drink shall be limited to the revised interior floor plan approved by staff. Number five, the hours of operation will be limited to 7 AM to 2 AM Monday through Sunday.
 6. The window display signage is limited to 20% of the window area. 7. The window shall not be covered with bars or other devices that block the windows. 8. The bar and grill shall not have a cover charge except for events with live entertainment. 9. The bar and grill shall not have a dance floor. 10. The bar and grill shall not have any DJs.
 11. The bar and grill shall have live entertainment. 12. The bar and grill shall not operate as a nightclub. 13. Any pending general ordinance cases must be resolved prior to issuance of the license. 14. All outstanding general ordinance fines must be paid prior to the issuance of the license. 15. All conditions must be met prior to establishment of use. I place that item as amended up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. I need a second. Yes. Is there a second before we get to this guy? And I'll just add before alderman mcneely goes, uh, I know alderman beck could not be here tonight But he is certainly strongly in support. I'm sure he's reached out to several of you. Uh alderman mcneely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor All the requirements that were listed in the name of the establishment Indicates to me that it's a nightclub. So perhaps I don't know the definition of nightclub
 And is there such a distinction? Distinction between? What the applicant is and the requirements that it's not a nightclub. It states that it's not a nightclub. Certainly. Mr. Cagnoni? Okay.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The definition for a nightclub includes language that states an establishment that has a dance floor or standing area greater than 150 square foot in size. In this particular situation, after the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board, the applicant had approached us and stated that there would be occasions in which he'd like to have live entertainment and have a cover charge.
 That's not explicitly included in the definition of a nightclub. So we felt comfortable on a staff amending the conditions with what was already prohibited and allowing that particular activity. Would also note that, you know, this is a liquor licensing process in which we've typically.
 addressed any zoning issues, but this property has a long history of Being established as a bar facility with a variety of uses and also part of the reason we felt comfortable With the amendment and alderman back support Alderman Rose a question I had was I
 in the business plan it talked about having a security guard on staff over the weekends, and due to the amount of calls that the previous owners had, it said that they may have up to two security guards as needed. And as someone who has seen some of the activity up there in past years,
 Bars, I'm wondering if it's possible for the city to ask that maybe in the first six months of ownership that they that they That it be mandated that they have to security personnel on the weekends and the only reason I say that is I've worked in security having one person and
 As a security guard really isn't security. It's it's just having someone there having two people actually can can take on something such as a fight or some kind of disruptive behavior behavior. But having one person there doesn't really cover the issue. And so I'm not sure if that's something that can be addressed.
 I'll ask Mr. Cagnoni, but I would mention in my communications with the owner is it was mentioned that two per 100 people. So I would assume there would normally be two during those weekend times, but I'll let Mr. Cagnoni address it.
 Thank you. Certainly that could be an amendment to this proposed liquor license. You know, we've had the opportunity to work with this owner quite a bit. So I don't believe that would be necessary unless the council believes it's necessary. We'd be happy as a staff to follow up with them.
 To make sure that they're putting adequate security in place this operator currently operates RBI in the district and have been Responsive when we've reached out to them addressing those concerns, but whatever the approach that council would like to proceed alderman, Toonberg Thank you mayor. I just like to add to the council that they do have a business in the third Ward and I've personally asked that
 for their assistance on a few matters to make it a better place, such I shouldn't say it, a situation, where they worked with me and were very responsive in making amends to some things. So I would say that they are very business friendly in the third ward.
 Thank you. Thank you alderman frost. Thank you. I I just wanted to speak out in favor of the owner One of them andy rios is here today. I met andy over a decade ago when his family purchased rbis, which is in my award now um, and um, they also as mr Cagnoni mentioned own onyx which is out of rocker but the district downtown as well and And whenever I have had an issue or the city's had an issue The owners have been very responsive and been proactive in and running a good
 good establishment not just a bar setting but also a restaurant and i believe in the business plan of this particular place and by the way i know alderman beck is here but he is in favor of but
 Unfortunately, the North Town Shopping Center, as most of us knew it at some time, has changed drastically over the years. And what was once Zilt's and has been an iteration of other bars has not maybe been so well. I'm happy that, frankly, I was shocked when Mr. Rios called me and told me about him making an investment in there. Gusts and furniture's leaving. So I'm hopeful that this will be an anchor tenant.
 the strip mall over there and be a great restaurant. And then also allow the bar type activity that was there prior and then have some music.
 assured me that when whenever there is live entertainment there um which would probably be the only time that there would be an excessive there and of the 200 people uh he will have uh or still have more than two uh security personnel present during those particular events and I said what about 400 people he said Mr Frost you can't get 400 people in their first place so it's not like it's going to get that large but at least there will be more than two security for for those
 Mae'r amser yn un ffordd, mae ganddo hwyl. Diolch. Diolch. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Yr Arbenigwr, Alderman Frost, wedi cyflawni rhai o fy mhrofiadau. Diolch. Diolch. Aelodau eraill? Iawn. Mae gennym yn wedi'i amennu. Ie, fe wnes i'i lleoli ar gyfer ymgyrch. Dyletsch chi, Ller, gofyn y rôl? Durki. A. Toonburg. A. Frost. Irby. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beech.
 Cynonais, MacNeilley, Chiarelli. 10 yn dda, 1 yn ddim. Diolch. Alderman Frost, ar gyfer cymdeithas a phersonel. Diolch, Gynon. Ar gyfer cymdeithas a phersonel, nifer 1, mae'r cymdeithas yn cynnig ymddiriedaeth o fudget ym mis 2018, nifer 5. Nifer 2, mae'r cymdeithas yn cynnig ymddiriedaeth o fawrthoedd yn y cymaint o
 5,704,205.92 fel y cyflwynwyd ar y cyfarfod cymuned personol ar 26 Fawr 2018. Nr. 3, mae'r cymdeithas yn cynnig cyflwyniad o rhaglenni gwleidyddol ar gyfer y Felly o Davies i ddychmygu sŵn ar 2700 o ffordd o'r rhodd ymdrinol ar gyfer cyflwyniad o 5,260, gyda 5% o gynyrchiad ar bob flwyddyn cynhyrchol. Mae'r gwaith ymdrin o 5 mlynedd gyda'r gwasanaeth i allu cynyddu ymgyrchu un mlynedd.
 y cyllid yw'r cyllid arweiniadol y Ddifysgol Stryd, y Cyfarwyddwr Lleol, y bydd Mr. Meyer yn barod i'w gynnal y cyflwyniad cywir. 4. Mae'r Comitee yn cynnig cynnig oedd oedd yn modificiad i'w gael i'r deithiwr traffic lleoli a chadw signau, syniadau a defaid, y cyfathrebu. Bydd y Cyfarwyddwr Lleol yn barod i'w gynnal y cyflwyniad cywir. 5. Mae'r Comitee yn cynnig cynnig oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd oedd o
 Nifero 6. Mae'r cymdeithas yn cynnig cynnig o ffyniad o adeiladu'r cyfrifiad i'r pwerau a'r ddolion o'r Ddifysgol Gwasanaethau Central. Bydd y Dirprwy Lywydd yn cynnig y cyfrifiad cywir. Nifero 6, Eich Ion. Fe wna i. Os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi, os byddwch chi
 Os ydych chi ddim yn fawr â ni, byddaf yn mynd yn ôl yn gyflym ac yn cyflwyno 5, 5, B5, dim ond un cymryd o bob beth eto, oherwydd rydyn ni wedi cyflwyno'r amgylchedd i nifer 5. Iawn, rydych chi'n gofyn i ni. Iawn, diolch. Iawn. Llywodraeth, a allwch chi alw'r rolau? Durkie. A. Toonburg. A. Frost. A. Irby. A. Thompson-Kelly. A. Hoffman. A. Rose. A. Beech. A.
 Cynonais, McNeilley, Chiarelli. 10 yn dda, 1 yn dda. Diolch. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, rwy'n ddysgu. Ac roeddech chi eisiau... Ddewis nifer 6. Iawn, felly byddwn yn cymryd rhaglenau 1-5 yn gyntaf. A yw cwestiynau eraill? Alderman Beach. Diolch, Ewan. Nifer 3. A fydd hynny'n cael ei wneud gyda'n gweithwyr neu gyda gweithwyr contract? Mr. Stockman, gwestiwn ar nifer 3. A fydd hynny'n cael ei wneud gyda'n gweithwyr neu gyda gweithwyr contract?
 Nifer 3 yw'r cyd-draeth amgylcheddol gyda Davis Junction, i'w gwasanaethu'r rhan o'r rwyfn, nid ymweld â phobl y ddinas. Mae hynny'n ardal agored iawn, i'r ddinas, i'r ddinas, ac mae'n debyg iawn i unrhyw rwyfn y dinas. Ar ryw bwynt, pan fydd yr ardal yn datblygu yno, rydyn ni'n mynd i edrych ar hynny pan fydd yna strydau addas.
 No city employees are involved in this. We're just paying for a service temporarily until the area builds out. Okay. Thank you, sir Thank you other discussion on one through five alderman Timber. Thank you mayor I noticed I should have brought this up last week in the Finance and Personnel Committee Meeting I noticed that there was this would go to pride of mr. Davis and
 Total plumbing and heating we had a seventy thousand dollar bill going out to them It was broken down into about six different things. Do you recall what that what that was for is under Human Services? Mr. Davis
 So, Alderman, I can't necessarily speak to that specific bill without seeing it, but I can tell you that Total Plumbing is the contractor that does our weatherization work under our weatherization contract and won the bid for that work. So they are, in fact, performing a variety of different mechanical and architectural projects
 that relate to the performance under the state weatherization, federal weatherization program through our department. And all of those costs would be specific to those activities. Okay, thank you. I just know it was broken down into individual. It didn't seem, it was kind of hard to notice, but once added up, it was a pretty sizable amount. Last but not least along those lines, when we see that broken down these vouchers,
 and there's pages and pages of them. Would it be too much trouble to ask, or is it much trouble? I guess this would be going to our finance director. I know we're a clearinghouse for federal funds and such. I guess you could say it per se, a clearinghouse. I would like to know how much, when we see these dollar amounts, how much are we just clearing? Okay.
 So a line item, are we just clearing federal funds for a program and or these funds are coming from Rockford taxpayers' pockets? I mean, is that a big task? Is that a monumentous task? So Director Eklund, and correct me, Alderman Toobmerg if I'm wrong,
 Question is could we break it out by which fund is paying for? Each of the services sure and and I believe that the vouchers are broken down by the fund Originating the expense so that's largely going to indicate where the funding source is coming from obviously general fund General city revenues water fund is water rate payers if you look at expenses coming out of Human Services That's entirely grant funded so it's all state or federal grant funds and
 that are obviously the city serves as a grant recipient council appropriates those funds approves contracts to spend those funds but that's ultimately state or federal dollars that are funding those operations I'd be happy to go through you know it's there's not a simple way to indicate that on the report that we generate on a two-week basis but I'd be happy to provide some information on like a cover sheet that would help kind of give you a guide on
 that would could break that down just as a reference point yeah thank you i mean some of it's yeah some of it's very uh um obvious but some of it seems not so much yeah i understand wondering is are we clearing it or is it coming out of our taxpayer sure certainly so thank you would the cover sheet suffice yeah okay thank you other uh questions alderman hervey um thank you your honor with regard to budget packet number five and
 I'm sorry, and it would be for the charge for overtime turn-ons and turn-offs. Is there a hardship provision for illness senior citizens in the event of turn-off that those payments can be spread? Not the bill itself, but the turn-on fees can be spread out over a couple of bills because that can get pretty...
 Costly certainly So we we routinely work with residents low-income residents to work out payment plans to get these Charges taken care of over a period of time that works within their budget We can
 it's not a there's not a formalized agreement we try to remain flexible with customers um so that we don't have hard and fast rules i think it works best but that is something that we routinely do with we do have one yes okay and the other question is on collecting on the garbage only accounts um
 We maintain a list of those, and I'm assuming people just don't pay it? Yeah. The I-DROP program, and I've discussed this before, I mean, it's great, but not everybody has state tax liability. I think we need to consider putting those bills into our collection system with one of our other collection agencies because, I mean, it's not huge, but what is it, $19 a month? No, it's more than that.
 uh you know i don't remember the i mean i have a duplex and i think mine is probably my water bill is negligible it's the garbage that um gets you so i mean that is going to be sizable so i think we should not overly depend on eye drop we should consider putting that in our other collection system and charge the cost of collection so if somebody's not paying their garbage bill let's say it was twenty dollars a month um and we have to pay
 a 33% collection fee, then they get charged an additional $7 if we have to send it to collections. I think the city should always collect 100% of the money that's due.
 if not our other taxpayers are paying it so i just like to do something more than just eye drop certainly uh you know we mentioned eyedrops specifically because that is the that is the cheapest collection option obviously we don't pay for
 for that as we do through the collection agency. So the first effort would be I-DROP. And if that does not yield immediate returns, then we would submit that through our normal collection process. Just also, I-DROP is just once a year, right? No, no, they will.
 Obviously, tax time is the most productive time for I-DROP, but we can submit any type of debt to I-DROP at any time during the year. They will also withhold from any payments coming from the state. That might be state employees' payroll. That could be...
 uh... lottery winnings and variety of sources so we we continuously uh... report new debt time drop it's just pensions and other funds are typically not catchable that's the only reason i was asking just seems like okay just other discussion on items before us one through five see no discussion clerk we please color on tumor
 Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? McMilley? Chiarelli? 11 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. I believe Alderman Thompson-Kelley asked for number 6 to be held separately, correct?
 and my question is and i do apologize for not having gathered this information before now what is the what is the ordinance modifications to the powers and duties of central service division and when that ordinance has changed would it come back before city council but can you tell me what those ordinance changes are director ackland
 So this change is related to a committee, or I'm sorry, a council action that was already taken approving the purchase of a bid management online bidding system through our financial system, UNIS.
 And at the time, we recommended that a vendor registration fee, a one-time vendor registration fee, be implemented to recover the cost of that software. So this, the ordinance change, which is attached to your agenda packet, the actual language is attached to it. It's just a one-sentence modification. The actual fee will be presented with the fee schedule revision that we're hoping to have complete by the 26th.
 as part of the overall budget approval with all of the variety of fee schedule changes that Council's At least conceptually approved so far, but that will allow us to charge a one-time vendor registration fee in order to cover the cost Not only the initial purchase price of that software, but the ongoing maintenance as well. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you alderman Hervey just with regard to the one-time fee and
 If this is the one I'm thinking of where you submit bids and things of that sort, the others that I used to be a part of just to be considered for the registry and have access was an annual fee. I mean it wasn't huge, 25, I think it went up to $35 when I dropped it, but it just seems that a one-time fee is not going to cover upgrades and ongoing maintenance.
 Correct, correct. Certainly. The initial purchase price was approximately $45,000. I'm sorry, approximately $60,000. And we estimated at the time that a one-time vendor registration fee of $45 per vendor would cover the purchase price. Looking at the existing active vendors that we have and that participate in bids today, assuming that we will continue to add new vendors to that system,
 that we anticipate that will cover, through one-time registrations of new vendors, the approximately $4,000 in annual maintenance fees associated with that. This will also come with it, the elimination of postage and copying expenses that will further generate savings in the total finance budget. So we anticipate that that one-time fee will be sufficient to cover the purchase of this system, along with those...
 Annual budget savings that we'll have from those other expenses going away further discussion. I think no further discussion clerk Will you please call the roll turkey? timber frost Herbie Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely 11 eyes. Thank you that item passes. I
 Next up is officers' reports. I just want to give a big thank you to Mark Stockman, Mitch Leatherby, and the teams that were out this weekend. They filled over 2,000 potholes and used about 15 tons of cold patch, so appreciate their efforts over the weekend. Other officers' reports? Going once. Alderman Quinonez. Yeah, I want to witness a fire today on this week on 13th and 13th.
 Want to command the fire department for doing a good job and if anybody sees anybody and he's empty houses We get around the city. Make sure you contact the Authorities so we don't have a major fire. They watered the house down next the whole neighborhood could have caught on fire But the fire department I want to commend them do for doing a good job this week. Thank you alderman Rose I
 Just real quick, there was a young lady here last week who is holding an event on Wednesday at the Norloff Center. Her name is Dequasia Brown. She took the initiative to get together.
 a group of young people to really talk about some of the issues uh young people are facing in our community so um she she is advocating that people come to that it starts at 6 p.m and it gives uh our youth a voice and some of the problems and issues they're facing and it would be really nice to see a that place packed with a bunch of young people so
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey? Yes, thank you, Your Honor. I'm looking up my information. I just wanted people, we had to cancel our Fifth Ward meeting for the end of February. We are going to be having a special meeting on Thursday, March, I believe it's March 15th.
 It is actually going to be in conjunction with the meeting being sponsored by the NAACP and the National Council of Negro Women. It's going to be at Montague Branch Library, and it's going to be covering largely home rule. That's what people wanted to discuss, and unfortunately I had to cancel our meeting, so we do have another opportunity. I'll be sending out an email notice, and we'll announce it next week also. I believe that is at...
 6 30 i don't have my glasses 5 30 i believe 5 30. oh thank you at 5 30 p.m and then again that's going to be at montague branch library so um hope people can come out for that because i know there are some questions and that'll be a good forum for it thank you
 Thank you other uh reports alderman mcneely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I certainly want to comment regarding the the shooting that was on In the 400 block I believe of howard
 I know that a number of individuals showed some concern or expressed some concern regarding the police response. And I just want to let the
 neighbors know that the call a call was made to 9-1-1 my understanding is that a call was made to 9-1-1 it was suggested that the person called the non-emergency because the reason for calling she had given was because of a party and so I I
 I want people to understand that if it's not an emergency, you should use that other line. And when you call 911, I believe that comes up for you to be able to use the non-emergency line, and Chief certainly can speak to this. But it's important for you if it is like what happened on Howard, a party that's going on, there's more than 20 people or...
 More people than you think should be at a house at one time and you have concern about it getting out of control Please use That non-emergency number and when the person answer Explain to the person you're concerned what you're observing and what you think might happen so that Officers can be dispatched. I certainly understand how the confusion started I've had within a
 close proximity to my home, neighbors that have functions and it can easily get out of control.
 And with so many people, you have so many attitudes, behaviors, whatever, conversations that can blow up into something that shouldn't have. We all know, as Prophet Yusuf spoke earlier about gun control, but this is something that I hope that people can understand. Do call.
 Don't want you to get discouraged from calling. I want you to call and I want you to make sure that you're calling that Non emergency number and make and to make sure that you express exactly what's happening there when I called I
 the non-emergency number, I expressed to them that there was probably 20 people or more kids and adults and it spilled out into the streets and I had a concern that it was going to get out of hand and I was glad that the police showed up. So when you make the call, don't hesitate, call the 911 and maybe something like what happened
 on how it could be avoided. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I just remembered something that we are having a shortage of community service officers, and the chief knows how I feel about our community service officers. We're going to be having a very good one to retire pretty soon, so I'm hoping that we have someone in mind or someone to start to be trained
 for it because the community service offices does a 200% job in the community throughout this community and the services that they offer. So I don't want to put the chief on the spot, but he knows how I feel about him. Thank you. I have a feeling you've let him know that before. Okay. Alderman Durkee. I'm sorry, Alderman Toonberg. Ooh.
 I would just like to add, I know a few of us had to put on the game face the past couple days. I know I've talked with a few of you in this room that personally knew the family with the father and the two kids in that incident. Speaking of along the lines of Alderman McNeely,
 It is just an absolute devastating occurrence situation. And boy, if there's anybody out there, and I don't know how many people watch City Council, but if there is anybody out there that just needs help, we have plenty of agencies here in Rockford. We have plenty of...
 medical experts we have plenty of churches and clergy to speak with I just urge I just do not want to see this situation happen again it's personally affected myself and my family and I know other families and individuals in this room and if there's anybody out there that has you know some issues there's there's plenty of
 Plenty of help out there and please seek it. Thank you any other I'm Want to also ask individuals that were there on how we're doing the incident I want to encourage them to come forward if anyone knows Who did the shooting who was involved with it to please come forward and share with the police department? We want
 Individuals want their neighborhoods to be safe, they want their kids to be safe, they want their elderly family members to be safe, but in order to be safe, we must be involved.
 So anything that you see, that you hear, that you know that may be beneficial in helping to reduce violence, then I'm asking that you do come forward. We have to have the involvement by the individuals that do know in order to improve our neighborhoods, the safety of our neighborhoods and our city overall. Thank you. Thank you. Further comments?
 Moving on under unfinished business Alderman frost for finance and personnel. Thank you Your honor
 i would make a motion to lay over this event item but i'll read it in right now the committee recommending approval of the 2018 budget discussion packet number four with respect to item number 10 the implementation of stormwater drainage fee assessed on non-permeable acreage and item number 14 the rental registry fee that were previously laid over on february 20 2018 i would make a motion it's time to lay them over second okay all those in favor say aye aye aye
 Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Thank you. Under motions and resolutions, codes and regulations, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. We've got five items this evening. The first is the 4th of July Parade and Fireworks. The event is scheduled for Wednesday, July 4th, 2018 from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. The parade begins at 7 p.m. Fireworks begin at 9.30 p.m.
 Number two is the Youth Services Network Classic July 4th Run Walk. The event is scheduled for Wednesday, July 4th from 6 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. The run begins at 7 a.m. Number three, the Swedish American State Street Mile. The event is scheduled for Saturday, August 4th from 4.45 p.m. to 8 p.m.
 PM the event will be held at 1500 East State Street near Prospect Street ending at Water Street The fourth is the transfer of city-owned properties to corridor Rockford corridor improvement RCI under the blight reduction program and partnership agreement And the fifth is the transfer of city-owned property located at two to four foster after Avenue to an eligible homebuyer place those
 Motions and those resolutions up for passage your honor. Thank you. So we have five motions and resolutions in front of us Is there a second is there a discussion alderman McNeely? Thank you. Mr Mary I want to comment regarding 224 foster. This is a home that the city had invested in several years ago for whatever reason it it stayed in
 up for sale forever and I'm very pleased to see that there is a family that will be occupying the home and improving, continuing to improve that block. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 McNeely, Shirely. 11 ayes. Thank you. Items to pass. Alderman Frost for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I also have five items, Your Honor. The first is the number one, the award of the RFP for the false alarm management to alarm program systems of Pleasant Hill, California for a revenue split between the city being at 85% and APS at 15%. The contract duration is three years with two possible one year extensions. The funding source is the finance department operating budget.
 Number two is an award of RFP for the camera expansion program to Montel Technologies of Rockville, Illinois, in the amount of $200,000. The funding source is the police department operating budget. Number three...
 engineering agreement for the Chestnut Street Bridge to HR Green for design engineering services in the amount of $97,043.55. The funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number four is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code authorizing the use of the motor fuel tax funds for the Chestnut Street Bridge active transportation enhancements in the amount of 400,000. And number five is a resolution to adopt a recall ordinance for Mayor and Alderman.
 Thank you. Alderman Herbie. Could we either separate item 5 or I would move to amend it at this time? It's comparable to separate it out. We'll separate that. So 1 through 4, is there a second? Second. Is there any discussion on items 1 through 4? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beech Quinones McNeely Shirely 11 ayes Thank you and item number 5 Alderman Herbick Thank you your honor yes I move to amend Roman numeral 8 motions and resolutions item 5
 And that's the resolution to adopt the recall ordinance for the mayor and alderman. With the following changes in section 2-903, grounds for recall of an elected official, subsection A to be modified, the entire subsection to read. The mayor shall only be subject to recall if an ordinance enumerated in B1 through 6
 below was adopted by a vote of the City Council and those are the self-limiting ordinances that Council has agreed to and number two in section 9-205 recall initiation and limitations and timing would modify the words 3500 to 5000 and I would move to make those modifications motion a second is there a discussion
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll on the amendment? Aye. Aye. Frost? Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Shirelli? Ten ayes, one no. The amendment passes. Is there a discussion on item number five?
 Seeing no discussion on item 5 clerk where you please call the roll. I'm sorry. I'm sorry Oh alderman can you honest a discussion on item 5? I have a couple questions before I vote on this I want to know how many cities over 200,000 population have this zero zero Now I want to know can a person Can a person register to vote during the recall process and sign the petition? a person what
 If an alderman gets recalled, can a person register to vote and sign the petition? Only registered voters could sign the petition. So a new registered voter can't? A newly registered voter would be able to sign. Even though they lived in the ward all their life? Any registered voter would be able to sign a petition. Sign a petition. For me within the city limits, for aldermen within your ward. Sorry, thank you. Any further discussion?
 clerk will you please call the roll durkee toonberg frost hi hervey thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones mcneely shirely nine eyes two nose thank you item passes next up we have a new business alderman shirely for coton regulations thank your honor i've got the ordinances
 this evening so the first is an ordinance for a variation for to reduce the required setback for a free sign freestanding sign at 2640 north main street the second is an ordinance approving a variation to create increase the maximum height for a detached accessory structure at 637 north calvin park boulevard the third is an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from r1 single-family residential zoning district to r2
 two family residential districts for lot 711 and a modification of a special use permit for a plan unit develop development consisting of 18 two family residential units at 4760 4701 4707 4709 4713 Murphy Woods Drive the fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant
 at 3001 and 3053 North Perryville Road. The fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the bar and grill and video gaming at 908 West Riverside Boulevard, subject to the newly amended conditions 1 through 15. The sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating at 223 East State Street.
 The seventh is an ordinance approving the revision to ordinance section 17-2 weed cutting liens. The eighth is an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford liquor code chapter 3 article 1 section 3-60 effect of transferring businesses. Number nine is an ordinance established an always stop sign at the intersection of State Street and Main Street. The tenth is an ordinance established in a two-hour parking.
 on both sides of christina street and blackhawk park avenue and ending at christina street the 11th is an ordinance establishing two-hour parking at magnolia street from blackhawk park avenue to seminary street the 12th is an ordinance establishing no parking any time restriction on both sides of blackhawk park avenue and christina street 13th is an ordinance establishing no parking anytime restriction on both sides of christina street from blackhawk park avenue
 The 14th item is an ordinance establishing no parking anytime restriction on both sides of Christina Street at 18th Avenue to 30 feet north of 18th Avenue. And the 15th item is an ordinance establishing no parking anytime restriction on both sides of 18th Avenue from Christina Street to 30 feet east of Christina Street. That's a lot of reading, Your Honor.
 All right. We have an unfriendly legal direction. I had Alderman Thompson-Calley tell me to abbreviate very quickly. Is that correct? Number 16 is an ordinance establishing no parking any time except buses on the north side of West State Street from Court Street to Winnebago Street. The 17th is an ordinance establishing no parking any time except buses restricted on the west side of Court Street from West State Street to Mulberry Street.
 Number 18 is an ordinance establishing that traffic on Brunner Street should be required to yield prior to entering the intersection of Grace Street. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. All 18 of them. All 18. Alderman Thompson, LA. Or, I'm sorry, is there a second? Second. The Board of Miners also requires 10 votes. Thank you. So number 18 requires 10 votes.
 alderman thompson kelly uh yes i'm concerned about number seven in regards to the ordinance section 17-2 the weeds cutting liens are we going to be marketing that on our facebook page or on our city website page because we need to be marketing to our citizens all these changes that are taking place so i really would like to see a lot of marketing done especially with the weeds
 situation that they are aware of what we're changing. Yeah, that will be on Facebook, probably Instagram, Twitter, our website, press releases. More than one time. Yes. Thank you. And if the Rockford Register Star and Rock River Times are here tonight, they could potentially write something in their paper if they so chose more than once. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion?
 Say no further discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. No, I'm for. Ferbie. Thompson-Kelley. Coffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 11 ayes. Item number 4, 9 ayes, 2 nos. Item number 5, 10 ayes, 1 no. Item 6 through 18, 11 ayes. Thank you. Items pass.
 Alderman Shirelli. Yeah, I just wanted to thank you and your staff for helping change the liquor code. It was a very important...
 Change to that code to help businesses to be able to transfer their licenses during sales of their businesses Which really helps our city and I want to thank you again for all your hard work And thanks the council for making that happen tonight. I appreciate yourself and alderman Beaches leadership on that committee to continue to push us to be better partners with the private sector alderman frost for finance and personnel I
 Mr. Chairman, there are four items tonight. Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Davis Junction for snow removal.
 For 2700 feet of junction road for an annual value of $5,260. With a 5% increase in each successive year, the contract duration is five years with the provision to extend in one year increments. Number two is an ordinance approving the modifications to allow the traffic engineer to place and maintain sign signals and devices and specifications.
 Number three is an ordinance approving modification to the false alarms fees notifications. And number four is an ordinance approving modification to the powers and duties of the Central Services Division. That's all I have in front of me, but I believe we also passed the number five would be on the recall ordinance, or is that not tonight? The issue was actually a resolution to adopt the ordinance, so we don't need it. Thank you.
 Mr. Meyer, that's why I get the big bucks. Appreciate it. I place your honor those four items in front of the entire city council. Is there a second? Second. Okay. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. One through four. Shirelli. Aye. Eleven ayes.
 Thank you. Just two quick points that I failed to mention. One, I think Austin's done a fantastic job as a videographer this evening. It's his first time with us at City Council. See? Second, I had the opportunity to go to the YWCA's luncheon today.
 where they celebrated a number of fantastic women in our community doing really wonderful things. And our very own Jennifer Caciapaglia was nominated for the Community Service Award, so we wanted to provide her with...
 Just a big thanks for the work that she's doing. I think as we look at some of the incidents that are going on in our community since the beginning of this year, a big thank you to all of you who have supported the Office on Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking because it seems more important today than it ever has been before. So thank you. And is there a motion to adjourn? Second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a great night.