We will open up this evening's meeting with an invocation from Judy Moe of the Baha'i Center of Rockford. Thank you again to the mayor and the city council for inviting us. Let us pray. Dear God, we ask that you bless the efforts of our city to bring people together to solve the issues that plague our city.
 Please God, we ask you to bless the efforts to create the Family Justice Center, which will help victims of domestic violence which plagues our city. We ask God to help our city to create programs that help victims of drug abuse and alcohol abuse. We ask you, God, to bless the formation of the new Community Relations Commission and guide our mayor and city council to choose the best people to serve on that commission.
 I ask you, God, to bless all the citizens of our city and the Rockford area. I will end my prayer with this short quote from the Baha'i scriptures. Man must cut himself free from all prejudice and from the result of his own imagination so that he may be able to search for truth unhindered. Truth is one in all religions, and by means of it, the unity of the world can be realized. Thank you. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman, Tunberg, Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli,
 13 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 19? No. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye.
 Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next, could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for special city council meeting held on February 25th, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. All those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. We have no proclamation, so we'll move right into petitions and communications with planning and development committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. A memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item number two, a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, quarterly report, fiscal year 19, quarter 2, October through December 2018, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you Alderman Rose. Next we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you Your Honor. The first is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney regarding the fourth quarter report from October 2018 through December 2018 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement.
 The second is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager, permits and special events regarding upcoming special event requests for the city market 5K and head of the Rock Regatta. The third memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, land transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of city-owned property with the tax pin 11-15-402-001.
 the fourth is the traffic commission agenda for their meeting to be held on march 13 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulations committee meeting on march 25 2019
 The next is a memorandum from Carl Fronson, the Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a proposed agreement with the Illinois State Fire Marshal regarding elevator inspections and proposed ordinance for the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances for regulation and inspection of elevators within the city limits.
 Number six is a memorandum from Lafayette area bond assistant city attorney regarding a six-month status report for the quick Mart 3307 Charles Street all six items will be referred to codes of reg John. Thank you all there I'm sure Ellie next up. We have finance and personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor. I have four items the first is the memorandum from George Davis and
 Director of Human Services regarding a contract and addendum between the City of Rockford Human Services and Children's Home and Aid. The next is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney, regarding an extension of an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Housing Authority for police services.
 Next is a memorandum from Sharice Hunter human resource director regarding approval of revisions to the city of rockford rules and regulation Smoking policy and the fourth is a memorandum from Glen Tramos information technology director regarding intergovernmental agreements for the RMS project and these four items will be referred to finance and personnel and
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have public comment period. Just a reminder to the speakers, there are microphones in the back left and back right of the chamber, and that you have three minutes to speak. Our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Nehemiah, the ninth chapter, the thirty-first verse, it says, Thou art a gracious and compassionate God.
 What I want to speak about tonight, be a father to the fatherless. The breakdown of marriage and family has brought widespread fatherless to the United States. While only one in 10 American children live without a father in the home in 1960, approximately one in four children are growing up in a household without the physical presence of a father today. This means there are over 20 million Americans under age 18 living without a father in the home. The cold hard statistics show that children who grow up without a father more like to
 poverty, more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, more likely to drop out of school, more likely to become violent criminals, and more likely to become single parents themselves. Children without a father tend to struggle in school. According to a social professor of social work at the University of British Columbia, fatherless children generally score low in reading, math, and thinking.
 They're also more likely to be truant from school, more likely to leave school by age six, and less likely to attain academic and professional qualifications in adult. Nine times more likely to drop out of school, they're more likely to be raised in poverty. A 2013 United States Department of Health and Human Services report
 found the poverty rate for children raised in female-headed households was 45.8%, while the rate for children raised in married couples households was 9.5%. 90% of homelessness, runaway children are four times more likely to be raised in poverty and without the guidance of a father. More children abuse alcohol and drugs. A 1993 United States Department of Health and Human Services report found that fathered children are at a dramatically greater risk of drug and alcohol abuse.
 Research at Columbia University found that even those who grew up in a two-parent home were more likely to smoke, drink, or use drugs if they had a poor relationship with their father. Ten times more likely to abuse chemicals. Seventy-one percent of all adolescent substance abuse comes from a fatherless home, and fatherless children get into more trouble outside of school. A 2005 study published in the Journal of Marriage and Family found that a one percent increase in the proportion of single-parent families in a neighborhood associated with a three
 percent increase in teenagers, 20 times more likely to be incarcerated, 11 times more likely to have violent behavior. 70 percent of adolescents in correctional facilities come from fatherless homes. 60 percent of rapists were raised in fatherless homes. This also contributes to poor health. A 2005 study published in the Journal of American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry found that middle schools not living with both biological parents more likely to suffer from a psychiatric mood disorder. 80 percent of adolescent psychiatric hospitals
 Two times more likely to commit suicide and fatherless children. Make more fathers. A 2004 study published in the Journal of Family Issues found that being raised by a single mother raised the likelihood of teenage as well as the likelihood of men with less than a high school degree. Seventy percent of teen pregnancy happen in a fatherless home. Nine times more likely to be raped or sexually abused. Ninety percent more likely to be abused domestically and traumatized. My solution to this problem?
 These men who are Christian, to stand up and be a father to the fatherless. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Uncanny on your time. That's next public speaker we have this evening is Mr. Dexter Vaughters. All right. Give an honor to God, my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, who is the head of my life. What I'm here for, I've got a ministry called No More Weapons.
 and we're working with the community. I need to work with the officers and the church people. I need to step up and be what we call a church for these young black and white and Mexican brothers who hang together in the streets. No knowledge, no wisdom. They don't want trouble, but trouble comes to them, and
 It can be a bad thing because the Bible says that life and death is in the power of the tongue. It's not the color of the skin, it's what you think. If you think wrong, you're going to do wrong. If you think right, you will get on the right track.
 but it's going to take the church and i like to see i talk to them trying to hold up a meeting with the manager of the metro center and we can have that lower level and every church will play a part baptist pedocle to the lutens et cetera et cetera have just the saturdays of each month to feed hot dogs and chips where we can just while we're sitting there now it's going to be a strong leader to just talk to these young brothers not
 Not accuse them, not blaspheme them, because Jesus said, I didn't come to condemn the world, I come to give you life, and more abundantly. But it's going to take all of us to do this, and it may take 150 years just to turn it around, because it's just happening in the malls now, it's happening in the restaurants now.
 You know, Chicago's coming in and doing, it's just a sad situation, but forget the sadness. We've got to put a smile on these young brothers' faces before it's too late. Amen. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Tom McNair, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 27, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard to help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your worrying, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most.
 I will not talk about Donald Trump, but I will talk about this weekend. This weekend event coming from Ordon Keyes housing area with nine youth in renewal turning point program van on Harrison Street Bridge going westbound on the outside lane a little past Seminary Street that goes north and southbound. We hit a deep pothole. Dust, it blew out my back tire. The time was around 12 noon. We had to call for help.
 fit the back tire and it cost me just $60. It blew me away because he didn't get called. He didn't charge me for tow fee. He didn't charge me for bending the rim back. He didn't charge for a lot of things. What he did comment on was saying that I see you in the community with the kids and I've seen what you did this past weekend with the kids. So this is our thanks that we give it back to you. Afterwards, the kids was hungry and they wanted to go to Burger King. Wow.
 What did I do that for? That cost me another $43. And then from there we went to the library. We had, we renamed Rockford Pothole City. I'm looking forward to the city fixing these potholes all around town and hopefully refunding me back. We want to thank the Lord that no one got hurt thanks to my expert driving over 40 years. The only thing that got hurt was
 The only thing that got hurt was my renewal turning point program, VAM. We also want to remind everyone that this is an election year for Rock Valley College Trustee Board, the Power District, and a few other positions. I learned the hard way that everyone you vote for is not out there to help the have-nots.
 Our vote has been taken for granted. So from here on out, at the 14 wards, our voice, I intend to these wards. I have a strong following, plus a lot of youth and young adults look up to me. This year and from here on out, Renewal Turning Point is going to help and see that our votes do count. And we will be watching those that are running for office and those that are working in the community and in the system that claim they care about the community.
 Therefore, we are sick and tired of being sick and tired seeing elected officials, people running for office and then they're working the system making promises that they do not keep. Also, the one that you only see them doing election time. Most I have some firsthand experience and seeing the some who only cater to special interest groups. We mainly want to give a very special thanks to all our sponsors. They have been very supportive of our youth and young adults these past three years.
 Thank you. Next up this evening, we have new committee reports, and we have Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Rose? We have one item. The committee recommends approval of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development Section 108 public offering to lock in fixed rates on the City of Rockford's note number B-15, MC-17-0020, and the amount of...
 two million seven hundred and twenty five thousand dollars for cliff breakers the legal director is preparing the appropriate ordinance thank you so we have one item before you this evening is there any questions uh that you have or discussion on that one item saying none clerk will you please call the role logeman tomboy frost hervey irvins thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones
 McNeely Shirely 13 eyes. Thank you the item passes next up. We have code and regulation committee Alderman Beach It's a too late on that go for it. The question I wanted to find out is what is our exposure to our? City in the event of default on this loan over over time director Director fronzen these this loan is backed by our allocation of CDBG funds and so I
 Is this bonded out over a period of time or how are we backing it?
 So it's a 20-year loan, which we closed in April of 2007. That time period doesn't change with this public offering. It just changes it from the variable rate to the fixed rate. I should say, so it is backed by our future allocations of CDPG funds. In addition, we charge an additional 1% interest payment on top of this interest rate to Cliffbreakers. What we've made from that so far is reserved in a repayment fund.
 and that amount is uh to date it's approximately forty thousand dollars a month uh no since the inception so for about a year and a half any other questions okay item passed uh the next items we have is code and regulation alderman shirely thank you your honor several items this evening the first is the committee recommends approval of the first amendment to the annexation agreement for guilford cross scenes to abate
 to rebate the city portion of the property taxes for three years and the right-of-way dedication for Murphy Woods Drive and Murphy Woods Court. Second, the committee recommends approval of the modifications to Section 2-714, fee for one-time electronic payment, and Section 28-186, rates for regular service for the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. And I believe there is a proposed amendment for that, Your Honor. Alderman Rose.
 I'd like to move on an amendment on item VB2 as follows. Section 2-714 and section 28-186 shall both include the following language. This ordinance shall be effective on May 15, 2019.
 There's a motion and second is there any discussion on the amendment to the ordinance? It pushes out for anyone who did not catch it pushes out the effective date 60 days and from speaking to alderman alderman wanted to make sure that there was enough time for citizens to understand that there are several ways to
 receive a no fee or charge on your bill. Uh, and also Alderman Rose to ask that myself and, uh, director Haggerty go out and do community sessions to educate people on how to avoid, uh, those fees and help them sign up if they need that assistance. Is that accurate? Yeah. Um, one of the items was to, and you, you said that we would be, uh,
 would honor this is that we would go out two times each year for two years educating the public on how to save on this added cost if they needed to. So I think it would help especially many of the concerns that the public has on this, what they consider as an additional fee. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, did you have your hand raised? Yes.
 I was hoping before we do our last full mailing of the water bill, we can put an insert in, I believe, given the number of pages, it wouldn't cost us any more, that would lay out what the feeds would be for different types of payments, but also how you can avoid the fee altogether. Because in the number of calls that I've received, not just from Fifth Ward residents, but people who know me elsewhere,
 People aren't understanding that there are ways to avoid the fee altogether And they believe it's just you're going to get this new fee and that's not the case and that includes being able to pay without having to have a computer or Or anything of that sort or a banking or checking account. So so we will add a Flyer and your
 in your mailed bill as well. And we'll also do commit to doing at least one of those sessions before the 60 day window. We'll try to get both in if our schedules permit and can get the audience. I was hoping you could make available for those of us who have regularly scheduled ward meetings, that same printout that goes in the water bill in case people- We will do that. And we also have a frequently asked questions document that we'll provide you as well. Okay, thanks.
 uh alderman thompson kelly and i'll get back to you alderman tunberg i just wanted to let the public know when these fees will take effect and also that our automated system will be upgraded to adjust to our new ordinance thank you alderman tunberg thank you mayor uh i don't know if we want to address this now or or when it comes time to vote or if we're just sticking on the amendment part on a question regarding the the phone
 payment option and what that entails for the city as of right now I think we we want to make that more public if we could do we want to address that now Director Hegde could you answer that now and if we need to reinforce it we can sure so the the pay by phone system that the city currently utilizes is a service that's provided through our banking relationship the way that services billed we pay per minute
 so for every call every pay every call in to make a payment cost the city more money to process that payment so we thought that was an appropriate and very clearly identifiable additional costs that were incurring to offer that payment option
 Other discussion Alderman McNeely. Thank you Mr. Mayor. Is it possible for staff to tell those the taxpayers now the ways in which to avoid
 I can certainly do that for you. So if you sign up electronically to have automatic withdrawal from your account, you avoid paying any fee. If you receive a bill electronically and decide to drop it off in the lockbox that's out front, and you can do that 24 hours a day, seven days a week, you avoid a fee. Or if you decide to get an electronic bill and want to come in and pay it in person, you can avoid a fee. So there's a minimum of three ways to avoid that fee.
 And Mr. Mayor, also the effective date, if this amendment passes, will be? The effective date of that amendment, I believe, is May 15th. 15th. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I just got confused again. So if someone has an electronic bill...
 and they come in and pay it there's no fee but if they mail it in they get the electronic bill print it off and mail it in then is there a fee director that's still that's there's if they're getting an elect the only payment options that will incur a fee are a one-time online payment or a payment over the phone every other payment method is no fee
 Okay, so yes, they can I Receive my me personally receive my bill electronically. I go through my bank and I pay it they mail that check to the city's lockbox, which is a processing center through the bank and
 that payment method would incur no costs. So the envelope that comes with your bill, there's an address on there. Any payment mailed to that address by check, there is no additional fee associated with that payment method. So if I send it in by check or I go into my bank account and personally write that check or make that payment, there's no fee? Correct. Correct.
 Any questions on the amendment that and just to refresh everyone's mind on that amendment it was to extend the effective date of the enforcement or of the convenience fees to may 15th seeing none clerk Will you please call the roll on the amendment? This is not the on the amendment logan Toomer frost hervey urbans thompson kelly
 Hoffman? Aye. Groves? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14 ayes. That amendment passes and on to your other items. Yep, thank you. Item number three, the committee recommends sustaining the ZPA's approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development for a mixed commercial use for office, retail, and indoor storage facility at 3720 East State Street.
 subject to conditions number four the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height in the rear yard at 4142 John's farm Road subject to conditions number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase fence height of eight feet to eleven foot two inches and
 within the front yard and side yard and a variation to increase the fence height 10 feet to 12 feet including barbed wire in the front yard side and rear yards at 123 energy avenue subject to conditions number six the committee recommends sustaining the zba's approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development with multi-tenant commercial
 with site parking landscaping deviations at 28 19 11th street subject to conditions number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zba's approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels at 1166 north horseman street subject to conditions
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a modification of a special use permit 16-96 for fourteen thousand eight hundred square foot addition to the south side of an existing church including site parking and landscaping plans with deviations from the regulations at 4403 and 4405 high crest road subject to conditions and
 Number nine committee recommends sustaining the LT abs board for approval of the sale of liquor by the drink and denial of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the restaurant video gaming at 915 South Alpine Road subject to conditions and number 10 the committee recommends sustaining the LT abs recommendation for approval of sale of tobacco products and
 B, the denial of the sale of packaged liquor, and C, the approval of the sale of packaged liquor and wine in conjunction with the convenience store at 513 Toner Avenue, subject to amended conditions. I place all nine of those items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. You have nine items before you? Ten items, I'm sorry. Yes, sorry, ten. You have ten items before you. Is there any discussion on those ten items? Other Minervans?
 i just want to speak a little bit on uh number six mr kevin olsen who's investing in this property 11th street i just want to say thank you uh for being a pioneer out there with the work that even myself and ed mccullen from the element is doing with uh redeveloping that that area this is going to be a uh a block's worth of
 Redevelopment is really gonna make a huge difference in the area. So I'm just really excited about that and just want to say thank you Alderman Beach Thank You Number nine my understanding that's just a change of corporate officers on that request. Yes, sir Thank you other questions discussion alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor just a comment regarding number item
 Number 10, I'm still in opposition to staff and ZBA denying the liquor part of this application, but very pleased that
 that ZBA and staff did step forward and approve the tobacco beer and wine. Thank you. Other discussion Alderman Thompson Kelly? I would like to speak towards item number seven the solar.
 approval for 1166 North Horseman Street. I want to say to my colleagues, thank you for your support. I greatly do appreciate it. And also that the developer has been very involved in the community in getting the input of that. And I will be coming to my colleagues for letters of support. So look for my knock on your door.
 Excellent. Thank you for all your involvement and as well. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to comment on B2. I wasn't here last week to bloviate on it a little bit. I'm sort of philosophically troubled by any time we as a government set up a fee structure, it's a tax. And I'm just sort of troubled that we're taxing people to pay a bill.
 I understand that we incur certain costs to do that. We insert we incur costs to a lot of things I'm a little troubled by I can understand paying by credit card in which case Usually the vendor eats a two to three percent cost on the transaction fee, but for the typical citizen to pay to pay a bill and
 And we in a sense tax them to pay a bill. I know that's sort of reframing it, but that's really what we're doing So I'm going to pay a bill we tax them to pay a bill. So I don't know I I'm having trouble supporting be to thank you alderman. Herbie. Yeah, this is one I
 i got a lot of feedback on and it took me a while to have to talk through with people what we're actually doing a lot of people said yes it's a tax it's a tax and i said no it's not this is about how you pay your bill it's not whether you pay your bill it's how you pay it we've got to step into the 21st century at some point and the methodologies that we currently use as a city
 are going to have to be put under a microscope. I don't like these fees. People in my ward tell me that these are the things that can cost them the most, that hurt them the most. They call it nickel and diming to death, and I understand that. This does the opposite. It basically says we're gonna get rid of these old, inefficient ways of paying your bill and the ones that cost the city in terms of labor,
 mailing costs by the way the cost of a first-class stamp went up to fit from 49 to 55 cents and all other I think all the other postal fees went up we won't be that high but ours is going to increase to the labor for getting those things done the printing what was the total cost a year 1.6 million and
 If I'm not mistaken? 1.8. Pardon? 1.8. 1.8. I was too low. That's a lot of money that we can save if people do a very simple thing. Very few people don't have a computer or access to digital devices.
 access by telephone. Once you get that bill, you see what it is, and we have three ways that you can pay your bill. You're not going to incur a cost. But for doing those methods, receiving a paper bill that costs the city the most, that's where we've got to start recouping some costs. We've got an $85 million pension liability, and it's not going to go away.
 Our costs are going to increase every year. So if we're not out here looking for efficiencies, and that's the way I see this, it's an efficiency. Truth be told, I recommended that the city take a more draconian approach, and they said, sit down, Vanita, and back off a little bit. That's what I'm used to in private industry.
 People look at the most efficient way to do it and we do it. Look around this horseshoe. Our staff used to have to print all of these items every week, give them to every committee,
 It took three days a week just to prepare for city council. Now everybody's got their tablet and we do it electronically. That's very similar to what we're trying to do with these water bills. The alternative is to start looking at ways to rid ourselves of the water utility. And I don't believe people know how important it is to have a water utility that isn't going to increase your bill by two thirds.
 Our bills would have tripled if we were under a private water utility. I looked at some of the data. They're charging a comparable family to what we use in Rockford, $90 a month. That's a lot more than a few cents fee. And as a council, we can't keep saying no. By the way, our own citizen panel that we put together recommended that we sell the water utility.
 get rid of the cost and you'd be able to tax it. You want to talk about a tax, we'd be able to tax it as a private industry. I think it's safer for us to control it. I think the costs are much more predictable and I'm asking people accommodate this one request to help us do things more efficiently because that's what this is. So with all due respect to my dear colleague, Mr. Durkee,
 some of the stuff we do i see it as a tax i really do um and i get angry me and the mayor go at it about some of those costs this is not one of those thank you other uh discussion alderman frost thank you mayor um i just got a text now from a resident that said
 the city now wants to tax us for paying our water bill vote no and i think it's clear that i you know in my first read of this was was i was very much opposed to it because i as a consumer myself
 I don't like being nickel and dimed and I don't like a service sending me a bill in the mail that says that there's an administrative charge of three dollars a month to pay a forty dollar bill and I called them and they told me that it was for you know your overhead of collecting the governmental bill and the cost of postage and I know we can talk about the 1.6 or the you know the 900 000 bills that go up but but that's that's the service that we provide to
 But in this case, I think there are other alternatives. And my initial thought is, well, if we just raise the cost of every bill by $2 a month and spread it out and buried it in the bill, then we're not nickel and diming, we're just having a fee increase. And really, that truly is just a raise of our services, and we really ought not to do that.
 And so this method at least allows if, like, for instance, I receive mine electronically, I believe, it automatically comes out of a...
 I think either a check or a credit card. With that capability, there is no fee and that will continue. So I think it's important that residents know that we're not really trying to tax them. We're really not even really trying to really have an increased revenue. If we're able to offer them the electronic billing and the way to pay it by credit card, by check on a recurring basis,
 You know, we're not really, we're not getting a fee. We're not, we're not increasing our revenue. They were really just trying to save a cost of the cost of the costs. And I know that there are, you know, we look, we could say that, well, every time it snows, it costs us X million dollars or $500,000 to salt the roads. And I mean, everything we could, we could break down and put a cost on. And I don't think we really want to do that, but.
 But in this particular case, since there are options out there that will allow residents to pay it without paying any fees, that really it's changing the behavior of our residents. Because we have to change our behavior, like Alderman Hervey said, we are faced with many other obligations that maybe didn't exist 20 years ago. So the way we did things 20 years ago and the way we do them today has definitely changed.
 I was on that financial task force and it wasn't there was an idea You know, let's not forget. We we tried to pass home rule to give us other avenues to raise revenues other ways than by just taxing our citizens and We lost home rule. So this this was this was out there as if we don't get home rule We are going to have to have some increase in in fees or user fees. So I
 i i would be in favor of it although i definitely agree with uh everything dr durkee said about it because i do feel i don't want a nickel and dime residence i don't want to come back here in six months or three months with another plan to have another you know cost of of a user fee i hope this will alleviate the cost we've seen with our water department and allow us to move on thank you
 Thank you. Alderman Rose. Yeah, I just wanted to add that was one of the reasons for the amendment tonight was to give people some time to actually prepare for this as well. So I'm glad that that amendment passed and asking and talking to the mayor. And I know Carrie is going to assist and comment.
 doing some of those educational forums on getting people to set up that billing for themselves if they decide to do that. But really this is about a choice in how you pay and if you want to pay a higher fee, then continue to do it that way. But if you want to move with the times and what is consistent with industry and efficiencies, this is a way to
 change change a behavior that will not incur more costs for our city and eventually save you money as well, so like Miss Hervey had said if you want this to be a tax you you can make that a tax on yourself But most people are willing to change that behavior to to incur those that savings. So thank you any other discussion on the Ten items that we have before us
 Alderman Toomber Thank you mayor I might as well chime in on this myself bear with me so with that phone payment I think that's that that is quite a bit of the conversation that I think should be put out there it was not I was it was it was not my understanding that this was such a big expense for the city I automatically thought with a phone payment it's electronic it's efficient
 it's much more efficient i would think than than walking a check up to a window and having somebody being paid to take that and all but uh in further conversations on that uh knowing especially that that the bank is charging the city by the minute for this kind of payment uh i don't know if i necessarily agree with the uh
 with a couple of the other things but with that phone payment especially finding out the costs on that I think it's a matter of the city
 Trying to do what we're trying to do as aldermen of the city as well. I should say that We are trying to save money. We have a consistent deficit that seems to be as a community of the state especially And so we're trying to do what we can to save money on that and so I would stress that
 members of the community that are paying by phone not only let us save money for all our taxpaying residents but then save some money for yourself and use one of the other alternative methods kill two birds with one stone thank you thank you any other discussion alderman Hervey just very quickly I still would like for us to continue to look at reducing
 collection costs even further and that would be we talked several years ago about having payment kiosks in in the city hall lobby where you don't have to go up to the window i realize we have a lot of people that don't have checking accounts um they don't have some of those options so i commend uh you mayor and and staff for not imposing a fee for that that was my
 Knock-headed idea, okay, but I forgot about the fact that so many people don't have those. But I would like us to continue to look at the kiosk or setting up laptops where people could retrieve a paper bill.
 and pay it through the kiosk or through the drop box without having to have staff because that labor cost carries with it benefits pension obligations sick pay vacation all of those things and through attrition or redirecting staff i would love to see us even if we bite the bullet redistribute staff to some of the places where we've had to make
 reductions that weren't necessarily healthy to operate this city. So I want us to continue to look at some of those methods. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely and then Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Do we know what percentage of the bills are paid by phone? We have 43,000 annual yearly volume by phone, looks like.
 Fifty eight thousand one time online it's on the memo that was provided I was just curious To the taxpayers as well as to myself Hopefully the residents do understand I certainly would be more than willing to have Ward meeting just to go over this because I too received
 calls Comments regarding this and people understanding as Automated frost received the taxing that it's a tax It's not a tax per se but any money that that's paid out because of a service for the city People consider and label it attacks so whether it's a tax or not in their mind it is a tax and
 But I hope people understand it's not, as you explained, I asked you to explain earlier so that people do understand this is not for everyone. It's only for individuals that are paying by phone. And I hope those individuals are listening and get the information so that they know to make that transition. Certainly. Thank you.
 One, me and Director Haggerty would be happy to come to a ward-wide meeting if you hold one.
 Alderman Trelley, you had your hand raised. Yeah, I just wanted to say thanks to the staff for being very flexible on this issue. I know we were going down one road and we ended up down this path with options, which is very important, and I appreciate Alderman Frost and Alderman Durkies and everyone's comment this evening because I think that just shows the soup that was being cooked here and the different mentalities. And I think with the options, we're in a good place here. As long as there's education behind those options,
 like the amendment, so just wanted to say those words. Thank you. And so we will push out the frequently asked questions and do a number of meetings as well. And we'll also have the flyer in the next bill cycle. Other discussion on those 10 items that are before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. Nolan, B2, I address. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye.
 Irvins? Thompson-Kelhey? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? I'm in favor. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? No, I'm in favor of B-2. I am remaining. Chiarelli? Aye. Item number 1, 14 ayes. Item number 2?
 11 ayes, 3 noes. Item 3, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item is 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9, 14 ayes. Item number 10, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item number one under C is The approval of the vouchers and the amount of five million eight hundred and sixty nine thousand seventy one dollars and sixty two cents Item number two is recommending approval of the first lease renewal between the city of Rockford and one main financial group for the property located at 211 Elm Street section a and
 commonly known as one main financial. Item 3 is recommending the approval of the tax-exempt lease for three engines with PNC Equipment Finance for a lease rate of 3.67%. Annual payments will be $271,337.62 for a term of eight years. Total amount financed is $2,170,700.96.
 Next we have the approval of a tax exempt lease for 32 police vehicles and outfitting with PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of three point five six six percent annual payments will be two hundred forty seven thousand four hundred fifty nine dollars and Forty eight cents for a term of seven years total amount finances one million seven hundred thirty two thousand two hundred sixteen dollars and thirty six cents next we have the approval of a tax exempt lease for 36 citywide vehicles for white fleet with a
 PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of 3.588%. Annual payments will be $179,315.05 for a term of seven years. Total amount financed is $1,255,205.35.
 Item 6 is recommending approval of the updated fee schedule and billing ordinance and item 7 is recommending approval of the 2018 supplemental appropriation ordinance Would place these items up for passage. Thank you. So you have seven items before you is there any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Hervey. Just one
 I would like to see a, I don't know if you call it a schedule, showing for each year where we are with the lease payments on our fleet and which ones drop off. I'd just like to know when are we going to hit, not a balloon, but just…
 Five six seven eight of them that might be up at one time I think the seven-year lease would prevent that but well make like to see where those are gonna sort of crunch Well, you know that out to all their men. Yeah, that's what I meant for everybody. Thank you Other questions on the seven items that are before you seen none clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? logan burr frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman and
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Cirelli? Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 14 ayes. Item 6, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 7, 14 ayes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next up we have officers reports. First, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, you were mentioned a number of times today at a meeting I was with at the Hedge Trajectory Energy Partners. And just again, just want to say thanks for your commitment to working with the neighborhood and bringing in the company to work with the neighborhood. So he just left, unfortunately, but thank you for that.
 the staff for working with us as well thank you second is uh today comcast uh announced uh plans uh plans to open an xfinity store in the rockford in rockford this summer uh it's just over 4 000 square feet and it will be located at the millennium market center on mulford village drive
 For residents, they can test services and demos. Customer service will be there. They could pay their bill there, pick up and return equipment. And also we have our very own Joan Sage in the back. If Alderman have any questions or concerns to Comcast or to Joan, she is here this evening. Other officers' reports. Alderman Thunberg, and then I'll get to Alderman Rhoads. Hey, congratulations to the Auburn
 debate team the scholastic Bowl that's that's it I should I apologize to my nephew Lael Varese who's on that team first in the state
 So congratulations to the Auburn Scholastic team. And I don't know if Alderman Logerman had anything to do with that. I assume not if they came in first place. But . So we text you. Debate club and when you said congratulations to the debate club, I was like, wait, what? So congratulations to my nephew as well. Another thing is an observation I had on Saturday.
 You know, hats off to Brad and Stacy Sommer and the work they do for youth bowling in Rockford. I was over at Don Carter and it's been brought to my knowledge from an individual who coaches many people in that sport that Rockford now is becoming, and this is what he had conveyed, Rockford is now becoming the youth, known as the youth mecca for bowling throughout the country.
 many times there's many occasions where we have college scouts coming here into our city to offer scholarships to our high school bowlers I think many people know the success that many of those teams have had at State but
 I just wanted to give a hats off to an individual who was bowling against my son who was in sixth grade that bowled a 598 for a combined three games. So I thought he was going to win it. But boy, there was another kid. Charlie Hunt is his name. He's a middle schooler at West. I believe he's in seventh grade.
 had a perfect game going into the 10th frame and ended up doing a strike and a spare on the second one. So he ended up bowling in seventh grade, a 289, almost a perfect game when there are people that bowl all their life
 that never bowl a perfect game. And here you had a Rockford kid in seventh grade almost bowling a perfect game. So it was fun to watch. It meant a lot to me to see his heartbreak though, but his dad was right there and they must have hugged for a minute before he let go. And you could tell he was still very saddened, but we're very proud of kids like that.
 and proud of our community and the work that all these bowling lanes do. It is across all races, all ethnicities. It's just fun to see such a big sport that I never thought I'd appreciate and like. Thank you. Awesome. Alderman Rose, did you have your hand? I just wanted to say a few recognition points. First off, I wanted to congratulate Alderman Irvins. He just had a baby girl. Yay.
 Thank you. Yeah. Correction, his wife. Or his wife had a baby girl, and he's helping out.
 Yeah he was there but I've had a lot of people ask more recently of you know how can I help out or how can I get more involved in the city and I wanted to recognize the efforts of Vicki Fogel she's the neighborhood president for North End Square Neighborhood Association and we had a meeting last weekend and it was you know I left the meeting and I thought to myself wow like
 Like there's some great stuff that is going to be going on.
 this summer and the spring and through the year that she's organizing. And I'm not going to give away at all. I think that if people do want to get involved to reach out to your neighborhood association, if you don't have one, to look at starting one. Because those organizations are the boots on the ground that are doing the community cleanups, that are getting people involved.
 she she does a regular halloween decoration contest that just gets neighbors excited to take in the holidays and she does it also around christmas time but she's got some huge plans coming up for the nezna neighborhood and i just wanted to say
 the work that she's doing doesn't go that doesn't go in unnoticed so thank you alderman thompson keller uh yes i have a couple things your honor um i had finance department to make a copy of our general contract conditions uh for our garbage contract and it's on your desk um our contract uh goes through the 31st of december for 2020
 We have a couple two, three-year periods of extensions, and I'm going to request from you, Your Honor and staff, that before we go through an extension, that it comes back before City Council for discussion and improvements and issues, because I've had quite a few issues with the last snowfall with not being able to deliver garbage, pick up garbage, because of the condition of the alleys.
 and I can understand why the contractor advised the residents to put it on the streets. They were all assuming that it was coming from City Hall.
 and it wasn't. And I wanted to let the residents know that it was just a courtesy of the garbage company to make sure that they do pick up the garbage. I did have a few residents that their garbage hasn't been picked up in a month. And I've been trying to call, in fact, I left a voicemail for one of their representatives, but come to find out he's no longer with the company.
 So that's why I put the three different contact persons on the information that I gave on the alderman that if you do have a problem That's three different individuals that you can contact if you have a garbage problem But I would greatly appreciate it if we could not automatically renew Their extension before it comes back for a discussion Certainly Any other items did you have no? alderman Beach
 Thank you, Your Honor. Along that same line, my question would be, if we decide to not exercise the extensions, how soon would it be that we need to prepare, request proposals to go out for that? Director Hagerty?
 with the potentially long transition time that would be required in a contract of this nature we would need we would be coming back to council next spring in about a year to get direction and if council chooses not to exercise the extensions we would be preparing the bid documents and getting those out in the spring
 Thank you, Your Honor. Yep. Any, I'm sorry, Alderman Shirely. Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. As well as potholes in the last few weeks, I've also received quite a few different emails about coyotes roaming into the city. And lo and behold, about a week ago, I saw three coyotes go through my backyard and go off towards a quarry.
 And Saturday morning, I witnessed them standing in front of the quarry entrance. So, and these are both in the city of Rockford, so I'm not sure what we can do about this. There's been a lot of complaints about, I don't know if the quarry owners can address, because I believe these coyotes are living in these quarries. And it is very dangerous to have these type of animals roaming in our neighborhoods.
 Again, I got another phone call that in a certain subdivision. There was a lot of turkeys around So I don't know if there's correlation between that and I'm not talking about alderman to bird But out in the ward, but yeah, so I don't know if there's correlation or is there anything we can do other than the residents call You know animal services because they are dangerous animals. Yeah, so I
 Don't have an answer to that yet, but I will tell you Tim Savage from the Chesney Park brought it up at our region one planning council meeting because they're having a lot of concerns about coyotes and Chesney Park And we've had I've seen I've had a couple of messages here and there But I know that our one is working on Something I will follow up with you. Yeah, my wife took pictures of them coming through our backyard and
 And it is dangerous. I know it's wintertime, but if you've got kids out in the back or if you're animals, if they're roaming freely like that, we should kind of have some kind of issue about it. Certainly. Thank you. Other questions or discussion? Alderman Herb? A quick extension of that.
 Up until maybe about, what, six, eight months ago, Winnebago County Animal Services could come to your home and pick up trapped animals. You have to have a permit to trap. But if they've caused damage to your property, extensive damage, you know, mine, they ate the hole into my, dug a hole into my basement wall and collapsed the entire retainer. So even if you trap them, however, these are those animals,
 hedgehog type creatures. They're not hedgehogs, they're groundhogs. They're not beavers, I don't know what they are. They're big furry brown nuisances.
 but i went through that whole discussion with the department of natural resources and my understanding is that they ordered winnebago county to stop picking up the animals and winnebago county animal services told me they didn't have a choice so right now if you catch a we have rabid skunks we know they're rabid because of the way they're they're acting there's no one to come and get those animals
 And yes, people will shoot them because they're afraid and I don't blame them. I don't have a 22 or else I would too. But these animals, it's not just the nuisance. When you see that rabbit skunk, you see him doing in circles and unstable unless they got into some moonshine. It's scary.
 possible too, but in all seriousness, it's dangerous. And we currently have no way of getting those animals picked up. If you call a private trapper, you're lucky if they show up to come and get the animal. It's not whether they get paid. Many of them work full-time jobs, and they just don't respond. So I would love to see some government action, maybe this is something for Region 1, to work with DNR
 Ask DNR if they could do an IGA with Winnebago County Animal Services So they can pick up and euthanize certain classes of animals. I don't know if a coyote I don't know how they trap those that might be a little outside of animal controls expertise, but certainly some of these other small Creatures that are nuisances to properties and dangerous if they're rabid. Thank you. I'll bring you up to alderman McNeely
 I want to add another animal to that list. I'd like to add the red fox, certainly prominent in my area, and it has been for a number of years, along with all the other animals that have been mentioned here tonight. So, Mr. Mayor, I'm not sure how you're going to address that or how animal control can address it. I know that it's because we have...
 have taken over lands that the animals would be there naturally.
 So I'm not surprised that we're seeing all the different type of animals within the neighborhood but One day I think I've told the story before here on council one day. I was coming to council on Preston and there's the Kevin Rice Park there and the kids go there and play During the summer and I seem to red box right by the water department looking directly at that park and
 at the kids over there and they went between the building and bush at the water department and I was afraid for the kids so I turned around and told the kids go home go home there's a fox of course they didn't listen to me they're like who's this crazy lady
 And the fox, while I was there, I waited, and the fox did turn around and go back toward the railroad track. But I've seen foxes several times, so. Okay. I will make sure that we address it. Any non-animals? Alderman Toomberg. Actually, just refer this animal control issue over to county board for their debate and see how this turns out. That's it. Thank you. That's it.
 Blow blow. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, I actually have a more thoughtful motion. In order to raise revenue, I would make a motion that we rename Rockford to Yellowstone and sell tickets. There you go. Excellent. Any other discussion outside of animals? Nothing. Say none. We're going to move on. It's a good segue. So next up, we have Plenty and Development Committee motions and resolutions. Alderman Bill Rose. Follow that.
 i love animals so i'm not i'm okay with them um i i we have one item a resolution adopting a proclamation by the winnebago county health department's trauma-informed work group to become a trauma-informed community excellent is there any discussion on that one item before you alderman hervey the one thing i was a little confused about with the trauma-informed community is there a set of policies that we would be required to adopt
 as part of this trauma-informed community? So right now there's no policies that we would be required to adopt. I think it's more that in the adoption of our policies, we have to take a thoughtful approach that follows items laid out in the information, you know, one that is empowering of residents, building of healthy relationships, and implementing
 or reducing re-traumatization things of that so it's basically teaching us about being trauma informed and then looking to apply that where it's appropriate but there's no compilation of the types of policies and things that we're being asked to adopt no not right now and i could potentially foresee someone having a recommendation of an adjustment of a policy like you see the uh i believe it's rog for uh
 I believe it's Harlem School District that does a handle with care or is beginning to handle with care. That's a trauma-informed policy. So I think it's more for us to be cognizant as we are developers of policies to make sure that we are looking through that lens.
 I don't know if it was on television or if it was in the newspaper, but I had that question from several people. Their fear, this is going to require you to adopt certain policies and you have to follow someone else's agenda. And I said, I don't think so. I think it's about embedding the idea of policy.
 what effects trauma has especially on children well you've talked about it 75 percent of juveniles that are in trouble have come from a home where they've witnessed or been a victim of domestic violence so you know obviously some of the things that we're looking at doing would have that built into the domestic violence and human trafficking policy thank you certainly alderman
 i think your honor i unfortunately haven't i was gone last week and i sort of saw this i haven't been able to ask anybody about this i what i'm having trouble is understanding you know what the point of all this is um is it another label to slap on a community to to sort of make you feel good is there is there something with teeth in it it's almost like i'm getting the sizzle without the steak
 So I read the long-term goals and I tried to get on some of the websites and I started reading. Decrease infant mortality among African Americans. We do that. Decrease adolescent pregnancy. How many years have we tried to do this? Decrease suicide rate among young adults. These are all objectives that already are in existence. And I'm not quite sure what it means that we increase community member engagement and accountability.
 decrease rates of unemployment or underemployment. These are all goals that should, I hope, are already in existence. I think they are. I think our health care system tries to do a number of these things that are listed. But I guess I'm not overall opposed to it, but what I'm having trouble understanding is what's
 what's different about this? Over the past, we've had a war on poverty for how long? What's new? What are we doing different? How are we measuring? I mean, I don't get it.
 I mean, and I'm not trying to be smart-alecky. I just don't understand. I mean, these are great goals, and we've had these goals for communities and cities forever. And we don't seem to get a handle on them. Decrease, I read decrease firearm-related crimes. How about just decrease violent crime? But, so what are we, what is this offering to do differently
 Is it a new approach? I mean, for instance, I'm not a big, I was never a big fan of President Obama, but he's got this great program out there called My Brother's Keeper that is supposedly really good. So I don't, we're declaring ourselves to be doing something, we're declaring ourselves to have goals, but I don't see anything different within this declaration to, you know,
 Provide a mechanism, you know and and how we're measuring effectiveness. These are great goals, but they've been long-term goals So what's what's different and again, I'm not trying to be smart Alec. No. No, I appreciate the question So I would say two things one is we do have dr Martel from Winnebago County Health Department here and if council would be okay with it, we could have dr. Martel speak I would also point to
 Many of those and I'll speak not as intelligently as dr. Martel many of those goals you're right we've had for years and years, but they haven't always looked through the lens or looked at the information of The adverse childhood experiences that our kids are seeing every single day and the impact that those Experiences have on their lives and instead of you know, I kind of view this as instead of asking why? Tom's
 Acting out we start asking questions differently of what experiences did Tom have in his life that is making him Act in this manner or is causing this certain reaction, but if if you would if the council would like we can have dr Martel who was here last week to present the issue Here as well those in favor of having dr. Martel address your question alderman Durkee I
 Those opposed to having, I just donned you an alderman. Those opposed to having Dr. Martell answer. Dr. Martell, there's a microphone right there near you. Well, were you able to hear alderman Durkies? Yes, I was.
 And I think, Dr. Durkee, one of the, I think the earlier question kind of relates to it. This is a framework for looking at how to approach strategies to address, you're right, those are the same issues, problems, concerns. And the interesting thing part about, came about this is when we looked at our three health priorities of maternal and child health, mental health, and violence,
 Each of the community groups that began to work on that came back and said we really need to take a look at the impact of the adverse childhood Experiences and really the work out of the study with the CDC and Kaiser Permanente on how those experiences influenced both the social determinants of health and
 as well as actual health indicators. So you're right, those are still the issues we're addressing and the trauma-informed proclamation is really a way for us to say to the community, we are working to apply that framework to when we look at intervention strategies to address each of those problems, potentially in isolation or in combination.
 Any further discussion or concerns alderman frost and I agree with all those and I agree with. Everything that Dr Durkee said in the goals of the organization, but I don't think whether or not I hate putting a label that we are now on a list of a community that's called a trauma informed community because in my mind.
 You know it has some sort of stigma to Rockford and I again I don't know why I asked about all the communities that that have these I know it was mentioned Philadelphia Los Angeles I think all of these goals can be achieved without having the city of Rockford be known as a Trauma-informed community maybe I'm just stuck on labels and why people google Rockford and don't want to come to Rockford or see some of the misconceptions about Rockford but
 But I applaud you for all of the work that you do, and I want to see it all move forward. And, you know, you cited some Kaiser Permanente and some other groups that are significant in trying to reduce the adverse childhood experiences. But I just caught on the scope and the labeling of it, and that's why I'll be voting no. I would just add that—
 If we ever get called by an outsider, a trauma-informed community, I guess I'd stand up pretty proudly and say, you're right. We treat people with respect and dignity where they're at in their lives, and we understand that they've went through a childhood experience that has had a tremendously negative impact on their life. And if we can address it in a different manner, I would think that we're leading the charge. Alderman Frost? And I would just hope, Your Honor, that we would do that, whether or not we have a label or not. We would all treat people like that. I would hope we would, too.
 but we haven't been so might as well cause attention to it alderman irvins you know i usually don't touch on topics i usually just listen but i want to back up my my my colleague here alderman frost um i strongly believe in in the power of life and death being in our tongue and as we proclaim a thing it will be
 And so I would, me personally, I tread lightly. I don't even allow my daughter to be called silly because the definition of it is to have a lack of common sense and to be foolish. And you'd be surprised how many parents call their children, say, oh, you're so silly. But there is life and death in words. And so there's legitimacy there. So that's it.
 thank you alderman hervey just very quickly one thing i do want us to be careful of though and that is um in working in civil rights i've seen this um people become overloaded you know we're after human trafficking we're after domestic violence we're after or to achieve trauma informed
 people sometimes become cynical. They feel so overloaded. Everything you do, every morning you wake up. I know when I was in the middle of some of the stuff, I would just want to stay home and hide because every ounce of your being had to be out there doing something, achieving equality, eliminating racism, doing all of these things. And all of a sudden you're like, you know what, I just want to get off the train.
 Not because you're a bad person, but because it's infused into everything. And I worry about that sometimes because there's so many causes out there and people just get overloaded. So I want us to make sure that we're not championing so many things
 that require people to, and just going back, one of the tenets of this trauma-informed community was that once you recognize the signs and realize it, you respond by quote, fully integrating knowledge about trauma into policies, procedures, and practices, and seeking to actively resist re-traumatization.
 you know that's that's a lot if you start to think about it um i don't know how the police department the the fire department um city staffers uh director davis's area you know that touch on all of these things
 i wonder sometimes what that means i originally written no by it just because as i read it i started to have those concerns and i thought i don't know enough about it yet i haven't delved into it enough um to know what the implications are so i i just worry about that overload thank you alderman irvins and then i'll ultimately almost forgot what i was going to say um
 I do agree with the fact that this is needed and I want to agree with with alderman Durkee as well you know, um as As a youth I was told and I was informed that To continue to do something and expect different results is the definition of insanity So I would hope that there is something different brought to the table. I myself, you know
 Trauma trauma kind of just runs through my blood honestly, and I could tell you a lot of stories that are blow you away that I've had to endure and come through and not only myself but relatives and friends and you know when I look back and I see Them even into today's current state. They still have that mentality. It is a mindset I
 The scriptures say don't be conformed to this world, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. And there's a lot of people that are still in that broken state. The city has suffered a lot, two recessions if I'm not mistaken. And you could drive through the city and you could see that there's people still in those trauma mind states or whatever you want to call it. But hopefully there is something that is done differently because, I mean, what we have been doing, I don't know if it's been working. Yeah.
 Alderman McNeely Thank you Mr. Mayor my concern regarding this is not so much as being labeled or having another label my concern is our legal legal applications which I questioned that last week at the committee level so
 We're not if we have no legal obligation by by adding this on to what we are as a community I don't see a negative effect Director Meyer would do we have any legal ramifications? No, there's no legal responsibility attached to them. Thank you Any further discussion alderman Durkee? Yeah, just what to in response to what I heard from dr. Martel and
 And what I, like I said, I read some other websites and different things on this. Again, my perception of this, it's just another label. It's just another set. Let's just do this. Here are these principles. They're advocating repeating studies that are already done. Some of these childhood studies are already known. We already know the effect of what's happening. What it's short on is solutions.
 And that's where we've always been short. We're always short on solutions. We can study the problem again and again, and we can agree that these are problems. But it's, like I said, it's short on solutions. And I don't understand where we're going with it. We can study Rockford, and I'm sure we'll find out the same things that we've always found out. We can study teenage pregnancy. We already know the effect of teenage. 67% of teenage pregnant people land up in poverty.
 Ie, mae hynny'n dda, mae'n cael ei gyflawni, mae'n dda i'w gwybod dros y blynyddoedd. Felly sut ydych chi'n ei stopio? Ac mae hynny'n un enghraifft. Felly beth mae'r adroddiad hwn yn ei wneud i'w stopio? Ac dyna pam rwy'n cael anodd â'r peth. Ac nid wyf yn... chi'n gwbod, nid wyf yn ymrwymo i ddod â'r cyllideb i rywbeth sydd... rwy'n cael anodd o ddeall ei ddyluniad a'i golygu. Fel y dywedais, rwy'n meddwl ei fod yn llyfr, na fyddwn yn ceisio bod yn
 ac yn fwysig, ond mae'n ymwneud â... gallwn ni roi'r llyfr neu gallwn ni roi plac a'r arweinydd a'n ddweud ein hunain yn gymuned sy'n ymwybodol o'r trawm. A... Gwych. Ond dwi ddim yn gwybod ble rydyn ni'n mynd o hynny. Felly rwy'n ddrwg i ddod... i ddod i... chi'n gwybod, efallai rydw i'n rhywbeth o'n llwyr, ond... dwi ddim yn gwybod y gallwn gefnogi hyn. Hefyd, er mwyn gwbl, nid yw hyn yn dweud ein bod ni'n gymuned sy'n ymwybod
 A'r rhan arall o drafod? Rwy'n gweld nad ydym yn gweld unrhyw drafodaeth. Yr ydych chi'n gofyn y rôl? Yrky. Na. Logaman. A. Thunberg. Na. Frost. Na. Herby. A. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. A. Hoffman. A. Rose. A. Beach. Quinones. A. Beck. MacNeilly. A. Chiarelli. A. 10 yn, 4 yn.
 Alderman Beck. Iawn, diolch, Ewan. Mae gen i lawer o arian heno, felly byddwn yn ceisio mynd trwy'r rhain yn gyflym. Yn gyntaf, mae'r award o ffwrdd RFP i ddilysu datblygu prosiect am ddiogelu energi i Johnson Controls am amrywiaeth o $493,000.
 Yn ddiweddar, mae'r contract ar gyfer sylfaen rhobotig ffrenzycs TS13 Laika, a chynrychiadau a phosiblwydd i gyd-diffygio ffrenzycs Papillon, Nebresca, o amrywiaeth 44,285.75. Yn ddiweddar, mae cyflwyniad ar gyfer golli trin a chyfarchwylio i gwasanaeth tref ar gyfer Belvedere, a gynllunio trin a chyfrifoldebau Rockford ar gyfer gynllunio ar gyfer contract ar gyfer
 cyfrifol o $255,000 ar y cyfrifol. Mae'r cyfrifol yn ddiwedd ar gyfer ddwy adnoddau ar gyfer ddau adnoddau ar gyfer un. Yn nesaf, mae'r cyfrifol wedi cael ei ddod o hyd i'r cyfrifol ar gyfer gynnydd argyfwng a chyfarchiad i gyfrifol erbyn ar y cyfrifol, ac mae'r cyfrifol yn ddiwedd ar gyfer ddau adnoddau ar gyfer ddwy adnoddau ar gyfer un.
 a chyfnod o ddau ar gyfer arwain ar gyfer gwrthwynebau a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio a chynnyddio
 ar gyfer cyfrif o ddau miliwn o ddau miliwn. Mae'r cyfrifiad yn ddiwedd ar gyfer ddau extensiwn ar gyfer ddau blwyddyn. Yn nesaf, mae'r rhesoliad i ddarparu RFA i reoli system gynnal ffyrdd ffyrdd.
 Next is the change order for Coleman Village PCBs woodblock flooring and piping abatement to Fisher excavation or excavating in the amount of five hundred twenty thousand two hundred sixty dollars funding sources US EPA and CIP general fund the award of Next to the award of engineering agreement for third Street over 6th Street bridge deck to HR green in the amount of 40,913 dollars and 51 cents and
 Then we final one is a word of engineering agreement for Coleman village phase one site design to fair Graham and associates and the amount of one hundred eighty seven thousand five hundred dollars the funding sources CIP general fund and water replacement improvement act and I place these up for passage Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items that are before you the season seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll jerky? Bogeyman
 Toomer frost Herbie urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back all right McNeely Shirely
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 14 ayes. Item number 5, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Item 6, 7, 8, 9, 14 ayes. Item number 10, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up we have Alderman Rose in Planning and Development Committee.
 we have one item an ordinance approving the u.s department of housing and urban development section 108 public offering to lock in fixed rates on the city of rockford's note number b dash one five dash mc dash one seven dash zero zero two zero in the amount of two million seven hundred and twenty five thousand dollars for cliff breakers thank you we have one item before you is there any discussion on the one item before you seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll jerky logoman
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Ross? No. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? No. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have Code and Regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is an ordinance approving the First Amendment to the Annexation Agreement for Guilford Crossings to rebate the city portion of the property tax for three years.
 and a right-of-way dedication of Murphy Woods Drive and Murphy Woods Court. Number two, an ordinance approving the modifications for to section 2-714 fee for one-time electronic payment and section 28-186 rates for regular service of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. Number three is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a planned unit development at 3720 East State Street.
 Number four is an ordinance approving a variation to create increase the maximum allowance fence height in the rear yard at 4142 John's farm Road Number five is an ordinance approving a variation to increase fence height again from eight feet to eleven foot two feet within the front yard and side yard and a variation to increase the fence site from 10 feet to 12 feet and
 Including barbed wire in the front yard side and rear yards at 1 2 3 energy Avenue Number 6 is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a plan unit development at 28 19 11th Street Number 7 is an ordinance approving the special use permit for the installation of solar farm at 11 66 North Horseman Street number 8 is an ordinance approving the modification of a special use permit and
 for a 14,800 square feet addition at 4403 and 4405 Highcrest Road. Number 9 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming at 915 South Alpine Road. Number 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store at 513 Toner Avenue.
 Number 11 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the convenience store Also at 513 toner Avenue believe that's it your honor I'll place those 11 ordinances up for passage Excellent. We you have 11 items before you is there any further discussion on those 11 items saying none clerk Will you please call the roll jerky? bogeyman timber frost Herbie Irvins Thompson Kelly
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Item 1, 14 ayes. Item 2, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item 3, 14 ayes. Item 4, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Items 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 14 ayes. Item 11, 13 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent. Thank you those items passed just want to cause yours call your attention before I get it to alderman back for financing personnel The number one item the first lease renewal needs 12 votes just so you're aware All the way back. Thank you your honor. I have six items The first is an ordinance approving the first lease renewal between city of Rockford and one main financial group for the property located at 211 Elm Street and
 Section a next is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for three engines with PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of three point six seven percent and with annual payments of two hundred seventy one thousand three hundred thirty seven dollars and sixty two cents for a term of eight years next is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for 32 police vehicles and outfitting with PNC equipment finance and
 for a lease rate of 3.566% annual payments of $247,459.48 for a term of seven years. An ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for 36 citywide vehicles, white fleet with PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of 3.588%. Annual payments will be $179,315.05 for a term of seven years.
 Next is an ordinance approving the updated fee schedule and billing ordinance and finally an ordinance approving the 2018 Supplemental appropriation ordinance and I places upper passage. Thank you. We have six items before you Is there any discussion on the six items saying no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Logoman tumor frost Herbie Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach, Kenosha's and
 Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? Ross wants to change his vote. Ross? Do you want to say, vote? Do you want to vote no on anything? No. Would you like to vote no on something else? Can I always phone a friend? Yeah. All those items passed? Thank you. Yeah, so did you.
 Thank you. Second. We have a motion and a second. Anyone want to discuss that for any period of time? Yes, I would like to. No? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.