Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, March 4th, 2024. We're going to start a little bit different. We're going to hold on the invocation and pledge because we have some special guests that are going to be providing us at the invocation as well as the pledge this evening. So we're going to move right now to roll call. Durkee. Here. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Bailey, Bonnie. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 5th, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Thank you. Now we're going to come forward because we have a whole special group with us this evening that are going to be receiving a proclamation, provide us an invocation, as well as help us lead us with the Pledge of Allegiance. And we have the Girl Scouts representing Southeast Valley Service Unit with us this evening. We are so excited to have you guys. Okay, so family, you can come on in if you want someone in here to actually take a photo. Like, you can sit down right in here if you want. And I think we'll start because we'll start with the invocation. Are you ready? Okay. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the many blessings you have given to our community. We thank you for the city, our city. We thank you for our elected officials, the businesses, the churches, the families, and the individuals that make our city the great place that it is. We ask you for guidance, wisdom, and support for our council members as they make decisions tonight and work to make our community better. Please be with our city and all those who live and work here. We ask these things in your name. Amen. And then I think we're going to turn this way, and are you guys going to lead us in the pledge? Do you guys want to hold it? I pledge allegiance to the flag of America. To God and to the soul, and to justice for all. You guys did an amazing job. Are you going to do, do you want to turn this way? I will try to serve God and my country to help people at all times and to live by Girl Scout law. Thank you. Now you're going to come this way and we're going to stand right here. You guys did an amazing job. Thank you. I'm going to give that to you. Whereas March 12th, 2024 marks the 112th anniversary of Girl Scouts of the United States of America, founded by Juliet Daisy Gordon Lowe in 1912 in Savannah, Georgia. And whereas, as one of the world's premier youth leadership development organizations, has emphasized public service, civic engagement, and fostering a sense of community for over a century. And whereas, Girl Scouts works to champion ambitions, cultivate talents, and develop skills to create leaders in the world. And whereas, Girl Scouts offer 21st century programming in science, technology, engineering, and math, STEMM. the outdoors, entrepreneurship, and beyond developing invaluable life skills. And whereas, introduced nearly a century ago, the Girl Scout cookie program remains the largest and most successful youth-led business in the world, I attest to, Whereas the Girl Scout Bronze, Silver, and Gold Awards, the highest honors Girl Scouts in grades 4 through 12 can earn, acknowledge each recipient's power and dedication to not only bettering themselves, but to making the world a better place for others through the sustainable take action projects. And whereas, Girl Scouts of Northern Illinois serves over 9,000 young members and engages over 4,000 adult members in 16 counties in Northern Illinois. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 10th through the week of March 16th, 2024, as Girl Scout Week. So, thank you. Thank you. Okay, big thank you to Southeast Valley Service Unit of Girl Scouts. Thank you for helping us this evening. Next, we're going to go to public hearings. We do have... Three public hearings scheduled this evening. The first is a public hearing on the request to vacate a portion of right-of-way, an alley between Berry Road and Martin Road. And I'll turn this hearing over to Alderwoman Tarina, and I'll also say I don't like you, I love you, happy birthday. Thank you. You're supposed to sing. I'm not the prophet. I can't do that. Thank you. PURSUANT TO 65 ILCS 51191-1, A PUBLIC HEARING MUST BE CONDUCTED BY THE CORPORATE AUTHORITIES UPON SUBMISSION OF A PROPOSED RIGHT-OF-WAY VACATION. NOTICE OF THIS HEARING WAS GIVEN BY PUBLICATION IN THE ROCKET REGISTER STAR ON FEBRUARY 16, 2024. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, March 4th, 2024 at 5.30 p.m. in City Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East 8th Street, Rockford, Illinois for the consideration of proposed right-of-way vacation for the north-south alley between Berry Road and Martin Road with Kishwaukee Street to the east and Foley Street to the west. Are there any questions or comments from the council members on this vacation? Seeing that there are no questions or comments, are there any questions or comments from the public? Okay, no questions or comments from the public. This hearing is now closed. I think you can keep going. All right. I'll move on to the next public hearing for the right-of-way vacation for the portion of Hill Street west of North Madison Street ending at the Rock River. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 511-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Thank you. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on February 16, 2024. That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, March 4, 2024 at 5.30 p.m. in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois for the consideration of proposed right-of-way vacation for the portion of Hill Street west of North Madison Street ending at the Rock River. Any questions or comments from the City Council members on this vacation? Seeing that there are no questions or any comments. Are there any questions or comments from the public? Hey, there are no questions or comments from the public So this hearing is now closed and finally we have a public hearing for the proposed right-of-way vacation for the portion of Mulberry Street between North Conobago and Northport Street Pursuant to 65 ILCS 511-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. notice of this hearing was given by publication in the rockford register star on february 16 2024 that notice informs citizens of roford that the rofford city council will hold a public hearing on monday march 4th 2024 at 5 30 p.m in council chambers on the second floor at rofford city hall located at 425 east state street brockford illinois for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation for the portion of mulberry street between north winnebago street and north court street Are there any questions or comments from City Council on this vacation? Seeing that there's no questions from Council. Are there any questions or comments from the public? There are no questions or comments from the public We'll close this hearing as well. Thank you all the woman Trina next we're gonna go to petitions and communications And we're gonna go to planning and development committee and alderman Durkee. Thank you your honor under planning development new committee reports from Romanum 4a number one. Oops. I've got ahead of myself. I My apologies. Petitions and Communications. A1, memorandum from Ifanye Mugamba, City Attorney regarding the extension of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1007 15th Street for the Resident Officer Program, also known as Rock House. This will be referred to Planning and Development. A memorandum from Ifanye Mugamba, City attorney regarding the extension of an agreement between the city of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association For the continued use of one two three three rebel Avenue for the resident officer program also known as Rock House This will also be returned referred to planning and development. Thank you alderman Durkee next We're going to go to alderwoman Trina and code and regulation committee. I Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items. Item number one, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager of Permits and Special Events regarding upcoming special events, which include the Memorial Day Parade, Cars and Coffee, Spruce Up Day at the Veterans Roundabout in South Main Mercado, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the traffic commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on March 13th, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 25th, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three a memorandum from Jacob Rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 612 forest Avenue referred to Quota Regulation Committee number four a memorandum from Scott Capavilla planning and zoning manager regarding the request for authorization to allow the zoning officer to file text amendments for multiple sections of the zoning ordinance referred to Quota Regulation Committee and lastly the renewal of a SEC 2-407-2E4, the Local Business Adjustment to Bid Award. Please. Okay. So the Bid Award to the City of Rockford Court of Ordinances to the Code and Regulation Committee for discussion at its next meeting. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, City Engineer, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between IDOT for the Burton Street and Canadian Pacific Railroad crossing improvements. We refer to Finance and Personnel, as will all the remaining items. Number two is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins, City Engineer, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Fort River Sanitations for the Whitman Street reconstruction project. Number three is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins regarding a supplemental intergovernmental agreement with IDOT for Alpine Road improvements. Number four is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Illinois State Tollway Authority for the East State Street widening project. And lastly, number five is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Corridor Improvement Inc. for a grant application for school sidewalk improvements. Thank you, Your Honor. thank you uh i do not see an older woman meets here alderman frost would you mind reading on the legislative and lobbying item sure under legislative and lobbying committee there's one item it's a memorandum from nicholas meyer a legal director regarding the renewal of a professional services contract with zephyr government strategies for the city of rockford's 2024 lobbying services in this manner will be referred to the legislative and lobbying committee sir Next we're going to go to our public speakers. There's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers. I want to remind our speakers that you have three minutes to address city council. At the conclusion of your three minutes, a rather obnoxious cell phone alarm will buzz and ask that you close your comments at that time. Our first public speaker this evening is Margaret Rather of Rockford. Good evening. I'm Margaret Rather and I am a playwright at Artists Ensemble Theatre here in Rockford. How much do you know about Julia Lathrop? That question was put to me in 2022 by the League of Women Voters and I answered, uh, nothing. Oh wait, isn't there an elementary school called that? Well, let's fast forward. I now know a lot about Julia Lathrop because I've written a play about her. And this is how that came to pass. In 2022, the local chapter of the league was celebrating the 100th anniversary of their founding by Julia Lathrop, who was at that time the first president of the Illinois League and a founder of the National League. And I was handed a book, now out of print, called My Friend Julia Lathrop, and it was written by Jane Addams. And her, I knew. I knew who that was. So the book is the basis for my play, Julie and Jane, which opens this Thursday at Artists Ensemble Theater. Born and raised in Rockford, Julia Lathrop first met Jane Addams when they were teenagers at Rockford Female Seminary, which is today Rockford University. Julia moved to Chicago to join Jane at Hull House, where she spent 20 years fighting for immigrant rights and workplace rights and women's rights, and above all, the welfare of children. During this time, she met a seven-year-old boy who was serving time in the penitentiary. And she was deeply shocked by this, and that led to her lobbying Springfield to create legislation for a separate justice system for children under the age of 16, which is how Illinois became the first state in the country to have a juvenile court system. Teddy Roosevelt invited Julia Lathrop to the White House, the first ever White House conference, because the topic was the welfare of American children. William Howard Taft named Julia Lathrop as the first woman ever to head a federal bureau, the newly created Children's Bureau. She was reappointed to that post by two subsequent presidents. My play tells the story of two extraordinary women who bickered and laughed and commiserated and stood by one another over the course of a 60-year friendship. AET partnered with Midway Village Museum and the League of Women Voters and the Rockford Public Library on this project. And I invite everyone on the council to attend opening night as our guests. What better way to celebrate Women's History Month than with a play written by a Rockford woman starring two Rockford women as Julie and Jane, two hometown heroines who marched forth and reshaped their world. I hope you will join us this Thursday evening. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Ahmed El-Khattawi of DeKalb. Last copies for this? If you leave it right there, we'll make sure everyone gets one. Thank you. Good evening everyone. My name is Ahmed and I am a Palestinian from Gaza. I am here on a Fulbright scholarship studying my master's in curriculum and cultural pedagogies for social justice. I am educated and into human rights advocacy. I got my BA and degree in English language and literature in Gaza. My professors have been killed. My university is no longer standing. Since I have been in the US, I have been trying to save the lives of my family from the Israeli ongoing genocide as a leader and a change maker. ومنذ 17 سنوات من خلال محاولة المساعدة كمعالجة من خمسة مجرى من المعارضة الإسرائيلية في حالة محاولات المساعدة كنت خائفاً ومعجزاً ومحاولة أن أتوقع أن يتوقع المساعدة في أي محالة لكنها لم تتوقع عائلتي تستمر في محاولة المساعدة الإسرائيلية والمساعدات المساعدة المستقلة في الوقت الآن لأكثر من 140 أيام منذ 75 سنوات نحن موجهين للتقليص الاثناني المستقيم من خلال التوزيع وعندما كانت إسرائيل خلية في مرحلة الجنسية، أمي وفتاةي أصبحت مخلصة أمي أصبحت مخلصة، أمي وفتاةي أصبحت مخلصة ولم يستطع أبنائي أن تسلبيتها المزيد كما أن أبنتها أصبحت مقتلتة بمخلصة إسرائيلية أمي أصبحت مخلصة من المدينة التي كانت بحاجة إلى محيطها بحيث كانت لديها ديابيتس كوريني أمي وأبنائي وفتاةي 5 سنوات و7 أشهر أصبحت مخلصة الم بسبب تنفيذ المصاريات المقربة. فقد فقدت التواصل مع عائلتي لم يكن لديها محاولة الإنترنت لأشهر. كانت عائلتي المستقبلية تنفيذ مصاريات مخصصة للسوداء لأن شلتري كانت محافظة وكانت مخصصة لصالح المصاريات. هل تعرفون أن الولايات المتحدة تسعون أكثر من 3 مليون دولار لإسرائيل ومساعدات وفتحات لقتل أكثر من البلسانيين؟ هل تعرفون أن إسرائيل تحتوي على المهاجمات المستقبلية التي نعيشها؟ لكننا الناس الذين نعيش في إلنوي المدن الأمريكية نحاول أن نحصل على أهداف صحيحة مناسبة، نحاول أن نعيش حياتنا مع مال أطفالنا، نحوض المدفع والمستقبل للعيش. بينما نحن نسل 4 مليون دولار في سنة إلى بلد يملك أهداف صحيحة مستقبلية. في روكفورد فقط، تقريبا 2 مليون دولار من أسعار التعليم في سنة نحوها يتطلب من إسرائيل المسلمات التي قتلت أكثر من 30 ألاف الناس في غازة حتى الآن. نحن هنا اليوم لنبدأ تحديث لتحضير محاولة تحضير محاولة تحضير محاولة كما فعلت الكثير من المدن الأخرى في الولايات المتحدة لتحضير محاولة تحضير محاولة لتحضير محاولة لتحضير محاولة لتظهر أن الناس لا يريدون أن يستخدموا دولار التعليم المستخدم في هذا الطريق لإدخال محاولة تحضير ونحن نطلب تحضير محاولة تحضير محاولة وإنهاء المحاولة في غازا وإنهاء المحاولة في المدينة الأم وعلى مدى المحطة المحطة على الأرض كم مننا إنسان يكفي لكي تطلق على محطة شكراً شكراً سيدنا كينيث ديكنز من راكفورد أهلاً جميعاً في مكانات مختلفة أود أن أقول للمسلمين الذين قد تحدثوا نحن نسمعكم لأن الجميع في أمريكا لا يتفاهمون بما يحدث وليس فقط بمال المال المالي إنه عن الإنسانية إنه عن الإنسانية وعندما تتحرر الناس ، كمسلم في أمريكا ، أدركني ، أفهم ما يعني التحرر عندما تتعامل كأسرق ، عندما تتعامل بأربعين من الناس ، أفهم ، أفهم أجعل الجميع ، كل المسلمين في الأمريكا يملكون تطبيق وكما قلت في الأخير عندما جاءت إلى هنا، لأول سنة منذ عشر سنوات أطلب من المدينة تطبيق للإعادة على التحديد لأنه كان مؤكد بالفعل أن الحرب على الأدوات كانت بالفعل حرب على الأشخاص المغربين أسماءً من الأشخاص المغربين والسائر المغربية المغربية هذا هو المعرفة المتحدة اليوم في أمريكا نيكسون يتوقع على المقر ويقول أعلم أن هذا محاولة مفتوحة تحرك أمريكا المغربية والسائر المغربية But the complicity, the amount of complicit acknowledgement to this, it doesn't hurt me or crush me. I accept it. I acknowledge it. I'm not even shocked by it. No one came forward and said, hey, can I help you? No one. That's okay. Because this recording, as well as every other recording, at some point will be my proof that I did ask and that no one answered me. That's why I provided you all applications so that when your constituents do call that you nobody in here can say, I never got it. I don't have one. I gave it to you. I printed it out. I had the only copy for the last two years. And I asked for one because there was a legal obligation of my city to not ignore me. As one black man in America, I don't stand here by myself. I stand here representing a couple hundred people that were incarcerated and had felonies that were waiting for this. They're just, I'm just the front man, so to speak. But I'm here to speak tonight about we are not invisible. The black vote this year, because it is an election year, we're not invisible. I know that the Republican Party and the Democratic Party in many instances are saying, yeah, at some point you said black lives matter, we're saying collectively, no it doesn't. That's why we're going to extend incarceration and conviction rates so that it's extended for nonviolent crimes. That's why we're building more supermax prisons. That's why we're going to make your life a living hell as a people. Because slavery is very lucrative in America under the 13th Amendment, and we'd like more of you in prison. That's what America is saying to black people. So again, so that everyone under the sound of my voice, at some point, someone can answer me and not ignore me because I'm not invisible. Where's the regrowth grant money? I'm not asking for the application anymore because I gave it to you. Thank you, Mr. Dickens. Your time's up. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening, if you can give me one second because this is not working volume-wise. So my apologies. Thank you. The next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef of Rockford. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 121st chapter, the first to the second verse, it says, I look to the hills which comes my help. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. What I want to speak about tonight, the power of focus. It's not hocus pocus, it's all about focus. I love the story about the day Hall of Fame baseball player and home run king Hank Aaron came to bat in the All-Star game. Yogi Bear, the great Yankee catcher, was catching. Yogi loved to talk to hitters to distract them. I used to do that myself when I was a catcher. You get behind that hitter and say stuff like, big man, little stick. You ask him, how's your mama? You play with his mind and talk to him. Yogi Bear was great at that. So when Hank Aaron came to bat, Yogi started in. Hank, you're holding your bat the wrong way. You should be able to read the label. Hank Aaron just kept his... Focus on the picture. And didn't say anything. Yogi Bear was shattering away, trying to get Hank Aaron to worry about where the labor on his back was instead of concentrating on the picture. Finally, Hank Aaron had heard enough. Yogi, he said. I didn't come up here to read. I came up here to hit. That's keeping your focus and concentration where they need to be. Nehemiah had that kind of focus. He didn't let anything distract him. He was about God's agenda. He knew what he had been called to do. How about you? If something is distracting you from what God wants you to do, put it behind you today. I'm glad you're here tonight, Ms. Collared. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Ms. Collar. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley of Rockford. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm going to detour from what I normally want to talk about, and that was Colleen. I'm going to speak on what I spoke on for Black History Month. Genesis chapter 28, Isaac, the son of Abraham, his two sons was Ishmael and Israel. Ishmael and Israel are both the sons of Isaac, which is the son of Abraham. I ask to beg the question that no one has yet to answer. When Moses led the Jews out of Israel, why did he promise the Palestinians the milk and honey in their land? The second thing I ask, what was on the Palestinian mind when they decided to go into Israel, murder and then take 250 back to Gaza not realizing the consequences of their actions that didn't think that sleeping dragon was the most powerful weapon in the world with the most men and the best military firepower in the world wasn't going to strike back. If you walk into my house and you kill my brother and my sister, I'm coming back, and my family members coming back. There should be another way of dialoguing with the Palestinians and the Jews and shuffling their differences instead of what y'all are doing right here. You're talking about genocide. The genocide was committed when you walk into Israel land. I want to go back to where I I want to talk about Kali. Kali, they said that they want to shut her down. Four years ago, if it wasn't for Kali giving the drugs, I mean giving out prescriptions for those that's on drugs, if it wasn't for her not closing her door, felons that came to Rockford would not have been captured. With the $2 million that Rockford got, why not help Cottee? Cottee don't have the brains to fill out no grant and show you a renewal turning point. We don't have the brains to fill out a grant, but we're the grassroots organization that's out there on the ground, able to touch other people that the system can't touch. We talk about the Peace and Justice Center, Crime do not happen on those five to nine. Crime do not happen on those take a holiday off. Crime happens 365 days out the year. Prostitution, domestic violence, incest, Criminal crime happened 365 days after year, 24-7. Carly Place shouldn't be shut down. What you should take some of that money and help build her place up so she can reach some of the people that the system can never reach. And that, I'm going to end my speech because I have something else I want to talk about. Renewal attorney for it. And I'm definitely coming back and talk about DCSL. Thank you, Mr. Hanley. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to go to new committee reports, and we'll go to planning and development and Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There are four items. under new committee reports, Roman numeral 6A. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the proposed funding agreement with Goodwill Industries of Northern Illinois for the establishment of an Excel Center and the costs related to capital improvements, renovations, and upgrades at 808 West Riverside Boulevard. In the amount of $600,000, utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The committee recommends approval of the proposed funding agreement with International Women's Baseball Center for the field and capital improvements at 311 15th Avenue in the amount of $400,000, utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds. The legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, committee recommends approval of the proposed market service agreement with Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau for Made for Rockford Campaign Phase 2 in the amount of $200,000 for two years, which is $100,000 annually, utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Number four, committee recommends approval of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Sci-Fi Networks Rockford, LLC, for smart city managed services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. Council, we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I raised this issue in conversation. Committee meetings and that was a number one the goodwill industries of Northern, Illinois and Wisconsin state line and that was when the with the the proposal, I think it was number three Roman number three and some of the purposes for Supporting goodwill industries the ARPA funds were meant to to reimburse or replace lost revenue among different organizations And I had questioned that at the time I voted in favor of it because I think goodwill does some good work, but in reviewing Some of their tax data goodwill industries actually through ARPA their revenue increased their filings in in 2022 their revenue was 41 million one hundred three dollars and twenty two cents of their Expenses I did note that their executive director makes close to two hundred eighty thousand dollars a year 221 thirty eight million dollars to seventy six in revenue and in 2020 thirty one million dollars in revenue 2019 twenty seven dollars twenty seven million dollars in revenue so in the course of Since 2019, the revenue went from $27,051 and $715 to $41 million. That's hardly, I don't see how they were affected at all by COVID. In fact, as I suspected and said in committee, I thought they probably did better because of COVID. their need, what they supply and their needs and utilization in the community during that time. I know they expense out a lot of things and they give away and they do a lot of programs, but their net revenues are averaging somewhere in the neighborhood of two million dollars. So, unfortunately, I can't support the use of taxpayer money to an organization that actually is doing very well. I mean, we had a lot of businesses, restaurants among them, that suffered through this, and I think the $600,000 would go better to other organizations. The other question I had, if anybody knows, are they vacating Whitman and Church? Yes. Are they going to vacate something that was built for them some years ago and moving to another space? Because that would almost seem a further, I don't know why they would do that. That would seem to be kind of a waste of money if they're vacating that space using taxpayer dollars to revenue another space. And my understanding is that may be happening. So is there anybody can explain part two? Part one is evident in their form 990 filings, which I'm looking at. So those numbers are real based on their 990 filing. So what's the question that you'd like answered? What's that? What is the question that you would like answered? One of the questions that I have is are they vacating Whitman and Church? In other words, are they using taxpayer money to vacate a property that they already own that is sufficient for their needs and moving somewhere else using taxpayer money? And then secondly, they ask the question, why do they need taxpayer money? Why don't we give it to other applicants whose businesses have taken a hit when theirs has not taken an economic hit during COVID? Okay, so first, no, they are not vacating their office location currently at Whitman. on Whitman Street. They rent on that street, so that was not built for them. It was office space. It was, I believe, US Bank at one point, but that building's been there long before Goodwill was there. But they are not gonna vacate that. Second is we are putting money towards the capital along with the federal government and I believe potentially even the county and they are also putting in the majority of the money towards the capital, and then they're also taking on the ongoing expense of the Excel Center, which is roughly approximately $3 million a year. And for those who aren't aware, an Excel Center provides high school diplomas, provides free childcare, and job placement assistance to individuals who utilize those services. Alderman Durkee it's just a matter of record the director of Goodwill is your brother-in-law, correct? Yes. Thank you alderman frost Yeah with respect to the Excel Center if I'm not mistaken that that's going into the former North Town Mall I think location where Gustafson's Furniture used to be and that that space will be used Specifically for the Excel Center. Is that correct? Thank you other one Meeks So I can't really speak to what the additional programming was because the conversation that I had was quite a while ago. But I am fully aware of many more additional programs that have been added to Goodwill in the Rockford area. So to only have one side of the story and only talk about the revenue and not talk about the expenses, I think is... A little bit, you know, possibly dangerous conversations, but I just want to kind of put that out there because there were things that were added. Probably, you know, possibly because of COVID and things of that nature that we are here now at this point. So I still think it's a good effort that we want to put forth in this community. I think that it's working in many other communities, and I think it's a helpful hand that we can offer as a city. So thank you. Alderman Durkee. To respond, I did give you the revenue. I told you the expenses and acknowledged that the expenses were good because they do a good service in the community. And I gave you their average net income off of that total revenue. And the question is not any of that. The question is the utilization of taxpayer dollars to do this when it appears that they have an adequate funding stream. The purpose of ARPA is to replace lost revenue from businesses that suffered during COVID. That's the intent of the taxpayer money, for clarity. That is one of the intents. Alderman Rose. Yeah, I was just going to make note that it is one of the intents of the ARPA money. It's also to address the conditions that COVID had created, which is, young people facing extreme hardship throughout COVID and not being able to essentially get their degrees. A lot of young people had to face hardship by going to work and dropping out of school. And so that is one of those issues that I believe that Goodwill is addressing in our community. And I think that it was an issue that was created by COVID. And so it does meet that guideline. If we look at it just from that strict definition that was given, it's not just for businesses either. It's for any organization, non-for-profits, government institutions, organizations. Basically any organization that has had to address the issues from kovat other discussion alderman Durkee again and just a Another question or reminder or a concern that I had with the money to our a CVB the $200,000 I did raise this issue of the We're we're funding this organization to push Rockford and in a lot of stuff we get from our ACVB is somewhat boilerplate meaning I They put out statistics and it's hard to grapple with if it's their effort somebody else's effort or other things but tangible results and outcomes You know one of the things I continue to look at a sports court. I mean the sports factory downtown and So I raised that issue. Mr. Groh did send me a rubric regarding what they intend, if their best efforts, to measure effectiveness. But I think it's something that we need to pay attention to that. It may come time for us to put this out for bid and get results. Give somebody another crack at it if we really don't see some good results I think you know Rockford RICVB does a pretty good job, but somewhere along the line the good intention Money or a good in a program that's well intended needs to show some kind of results eventually That's not just basically a boilerplate Report that we get thank you your honor. I Absolutely. And just for council, just actually this coming weekend, there'll be 400 or I'm sorry, there'll be 275 teams utilizing the 16 courts down at the sports factory, as well as 18 courts out at Mercy, utilizing 1500 hotel rooms with 4000 guests with an economic impact of 434,000 just for the one tournament this weekend. Other discussion? Alderman to burg Thank You mayor. I just like to make clear if there's There is no indication whatsoever that Goodwill has made any mention or notion that They will be vacating that building and going to the Excel Center Nope, they're utilizing that space and that is a concern of mine. Of course being they are in the third Ward and they do take up multiple floors of that space and It would be it would definitely have an effect on that immediate area with vacating that space and In a building that we don't need to sit vacant Agreed other one make meeks Can I ask what was the original purpose of the RAC VB's made in Rockford campaign? Yes, mr. Cagnone I'm good. You're good mayor. Thank you. So the original made for Rockford marketing prep program began in 2021 and it was to highlight the assets of the city of Rockford not only to our own residents But also the the greater region in Midwest and that marketing was to You know, highlight those activities to support our businesses and talent attraction to the city of Rockford, as well as for businesses and individuals to move to Rockford. certainly a much more comprehensive discussion than that. And they worked with a number of HR departments as well as private sector businesses in putting together a program and effective strategy to reach out to, you know, regional media, which resulted in a number of stories of positive attention. This is something that has been discussed on and off as a region for a significant amount of time. At a point in the media where it's easy to have negative articles, we wanted to make sure we're highlighting the positive of the Rockford and that those are also getting regional and national attention whenever possible. Thank you. So does this campaign help to alleviate some of the negative attention that Rockford's getting out in the world? In the short answer, yes. I think when you're out there marketing your positive attributes of a community, you have the opportunity for individuals to report on that and discuss it. And then just to kind of... Understand the correlation between kind of like sports teams coming into our community How does this campaign? relate to That kind of activity that I do believe is that the work of the RACVB or is did the RACVB? Just kind of take this on because nobody else was doing it So I would say the the made for Rockford campaign complements their other work But it is different work than what their core activity is related to, you know, tourism-related marketing and helping bring sports events to the community. Certainly they don't do that alone. They do that with partners throughout the community, including the Rockford Park District. the hotel industry within the city as well. And understanding their significant knowledge of our community, our community assets, the thought was that they would be an organization that would be appropriate to take this on. As we looked at best practices in other communities, it's not uncommon that this type of activity would be done by a CVB type organization. Okay, thank you. I can add actually tomorrow myself the local president of I should say the site president for Woodward John grow and I are meeting with University of Illinois College of Medicine Rose grants the foundation community foundation Rockford Public Schools Mercy health and OSF Collins aerospace and UW health because we don't want to do this just alone or just with Woodward. It should be also led by the business community and one of the pillars of the new Greater Rockford Chamber of Commerce Is kind of branding and talent attraction? Alderman Frost, thanks if I can just comment a little bit on this issue one. I am on the board I But two, Alderman Trina and I were on the committee when the city of Rockford redeveloped, redesigned our web page. And that process took a significant amount of time and duration of time. The city itself really doesn't have a department or a marketing division or could put it on our IT director because that's far beyond that purview to actually once the webpage is up drive people to the webpage and then drive people to our community which can take on and frankly is a full-time job so if I'm not mistaken I don't believe it's as if we're writing a check to the RACDB and it's their money. I believe they were utilizing a lot of their insight and professional services with vendors in a variety of way that they have a relationship with at the same time as they're working with them to promote Rockford and the activities such as sports venues and restaurants and restaurant week and things that they do on a normal basis, but these funds are used specifically to hopefully market and invest in the City of Rockford's marketing efforts to drive people here for a variety of reasons, not just sports, things like that. Accurate, and as Alderman know, we have a Director of Communications with a staff of zero, And I would say I think alderman Durkee's apt to point out You know, I think it was during committee. He may have pointed out that certain I should say alderman the first word pointed out that there's a Certain percentage went to vendors in any campaign that you do as all of you have done You put more outlay in the beginning on your marketing efforts with creating the brand the logo and things of that nature And then you can start actually allocating those dollars further out to those areas that you're targeting But yes, it's also certainly not to just attract them to sports at tournaments for sure any other comments? I alderman turkey again thank you your honor the uh i use the sports factory is just an example i know there's there's other things that go on but it also i know that the um when we gave this money they they partly sub some of this stuff out originally And that sort of piqued my concern, is if they're using an outside vendors, why not just contract with an outside vendor at some point? So I get what's going on. I support the utilization of funds, but like I said, sooner or later, something's got to flow to us. Says that this is going to be effective rather than clicks on a website, so I wish them well I hope I hope they do it. I you know I don't want him to fail That's for sure. I want them to be horribly successful, so but I'm in support of the funding. That's good to hear other questions Clerk could you please call the roll turkey no on one eye on the rest Logum in tumor frost Tarina Hoffman Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Bailey. I'm sorry, Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Item number one, 11 ayes, one no. Items two through four, 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 11 items. Number one, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of Barrick Drive from Ware Road to Reed Farm Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of Weishart Drive from Barrick Drive to 50 feet north of Barrick Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 3. Committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of the right-of-way alley between Berry Road and Martin Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 4. Committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of Hill Street from Madison Street to the Rock River. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 5. Committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of Mulberry Street from Court Street to Winnebago Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 6. Committee recommends approval of the request to vacate a portion of Mulberry Street from Court Street to Winnebago Street. of the variation to allow parking in front of the building and a variation to reduce the parking lot setback from 10 feet to 5 feet in a designated pedestrian street in the C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 99 East State Street, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for outdoor storage for passenger vehicles in conjunction with an auto body shop and an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3238 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendations of approval for the special use permit for outdoor trailer parking and denial the outdoor storage of recycling overflow materials in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 1505 and 1507 Kishwaukee Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 5529 Cunningham Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, the committee makes no recommendations as to the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products. In conjunction with the gas station and a convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 1344 East State Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Number 11 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor and the sale of tobacco Products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 8070 East State Street Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance place these 11 items before you. Thank you Thank you. Is there any discussion on the 11 items before us alderman bond? Thank you mayor. I With respect to number six, we spent a considerable amount of time last week at committee talking about this. I don't want to retread too much of that ground, but I did want to convey that I had asked for an opinion from the chief of police on this issue and Chief Red contacted me Friday. to indicate that she concurred with the staff recommendation to oppose this curb cut for the redevelopment of the news tower, cited concerns with traffic flow, traffic congestion, especially around the 5 o'clock hour, Monday through Friday. We were told that there had been a survey conducted by the River District and that the downtown businesses... supported over I believe the exact word but led to believe overwhelmingly Supported this and I have talked to five downtown business owners who never received the survey from the River District one of them indicated that the same C4 is the pedestrian zone that in in c4 zoning that would Prevent this curb cut unless we make an exception would prevent prevents putting tables out on the same section of East State Street for outdoor dining and Wonders if we're going to make an allowance in this case Would we would we reconsider that and you know, I feel like it I? Again, the difference is, you know, we're, I mean, the argument was made that we're not being business friendly, but sometimes, you know, we're big business friendly maybe and not small business friendly. I also spoke with the developer and asked the question if the, if it was, if we're simply looking at a situation where if this curb cut is not granted that the, there would be the loss of a tenant and a lease that wasn't gonna get executed, or rather if the, we're being told that in fact the entire The redevelopment of the news tower collapses and the answer was the entire redevelopment of the news tower collapses I was also told by the developer that he thinks our staff who put forward the recommendation to deny this should be fired and Again, we have our traffic engineer our building and zoning officer the chief of police and the ZBA who have all been said that they think this is a bad idea. And I think that we have, again, I think we've, you know, perhaps the decision we made with the redevelopment of Barbara Coleman where we were threatened that if we were, as the council, to require a labor agreement that they opposed, that they would walk, is now a template for big business to threaten us that the deal collapses every time they don't get what they want. Don't believe that that that's the case here Especially when by their own admission the developer is acknowledged acknowledges that we're not saying that we Were not our action if we were to support the staff recommendation We're not saying that we're not denying valet parking we're just denying valet parking that exits on the state and by their own admission they could have valet parking that exits on the chestnut instead and And the difference, according to Mr. Capovilla, is about a 40-foot walk to the main entrance of the current main entrance of the old Register Star building. Again, we're not, and we're also not privy to who this prospective tenant is that would, that requires this curb cut in order to sign a lease, I'm just left to assume that what we're really being asked is to make a political accommodation, and I'm not necessarily opposed to that, but I'm opposed to doing it when we don't know who we're making the political accommodation for. So I am going to be voting against this. Thank you. Thank you, and just for clarification All businesses downtown were not surveyed nor was that what was said? For clarification the river district board was surveyed and they came back with the overwhelming Support of it. We have other hands up here Holder men timber. Did you have your hand up? Thank you, Mayor, and thank you for clarifying that. I think I was under the impression, too, that it was the businesses that were surveyed. I thought that's what was conveyed to me. Again, as I pointed out at a previous meeting, that there are much larger urban areas than Rockford, believe it or not. and they have much more traffic, and vehicular traffic, and much more pedestrian traffic than we do downtown, unfortunately they do. But as we continue to put resources and energy into making downtown the center of our city, this is so commonplace in other cities. I understand that we have an ordinance right now as it stands and that's why we need a variation. But I have great respect for our traffic department and those who serve in it, including our zoning department and our chief of police. Our zoning and planning department are going by what the ordinance is at present. That of course it is what it is. So they have to you know, maybe not have to but they're probably going obviously by the Present ordinance and that would be a recommendation of denial and that's why we're here debating this because we have to come into situations where we're confronted with a Coming up with variances and and such to our existing ordinances to accommodate certain situations And this is case in point again Having the ability to have this the way it is designed With the exception of I would like to see the city approve where believe it would relieve traffic on East state in the sense of when it comes to parking the cars the way the city is recommending right now is to come out of the new proposed proposed new curb cut That means they would have to come out on the State Street after they just got off State Street so during times of congestion and having allowing the cars to go in through the new curb cut and relieving further congestion on East State Street when the car is being valet ed They then have the ability to just continue on like so many other valet parking situations such as Embassy Suites such as what is in so many other cities where they would just continue with that vehicle through the parking lot onto chestnut onto Madison and go down to the other parking lot so That would alleviate the way it's currently presently presented by the city is to enter through the existing entryway and then exit and at the new curb cut, which you do have a seven-story building or so sitting right there, that could then create sightline issues for cars coming west on East State, and then that car having to pull out yet again onto East State. I don't know if this would quantify as big business. I kind of consider big business more like Walmart, Target. Kroger. I don't know if I can, as much as maybe the CEO would love to someday be categorized as big business, iconic energy becoming big business, I don't know if it's hit that plateau. No offense to the CEO. At this time, I don't know if I'd categorize it as big business. What I do see is that we have a building that is existing and has been vacant for a long time. A majority of it, at least, vacant for a long time. They are not, as I stated previously in last week's meeting, they're not coming into a blank canvas. This is an existing building. that they have to work with and design it accordingly to function in today's times, not back when it was built in 1920-something. So I look at them putting the capital into this. I can sympathize with the 14th Ward Alderman on the aspects of a project being killed if something doesn't happen. But I think in this case if you've looked at the renderings, I think you can appreciate the the aspects of it and how it will benefit downtown and As far as the businesses coming in Again certain agreements can be put in place between a tenant and landlord or a future tenant landlord that is that essentially constricts that landlord, future landlord, from telling who that tenant is. As alderman of the ward, I don't even know. And I was told that you just can't say it at this time. Frankly, I don't care who the tenant is. Well, yes, I should say I could. So let me let me rephrase that I I'm hoping that the tenants are Upstanding law-abiding citizens and and practice the such with their business, but if it in fact is Going to bring in tenants and especially if they are do not have a presence in Rockford at this time that would be welcomed into downtown with more individuals foot traffic and and people that can frequent the multitudes of shops and restaurants downtown. So thank you. Thank you. We are much safer since we spent four weeks talking about Bigfoot Lounge. So we're safe to say that that's staying where it's at. So you don't have to worry about that. Other discussion? Alderman Bailey. This is a tough vote for me, Mayor. And I understand what we're trying to do downtown, and I can appreciate it. But from my perspective, I think it's a matter of aesthetics. There's a safety concern that I have based on the design of East 8th Street. But I just want to be on record as saying that this is going to be a tough decision for me based upon my feelings. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussions? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No on. Logerman. No on. Ten. Toomer. No on. Ten. I agree. Frost, no one in there Tarina Rose Barrios Meeks Bailey, Bonnie I'm number one through five alderman Durkee. I'm sorry. I meant to vote no on ten. I'm sorry I'm one through five 12 eyes item 611 eyes 1 no 7 and 8 12 eyes item 9 11 eyes 1 no and Item number 10, four ayes, eight noes. Item 11, 11 ayes, one no on A. I'm sorry, what was item 11? Can you repeat that again? It was 11 ayes, one no on A. I got that. And then on 10? It was four ayes, eight noes. Thank you. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $9,583,511.69 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on February 26, 2024. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed purchase of 214 North Church Street from the Library Board of Trustees in the amount of $795,000. The property is a commercial building, approximately 28 square feet in size. The city plans on leaving the building for the new home of the Family Peace Center, providing much needed expansion from its current facility. The estimated closing date is July 31, 2024. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee approves recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city and IEP a to establish a long-term household hazardous waste collection facility The legal director shall prepare the appropriate orders. I place these three mayors before you Thank You council There's three items before you is there any discussion on those three items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? bogeyman Toonberg frost Serena printy Hoffman rose each Barrios Meeks Bailey, Bonnie, okay 13 eyes excellent next we'll go to unfinished business. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and older woman Torino. Thank you your honor number one the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval of a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in the C4 Urban Mixed Use Zoning District at 205 West State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, number three, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval... To establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of North Pierpont Avenue from 200 feet south of Auburn Street to 1,100 feet south of Auburn Street, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Council, there's three items before us. I need discussion on those three items. Alderman Bailey? Yeah. Item number three, Your Honor. Yes. I'd like to motion to lay this over. Okay. We have a motion we have a second to lay over item number three So we'll need a vote on this since it's been laid over in the past Is there any discussion on laying over that item no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Serena fronty Hoffman rose Beach Darius Meeks Bailey hi, honey. All right. Thank you. I There's two items before us any discussion on those two items alderman Toonberg. Thank you mayor. I just wanted to mention on there was talks on the calls for service to the to the district and Apparently and I'm just going by there were 207 incidents so when sometimes when we when we do talk and calls for service and we look at that and Sometimes it does need to be looked into a little bit more calls for service sometimes can be you know, just looked at off the cuff as every one of those is a incident that warrants calling police due to Problems that are happening because of an establishment or such so I just wanted to I Point out and just for clarification On the calls for service. I was I haven't verified this So I haven't verified to this with the chief for full this Transparency but out of those 39 or duplicate calls or miss dial hang-ups to 9-1-1 29 calls were related to welfare checks or community resource unit 16 were for informational calls such as to report a found item 13 calls were related to traffic stops and other unrelated car incidents near the location 10 were related to suspicious persons that were seen near the establishment 9 were related to warrants that were served at the premises 8 were related to medical incidents and One patron was having a seizure. Six related to burglar alarms being triggered. Four for domestic disputes. Others that theft at the premises. and other ones that resulted in no report. So I'm just, it's just a matter of us when someone just throws out there were this many calls for service that we just distinguish a little bit more so than just throwing that out and assuming right off the bat that there are calls for problems due to the establishment. So that's, I just wanted to clarify that, and thanks. Other discussion? Alderman Bailey. Yeah, Your Honor. I move to amend the conditions of approval as follows. To which item? District Bar and Grill. So item number two, okay. Yes, item number two. Thank you, Mayor. Additional exterior lighting and cameras shall be installed to cover the parking lot and exterior of the premises. The licensees shall retain training security. Item number three, security shall regularly monitor the parking lot to prevent and deter illegal conduct, including but not limited to patrons consuming alcohol in the parking lot. Item number four, the hours of operation are limited to 8 a.m. to 12 a.m., midnight, Monday through Sunday. Currently, they are open until 2 a.m. for a period of 180 days. Hours of operation are reviewable after 180 days at that time the licensee may apply for Modification to adjust the hours of operation But should not be required to pay the standard application fee for modification item number five The licensee shall post in a conspicuous place and on the menu regarding the infused products information should be sufficient and to inform patrons what is in the product, whether it is intoxicating and how it is regulated. Okay, so we have a motion on the floor to amend item number two. Is there a second to those amendments? Second. All right, so we have a motion and we have a second for the amendments outlined by Alderman of the 13th Ward adding five amendments. Is there a discussion alderman Dirk? Thank you your honor. I may have missed something like some clarity on condition number five What type of clarity would you like? What is the infused products that that they're selling we know alcohols intoxicating what else what would they be selling? That's I Mean which staff is answering that director Meyer? Sure, my understanding is they're contemplating in the district Selling items that are infused with hemp and CBD or TC derived from hemp both as a standalone like baked goods from another another Business, but also on the menu items themselves and there's an area concern. So we addressed it with alderman Bailey's well any of the Well any of the products have active THC in them good question I Alderman frost But I'm not saying oh, no neither am I so But I believe it to answer. I believe that the CBD Process that I believe that some may have a level of THC Okay, so before we get down the Rabbit of what we do or don't know we do have if it's allowable by this council one of the potential soon-to-be owners of the establishment present, who happens to be an expert in all the questions that Alderman Durkee just asked about. If you would like, I could have them answer that question now, but I would need your approval to do so. I'd make a motion to approve that, since he's here. Second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. So we have Mr. Eric Carlson, who is here with us this evening. Yeah, and I'm one of the owners of Mrs. Buckley's Wake and Bakery. We've got the store that's over on East State Street right by the Ross and Best Buy there where we've been selling for the past two years hemp-infused baked goods and coffee drinks, lemonades, things like that. And one of the things that, you know, I want to make sure you understand with all the products that we sell is that these products right now, these are all federally legal products. These are all made with hemp. There is THC involved. There's certain levels of THC that are allowed under the 2018 Farm Bill. And so this meets all of the federal requirements. This also meets all of the state requirements. And we've been working very hard, particularly with our local Rockford legislators down in Springfield to be pushing forward new laws that are gonna be fully regulating these products going forward. both Representative Maurice West and Dave Vela, both were co-sponsors on one of the laws that was pushed forward during the last session. And this is, I think, something that is really interesting because the hemp industry, just this past year actually surpassed the legalized cannabis industry in U.S. for sale. So it was actually $28 billion as opposed to the cannabis industry at $25 billion. So this is an industry that, you know, really kind of crept up on people, frankly, but now that it's here, we've seen already that there's been very, very widespread adoption by people. This is a popular product. This is a product that a lot of people like to have. People like to have it for functional pain relief. That's really what most of our, you know, customers are coming in for. They're looking for something that is less powerful than what they get in dispensaries, but powerful enough that it knocks out what the pain that they have, so they don't feel things. So at any rate, to answer your questions more directly, yes there is THC in some of these products, these are all legal products, and yeah, I'm happy to answer any direct questions you have. Thank you, and I would just ask, make sure that you're only answering the questions that are asked of you. So we have a couple of questions, Alderman Frost and then Alderman Logeman. Mr. Carlson, with this location, I believe I'm under the impression that some of the CBD products could be infused in both food and drink, correct? So the products can be infused in both food and, well, the food is limited to the baked goods that are already made and packaged. We put those all in packaging that include specific labels that tell what the milligrams are that are in there. They include packaging to link back to the third-party testing. All the rules that are in the regulations that we're proposing down in Springfield. Just a couple of follow-ups. So with respect to... It's not as if there's going to be a cook in the back room that's going to be weighing out some CBD product or mixing one better for sleep or pain or anything of that nature. They will all be prepackaged, is that correct? Well, they are prepackaged, and they do have ones that are better for sleep and pain. But, yes, they're all mitered by the milligram, and it's done to a very exacting standards, yes. And would it be a burden if – either through literature or the menu, or I guess like the Wake and Bake facility, to have a way of informing in some written format customers as to what levels or what's in each product. We already do that, and so this is something that we're happy to be doing, and we want our customers to be informed. Thank you. Alderman Mogelman. Thank you, Mayor. Mr. Carlson, I was just curious about the item Item number four on the amendments, hours of operation limited, constricting that from 2 a.m. to midnight. Again, no expert in here like many of us are, but I would expect a lot of bar owners to make a significant portion of their revenue from 12 a.m. to 2 a.m., would be my preference to give some type of grace period of a hundred and eighty days in the opposite direction allow you to operate until two a m for a hundred eighty days kind of like a trial period but i think you know i think i think that this amendment here uh... some curious how Yeah, limiting the hours for your closure at 12 a.m. How would that affect your Like your overall business operations from now For these next six months here That is a real you know effect on what the bottom dollar is as far as the profitability of a business because You know really, you know You have to understand that the way the restaurant industry works is a lot of for the owners you know you have the restaurant there that's serving food and and You know you're making enough to obviously cover all your waiters waitresses staff the kitchen staff and that's all being covered But there's not a really a whole lot of overhead on there with the food overhead comes in Frankly with drinks that we all know this so we all know that we pay too much when we go to the bar to drink And that's where that's how the bars and restaurants make money, so it's it does You know drastically affect What our what our plans are because this is getting into you know was what is this a business? It's profitable on day one or is this a business that we somehow have to try and survive For six months and you know see if we're we're all still there standing in six months that they mean we can become profitable So this is something that is very very difficult for us to be able to weather through Really when the highest margin times of our week are kind of stripped away from us. Thank you other one meets I Hello, so I understand you own the I can't remember the name of the business, but it's the bakery Yes, do you own any other businesses that involve alcohol while you're serving those products? So the the businesses that involve alcohol are just the two that we're trying to you know, right get get applied on today So this is this is a new venture for us getting in really trying to you At all times we've been really kind of on the the cutting edge of what's going on with the Regulations and the rules and making sure that we're at all times compliant and following the regulations But also trying to set a good example of hey that this business is going to exist this business is going to move forward What can we be doing really to be on the forefront of this and making sure that we are you know kind of doing things? the right way so that this is a business that can flourish because and IT'S HERE AND IT'S JUST A MATTER OF YOU KNOW IF THIS IS DONE CORRECTLY THIS IS A BUSINESS THAT I THINK CAN BRING A LOT OF JOBS UH DIRECTLY TO ROCKFORD WE ALSO HAVE OUR GROWING FACILITY AND OUR PACKAGING FACILITY HERE IN ROCKFORD THAT WE'RE UNDERGOING UH SIGNIFICANT EXPANSION ON RIGHT NOW A MORE THAN 10 MILLION DOLLAR EXPANSION SO WE'RE LOOKING TO BE MOVING A LOT OF UH JOBS HERE AND THIS IS JUST PART OF THE YOU KNOW KIND OF THE OVERARCHING UH Puzzle is is kind of understanding what can happen on the retail side and how to do that the absolute best way possible So have you researched any other any other areas that do run these businesses? And bars that serve these products has there been any kind of issues in those businesses? I'm just I guess my concern is mixing the two. There's the alcohol. That's one and One factor. Now we're adding on a whole other factor in a bar that has had a history of issues. And I understand, you know, reading through the calls to service and understanding the duplicates and all of the missteps there. But I think that it cannot be denied that this is a bar that has several issues. So I just want to make that kind of clear. But have you done any research outside of this area where this has worked? Well, we have done quite a bit of research, you know, looking into where this is, you know. I mean, this has obviously been tried anecdotally by lots and lots of people. There's not a whole lot of, like. like published research on any of this, but there is a whole lot of, there's magazine articles and stories about this, you know, going on all the time right now because this is actually happening kind of across the country in real time. And it is, you know, occurring, you know, places like this are popping up throughout Canada and throughout Nevada and Colorado and California and places that, that have gone legal. And really the front edge of this is kind of the, on the hemp side right now because we're seeing like a lot of the the retailers, the liquor distributors are now selling these products. I'm not sure if you're aware, but if you go into Binney's, you can buy THC drinks right there. They're sold right there with the beer. You can buy this stuff in other various different restaurants and bars across Rockford because it's being sold now through the distributors. So it's like this is already like, happening throughout the town. We're just the ones that are kind of coming to you, asking for, you know, making sure you know about it. Yeah, it's happening. It's happening, but like you said, those kinds of instances, people will probably take that home. They'll take it to the setting that I was under the impression that cannabis products were supposed to be consumed was in your own home. So we have kind of opened this up already in a previous situation, but you're stepping into a Different kind of classification I think because the history of this particular so I appreciate your comments But thank you. Thank you. Thank you all the one Alderman rose. This one's for staff are there any other places in Rockford that are currently selling both CBD and alcohol I'm not aware of any restaurants that are. I think as Mr. Carlson stated, there are the retailers who are selling at least some CBD-infused beer, but I'm not certain of any other that have a menu featuring hemp or CBD items. Okay. Thank you. Other discussion? Alderman Toonberg. Thank you, Mayor. In regards to what was just stated by the potential owner on the hours, and it was a good question by the second ward alderman, apparently there was 18 calls that were actually to the establishment, or 18 calls... that appear to be related to issues at the establishment according to disorderly conduct, battery. I fully realize there's been one or two shootings there as well in the past. So, I am, when we have, like with another establishment over in the eighth ward, I believe, where we do have a situation where if things go If doesn't pass tonight the the whole thing doesn't pass tonight We have a situation where the current ownership can continue to run it the way it's run. I am Happy to hear that there will be additional safety measures taken increased lighting security and especially towards the parking lot which has been an issue and that's a city-owned parking lot by the way and It does concern me a little bit on the six months. I think that maybe we could consider splitting it down the middle, saying three months, but I am going to support that for this to go move forward, I will support the amendment. but I would also consider that as being six months. I would like to see also at the same time the owners to have the ability to prove themselves and if not, then we move it the other way as Second Ward Alderman was alluding to. But if that's the way it is, then that's the way it is and I'll go ahead and support it. Thank you alderman, and I also staff can make sure that we provide you all updates, so if you want to shorten at a later time you could certainly Direct staff to move in that direction alderman Bonnie Thank You mayor just to procedural questions So the suggestion by the alderman in the second ward We are supposed to have amendments Council meeting in writing before the meeting starts, but what about amendments to amendments can they be made from the floor that's a mark I? Think it's gonna be depend on the complexity of it I think typically typically we have the reason we have the momentum writing is so everybody knows what they're voting on In this case if it's gonna be a very easily understandable one amending an amendment It would be okay. If not, then we would need to have it in writing. So I Depends on the wording out of out of curiosity is that requirement that requirement in the first place that we have them in writing? Is that actually in an ordinance or is that understanding? Sorrows it isn't From for that reason yes is to make sure that everybody understands what's being voted on I would then move to amend the number four amendment to reverse The limitation of the hours of operation that they would that the hours of operation would revert to to midnight Versus the closing would revert to midnight versus 2 a.m. After a period of 180 days at the council's discretion based on review of incidents in that hundred day 80 day period Are you saying that you would like? item 4 to Say that the hours of operation are limited to 8 a.m. To 2 a.m Monday through Sunday and That it could go backwards after 180 days if there's issues right with it with the let's say with the Question of the closing time coming back to Council for review in 180 days. All right, we have an amendment to the amendment by alderman Bonnie and that amendment would be That the restaurant and bar is allowed to be open from 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., Monday through Sunday, and that at 180 days, city staff would bring it before council to review those hours of operation. My humble suggestion would be that it would be at least before the 180 if you actually want to make a change at 180 because then you're talking if it is bad at 180, it's fine. It's not to be derogatory, but it's not that this body moves incredibly swiftly. So it could be 150, let's say 150 days. So before we have questions, just so I understand this. You get to the second as well, Mr. Mayor. Yep, I know we do. I need them to understand what the first is about. So items 1, 2, 3, and 5, Walderman-Bailies would stand. Item 4 would be amended. Alderman Bonney would amend Alderman Bailey's statement that the restaurant and bar is able to open Monday through Sunday, 8 a.m. to 2 a.m., and at 150 days, city staff would provide council an update, including multiple things like calls for service and other issues that may or may not have arisen during that time period, and allow this body to deliberate it again. Alderman Tunberg. I'm sorry. Alderman Durkee, I was having both on my list. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Before I make a comment, do we vote on amended 4 before we vote on the – We are going to vote on the amended – To the amendment. Amendment 4 first, and then we'll go through all five. Beautiful. Thank you, sir. Any other discussion? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you. So yes, my original convert or my statements before, I'm directing this to the 14th Ward Alderman, was instead of a six month time frame, maybe cutting it down in half, cut it right down the middle to three months, Am okay with the aldermen's proposal essentially. I think what the council is doing is putting this establishment on a pseudo probationary period of 150 days with the new ownership coming in and then evaluating at that 150 days whether Closing should begin at midnight. I So that's what I'm understanding from the 14th Ward Alderman? Correct. All right. Thank you. Alderman Beach, did you have your hand raised? I did. Okay. And I don't want to muddy the waters here, but... Oh, they're muddy. Come on in. They are somewhat of that. So if, as been discussed, let's kind of split it down the middle. I'd rather see it stay at six months with a review in three. And if things are fine, release it at three. rather than kind of a negative motivator. Let's say we didn't like it after three, and we have to put more attachments to it. So I just throw that out as another in how we can deal with the three. By starting with the seven, if everything is fine in three, then release it to later hours. Something this council could consider. Is there other discussion? All right, so we are voting on Alderman dirt or alderman timber did he have another statement? Points being brought up here that possibly warrant further discussion on that aspect What's the what's the? legalities of laying over that one item It's a it's a liquor license in the it's approved by an ordinance with certain conditions and we would need to have all those conditions wrapped up and Into one it wouldn't I don't think we could be able to approve an ordinance and then come back and sort of it wouldn't Be a full approval essentially all right, okay, so what is going to be before you right now for a vote hours of operation Would be 8 a.m.. To 2 a.m.. Monday through Sunday for a period of 150 days staff or at 150 days staff would provide you all a report and provide you the opportunity to either make bring them backwards to midnight or to let them remain open till 2 a.m. Do you all understand what's on the amendment? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. No. Eight ayes, five noes. Wow, that was fun. All right. So now we are going to go with the five items that are before us. Understand one of those five, item four, has been amended to come back to you for a review at 150 days. Sir, I need discussion on those five items. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. The concern I have is condition five. Yes, sir. And... There is no, depending on how they prepare this, there's really no way to gauge the level of active THC in their product. They really can't do that. And I haven't heard anything to say that they can. Which basically means that the difference between alcohol and THC is this. Alcohol, it's use is not necessarily to be intoxicated. You want a glass of wine. You're not trying to be intoxicated. Active THC has a different purpose for many people. You're now combining two intoxicants for consumption at a bar. The owner even basically said this was for sleep purposes. So you're giving a hemp product, which is a euphemism for THC, to induce sleep while drinking alcohol. Now, they may not do that, but they have the opportunity to do that. I don't know any physician anywhere that would ever say that this is a good idea, to give somebody two intoxicants when you don't know per the individual what they're going to do. There's no way I can support. I support the bar. I support one through four, the whole thing. There's no way that I can support number five. That can't happen. Thank you. Other discussion? So I make, I'm sorry, would like to make an amendment to eliminate condition number five. So if you eliminate the, just so I have a, here's my understanding, you would like to, Alderman of the First Ward, would like to make an amendment to eliminate Alderman Bailey's number five amendment. Is that accurate? So just for clarification, if you eliminate that amendment, that does not eliminate the fact that they sell this at the bar. Amendment number five, the way it is written, solely states that they will place the information in an area that anyone who walks in will know that they are consuming these products. They will also place it on their menu. So if we eliminate item number five, you're saying they don't have to tell anyone what they're given them. They can just order a cookie and if they could think it's a chocolate chip cookie or a really fun chocolate chip cookie. So I just want you to understand, because I know where you're going with this, my understanding is you probably don't support the bar based on their business model as opposed to that amendment. Thank you, sir. I appreciate the clarification. Therefore, I cannot actually support the liquor license. Thank you. Okay. We're moving along. Is there any discussion on the five items, item four being amended? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No. Logeman. Aye. tuber frost Tarina printy Hoffman rose beach Barrios Meeks We're just I'm sorry alderwoman makes we're just doing the amendments the five amendments at alderman Bailey put forward. I'm sorry What was that? No, okay, Bailey Bonnie nine eyes four nose All right. So now council we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items? I Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No on two. Aye on the rest. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. On both. Prenti. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Bonney. Aye. Item number one, 11 ayes, two noes. Item number two, eight ayes, five noes. Thank you. Next up, we are going to Motions and Resolutions, Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Trina. A resolution approving a claim settlement for State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company in the amount of $29,494.26, and we will have to suspend Rule 9. Thank you. Okay, so we have a motion to suspend Rule 9, and now we have a second. Any discussion on simply suspending Rule 9? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Now we have one item before us. Any discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Next we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Aye. number one the committee recommends approval of an application acceptance of an award for the u.s epa brownfield revolving loan fund grant supplemental funding in the amount of five million dollars number two the committee recommends approval of the award of professional services contract for the 2024 brownfields agreement um assistance to fair graham in the amount of 500 the contract race is one year the funding source is the community development planning division number three the committee recommends approval award of rfp for banking services through associated bank for commercial banking merchant services lockbox services automated pay by phone for water bills purchasing cards the city's city's line of credit and equipment financing the contract amount is 843 thousand four hundred dollars estimated to annual net gain based on the current one million treasury rate after earnings offset fees paid the contract duration is three years with two possible 2-year extensions with the ability to terminate for any reason with a 60-day notice. The funding source is the Finance Department Operating Budget Water Fund. Number four, the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for police interceptor vehicles to Curry Motors Fleet of Frankfort, Illinois in the amount of $1,681,971. The quantity of vehicles purchased may be reduced depending on the cost related to equipment and outfitting. The funding source is the Capital Lease Fund's Police Department Capital Budget. number five the committee recommends approval award a bid for water treatment plant 31 and 43 filter media replacement to cnc environmental services in the amount of 602 000 the project is estimated to be completed by the fall of 2024 the funding source is the water placement improvement Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for demolition of 1210 Railroad Avenue, Colbens to N-Track group of Luz Park, the amount of $41,113, the funding sources of construction services operating budget. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for the Head Start training with High Scope Educational Research Foundation, the amount of $32,150, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for the Head Start training with High Scope Educational Research Foundation, The contract is for training. We'll bring facilitators on site to Rockford for a week-long training for Head Start team members. I place these sub-matters before you. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. I did ask a question real quick on one of these. Is that okay? Sure. For number seven, what is the training regarding the Head Start training? This is a standard training used for the entire time. I'm sorry, this is standard training that we've used for quite some time. And what this is is we're actually lining, actually, let's take that back, the school district is actually lining in with the Head Start standards. So this is going to be an all-inclusive training for all new staff because of the high turnover that we've had. Okay, thanks, Your Honor. Alderman Beach, Barrios. Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. Wonderful. All right. Next, we're going to go back to planning and development for new business ordinances. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Romanum 10A, number one, an ordinance approving funding agreement with Goodwill Industries of Northern Illinois for the establishment of an Excel Center and costs related to capital improvements, renovations, and upgrades at 808 West Riverside Boulevard in the amount of $600,000. utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds. Number two, an ordinance approving a funding agreement with the International Women's Baseball Center for field and capital improvements at 311 15th Avenue in the amount of $400,000, utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds. number three an ordinance approving a marketing service agreement with Rockford area convention and visitors Bureau for Made for Rockford campaign phase two in the amount of two hundred thousand dollars for two years utilizing ARPA revenue replacement funds number four an ordinance approving an agreement between the city of Rockford and sci-fi networks Rockford LLC for smart city managed services these are up for passage I Excellent we got four items before us is there any further discussion on these four items alderman to burg I'd just like to ask our city administrator if he has had any conversation or any Reason to believe that goodwill is going to move their headquarters their northern, Illinois headquarters to the Excel-center mister keg known Have not had any conversations with goodwill That would suggest that they have any plans to do such. Okay, I again with some of the issues brought up by the first Ward alderman it it is concerning to me that I I you know, I will vote for this but that either that I just want to make sure that the taxpayers funds the full 600,000 is going to Strictly the Excel Center program That I know how money can move around and maybe you could say manipulated in such a way that This would then free up, so yes, the $600,000 goes, and if the question was, is the $600,000 going strictly to the Excel Center program to help those in need of a high school education and such, the answer could be yes, and be honestly answered that way. The other side of the equation is, does $600,000 free up? additional monies elsewhere in the organization that could be used then to move to the Excel Center again, it would be a travesty to the third Ward to leave a Seven story or how many stories seven or eight stories mayor? I think it's your you drive by it every day as well almost but so that I It would be a travesty for them to use this as an opportunity to move out of that building and leave a building of the like in the third ward predominantly vacant. So that is a concern of mine, and if, yes, if that happens, it would be a travesty. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Two questions on number two. Number one, do we know what that organization has raised so far towards the total project? And the second question is, do we know what that $400,000 is going to be used on? It says capital improvement. Is there a list of what they're needing right now? So we do not have the total amount that the IWBC has raised for their entire campus yet. We do know that the dollars that we would provide will go to the field upgrades that they need to get for a The United States, the U.S. women's baseball team was here last year and they stated that they will come back potentially even yet this summer if they do a number of upgrades that will allow more competitive games to be played on that field. Even before the full campus model with the activity center and the museum are constructed. And yes, we do have a list of what those items are. I don't have those with us. Thank you very much. And I would like to know sometime, you know, a few weeks down the road here, what the total amount has been raised since we started this project. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. There was another hand over here. Alderman Meeks. Mine goes back to number one. Is... Will the good will be utilizing the whole space on in the Building that they're moving into into the Gustafson furniture building right they be utilizing the entire space I thought it was only a portion of the space. Mr. Cagnone. Are you aware if they are or not? I I can't state whether they'll be using the whole space or not. You know, they already use a portion of that center for, you know, storage of a lot of their operations. But as it relates to the Excel Center, I'm not certain if that's taking up the entire space or not. My understanding, Alderwoman, and I'm not exact here, is my understanding is it won't be the entire space. It'll be a significant portion of that space. Yeah, that's what I thought too, but I thought that it was – directly related to the Excel Center and all of the Programs and services that needed to go into this Excel Center. I have heard nothing about them moving locations from their headquarters over to That new space so I can just say I've spoke to Goodwill as well as they're coming into my ward I've heard nothing about it. So you've had several questions about it. I've never heard anything about them leaving that building So I just want to say that Yeah, the current space at the Gustafson Furniture Building, I have heard nothing. I know that they were looking at alternative locations a long time ago. That potentially had other impacts, but I have heard nothing at this location. Clerk, please call the roll. Jerky. No, I'm not. Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie item number one twelve eyes one no items two three and four thirteen eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next. We'll go to code and regulation committee alderwoman Trina. Thank you. I have 14 items as number 15 was laid over Number one in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the north side of Barrick Drive from where Road to read farm Road number two in ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on both sides of why short drive from Barrett Drive to 50 feet north of Barrett Drive number three in ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of the right-of-way alley between Berry Road and Martin Road number four in ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of Hill Street from Madison Street to the Rock River and Number five, an ordinance approving the request to vacate a portion of Mulberry Street from Court Street to Winnebago Street. Number six, an ordinance approving a variation to allow parking in front of the building and a variation to reduce the parking lot setback from 10 feet to 5 feet in a designated pedestrian street in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 99 East State Street. Number seven, an ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor storage for passenger vehicles in conjunction with an auto body shop at an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3238 West State Street. Number eight an ordinance approving a special use permit for outdoor trailer parking in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 1505 and 1507 kishwaukee street and Number nine, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the installation of a solar farm, freestanding solar panel racks and solar panels in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 5529 Cunningham Road. Number 10, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C-3 general commercial zoning district at 1344 East State Street. 11. An ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 8070 East State Street. 12. An ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 8070 East State Street. 13 in ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for 50% stock purchase in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 752 and 908 West Riverside Boulevard. And 14 in ordinance approving a modification of an existing liquor license for a 50% stock purchase in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 205 West 8th Street. Thank you. Item 10 was also held out. So we have 13 items wasn't it was held out there's laid over no, it was sorry failed I thought this right sorry to confuse it even more held out. It was laid over But it was not people around one way the other Not vote on 10. I am end your amended comments I Alright, so we have 13 items because item 10 has been defeated and item 15 was laid over Want to remind council that item 14 was amended with five amendments the fourth being Switching that from 8 a.m. To 2 a.m. And from and at 150 days we will provide this body an update on how That establishment is working with the potential at that point to continue on with those same hours and or to revert them to the 12 a.m. hour. Is there any further discussion on the 13 items before you? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm nine. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Meeks. Bailey. Brown. Bonnie. Aye. Items 1 through 5, 13 ayes. Item number 6, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item 7 and 8, I'm sorry, 12 ayes. Item number 9, 11 ayes, 1 noe. Item 11, 11 ayes, 1 noe. Item 12, 12 ayes, 13, 11 ayes, 1 noe. And item number 14, 9 ayes, 5 noes. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee. We could, yes. That sounds exciting. Oh, he's here. Alderman Frost, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel. There's two items. Number one is an ordinance approving the purchase of 214 North Church Street from the Board of Library Trustees in the City of Rockford amount of $795,000. The property is a commercial building, approximately 28,000 square feet. The City plans on leasing this building for the new home of the Family Peace Center, providing much-needed expansion from its current facility. Number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the IEP a to establish the long-term residential hazardous Waste collection facility I place these two ordinances before you excellent. Thank you. There's two items before us any discussion clerk Will you please call the roll turkey logan? Toomer frost Serena Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios makes Bailey Bonnie? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Mr. Marris, we need to go back and check our vote on number 14. 14 what? On the last, under code and regulations, we want to make sure our count was correct. Yeah, that didn't make any sense. Item 14, so if you go back to new business, under code and regulation committee, item number 14, item number 14 is the district bar and grill. Okay. Mr. Cagnone? Alderman Frost was out of the room, so the vote would have been 8-5. He's here now. Do you want to vote on number 14? So we have... He did. Correct. So you can vote on the entire packet. If not, it's a 7-5 vote, correct, on number 14. However, the mayor could also break the tie on that. I don't believe that's the case. Yes. Okay. Sorry. Okay. So there's two ways we can do it. Mr. Alderman Frost can vote on the codes and regulations items, or the mayor, if he doesn't want to do that, the mayor can also vote on item 14 to make it eight votes instead of seven. Thank you. So I would remind everyone before we adjourn, we'll do officers' reports. Just want to remind everyone that the SOAR awards are taking place at Coronado Theater, and they started at about 7 o'clock, so... Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just had one follow-up question. This was involving the clinic on Murray Drive at some point I had asked since it performs minor surgery and wanted clarification that the city was enforcing sprinklers and other fire suppression out of safety because some of the people will be incapacitated and During the procedures and can't safely exit the building expeditiously, but I'd asked Fire Department if that's the case are they be going to be required to have sprinkler systems in that clinic? She pinko do you have that answer with you or is that an answer that we can get to the alderman tomorrow? Oh, sorry want to hear your voice I don't have that answer this evening, but I could certainly get it to you alderman Durkee. Oh I don't have that answer right now, but I can certainly get that for you. Thank you. Okay. We'll email it out to the full council Thank you alderman Bonnie then alderman Thank You mayor with respect to the status of the Elks Club there was Some news this week and I forget whether I believe it's on I forget if it's main church another property owned by the same developer that's been in the news for variety of issues and I was wondering if we can't have legal data in the near future on the status of the Elks Club and specifically talk to us about the prospect of receivership versus But the potential that there will be a court-ordered demolition. Thank you. We can certainly have legal provide that update and you're accurate It's our guy property and mark McGinnis alderman rose Thank you your honor in light of us approving the legislative and lobbying Contract with Zephyr government and strategies. I did want to just touch base that I was hopeful that at some point legislative and lobbying committee could formulate some language around some of the discussion around a ceasefire I know that the President of the United States, President Biden has pushed forward with a ceasefire move. I think it's important that... you know the over 70 cities are around the united states have went forward and pushed for a ceasefire resolution i'm not sure if that is the right response but i do think that our legislative lobbying committee could produce some language that would at least you know be in line with what america and the majority of people are asking in that you know, when we send weapons to countries, and I'm not just referencing the Middle East, I'm just talking in general, that when we send weapons to any country that we have the same expectation for our own troops and our own military as we would to those militaries, and that we would expect that those weapons be used in accordance with international law. And so, um, I'M JUST ASKING THAT WE KIND OF TAKE A LOOK AT THAT AT SOME POINT BECAUSE I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT IF WE HAVE THAT EXPECTATION OF OUR OWN TROOPS HERE IN THE UNITED STATES THAT WE HAVE THE SAME EXPECTATION FOR ANY COUNTRY THAT WE SEND WEAPONS TO. THANK YOU. THANK YOU. ALDERMAN HOFFMAN. THANK YOU, MAYOR. I JUST WANT TO SAY ON FEBRUARY 22ND, MY GROUP, AAUW, AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF UNIVERSITY WOMEN, ALONG WITH THE LEAGUE OF WOMEN VOTERS AND ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA, went to Ellis School to teach fifth graders about democracy. There were two classes and in the first one, Alderman Wilkins joined us and her group beat the pants off of mine, but one of my kids was sick. So at any rate, I mean, she seriously beat us and we thank her for coming. The second group, when they found out I was an alderman, I had five young boys, fifth graders, who wanted to know about becoming policemen. That was not on the subject, but that's where we went. So we have some recruits next time. On February 24th, AAUW hosted... the history of blacks in Rockford and the speakers were Skip Gilbert and judge era boil Yarbrough and I want to thank alderman Bailey for coming I was an interesting event and then this Saturday on What's up at the border? You all got flyers last week. It's nonpartisan. We're not going to get into how they should fix it, just what's happening and what actually happened on the 31st. So we invite you all. It's free. It's at 2nd, 1st, and it's at 1 o'clock. And we hope you all come and learn. Thank you. Any other officers? Alderman Frumke. No. I WANT TO BE FAST SO WE CAN GET TO THE SOAR AWARDS. JUST WANTED TO CONGRATULATE THE BROOK ROW UNITED METHODIST CHURCH ON THE OPENING OF THEIR ILLINOIS WELCOMING CENTER. EXCITED TO HAVE THIS SERVICE AND TO BE ABLE TO EXTEND THIS TO FOLKS IN THE SIXTH WARD AND THROUGHOUT THE CITY. SO CONGRATULATIONS TO BROOK ROW UNITED METHODISTS. JUST WANTED TO GIVE A SHOUT OUT TO A YOUNG MAN WHO WORKS WITH ANIMAL SERVICES, WINNEBAGO COUNTY ANIMAL SERVICES. HIS NAME IS AUSTIN PELCHER. AND THERE WAS, I DON'T KNOW IF YOU ALL HAVE SEEN IT ON FACEBOOK HERE LATELY, BUT THERE HAVE BEEN SOME LOOSE DOGS AND THEY ARE large-sized dogs. And Austin had a chance to come to the 6th Ward, and I watched him capture one of those loose dogs. He was very professional. The animal was not hurt, and he did that very successfully. So I just wanted to give him, show him some praise for the work that he has done and thank him for his professionalism. Thank you. Alderman Meeks, um, I just wanted to know Um if someone from staff could tell me when the last day will be for the public works director kyle saunders March 22nd, and then i'm pushing for march 22nd of 2025. Okay Pretty firm on it. So i'm just curious is there um an internal search for a replacement or are we looking outside of internal staff for that position? Yes. No, we have had discussions. More than likely you'll see folks rise up internally first. Okay. But has there been an external search at all? Nothing has been not external. It's going to be within first. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I'm working, trying to understand and differentiate the different positions Activities that we have going on in the community one involving the community healing center That's run out of the mayor's office of domestic domestic Violence and then the other one alignment Rockford, which is the healing school framework. There are two different programs So I'm working hard to understand the differences with those programs and working with students in our community particularly Auburn High School Thank you. And just so aldermen know, the Community Healing Center, we are part of it. We helped win the grant for it, but it is at Boys and Girls Club on Kilburn. So thank you. Other reports? Someone please give me a motion to adjourn. Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.