This evening is from Fire and Police Chaplain Lou Ness. I invite you all to be present to the spirit that lives within this space that touches all of us, the spirit of graciousness and goodness. We are called together tonight to do the work of this community.
 either as people elected or people participating through Spectre being spectators. We all have a role to play in the coming of Rockford. We ask tonight that God bless each and every person in this room, their thoughts, their words, and their deeds, that it reflect our better natures, our higher spirits, and our broader vision.
 We pray for those people in our community tonight who are homeless or hungry. We pray for those people who will experience unexpected and sudden tragedy. We pray for our firefighters and law enforcement officers on the roads and in the streets waiting, ready to respond. We pray for families who go to bed tonight in their homes that they know peace and calm and health.
 All this we pray because we will be the people who will make this happen. We are those. We are the voice of the one with no voice in the world. Let us remember this as we work through the night. We ask all of this in the name of the Holy One who blesses and cares for us. Amen. Amen. And again, now we'll wait just a moment as our members of the band please come forward.
 Ladies and gentlemen, again, this is the East High School marching band. It is our honor to welcome them to city council. They will be playing for us tonight. After they're completed their playing, and we will do the Pledge of Allegiance. Then we will also honor them with a proclamation right afterwards. Ladies and gentlemen, pledge first or second, Julie? We'll do the pledge first. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America,
 and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Students, the floor is yours. .
 If our students could remain standing for just a moment.
 If our students can remain standing just for a moment, I'd invite Sharon Nesbitt Davis and Ann O'Keefe to please come forward to accept the proclamation. If you want to join me up here at the front. Actually, I'm going to come out of here if I can and try to sneak through. There's a camera right behind you students if you want to look that way real quick. Ann, welcome. Thank you. This is for you. Great, thanks. All right, we'll kind of sneak in.
 We're good. We're good. Anybody else joining us? All right. Sharon? Yeah, any of the other folks that are with the organizations that want to come forward to accept the proclamation, please do. One more second. Excuse me. All right. Here we go. Ready? All right. Oh, there's more. Come on up. Come on up.
 So I'll just real quick, before I read the proclamation, mention some of the folks that are with us. Of course, the East High School Marching Band. In the City Hall lobby earlier was the Jefferson and Auburn High School students had presented artwork, and homeschoolers had been here for interpretive dance. Thank you very much. Ann O'Keefe is here from the Rockford Area Arts Council, President and CEO, and Abby Sewellman, student at Auburn High School, is an Arts Place apprentice that is here, as well as Sharon Nesbitt-Davis.
 So with the following proclamation, it is my honor to honor all of you. Whereas the city of Rockford recognizes the arts, defined as dance, music, theater, and visual arts, as a core academic subject and an essential element of a complete and balanced education for all students,
 Whereas the arts enrich the lives of children in Rockford and throughout the country by helping them to develop creative ability, self-expression, self-reflection, cognitive skills, discipline, a heightened appreciation of beauty, and cross-cultural understanding. Whereas imagination and creativity are seen increasingly as critical capacities needed for success in a 21st century economy.
 Whereas high quality school based arts education involves a wide range of partners, including educators, parents, artists, community members, and local, state, and national organizations. And whereas we applaud the efforts and dedication of arts educators and those advocates in our city, and we call for school and community leaders to continue to broaden and strengthen their efforts to provide art education for every student and every school each and every year.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of March 2016 to be Youth Art Month, the Power of Art. And we urge citizens to celebrate the arts with meaningful student activities and programs that demonstrate learning and understanding in the visual and performing arts.
 Thank you very much. We're honored to be here, and I think that there probably are a few other people in the audience that actually got goosebumps like I did. To see our young people in such impressive numbers, first of all, thank them for coming, East High representing tonight. And then the other organizations that are here with me this evening, we cannot do this without the city's support, and we're so honored to be here. And I think it gives us all a special place in our hearts to understand why the arts are so important
 And I have to just mention that it made me feel really good that the seats were reserved for the arts. It made me feel really good. And I know that you all care about the arts, so we're happy to be here. And I'd like Abby Suman, who is a Kappa student at Auburn, to say a few words about why the arts and arts play are important to her. Abby?
 Hi, my name is Abby Suleman and I go to Auburn High School. And so for three years I've been part of Arts Place, a program funded by the Rockford Arts Council. And I really appreciate and I really thank you for the fight that you guys have done for use around the community.
 And one of the things that arts has really given to me is like the confidence and the bravery just to be yourself and to express that through arts. And so for the first two years I was at Arts Place, I did printmaking.
 And that was very fun. After we learned the skills, we were able to create whatever we wanted. And it was really wide opening and being able to work together to complete a task, anything is a really important social skill. And then my third year, third summer with Arts Place, I did performance art with two
 two of my awesome leaders and it was it was really fun just to break through a fear of performing and To do it with other people and it was it was really scary at first But once we became a family it was really sad to say goodbye and it was it was really fun So thank you And I just do want to acknowledge the other arts organizations that are up here if you just want to say who you are And where you're from
 I'm Panna Broman, I'm the Outreach Coordinator from the Rockford Dance Company. Rick Valenzuela, Executive Director of the Phantom Regiment. I'm Jaslyn Coons, and I'm representing the Rockford Writers Guild with my brother and sister. Sharon Nisbeth Davis from the Rockford Area Arts Council. And I just want to say that Panna was one of Abby's awesome teachers this summer. Thank you so much. Thank you, everyone. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you to all of the arts instructors, all the students, all the families, and all those that support the arts in our community. And we will let our band members exit. And appreciate again you coming out tonight and bringing us all the entertainment and joy that you did. Thank you. You know, if there's no objection...
 I would like to do, we have two other proclamations for this evening. I'd like to do those now, unless there's any objection from council, and we could be completed then with the proclamations. Our next proclamation that we'll do is for Gift of Hope Day. I'd invite Marion Shuck, others that may be here as well, for the Gift of Hope Community Affairs event. Please come forward.
 Thank you. Thanks for joining us. Thank you. I want to make sure I get this. And we'll just kind of step back in there. You're fine, yeah. Whereas every 10 minutes, a new person is added to the national transplant waiting list, and whereas in Illinois, more than 5,100 people are waiting for an organ transplant, with 40 percent waiting being African American and 18 percent Latino,
 Whereas in 2015, approximately 24,000 organ transplants were made possible by more than 8,000 donors in the United States. Whereas more than 1 million tissue transplants are done in the United States each year with the surgical need for tissue rising.
 Whereas since 1986, the Gift of Hope Organ and Tissue Donor Network has coordinated donations that have saved more than 14,000 organ transplant recipients and improved the lives of thousands of tissue transplant recipients. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 11, 2016 to be Gift of Hope Day. And we urge citizens to help raise awareness and understanding of organ and tissue donation.
 Good evening. Thank you so much for having us today. Thank you for this proclamation. It is very important for Gift of Hope to be here. And as one of the newest members to the Rockford Chamber of Commerce, we're committed. You know, our department is community affairs for a reason. We are responsible for community education and outreach.
 And we appreciate the opportunity to be able to come and talk about this very important issue in all of our communities. More prevalent for African American and Hispanic communities, but all the same, we're responsible for coordinating that effort. But donation is donation. Anyone can donate to anyone. And we appreciate the opportunity to be able to be here in Rockford. And we appreciate the opportunity to be able to have a proclamation.
 that will forever be known as Gift of Hope Day, and we hope that everyone, if you are not registered, we encourage you to register. But more importantly, we encourage you to discuss this with your family, what your wishes are, so that we can honor them. Thank you. Thank you again. Our final proclamation is for...
 Irish Marching Society Week. I invite Jerry Goral and those that are here for the Irish Marching Society and the St. Patrick's Day Parade to please come forward.
 Whereas the Irish Marching Society, Rockford Chapter No. 1, is strictly a not-for-profit organization chartered in 1977 and established to preserve and promote Irish heritage within our community. Whereas the Irish Marching Society continues to contribute financially from its various activities and events to charitable organizations.
 Whereas Irish Marching Society's 39th Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade will be held Saturday, March 12th, 3 o'clock p.m., beginning on 7th Street and 5th Avenue and ending at the Prairie Street Brewhouse, 200 Prairie Street in Rockford, Illinois. The 39th Annual St. Patrick's Day Party will be held at the Prairie Street Brewhouse from 4.30 p.m. to 10 p.m.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 7, 2016, to be Irish Marching Society Week. And we urge our citizens to recognize and support the Irish Marching Society's enthusiastic efforts to celebrate and preserve their Celtic heritage. Mr. Mayor, do you realize we've been doing this for 38 years? That's a long time.
 So on behalf of the Irish Margin Society and the Irish community in Rockford, we wish to thank you for the acknowledgment through your proclamation. And as a footnote, I think we've kind of taken the page out of your transitions, Rockford, because going through some paperwork the other day, I felt that we are responsible for bringing about 100,000 people over the years through our parade and party to downtown Rockford. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you very much. Congratulations.
 Thank you very much for all of our proclamation recipients and for the entertainment this evening. We'll move now on to our agenda, and I will ask the clerk to please call the roll. Durkee, Etchis, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely, Chiarelli.
 14 present. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes to the journal, Mr. Hayes? You make note that that's both the February 16th journal as well as the special meeting after the meeting. So the motion will include both the February 16th and February 29th meetings. Any amendments or changes to either of those journals? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye.
 Opposed, no. I just have a thank you. We have a public hearing scheduled this evening. I'll ask Alderman Chiarelli to lead us in that hearing. I hereby call the public hearing to order on the proposed petition for annexation on the following properties. 8055 Springbrook Road, 8460 Springbrook Road, 8460 Springbrook Road,
 8510 Springbrook Road 84 X X Springbrook Road pin number 12 0 1 3 7 6 0 0 2 84 X X Springbrook Road pin number 12 0 1 3 2 6 0 0 4 88 X X Springbrook Road pin number 12 0 1 4 0 1 3 0 0 3
 East Riverside Boulevard pin number 12-02426-002. East Riverside Boulevard pin number 12-01-301-002. Pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes, a public hearing must be conducted by the City Council prior to the adoption of an annexation ordinance. Thank you.
 Notice of this hearing was given by certified mail to the taxing bodies and by publication in the Rockford Register Star on February 19, 2016. That notice informed citizens of the Rockford that a copy of the proposed petition for annexation could be reviewed in the legal department summit floor of the city hall building 425 East State Street from 8 AM to 5 PM weekdays.
 Are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed annexation petition? If so, kindly step to the microphone, give us your name, address and make your statement. Hearing none, this public hearing is hereby adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we move on to public participation. I remind our, everyone that our speakers have three minutes to make their comments.
 They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. We have five speakers signed up this evening. Our first speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 30th chapter, the fifth verse, it says, For the Lord, his anger lasts only a moment, but his favor lasts a lifetime. Weeping may remain for a night, but joy comes in the morning. What I want to speak about tonight, stop the crime, stop the violence in Raqqa. Let's address the issue.
 In 2010, the FBI ranked Rockwood as the 10th most dangerous city in America. Recently, that changed. Rockwood now has the distinction of being the 5th most dangerous city in America. The headlines shocked us for a day or two, and then we all went about our lives. There are solutions.
 And they do not involve more police officers or jails. There are seven reasons for criminal behavior, but one that often gets overlooked. I'm going to name them. One, mental illness. Two, drug addiction. Three, alcoholic addiction. Four, unemployment. Five, poverty. Six, homelessness. Six.
 But the one that's overlooked is seven, illiteracy. Juvenile adult illiteracy carries an estimated price tag of $17 billion, $590 million, $490,000, $350 dollars and 12 cents a year. While there's an economic toll, we barely notice the damage that is done to juvenile and adults who can't read and write. John Cochran wrote a book, The Teacher Who Couldn't Read. Everybody should read it. Research from both the Bureau of
 prison statistics and the National Institute for Literacy verify that there is a relationship between illiteracy and criminal behavior. Ninety-five percent of adults in prison are
 and lack the basic skills to find and keep a job. 95% of juvenile delinquents are illiterate. Test scores today indicate that K-12 grade school systems nationwide are still not doing an effective job of teaching reading. And everyone from presidential candidates, governors, mayors, state legislators, school officials vow to make improvements. However, there seems to be no thought about the people who are now juveniles and adults who went through this system and were not educated.
 one wonder what life is like for these 34,950,1025 people? This truly is a silent crisis that needs to be brought into the open. Illiterate people are now the
 Fastest growing subculture in the market. Solution to this crime problem rocked in America. One, teach people how to read. Two, give people mental treatment by opening up mental hospitals. Three, drug treatment facility. Four, alcoholic treatment facility. Five, give people jobs. Six, eliminate poverty. Seven, eliminate homelessness. Every day you don't do what's right is a day you lose ground. A reader lives a thousand lives before he dies. The man who never reads lives only once. If you really
 You want to reduce this crime in Rockwood? Let me, the man of God, help you. By the help of God, I can do it. Only thing I want you to do for me is give me 30 men or women who've been in combat in the military. I can reduce crime in Rockwood in 90 days. And the chief, I was telling the chief about the most outstanding homicide detective that ever lived. His name is Thomas Byrne. Here's his book. I read five books a week. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Poska. I can do it. I can do it. Maybe I can't. What would you do with $100,000 interest-free? What would you do with $100,000 interest-free? Exactly what would you do with $100,000 interest-free? It is time to think about it. I gave you two minutes.
 Our next speaker is John Brantley and Mr. Brantley, you have three minutes.
 Mayor Marcy, all of us are citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 17, verses 27 and 28 highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. First, it's the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause, to think, and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something important to say. So do I.
 I'd like to take this time to talk about what happened at the Health Facility and Service Review Board meeting about the vote on Mercy Rockford application to eliminate critical service from Rockford Memorial Hospital. As you may already know, this is the only hospital on the west side of the river. We understand that you would like to upgrade the small patient room.
 the current NICU ward and operating room. This is what I talked about at the re-board meeting. We also talked about the fact that Rockford City would have to build a fire station on the Riverside Avenue, and they would have to add a bus line whereby the city and the state do not have the funds to do so. On top of all that, Level 1 Trauma Center, Women's and Children's Hospital will be in an area that a
 family that do not have any means of transportation will have to go to the nearest hospital that's on the east side of town, that is Swedish American Hospital. Thus, we are asking that we take a look at the Doctors Without Borders working in foreign dangerous countries for little or no money. Here's where I'm going with this. We do need your service and your help. However, let this not be the reason that you are moving so far away
 is because of more than three-fourths of the people that use Mercy Hospital Service on Rockton receive medical or Medicare. We already have labeled us the worst city to live in, and now you want to take away the closest hospital for the people on the West Side. How can we compromise with you, CEO,
 and the board members of Mercy Hospital. You did not tell the review board that if Rockford City Council do not waiver its normal customary fee of 1.8 million down to $900 that you are going to move to Beloit, Wisconsin. Lately we see the city is facing all kinds of lawsuits and threats. Now you want to add one more. We all know that would be a great mistake so let's look at it this way. Why not take half of the salary of the CEO of Mercy Rockford Hospital
 that I think you get over a million dollars in bonuses and salary and write it off on your taxes as a donation to show that you really care about us. Is that what the doctors without borders are doing? Plus, you will get that right back once the hospital is built off of Riverside. You cannot take that money to the grave with you, so why not spend it on a worthy cause? Please let this not be the reason that you are moving because of the money that you will be receiving from the richest residents on each side of the road.
 of Rockford of the North, Belvedere, and Wisconsin area. What's next will you be asking to cut? Plus, at the board meeting, you did not state that you would not leave the west side of Rockford hanging. I asked you if I could see and get that in writing. You said yes. So where do we go from here? I'm still waiting. Peace out. Our next... Thank you. That was very good timing. Our next speaker is Joshua Hackmeister.
 I want to thank the mayor and aldermen, everybody here. My name is Joshua Hackmeister. I've grown, lived and raised in Rockford, Illinois in the Rock River Valley. I am the last person to come and speak in front of the city about these issues, but I've been inspired with a group of people over the past six months. We're from a group called Northern Illinois for Bernie Sanders.
 And some of the issues already spoken about tonight, I believe in the city of Rockford, completely connect some of the issues that are taking place in debate for the current presidential campaign. For one, I think the arts, supporting the arts in Rockford, supporting education in Rockford, is an incredible issue. It's an incredibly important issue. I believe, as the philosopher Theodore Adorno said, truth is letting suffering speak.
 Right now, there's a lot of suffering going on in northern Illinois and all throughout the Rust Belt of the Midwest. The trade deals, the job policies, the austerity taking place throughout the entire country is an epidemic and an issue. We must support a candidate that understands that we need to reinforce and bolster education. We must create affordable education or affordable health care. We must use...
 our spirit, the current tax dollars that we have for the people and not to people like CEOs or large corporations that disproportionately use it for their own wealth. We must be able to address these huge issues
 I, you know, again, I said I'm not the most articulate and I'm the last person to come up here, but with a week to go, I implore everybody here to look into the policies of Senator Bernie Sanders from Vermont. He was a mayor of Burlington. It's now the most sustainable city in the United States. If the power went out today with their wind and solar, they would be able to survive. He moved to be a congressman. Now he's been a senator for two terms.
 When he won the primary in Vermont last week on Tuesday, 86% of the people in the state that voted for him, 86% of the constituency voted for Bernie Sanders. They understand that he is a good candidate, right or left, Republican or Democrat. He's one of two independent senators right now in our government or in the Senate. And I implore you to please look into his policies because many of the issues that he talks about and discusses
 Are completely relevant and completely address many of the issues that take place in Rockford, Northern Illinois and the United States Thank you for your time and have a great night. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Kenneth Hennessy counsel Basically, I'm addressing the crime that we have in the city of Rockford. No, I
 I've seen Auburn go on and, you know, let's stop the shootings over like the one over in Auburn and telling people to get involved, okay? But yet when the same thing happened to me and you have the police department come over the radio and say the person that complained or called in a citizen's request to protect somebody, what does that do but cause retaliation? And it's not the police department's fault. You see what I'm saying? I mean, there needs to be better, how should I say, transmission of information.
 you know, frequencies and stuff as far as, you know, for their transmissions and know who's around when it happens. I have an order of protection on a gentleman and I went down and filed five separate uh, which are violations. He's robbed my house once and nothing's being done. They won't put the, the uh, officer won't put a warrant out for him. Or the, uh, what's the gentleman that, that, for the warrants and that. But anyways, uh,
 So if we can't turn around and pick up the criminals and get them off the street and get the people in for questioning for the police department, give them reasons to bring the people in. How do you expect people to step up? People are just figuring that they're going to get orders of protection for paper airplanes. I mean, what if this was a woman and somebody keeps buying? There was a segment on the news one day, okay, that if you take out an order of protection, you're more apt to get killed. And it pretty much stands true because
 I got five violations on this gentleman and nothing's done. The state's attorney won't do anything about it.
 And there's a lot of other things. I mean, I don't see the police department doing like roadside checks. I'm not going to mention the community, but what about doing a roadside check where you stop and check people for seat belts? You coordinate off the corner, you stop them. Okay, it's a legal reason to stop them. You don't have your seat belt on, pull over here. Geez, all of a sudden you got their name and number. Another thing is, as far as the other day I've seen, and this is totally unrehensible,
 Down at the city bus stop, there's two fellows walking along, okay, and they're selling cigarettes at a higher price to the homeless people because they don't have cigarettes because maybe mental illness or whatever, they can't handle it so they smoke up their cigarettes or give their money, whatever way, okay? But they're selling them at the bus stop. Now wait a minute, there's city licenses required for selling tobacco, liquor, etc. Where are they paying for theirs?
 I mean, we need to stop and say, well, wait a minute here. The police department can stop these people or stop people that are under suspicion, ask them questions, and maybe you might pick up a lot of people that are under warrant. You won't have to have this where the sheriff is putting out a warrant thing. Oh, well, this one's the warrant Wednesday or whatever. If you start getting the police department to question them. Now, one final thing. Everybody's going to say, well, where's all this money going to come from?
 I go down the street on Wednesday, or Thursday by my house, but I go down the street on Wednesday, and the streets are littered with nothing but piles of garbage. What's wrong with charging these people an additional, like for dressers, for beds and all this stuff, an extra dollar, two dollar here and there? There's ways the city can come up with money. Thank you, Mr. Hennessey. Thank you. Thank you to all of our speakers this evening.
 Petitions and communications. Alderman Thompson, Kelly. Thank you, John. I would like to let the residents know of the Fisher-Hesco of a special assessment for sanitary sewer extension. There will be a public meeting at the Fellowship Hall of Second First Church located 318 North Church Street,
 Tuesday, March 15th, which is Election Day, at 6 p.m. I do encourage all the residents that this will be effective to attend this meeting because it is important with this Fisher-Haskell Special Assessment. If you have any questions, please feel free to call our Community Development Department or myself because this will affect the 7th and the 13th Ward.
 I also have a notification of a Project 1013 fund run. This is a project that takes place every year with over 250 volunteers that come into the community and clean the community. The way to cost savings, there is a fundraiser which is called a fund run Saturday, Saturday
 June 4th, 2016 from 8 a.m. and you must register by May 29th. And the information can be found at Rock Church by calling 815-229-7600 or 6732 Harrison Avenue. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further petitions and communications? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items to be referred to Planning and Development. The first is a memorandum from Nora Doyle, Legal Department, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitor Bureau, also known as RACVB. Their quarterly report for the fourth quarter, October through December 2015, that will be referred to Planning and Development on March 28, 2016.
 The second item is a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, regarding Rocknell Fastener temporary road extension, a development agreement that will provide Rocknell Fastener access to Logistics Parkway to allow for expansion at the Rocknell Fastener manufacturing facility located at 5309 11th Street, Rockford, Illinois, which is in the 6th Ward and also in the Southwest Planning Area. This will also be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, Mr. Beardford.
 Owen Shkreli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Martin Ruvalo, project manager regarding ComEd easement on city-owned property for Harrison Avenue project, 14 XX Harrison Avenue between LaPay and 12th Street. I have a memorandum from Martin Ruvalo, project manager regarding ComEd easement on city-owned property for Harrison project, 1303 Harrison Avenue.
 I have the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on March 15, 2016 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Rights Committee on March 28, 2016. I have a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney regarding amendments to Chapter 29, Article 3 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Taxi Cabs and Proposed Transportation Network Company Services Ordinance
 I have the March Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held March 9, 2016. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager, regarding the upcoming special events, which include Unitarian Universalist Church Rummage Sale, YMCA, Parish
 Heritage Run, Edgebrook Farmers Market, Edgebrook Thursdays Market, Hooters Swimsuit Event, Rockford City Market, Rockford Marathon, and Rockford Vintage Market. All those items will be referred to codes of rights, Your Honor. Thank you, matters will be referred. Any additional petitions or communications? Committee reports? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got a couple things that are out of sequence here. Just bear with me. Number 6B.
 11 I'd like to refer that I don't back to the closing rights committee is on the basket ring that's on the basket training runner like you spend emotion and second to refer Roman numeral 6 be 11 having to do with the best training back to committee is there any discussion on the item bearing none all some favor please say aye opposed no no I just have it
 Number 14, Your Honor, I'd like to hold that aside for a moment, separate that item. Certainly. And number 15, I'd like to pass on that until later in the evening. So the remaining items, I would like to suspend the rules at this time, Your Honor.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and second to spend the rules. I'm sorry, is there a second? Motion, second to spend the rules on enrollment number 6B. I'm going to go through the numbers. 6B items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, and 13. Motion, second to spend the rules on those items. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have the rules be spent. Your Honor, I place those items up for passage. Matters up for passage is their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Jerky. Aye. Dutchess. No, I'm for. Knight and the Mayor. Aye. Frost. Herbie. No, I'm for. Forrest, traffic, road. Alright. Yeah, just for. Aye.
 Aye. There is no option on the panel. Thompson Kelly? Aye. Odo? Aye. Lumber? Aye. Beach? Aye. Lillian? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 14 ayes.
 Number 4, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Number 9, 13 ayes, 1 noe. Number 10, 12 ayes, 2 noes. That is all passed. Thank you.
 Your Honor, at this time on item number 14, I move to amend the committee recommendation from approval to approval as amended on the committee report item number 6B14, annexation agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Memorial Hospital, Mercy Rockford. Second. Second. There's been a motion and a second. Mr. Hayes, before we take that motion, do we need to spend the rule to be able to discuss it?
 We don't. So there's been a motion and a second to amend Roman numeral 6B14 as follows. To amend the committee recommendation from approval to approval as amended in the committee report. That's again item 6B14, the annexation agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Memorial Hospital, Mercy Rockford. Moved and seconded is their discussion. Mr. Hayes.
 One additional item which was generated by staff. Mercy has indicated its desire to start construction activities immediately. There's a provision in the agreement related to grading being predicated on other issues. We want to issue an early grading permit if all matters are approved tonight. They're interested in getting going early. They want to show good conduct. They've got a bond issue they're putting together, so they're hopeful that everything passes tonight.
 And so to expedite the grading, we took that limitation out of the agreement. So the other items of change that are different from the matter from last week are all detailed in a memo dated today that's on all your desks. Thank you. So does he need a friendly amendment to his amendment, or can he just change it to make sure it's a – If he's changing the committee report as amended, that would be included. All right. Thank you.
 So the committee report would reflect the amended language that Mr. Hayes just referenced. I'm assuming there's no objection from Alderman Shkreli or your second. That's correct. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, do you have a question? Where the memo outlining the amendments is titled what? Memorandum regarding Rockford. Oh, I'm sorry, Your Honor. Go ahead, Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Memorandum regarding Rockford Memorial Hospital and an affiliate of Mercy Rockford Health System. Approval of annexation and development agreement as amended. That's dated January 19th. I'm sorry, the date's wrong on the memo. It should be dated today, March 7th, 2016. Thank you. For the discussion on the amendment, hearing none, all those in favor of the amendment, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have it. Aye.
 Allamandurky. Thank you, Your Honor. Mabee Park is abstaining on that vote. Yes. Your Honor, would you need me to suspend the rules on item number 14? So the item, in order to pass it, Mr. Hayes, we need a motion to suspend the rules. Yes, Your Honor. One time. Yes. Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules on item number 14. I give a motion and second to suspend the rules on the amended version of item 14.
 under Roman numeral 6B. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. No. Ayes have it. Thank you. Spenning? Your Honor, I place item number 14 up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I apologize to my colleagues for not being able to be here last week and discuss this. I did get to watch a portion of it on television and
 sat there and talked to the TV for quite a while, had been watching some of the activities, if we can call them that, going on with the Republican debates and nominations coming up for the presidency of the United States, and I just thought the parallels were amazing. We're having a lot of discussions about bullying and threats lately. I was disappointed
 that my colleagues who were so opposed and so offended that HUD, Gorman, and RHA threatened us just a few weeks prior to this with regard to the Newtown vote didn't seem to mind that Mercy Rockford and their CEO basically made even a worse threat. If you don't do what I want you to do,
 I'll close your hospital. You don't do what I want you to do. I'll take this hospital over to Beloit. That hospital has the NICU unit, Neonatal Intensive Care Unit. So I sat there and I said to myself, are we really negotiating with the company that says if you don't give me $900,000, I'll do something that will put infants at risk? And I wondered if that's the kind of person we really want to be in cahoots with in the first place.
 I don't need to disclose, I was opposed to Mercy Rockford from the very beginning. I think it's going to upset the balance of healthcare in the city of Rockford. I think it's going to have a deleterious effect on the provision of healthcare if it's British American and OSF. I think it's going to really have a deleterious effect on the medical outcomes for people in the west side of Rockford.
 I have a problem with someone coming in and threatening us as a city council, as did HUD, that if we don't make an exception that we haven't made for anyone else,
 for a not-for-profit entity, not a profit-making entity that's saying, I want you to waive a cost because my sales tax revenue is gonna bring 2.5 million to your coffers every year. Not a company that's gonna be manufacturing and is saying, I'm gonna be bringing lots of money in terms of sales tax and other revenue to the city of Rockford, property taxes. Mercy Rockford has none of that, none.
 And yet, they threaten that if we don't waive permit fees, which will allow us to offset some of the impacts of this project, that he's going to take his project across the line to Wisconsin. My question is, he already owns the land in Wisconsin. He already has hospitals in Wisconsin. So if Wisconsin is so great and Wisconsin is where he wants to be, why doesn't he just build his hospital in Wisconsin?
 You obviously don't like Rockford or else you wouldn't keep threatening us so much. And by the way, when I asked for a public hearing on Mercy Rockford, Javon Bay, Mercy Rockford's CEO, called me at home one night. I hadn't met him yet, hadn't talked to him before, and basically was the same threat. Mess with me, get in my way, or if you by some chance win, I'll just shut Rockford Memorial down. I'll close it, Vanita.
 And I said, the state wouldn't allow you to close a hospital. They wouldn't let you do that to the west side of Rockford. He said, oh sure, go take a look in Elgin. They closed, I don't know the name of it, Sherman something, one of the hospitals in Elgin. And it was on the poor side of town. Left them with absolutely nothing. And I thought, dang, this guy is bragging about the fact that if he doesn't get his way, he'll close the hospital and hurt people. I used to go to Rockford Memorial for all my care.
 I'm a Swedish American in OSF now. You couldn't pay me to set foot there. But this is the person who's coming into our community and everybody's clapping because it's going to be almost a half-billion-dollar project. Whatever happened to character, especially when we're talking about health care? Whatever happened to good faith in dealing with the city?
 I don't think it's unreasonable to ask for 1.8 million in permit fees on a project that's slated at a half billion dollars. We were upset with Ron Kluwer. We were furious a couple of weeks ago because he brought us an application at the 11th hour. I said it was actually the 12th hour. And we were furious. We ranted and we railed. Mr. Bate comes in. Ron gave us, I think, 12 days. He gave us eight.
 He said, if you don't vote on this city council on March 7th, I will take my hospital to Wisconsin. I will take this whole project and shut it down. We didn't have a chance to vet it. Our city leaders didn't have a chance to review it. I've read this thing four or five times. You've told us that our ambulances are going to have a longer transport time, especially from the furthest parts of town, southwest Rockford.
 You've told us that the transport time, I'm sorry, the transport time is going to be almost twice as long, out of service even longer than that. Do you know that there are no ambulance companies located anywhere in the west or southwest part of the city? They're all up north, closer to Mercy Rockford. Nowhere in the report that you gave us did you tell us what's going to happen to those of us who have heart attacks and medical crises
 When all of our ambulances are gone because they had to transport people all the way over to Riverside Boulevard to the level one trauma center. What's going to happen when those ambulances are transporting people who need NICU type obstetrics care and they're out of service? We're going to be back to waiting 15, 20, 25 minutes for an ambulance. You told us the problem existed, but you didn't tell us how you were going to fix it.
 You told us that we're going to need a fire station somewhere in that vicinity. We put a band-aid on it and we're going to reopen Sawyer Road to take off some of the pressure, but it doesn't fix the problem.
 Bottom line, in three years, when that new hospital is built, we are going to have to build a new fire station. You can't have that kind of lack of coverage around a multi-story medical facility. Even if I'm opposed to the facility, I wouldn't let you do that. It's people's lives in danger. So nowhere are we telling people the true costs that we're going to have to assume.
 So people look at it and they think, well, gee, how could you possibly not give the guy $900,000? The operating cost of that new fire station is going to be probably about, what, $1.5 million a year, not counting the cost of building it? And that's with having probably four or five fire stations. I only visited five, but four of them needed to be replaced yesterday. They're moldy, they're smelly, they're cramped.
 We can't fix what we have now, but yet we're putting ourselves in a position where we have to build another one. And Mercy Rockford says, I'll walk if you don't cut my fees by $900,000. He says you have to vote on it tonight. If there's a bond issue that has to be floated on a particular day, I've never heard of it. People schedule their bond issues. The bond market doesn't tell us when we have to come out.
 So if he has a deadline, it's because he said it himself. And if he said it himself, he brought this to us as late as he possibly could so we don't have a chance to question. We don't have a chance to get information. And we don't have a chance to inform the public, not just the benefits of the project, but the burdens and the pressures and the risks that it's going to place on taxpayers.
 Picked up the newspaper a couple days after Mercy Rockford's announcement. Two new hotels being built by Mr. Carlson. How many of them were in Rockford? How many of them were on the Rockford side generating tax dollars for Rockford? Zero. We saw this with Meijer. We were told if you don't give Meijer the sales tax rebates or sales tax incentives,
 If you don't allow the tenants to protest their taxes, they won't build a project, they'll put it up in Loves Park. Next morning you picked up the newspaper, guess what? There's a mire in Loves Park anyway. By the way, anybody know what Loves Park gave up to get their mire?
 We need to stop allowing people to come in and treat Rockford like a second-class citizen. Our taxpayers are going to pay the burden of this complex, especially those of us on the west side. It's going to upset the balance of health care in the city, and quite frankly, I don't believe he's going to Wisconsin.
 I don't believe he ever was. If he was, he would have been there a long time ago. He already has hospitals up there. He already has a market up there. He didn't need us. He certainly didn't need to come here and take over a failing hospital that supposedly is losing millions of dollars every year. Why? Build it on the land that you have in Wisconsin. He's not doing us a favor. Not at all.
 I'm opposed to the project. I believe it's a bluff. I believe it's a bully. And I believe when you face a bully, you don't roll over and show your underbelly. I believe you stand up to the bully and you tell them no. You tell them negotiate with us in good faith, be fair and equitable to the citizens of Rockford, and we will work with you. In the absence of that, there is no deal. There is no deal and there can be no deal.
 And with that, I would move to layover. Second. The matter has been moved and seconded for layover. Under state law, there is an automatic layover provision since it's the first time up for passage so the matter will lay over. Thank you, Your Honor. For the reports of committees, I'll come back. Just give me one minute, Your Honor. I got you. All right. Under the Finance and Personnel Committee report, it's
 I have three of them. First one is recommending approval of vouchers in the amount of $3,427,665.73. Next is the approval of outside legal counsel with Ron Schultz for 2016. And finally is the approval of the 2016-2020 capital improvement plan. I ask for suspension of rules under that in a second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 6C, items 1, 2, and 3.
 Sir, again, all those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have the rules be suspended. Place them up for passage. That is up for passage as their discussion. All in, Mack and Mayor. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to thank my colleagues and, most importantly,
 Matt Bittner for the wonderful work that he did on the capital improvement plan and the patience that he showed to make some amendments that myself and other aldermen wanted. So thank you to you, Mayor, and also Matt Bittner and the whole team that put together the CIPA, too. Thank you for the discussion, Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 I also want to thank the adjustment on it, but I also still have some concerns as far as the CIP is concerned and as far as the projects and how they're picked and the dollar amount that's being spent and how we're servicing this entire community.
 I wish more discussion would take place before staff makes a recommendation to the alderman on to either vote it up or down. I think that discussion needs to start taking place earlier and in a more fair of projects throughout this community. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke? Aye. Getsch? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Irving? Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Eich? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, and 3. 11 ayes and 1 no. That is passed. Thank you. For the reports of committees, officers' reports. Just have a few items to report on tonight. First off, the
 There's a recommendation for an appointment to the fire and police, I'm sorry, the fire pension board with your approval. Carrie Eklund, who would replace Chris Black, whose term would have expired January 2019. That will lay over pursuant to council rules for 30 days. Next, Mr.
 You have a memorandum simply from me authorizing Jim Ryan in my absence. I'll be gone from March 17th to the 22nd to give him signature authorization for signing documents on my behalf. Thank you.
 Also, I wanted to recognize that today at the YWCA Annual Leadership Luncheon, Lieutenant Carla Rett of our Police Department was honored with the Community Leadership Award for her diligence as a District 1 Commander in her many, many community outreach activities throughout her career. Thank you.
 such as working with NAACP Rockford Chapters Youth Council, My Brother's Keepers Organization, Homeless Coalition, and the many neighborhood groups and events that she has supported over her time. And Christina Peacock, also with the City of Rockford, was honored by our Public Works Department, she's part of our Public Works Department, and she was honored at the Leader Luncheon with the Promise Award for acting as a compelling force, facilitating action,
 She is a leader in the Coalition of Latino Leaders and is a lead also for Transform Rockford. Also wanted to mention tonight, Alden McNamara is here. He had a new baby and this is the first time I think back since his new baby. Just want to congratulate Tom again, your new family. The bags under his eyes will come shortly, believe me.
 I have one other item I'll come back to in a minute. Lloyd Johnston is here, and I believe he has a presentation he wanted to make on behalf of the NAACP, and I invite him to come forward to do so. Thank you. Thank you for joining us. Thank you for joining us very much. Honorable Mayor Morrissey, distinguished members of the council, department heads, and citizens of Rockford, good evening.
 I'd like to thank you for allowing us to briefly interrupt your very important proceedings. And I really hope these proceedings turn out to be favorable for the City of Rockford. My name is Lloyd Johnston. I'm the third Vice President of the Rockford branch of the NAACP. I'm joined this evening by our first Vice President, Dr. Sterling Blackmon, and our second Vice President, Mr. Robert Sargent.
 chairperson for our annual Black History Month activities. Black history is American history. The historical contributions of African Americans to the growth and development of this great nation is often untold, leaving blank many pages of the annals of our historical text. Mayor Morrissey, during this past February's Black History Month observance,
 alluded to the fact that one could not tell the history of Rockford without highlighting an African American named Lewis Lemon. So each year in February, the Rockford branch of the NAACP publicly brings forward those pages of history that have been lost or forgotten. And now we must add to those pages a defining moment in Rockford's history, which took place in the year 2011.
 It was this year that leaders of the Rockford NAACP met with Mayor Larry Morrissey to discuss the possibility of hosting the annual Black History Month observance ceremonies in Rockford City Hall. As they say, the rest was history. Since that milestone year, the event has swelled in attendance, each year reaching numbers well over capacity.
 And as a matter of fact, one of your distinguished colleagues, Mrs. Julia Valdez, said to me last year, Lloyd, I think you guys have outgrown City Hall. And since that time, the partnership has increased. In 2011, it was the Rockford NAACP and the City of Rockford. Since then, the Rockford Park District, the National Council of Negro Women,
 and now this year the Rockford Public Library have all joined together to present to the City of Rockford this annual event. There are two people present this evening who are more than deserving of recognition for their efforts each year to assist in making this annual celebration a continued success. By now, everyone should have realized that one of those persons
 is Mayor Larry Morrissey. However, beside every great decision maker is the person who actually does the work. And that person is Mrs. Julia Valdez, whose professional as well as personal commitment to this annual event has been invaluable. We thank both of you. And now to present the awards of appreciation, we have Dr. Sterling Blackman.
 I'll hold that for you. On behalf of the National Association of the Advancement of Colored People, presented to Lawrence J. Morrissey, Mayor, City of Rockford, the Rockford branch of the NAACP presents this award to Mayor Lawrence J. Morrissey and the City of Rockford for opening the doors of the City Hall to the NAACP as a public platform to present their annual Black History Month observance, February 18, 2016.
 to the worker bee, National Association for the Advancement of Colored People presented to Julia Valdez, the Rockford branch of the NAACP, presents this award to Julia Valdez for her personal commitment to ensure the annual Black History Month observance at Rockford City Hall continues to be a success, February 18, 2016.
 Thank you very much. Thank you very much. On behalf, I really accept this award on behalf of the entire city council. This is the people's building. This is the city's building.
 building. It's only through the dedication and support of our entire city council and staff that we are privileged and honored to be stewards of this facility and it's a great place to celebrate and it's been an honor to be able to support your efforts with our work that we do and thank you Julia because without your efforts really doing all the work as I said we certainly couldn't have had that success so thank you. I have one other item I will come back to in a minute. I want to open it up to other officers reports first.
 Alderman Newberg. This afternoon, Alderman Connell and myself were guests at the...
 YWCA luncheon, it was so neat. Every year it's grown. They put on a good luncheon. And we saw two of our city employees be honored. But to see the young people that were there and to see that this is the movers and doers of the Rockford women. And it was great to see that many people in a sellout
 group and I appreciate it. The other thing I wanted to mention is tomorrow night at 6 p.m. at Good Shepherd Church is the northern, it's the neighborhood group get together and that is at 6 o'clock and I would like to see a lot of 9th Ward people there. Come join us. It's fun. Thank you. Thank you. Further officer's reports? I'm sorry, I'm going to get you. Go ahead. Yeah.
 I just wanted to briefly mention, and mostly for people watching back home, to kind of piggyback on one of our public speakers. If you're watching this, you probably vote. Next Tuesday, next week, March 15th, is the primary election. I know that there's a lot of people who vote in general elections who are sometimes a little bit hesitant about getting out and voting in the primary.
 Well, instead of just having great races at the top of the tickets on both parties, all through the tickets, depending on where you live in the city, in the county, there's a lot of very important races. I encourage you, go on the Rockford Board of Elections website. You can take a look at a sample ballot. You can see who's running. If you don't know already, if you've got some questions, I encourage you to reach out to the candidates. If you
 If you're having a hard time doing that, I think most of us in the room would be more than happy to set you up with one of those candidates. Our contact information is available on the city's website. None of us are running, and we're just more than happy to help you. So please go and vote next Tuesday. It is very important. Chair, I'm sorry, Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to recognize the Rockford Police Department.
 And I apologize for not knowing the names of all the agencies who partnered on this recent, very significant drug interdiction that captured not only people, but big ole amounts of cocaine and other poisons that are affecting our community and killing so many of our kids. You look at the obituaries and you see these.
 very young 20s, mid 20s, early 30s, and older people who are dying of heroin overdoses. And we know that those start with opioid addictions. So kudos, but not just for the bust, but for the way that you did it. They didn't engage in reckless behavior.
 They use their intelligence and they apply the intelligence that took them two years to gather. That's how you interdict drugs, not by chasing people who have two grams of cocaine on them
 and end up killing innocent citizens because this is an urban environment and you cannot chase people. And I want to recognize Chief Hoey, also Chief Epperson, because he started this policy a long time ago, and all of the officers who comply while the Register Star makes comments about them not chasing people on a tricycle. We don't chase people in this city because it results in death.
 That's just a given. That's why we don't do it.
 We've lost an absolutely beautiful woman a few weeks ago. And I'm not going to go into detail because I know her family is still hurting and it's unnecessary. So I want to recognize them and ask people to give them the strength to keep going and put up with the criticism that they get and the bad mouthing because they're doing it the right way and that bust shows that they get the right results. And by the way, they collaborated with three other agencies to do it. Wow.
 Thank you. The other item that I was going to mention during my initials officer's report, and I want to make sure I didn't forget, one of our longtime employees, Kathy Waller, who works for the Human Services Department, her husband died pretty suddenly, and we just want to extend our thoughts and prayers for her and her family and friends and give her all the support that we can as she is going through a hard time. Thank you. Further officer's reports? Thank you. Unfinished business.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under Roman numeral 9A, Planning and Development Committee, Rockford Subperpassage, Rockford Community Partners, 2016 Budget Request, and Work Plan, formerly known as EDEN. This is the ordinance that was previously laid out. Thank you. The Roman numeral 8A1, the...
 but for community partners 2016 budget request and work for passage is their discussion on times kill well everyone knows how I feel about the but everyone knows how I feel about if you don't support
 The organization all the organizations in the city and especially at the neighborhood group we cannot afford to continue to pop the same dollars down the same hole every year and get the same results.
 We have communities that have organizations that don't come to the table and ask for dollars, just support in doing their cleanups and looking at. All neighborhood groups don't want to be 501 LLC, have a president or a vice president, but they need our support.
 And I think this is a total waste for the last two or three years, and I'm going to continue to voice my concern about it. We need to look at the need. If someone was to come into a few of our communities and want to do development, we couldn't do it because we're obligating all the dollars that we can. We need to be able to go in and be more effective than what we are. And within more organizations, I'm not saying these organizations aren't doing a good job,
 I'm not saying that they're not worthy of financial support from this community. But what I am saying, if you continue to give business owners $30,000 and $40,000 a year
 for only a small geographic area in this community and not look at all of our communities and all of our needs and all of the things that all of our neighborhood groups are doing then we're missing the boat I think this is the biggest waste of dollars that we've ever put before that has ever come before me and I will continue to not support it until we look at this entire city thank you trust I I had a.
 comment and maybe a question at the same time for staff. In seeing all the different entities that would be a beneficiary of the program, the one I have a question with is the admin, there's a line item for an administrative cost of $40,000. And my question is, is that something that one is necessary and two, if it is, is that something that the city could oversee once these funds are given out to these different groups or is
 is what is the need to have a $40,000 cost, which either could be used to bolster maybe some of these other groups or perhaps add somebody else in or just perhaps cut it. But I don't know who or why it's going to have to have an administrative cost of $40,000 to run this.
 Who wants to comment on that? Alderman Durkee, then Mr. Cagnone? Yeah, the Rockford Eden, as it was formerly known, now transformed to Rockford Community Partners, began several years ago as a concept. It was outlined by a couple of studies done by some folks who study
 grassroots development, and they called it strategic doing. When Eden first was rolled out, I think there were maybe four or five groups really in it. Now there's over 30. I think there's 32 at last count.
 The reason for the administrative person is the thought that this administrative person walks the line between government, between business and other community groups that sometimes would be a little bit more difficult for just a city employee because they are also engaging county and other folks. Plus, there's an expertise there. The other issue is we get a little more bang for our buck because we don't.
 It's not in a city employee, so we don't pay for benefits or anything else like that. With respect to some of the concerns about the community groups, one of the reasons that we had required in planning and development and on other council votes, the 501 status or board status is because of the accountability for the money that is distributed to these organizations.
 We had, in addition, we had discussed on planning development, and I believe now that the Rockford community partners are on notice that I think it's the will of the council and many of the council members and the members of planning development to move from a, you get your typical 30, now some of the organizations, it comes out of their TIF, but TIFs.
 Other organizations just line up and say, give me my $20,000, give me my $50,000 this year. I think what is a better model is we're moving more, we'd like to move toward a granting scenario where people apply for a specific project, specific grant, specific neighborhood, instead of lining up every year and giving my check.
 As Eden continues to grow and transform, I personally think it's important that a central figure, a central administrator be there. Sorry, it's a kind of obloviating kind of answer.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I believe Alderman Durkee covered it well. There was some discussion at the original Planning and Development Committee on whether the $40,000 that identified as a facilitator would be used for seed funds for projects. So it comes before you tonight with a recommendation of approval from the committee with the including a facilitator at $40,000.
 Thank you for the discussion. For the discussion, Alderman Elliott. So what is the status of hiring a facilitator? Mr. Cade-Milne. Thank you, Your Honor. We have not moved forward with seeking out facilitators, understanding that the council hasn't made a decision on this overall funding request. Once a decision is made, we will advance forward with the will of the council.
 So with Mr. Cagnone, just on details on that, if the council determined that the council was going to approve the budget as is,
 How would the next step go? I'm assuming because it's over our $20,000 council staff purchasing limit, it would go for either an RFQ or some process to select someone? Right. So we would have two options. We would either go out for RFPs, requests for proposals, for qualified individuals to be the facilitator, or we would seek out interest of a facilitator and bring back a single source contract to the council for consideration. Thank you. Further discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Dutches. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Herbie. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. No. Odo. Aye. Newberg. No. Beach. Aye. Elie. Aye. McNeely. No. Chiarelli. Aye. Eight ayes, five noes, one abstain. That passes. Thank you. Further unfinished business. Alderman Durkee.
 I think the opportunity is to approve the ordinance on the matter we just approved as a committee report. Is that all right? All right. Let me place up for final passage the Rockford Community Partners 2016 Budget Request and Work Plan, firmly known as the key. We need a motion to spend the rules? Yes, we do. Is there a motion to spend the rules? So moved. There's been a move and a second to spend the rules on the...
 Roman numeral 9A1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. I just have it. Thank you. Rules to be suspended. That is up for... Thank you, Your Honor. Then I place up for passage the Rockford Community Partners 2016 Budget Request and Work Plan. Thank you.
 Any further discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would like to know if we're going to have an administrator. Will we have a need for EGEN anymore? So just to back up, or let me strike that. As a point of information, again, Mr. Cagnoni, correct me if I'm wrong, but if the ordinance passes in a similar format to the way the committee report just passed, then it's my understanding that the...
 Staff will do some analysis and either bring back, it still has to come back before the council for the determination of who would be hired as the facilitator. And then the facilitator would be responsible for essentially supervising and moderating the work plan and the budgets of the various partners under the agreement. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Thank you.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. Aye. Betches. Aye. McNamara. Same. Frost. Hervey. No. Connell. No. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Kuehler. No. Peters. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No. Chiarelli. Aye. Eight ayes, five noes, one abstain. That passes. Thank you.
 We have an appointment that I believe on back are you to handle that yes, you're a room number 10. Yep No, Romero 10 item number one is the appointment to the rock for mass transit district board of Steve Ernst with the term ending June 2020 Please add up for passage. Thank you the appointment and Roman will tend for mr Ernst is up for passage is their discussion hearing none clerk. Please call the roll Getches
 Frost Aye Hervey Aye Connell Thompson-Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Aye Elliott Beck Aye McNeely No Chiarelli Aye 12 ayes, 2 noes, your honor
 Excuse me, matter passes. Thank you. Motions and resolutions. Alderman Trelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. One is the Miracle Mile Rockford Cruise Night scheduled for Saturday, August 20, 2016. The second is the Irish Marching Society St. Patrick's Day Parade scheduled for Saturday, March 12. The third is the Red Shoe Run scheduled for Saturday, April 19. April 9. April 9. Thank you.
 Number four is a resolution of the city of Rockford, Winnebago County, Illinois, creating a special housing committee. Please close up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. For passage under motions and resolutions, room number 11B, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. This matter is up for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. Mackinac. Aye. Frost. Aye. Purvey. McConnell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Forty-Niners? Aye. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Newberg? I did have a question before you took that vote.
 Could I ask it? Yes, I believe so. But go ahead and ask the question. I mean, you're not asking for a new vote, are you? No. Okay. If you want to make comment, go ahead. I wanted to know what the final makeup was of the Special Fair Housing Committee. Ms. Hayes? Ah, sorry. I don't know if somebody else has background on that. Alderman Purvey, do you want to mention? I know there are five aldermen, but the actual names were not – did we appoint? Oh, I'm sorry. It was –
 Alderman McNally. Thank you, Mayor. Sorry. Correct me if I'm wrong. I'll exit myself. Alderman Frost. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Alderman Chiarelli. And Alderman McNeely. Make it up to five. That was why. Further? That's why I was asking because I was under the impression that Frank Beach was going to be added to that committee. That's what we talked about at the last meeting. Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 I think when it was that wall wanted to be on the committee. They broke down everyone's name that said yeah. That's that's what I I don't know but that's whenever they put it on the floor and that and everyone that answer that was the name that was put down. Yeah. I'm going back. But according to my recollection that I was cheering.
 that meeting. I don't know that we took any action to change the original five. There was discussion of the fact that all aldermen would be welcome to attend the meetings and certainly there would be opportunity for turnover of people who are on the committee. But if that was to be an item where somebody thought we wanted to have more than five members who actually are serving members of the committee, we can certainly take that item up for future
 future discussion and take the action if that's what the council wants to do. Certainly, I think we all know our rules are adjustable, especially when we create something like this, so that certainly can take place as soon as the council would find it and it's a pleasure to do so. Any further discussion on that? Again, we've already taken a vote, so this is really more informational. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Hold them back. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one more.
 Roman numeral 11C, item one is PCC patching for 2016. Awarded bid to TCI Concrete for $180,000. Item two is the award of a joint purchasing contract for net motion maintenance renewal.
 The State of Illinois awarded a bid for Net Motion Enterprise Licenses and Maintenance to AT&T Mobility for a three-year maintenance contract for a total cost of $33,948. And the third item is an award of RFP for Firewall Hardware and Implementation Services to Arcon Technologies for a total cost of $97,389. I'll place those three items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage under Roman numeral 11C, items
 1, 2, and 3. For passage is their discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. 11 and 14. I'm sorry. Oud. Oud. Monument Beach.
 He said aye. Elie. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes, Your Honor. That is passed. Thank you. New business. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Items number 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 10.
 Move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Item 10 is the annexation and the mercy. Is that appropriate? Did we vote? That was approved. That was approved. That was approved, right. So items 1 through 10, there's been a motion, second to suspend the rules. I'm sorry, was there a second on that? Yes. Motion, second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Aye, Sabbath. Thank you.
 was based on that and that is of the best is their discussion on her be the item 10 what is is that approving of that just the zoning map amendment correct not the agreement agreement was laid over for discussion on those items during an unclear please call the roll turkey that just all right thank you frost I her being no on 10 I on the remainder
 Aye. Councilmember Aye. Thompson-Kelley Aye. Odo Aye. Newberg Aye. Beach No. Elliott Aye. Beck Aye. McNeely Aye. Cerely Aye. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24,
 14 ayes, 8, 9, 10. I'm sorry, 8 and 9 are 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 10 is 12 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. That is all passed. Thank you. Thank you. And item, let's see.
 Paul and Bec. Thank you, Ron. I have just one item regarding the outside legal council for 2016 agreement with Ron Schultz. I ask for suspension of rules on that item. Okay. I put a motion to second the rules on Roman numeral 12C1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules will be suspended. Place it up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Ellier. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 14 ayes, Your Honor. That is passed. Thank you. Is there further business before the council? Motion to adjourn. Second. There's been a motion and second. Second. A motion and second to adjourn the meeting. Second.
 I'm sorry, you know what I before we do I just want to make sure there was a memo about closed session it could Sony find Mister Hayes and just to see if that still needs to take place I apologize.
 Do we need a closed session to discuss pending litigation matters? Thank you, and I apologize about almost missing that. It's been a motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending litigation matters. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Irby. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye.
 Beach, Elliott, Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 14, Isra. Again, thank you. We will be going into closed session for the purposes of discussing pending litigation matters.