meeting for monday march 8 2021 clerk could you please call the roll jerky logeman timber here frost here hervey here ervin's thompson kelly here hoffman rose here beach here quinones here hanley here 11 present
 Excellent. So we have a quorum. We'll go to motions and resolutions under finance and personnel alderman frost. We have one matter.
 Which is the award acceptance and grant agreement for the 2020 department of commerce and economic opportunity zone? investment program grant in the amount of one million nine hundred and five thousand dollars for a public infrastructure project along seminary street And gregory street I place this motion before you. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Seeing no discussion, no discussion on bonding, clerk, could you please call the roll? Yerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley.
 11 ice. Thank you. Before I ask for a motion to adjourn, Chief Berkson, could you provide us a brief update on the vaccination process? Sure.
 Be happy to. Just for everyone's informational purposes, the Rockford Fire and Emergency Operations Center is supporting the Winnebago County Health Department with their vaccination process, especially at the fixed site location at Sandy Hollow. Just for everyone's information, hours have changed now to 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. It is operating Tuesday through Sunday.
 Allocation of the vaccine is not known typically until Sunday evening. I know a lot of people have questions about scheduling. There's about approximately 80 National Guard that are on site that are assisting with the fixed site and the mobiles.
 One thing that makes it difficult and challenging is that there's three different types of vaccines. So each one has different time periods for the second dose, two of them, and then one is a single dose. That's some of the hurdles that we're dealing with with scheduling. We're averaging right now 800 a day that are vaccinated between the fixed site and two mobile teams. That has continued to increase over the last two weeks. We are currently scheduling out 30 days based on the vaccines that we get on each week.
 One thing that is kind of creates issues is we were running about 20% of people that have appointments that do not show that has continued to increase. Now we're up about 25%.
 So that creates some gap in there with the amount of vaccines. So develop a process so we can get, we send out more appointments than we have just because of the people not showing up for vaccines. And the big thing is we want to make sure that we utilize all the vaccines and none are wasted. So that becomes quite a scheduling when you get down to the last two to three hours of the center being open. Working on a process for homebound residents.
 have several partners working and trying to figure out a solution for that. We do not have one yet, but we're engaging some stakeholders. The number of vaccines will continue to expand as a supply. We have the bandwidth to go to almost 2,000 a day if we have the supply between the two mobile sites and the fixed site. So that's something that we're looking forward to. A west side location is being scouted right now to address population on the west side of town.
 In the meantime, there is on Sunday, there's going to be an event at Ellis Elementary School where 1,000 vaccines will be given by appointment only. They're working with the Rockford Ministries Fellowship to get that addressed.
 And then we're hoping that more supply continues to come. One thing people need to understand that you do not have a choice of what vaccine you get. When you're scheduled, you are set and allocated a vaccine. So you're not able to change and say, well, I don't want this one. I want this other one. That's some of the scheduling issues that we have to make sure people understand. Johnson & Johnson is being utilized most at the mobile sites.
 because there's no follow-up appointments. It just makes it a lot easier for logistics when they go out to their mobile sites, they give one vaccine and they're done. It just becomes quite a hurdle to keep those mobile teams engaged and out there in the field to make sure we can hit a lot of the high target areas.
 So that's just a quick overview, and just want to say special thanks to all of our staff at the fire department, Chief Pankow and Inspector Coordineer in the cooperation with the health department, and also RMTD has been very supportive during these efforts to make sure we have transportation to and from that fixed site. I'd be more than happy to answer any questions or anything else that you would like to know. I have a question, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Yes, I really don't have anything to do with the site in Lost Park City Hall with Swedish America. Because I'm getting some calls and I've been out there and all of their shops and appointments were postponed last week.
 I didn't hear the first part of it. It was kind of broken up. The question was, do you have any insight of what's going on out at Love's Park? Because all of the shots were postponed last week. I'm guessing it was the second shot that everyone was postponed. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, and correct me if I'm wrong, Chief, they were all postponed this week.
 Our community failed to get the allotment from the state initially last week. I want to say Monday, Tuesday, or Tuesday, Wednesday time period. And then we received that. So about 6,700 folks who had a second shot scheduled had to get that postponed. So now we do have that allocation in. All three health systems are actively contacting those folks and getting them their second shot.
 Correct. And for all these additional locations, are individuals still to register with our health department? And where are they as far as responding to all the emails? So yes, everyone is still continued to go to the Winnebago County Health Department and register. You will receive an email and if you have any constituents, make sure they're checking their emails for when an appointment comes so they can respond.
 Okay, well I have some that emailed and they haven't gotten a response as far as the second step. So if they've already gotten their first dose, they should receive an email in a few days about setting up their second follow-up appointment. And if they did not, they can call the hotline at the Winnebago County Health Department. Someone can walk them through that.
 I'd also mention Alderman and for everyone, Winnebago County does have a hotline number because there are folks who do not have internet access. And if you need to, you can register for an appointment by phone and that number is 815-319-6705. 815-319-6705. Thank you. Any other questions? Yes.
 Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll? Logum in timber Kirby, all right, Thompson Kelly. Hi Hoffman Rose. Hi beach Alderman He known as Hanley, thank you 11 eyes. Have a good night. I
 Thanks for using Levin.