this evening with an invocation from Pastor John Halbert from the out from Allen Chapel AME Church thank you and pastor there's a microphone thank you maybe bow our heads gracious master of the Heavenly Father we thank you for today's gathering to follow thank you for the fellowship we thank you for the relationship
 We pray, dear God, for all the leaders, dear God, whichever position they may hold, dear Lord. Thank you for where you have placed all of us in this leadership position here in Rockford community.
 We pray that as we enter into today's decision making, we pray to God that you will direct their minds and their hearts to God to implement the thoughts and the ideas and the concepts that you desire for them to do, dear Lord. As we embark upon the decision making, we ask for your guidance and we ask for your strength and instruction.
 Help us to see that the journey that we are on is not about us, but is all about you making this world a better place to live in. We pray that each of us who hold position will take their position seriously, not for any selfish motivation or selfish gain, but as tools and methods to improve for the betterment of the community here in Rockford, IL.
 we pray against violence to God and and then to see in this community help us to understand that war is never an answer but that to peace but love is always the key help us to develop love unity harmony and vision for the future we pray for our seniors our middle age young people babies alike dear Lord that they will grow up in
 loving community, that they will continue the legacy of unity, harmony, and peace to make this environment a better place for us to live in. Thank you for helping us to leave a legacy for the next generation. Hereafter, that may bring you honor and glory, for we need your help. In Jesus' name we pray, amen.
 Thank you. And clerk, would you please call the roll? Alderman Logerman. Alderman Toonberg. Alderman Toonberg. Here. Alderman Frost. Here. Alderman Tarina. Here. Alderman Wilkins. Here. Alderman Hoffman. Alderman Rose. Here. Alderman Beach. Here. Alderman Quinones. Here. Alderman Meeks. Alderman Bonnie. Here. Eleven present. Here.
 Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council Strategic Planning Session held on November 29th, 2021? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 24th, 2022? Aye.
 Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next, we do not have any proclamations, so we'll go to petitions and communications. We'll go to planning and development committee. Alderman Meeks. All righty. Thank you, Your Honor. I apologize. Take your time. All right. Planning and development committee, item number one. Item number one.
 Memorandum from Andrea Heinrichs, Acting Housing and Program Manager regarding the approval of the Home Rental Rehabilitation Program Agreement between the City of Rockford and Longwood Zion Apartments, LLC, for Longwood Gardens Apartments, multifamily residential housing located at 1055 East State Street, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 And item two, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a tax increment financing development agreement with Andrews Holdings of Rockford, LLC, for 4435 East State Street, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the fourth quarter report from October to December 2021 on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to a 50% requirement, referred to codes and regs. Item 2 is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager for Permits and Special Events, regarding upcoming special events, which include the Miracle Mile Flag Retirement Ceremony, Massa Cinco de Rockford Ceremony,
 Miracle Mile Cruise and Car Show, Memorial Day Parade, Rockford Fire Department 911 3K Run and Walk, July Classic, Alpine Kiwanis Brought Days, Chowdown Food Truck Festival and Polish Fest, Referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Item 3 is a Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on March 15, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 28, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 4 is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on March 15, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 28, 2022. Thank you.
 Item 5 is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation agreement for 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX, 4848, and 49XX South Main Street. Item 6 is a Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on March 9, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 28, 2022. Thank you.
 Item 7 is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding authorization to execute an easement for Roger Stombaugh, Referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman. Next we'll go to Alderman Rose for Finance and Personnel. I'm sorry. Good evening, Mr. Officer. Kevin Frost, nice to meet you. Sir. Sir.
 Number one is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding an amendment to the purchase contract with Jay Jeffers. This would be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Jamie Rotwater, Superintendent, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Forrest
 River Sanitation Authority for the replacement of sanitary sewer services, sanitary manholes, water main, and water services along 15th Avenue from Nelson Boulevard to Kishwaukee Street. And this item will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Next up we have public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers there's a microphone on the back left and the back right of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the City Council. You'll hear a cell phone ring and just would ask that you close your comments once you do. First public speaker we have this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. And not to the church in Thyatira, right? I know that works. Charity, patience. Beg your pardon?
 Charity, patience, and endurance. These, your latter works, will exceed the former.
 There was a prophetess in Thyatira who taught the inner life of morals and conscience are irrelevant to one's conduct. This is an attempt at escaping moral responsibility, and it has been advocated since throughout religious history. But there has been a repudiation of this throughout religious history as well by those who have a clear moral consciousness, true Christians. They are advancing onward and upward like those at Thyatira.
 They are filled with divine passion that is bright, hopeful, that shows no weakness but strength. They steady those who lack courage, those who are resistant, hesitant rather, who are undecided and doubtful about who they are. Such character traits are rooted in fear and ignorance. In this context, black people must understand self-determination and dignity
 in the American dynamic, which is a nation of migrated people who fight for and develop their national interests. This constitutes maintaining their economic, political, and cultural interests. This is what they do, and it shows that they're connected to the country of their origin, the country from which they came.
 They have maintained a strong sense of who they are, where they came from, and where they're going, which is their formula for acquiring and maintaining power. Witness President Biden and others of the Gaelic tradition who will be flooding everywhere with green shortly. Every national ethnic group understands their political, economic, and cultural interests. Wake up, black people. Believe in and fight for the interests of blacks with undying loyalty and courage.
 It is the most honorable thing you can do for the ethnic community from which you've
 except, of course, exhibiting moral correctness in your daily life. In this connection, I am proud to announce that this spring, our organization will be sponsoring an economic summit at Macedonia Baptist Church where Reverend Perry Bennett is a pastor. He is heartily agreeing to host it. People from far and near will be invited to participate in it, focusing on why Westside Rockford continues to be the poster child for a disinvested community to the detriment of black people without significant black business development.
 I close with these words from the Black National Anthem. God of our weary years, God of our silent tears, thou who has brought us thus far on the way, thou who has by thy might led us into the light, keep us forever in the path we pray. Lest our feet stray from the places thou guard, but we met thee, let our hearts drink with the wine of the world. Lest we forget thee. Shattered beneath thy hand, may we forever stand.
 True to our God. Thank you. And true to our native land. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack-Brandley. Good evening, Mayor, Madam Mayor.
 Alderman and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. The Lord work in mysterious ways. I want to honor a pastor from Allen Chapel Church. Last week we spoke about Allen Chapel Church, the first church in Rockford. The founding of African Americans that came here to Rockford and some of the things that they did before the Black Panther Party did and to take our youth to
 to the Midway Village Museum for them to see the Island Chapel Church, the past founders and members of the Island Chapel Church, the things that they did for Rockford. We honor you. I'm an elder and I always pass our history off. I also want to recognize Alderman Jonathan. We have a student here from Auburn High School. I want to recognize
 I want to also recognize our youth that's giggling over there because our young generation loves to giggle and what have you from Kennedy Middle School.
 mention that this would be our third year annual at the St. Patrick's Day parade. Mind you that he was born in Romania, Britain in the late fourth century. He was kidnapped at the age of 16, taken to Ireland as a slave. He escaped and returned in 432 to convert the Irish to Christianity. By the time of his death on March 17, 461, he had established
 a monastery, a church, a school. Corned beef and cabbage are associated with the holiday. And even beer is sometimes a diet green to celebrate the day. Although some of these practices eventually were adopted by the Irish themselves, they do so largely by the benefit of tourists. I want to bring out the fact that slavery just started 400 years ago. It's been going on for thousands and thousands of years.
 Everything I talked about in the past three years about the coronavirus, the truth came to the light. The coronavirus-19 has really divided this nation and other countries around the world. I learned a very hard lesson how divided this city is. Most of all, who is your true friend and who is not? The fear that so many people have about dying from this virus. This is a modern-day war between religion and religion.
 and shine those who you get up for reelection you feel the same way the governor jb pristina stated that uh in uh august of 2020 those that uh that don't take the vaccine you are my enemy need to think very hard about getting our vote we look forward to the day that the mayor other politicians stop taking our vote for granted we only hear from you is during election time most of our concerns education jobs and community
 is never met. The humanitarian crisis in Ukraine is deepening on Monday, and Russian forces are intensifying their shell in a full water heat, and medicine grew increasingly scarce. We are deeply behind, 100% behind the people fighting for their freedom in Ukraine. George? Thank you, Mr. Brantley. I'll be back. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Hassan Muhammad.
 I'd like to give honors to the mayor, give honors to my minister, Brother Omar, and my Maltese, Sheikh Bilal. Greetings, ladies and gentlemen of our city council, Rockford, Illinois. I'm from the Temple of Islam, number 777. We greet you from the Temple of Islam, which we have established in this great city and county in the year 2012 on November the 1st.
 The purpose of our public statement is to alert this wonderful city to the fact that a movement is here located on our west side that believes in transforming Rockford for all its inhabitants. We have worked silently and consistently for years teaching divine creed and civics to our people, the so-called American Negroes, to help them to become better citizens. Unfortunately,
 Many are unaware of the tremendous works of Noble Jew Ali, the prophet and the founder of the Divine National Movement to restore true civilization's principles to our members who have fallen away from our republic's standards.
 Our divine and national movement stands for the Pacific Grand Principles of Love, Truth, Peace, Freedom, and Justice, and we are applying to all loyal, faithful Moors, members, and American citizens to help us in our great uplifting acts of uplifting fallen humanity among the Asiatic race and nation. We have suffered much and severely in the past through misunderstanding of what the movement was dedicated to.
 It is the great God of Allah alone that guides the destiny of this divine and national movement. We know all true American citizens are identified by the national descent names to answer and apply to free national constitution of this free national republic of the United States of America. That is why we are here calling on all true national citizens to help us morally and financially in our great work we are doing to help this national government.
 For without a free national name, without a dissent flag of your forefathers, there is not a national divine title of the government in which we live. I'm a witness of this transformative power of the Temple of Islam. I am a Moorish American citizen of the United States of America. Thank you so much for this opportunity to speak. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you to all of our public speakers. Next up, we will go to new committee reports, and we will go to Alderwoman Meeks for planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor.
 item number one committee recommends approval of the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the city of rockford and gg cedar street llc for the redevelopment of 502 cedar street 5xx south winnebago street 5xx cedar street 600 cedar street 608 cedar street 624 cedar street 628 cedar street
 642 Cedar Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you so council we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item other woman Hoffman Thank You mayor believe it or not people are watching and they are reading in the newspaper and I've gotten some questions from them and one of them is have we provided the same services TIF as
 to others that wanted to improve that area along South Main. And another question is, if we agree, will all of the TIF money go to just Gorman, or will other developers also be able to get funds from the same TIF? Thank you. And we'll go to Director Franson.
 So the proposal, in addition to the agreement to rebate the increment once the TIF is created, is contingent on the expansion of the Amrock TIF. And so if you look at history, we've had a number of TIFs that are in this area, from Westside No. 2 to Amrock to South Rockford and Westside.
 what is the Rock Street South Main Rock Street encompassing the Barbara Coleman campus so yes those those TIFs have different agreements that are associated with them so yes we have engaged developers on projects surrounding this area second is the question was should this be approved is all of the increment going to this property owner so
 The process of the TIF expansion would determine the boundary of that TIF. It is anticipated at this time that it would only be large enough to bring in these properties. And so in the increment, 100% of the increment being generated on these two buildings, the agreement calls for 100% of that to go to those developers. So the answer would be yes.
 So Alderman Hoffman, yes, we have done agreements in and around that area most recently on South Main and yes, they will get, the ownership will get 100% of the increment that they create. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman.
 Quinones, Meeks, Bonnie. All vice. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item one under Codes and Regs, the community recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation of no action on the following items. Item one, establishing a stop control at the intersection of Mayfair Place and Brendan Wood Road. And item two, establishing a stop control at the intersection of Verbal Place and Brendan Wood Road.
 Item two is the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from a C1 limited office zoning district to an R2, two family residential zoning district at 5924, 5926, 5942, 5944, and 5972 Apawami Way and 910 North Mulford Road, subject to condition, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item three, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for A, a variation to allow two dumpsters in the front yard along North Court Street. B, a variation to allow dumpster enclosure six feet in height in the front yard along North Court Street. And C, a variation to allow a shed in the front yard along North Court Street in a C1 limited office zoning district at 412 North Church Street.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for residential self-storage buildings. Be a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 0 feet.
 C, a variation to eliminate the four foot open green space along the north and south sides of the property. And D, a variation to allow two freestanding monument signs on one lot in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3303 North Main Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for an indoor residential self-storage facility in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1321 Sandy Hollow Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item six, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals. And the sale of packaged liquor in a C3 general commercial district and R1 single family residential zoning district at 2842 and 28XX11th Street and 2845 Kinsey Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a social club and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1201 Sandy Hollow Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And finally, Item 8, the committee recommends approval of the amendments in Chapter 113, Historic Preservation of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to strike Section 113-35C4, requiring a two-thirds majority vote to approve landmark designation of any building, place, or area when the owner of said building, place, or area is opposed to designation. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. I move to amend the committee report under Roman numeral 5, new committee reports B, Code and Regulation Committee, item number 8, to reflect that.
 Section 113-35C4 is not stricken, but shall read as follows. Number four, a two-thirds affirmative vote of the City Council is required to approve landmark designation of any single family residence when the owner of said property is opposed to said designation.
 Thank you. So we have a motion before us. Is there any discussion or is there a second on that motion? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Alderman Hoffman. I'm opposed as it stands because I think it should include churches also. So not just private property, but churches. If they want to take public buildings, that's another issue. But I don't believe I'm stepping on the toes of churches or religious buildings of any kind. Thank you.
 Any other discussion? All right, clerk, will you please call the roll or I'm sorry Alderman Bonney. I move to lay this over. So just so I'm clear are you gonna. Oh, I'm sorry we're on the voting on the amendment. I'm sorry. Director Meyer. So just to clarify are you voting on the amendment first? Are you asking? On the amendment, never mind. So right now we just have an amendment on is there any discussion on that amendment and we'll take a do we have discussion on just the amendment?
 Alderwoman Wilkins. So would this be a case where Karen can ask can she amend his amendment to include churches if that's what they decide because I'm confused. Director Meyer can you help address that question? Sorry. And Alderwoman Wilkins asked if Alderwoman Hoffman can amend Alderman Bonney's amendment. Okay so
 Just so I'm clear, Alderman Bonney has made a motion to amend the underlying item. So Alderman Hoffman is asking if she can amend Alderman Bonney's amendment that's on the floor right now. Proposed amendment. She could. However, we are at a council, so that would be required to be put in writing prior to the meeting today. So if she wishes to do that, then it would mean to be laid over. Okay. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I thought that...
 Alderman Hoffman could have made a friendly amendment to this amendment to include those other things without going back and having it come back again
 I'm not disputing our legal counsel, but I thought we could do that. Okay. Director Martin? So amendments, when amendments are made at committee, they are not required to be in writing, but our counsel rules require that by the time something comes to counsel, if the committee report is going to be amended, it would need to be in writing and distributed to counsel beforehand. Even if it's a friendly amendment at this point, it would need to be in writing. All right. Thank you.
 Is there any other discussion? Alderman Frost. Perhaps since there's been an amendment to the amendment, perhaps since I think Alderman, I heard Alderman Bonney also mentioned possibly laying it over. Perhaps he could withdraw his amendment and we could lay this matter over and work out any problems.
 proposed amendment in writing before we bring it back to council in the future. Alderman Bonney, would you like to hear the request from some of the council members to withdraw your amendment? Sure, I will withdraw the amendment. Okay, so there's no amendment. We just have eight items on the floor. Is there any discussion on Alderman Frost? So I would make a motion to lay over item number eight. We have a motion and Alderman Bonney has a second.
 Okay, so we have seven items out in front of us right now. Is there any discussion on those seven? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Moniz. Aye. Meeks. Aye.
 items are approved uh next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you honor number one the committee recommends approval of vouchers the amount of six million one hundred thirty nine thousand five hundred and sixty nine dollars and 41 cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee held on february 28 2022 number two the committee recommends approve recommends denial of the fine reduction request for 2307 mulberry street
 from Uriel Rios the property is not in compliance and staff recommended denial number three committee recommends approval of an agreement for ALS ambulance services with Northwest rescue to provide backup ALS services the city of Rockford this agreement will be exercised when the city does not have internal resources available to respond to calls for services there is no cost associated with this agreement the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the purchase of property located at 605 Whitman Street in the amount of $63,000, which was accepted by the owner, Melvin Cruz. The property is part of the CIP project that is reconstructing the intersection of Whitman and Ridge Avenue. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. A legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these four matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. So we have four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to unfinished business and to Alderman Rose for Code and Regulation Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial for a special use permit for a used car lot in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 601 East Jefferson Street.
 And item two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommendation of denial for a modification of an existing liquor license to allow video gaming terminals in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 505-507 East State Street. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I've been asked by someone associated with the petitioner to hold over number one,
 which is about the car lot. They would like some time to provide more information. Okay, so we have a motion to lay over item one. We have a motion. We have a second. Since it's already been laid over, we're going to have to have a vote. Is there any discussion on that layover? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. No. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. No. Thunberg.
 Beach. No. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Eight ayes, four noes. Okay, so it's been laid over. Next, we just have one item there. Is there any discussion on that one item, Alderman Thunberg? Yes, thank you, Mayor.
 I move to amend the committee report under numeral six, unfinished business committee reports laid over B, code and regulation committee, item number two. To approve a modification of an existing liquor license to allow video gaming terminals in C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 505-507 East State Street.
 Julia Calisa at Rankin and J&K's Lounge, LLC, DBA. J&K's Lounge applicant. Approval is based on the following conditions. Number one, the proposed use and facility shall be limited to three video gaming terminals. Number two, all other conditions on the liquor license already imposed remain. Thank you. So we have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. How many terminals?
 question is to honey three terminals sir further discussion alderwoman terena thank you your honor i just would like clarification on this one um is this the one where they had originally applied for a license did not ask for terminals we denied it because they weren't it wasn't established very long can i just need a reminder on this one please
 Director Meyer or Director Franzen, whichever one of you wants to take that one. Yeah, originally this applicant was granted a liquor license and they did not request video gaming terminals. They've now sought an amendment to add gaming terminals. It was the original application was approved by council without terminals. And how long have they had their liquor license?
 Director Franzen? It was issued late 2020. I don't remember the exact date, but happy to gather that. Did you say 2020 or 2021? 2020. 2020. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose. So I guess going off of Alderman Tarina's, they've had their liquor license for approximately a year would be correct. So I guess one of the reasons why I'm asking is if they wouldn't have been approved a year ago for these liquor,
 Moving for I mean, why didn't they ask for them originally? But is there any staff that can comment on that or because it seems to me like they applied for no terminals Trying to get their liquor license and then comes back a year later now. They want the terminals Yeah, I I know that's the case, but I don't know if staff knows the reasons does I?
 So, and let me clarify too, the liquor license was granted by Council in late 2020. I do believe there was a significant amount of time where they didn't actually pick it up. So they probably haven't actually been operating under their liquor license for as long as that. However, that first time that they came in, they did indicate their business plan to not incorporate video gaming terminals.
 And so we did include it as a condition that there would be no video gaming to provide clarity to council for what was being requested. However, since then, in the effort to diversify the business and support the business, they have decided that they would like video gaming, and so it is a change in their request. Okay. Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. They've also expressed that it's – they've – they've –
 had hardship due to COVID related issues and mandates and such and they do admit that it was a tough go opening up a business at the time they did and at the time they felt that apparently they could make it without gaming and now they think that it could help so I they they did request
 three to four machines and uh i felt it was in the best interests um at hand that um we go with three thanks thank you any other discussion alderwoman wilkins just to be clear so an yes vote would be for the denial of it this is just a motion that we're still discussing so his sorry
 You may want to clarify that the motion is to reverse the denial to approval with three VGTs. So a yes vote would be to approve Alderman Thunberg's approval, and then it would be subject to additional vote for action, correct? Correct. The first vote is on the amendment, and then the second vote is on the underlying. Any other discussion on this amendment? Alderman Quinones. Yes. This will keep us on our limit with the casino.
 I don't have those. Director Franzen? So it does in terms of the number of authorized VGTs within the city. If you add in all of the ones that through the pre-annexations, et cetera, we are above that 600. But as of today, yes. Thank you. Alderman Beach.
 Along that same line, Your Honor, thank you for letting me speak. Is it possible that any request that comes forward from this day forward regarding terminals will have that number listed? So we know. That's the running total where we are against what we're allowed. Mr. Cagnoni?
 So, yes, we'd be happy to provide that information. I believe it was in the staff report that was prepared, and staff's recommendation was for denial of the request. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Yes. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a matter of clarification. They changed owners, but the prior owner had either five or six terminals. That's right. So they dropped five, ran back three. So historically, it's a net loss of two.
 for this with respect to this business yep uh mr cagnoni so that is correct um at one point in time the establishment did have uh five vgts you know sometime prior to the sale they discontinued their vgts and did not have vgts for a number of months if not years when they were in operation and then eventually closed
 And of course now under consideration is a new liquor license or amendment to an existing liquor license allow BGTs. Any other discussion on the amendment? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Vogelman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. No. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. No. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Seven ayes, five noes. Aye.
 Thank you. Next, we'll bring up the amended item. Is there any discussion on the amended item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logaman. So a no, he's saying no. Right now, a no vote, because the item's been amended, a no vote is no for the liquor license. It's okay. Okay.
 Yeah, just for the three machines, right? No, it's the liquor license a no vote because they're all one item, right? So you're voting on the liquor license with the new conditions of the BGT. So a no vote is a no on the liquor license timber
 So you have just reversed just so I am clear it just reversed to what they existing have right correct All right, so in essence, it's really just the three machines. That's all no you were voting on a liquor license with the condition of EGT There's one item we vote for liquor licenses. So I understood it's the only major piece of the amendment to the existing liquor license
 Your Honor, may I add some clarity? Director Myers would be correct. This is for the liquor license. However, if it's denied, the existing liquor license remains in place. Correct. Which does not allow for VGTs. Okay. Alderman Quinonez. I just want to make sure here. Yes vote is for free machines and the license.
 In the amendment that Alderman Thunberg put forward, three machines were to be added to this establishment as part of their overall liquor license through the City of Rockford.
 Alderman Bonnie. So just to clarify, the liquor license would remain in place either way. Yes. The only thing we're really voting on is three VGTs. You're really voting on the liquor license. Correct. That includes three VGTs. But a no vote would not cause them to lose. A no vote means that it goes back to the same way it is this evening. Correct. Okay. Okay. Alderman Kuhnberg, I hesitate. That's what I wanted to clarify with Attorney Meyer is that the way it was.
 conveyed it sounded like the whole liquor license itself was up i apologize that's no no apologies needed and i that's you see what happens when thunberg puts forward an amendment it's just mask or effusion mayhem so i guess to our vote it's on me now and i would vote aye thank you alderman frost terena wilkins hoffman rose beach
 Quinones, Meeks, Bonney. Aye. Seven ayes, five noes. Okay. Whatever you guys just did was passed. No, I'm joking. Yes. Yes. So, Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor. So just for clarity, so the committee report was approved this evening and then at the next City Council meeting our legal team will put the ordinance up for consideration.
 And then the ordinance by rule would require eight positive votes. Good news is we get to do this all over again. Next, we're going to go to officers' reports. I just want to bring up two items. One is...
 Huge recognition and congratulations to Chief Pankow. Chief Pankow today was named the YWCA's Woman of Achievement for community leadership. And I will just say...
 You've looked over the last 12 and even 24 months of running operations for the fire department, really leading our city from an organization standpoint and large part community standpoint through COVID, and then the small piece of the matter is you became the fire chief. During all that period, on top of so many other wonderful things you do in our community, you certainly deserve that award, so congratulations.
 So you talk about one person who never wants the accolades. I just love that everyone, yes, thank you. So well deserved. Second on a much more sobering note,
 City of Rockford partnered this past week on Friday with Rockford Area Convention Visitors Bureau. They partnered with the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois, kids around the world, to come up with a brovery program.
 Bribery relief fund and I want to say a special thank you to alderman Rose and alderman Beach They both have been a
 consistent and sometimes aggressive in their eagerness to assist our sister city. And so just a huge thank you. There's a number of other initiatives going on in our community right now to assist Bravery but those that is one and there's a number of others.
 If any of you or anyone watching at home would like to make a contribution to the relief fund, you can do so at the community foundation's website, which is cfnil.org, or they can go to Kids Around the World website, which is kidsaroundtheworld.com, all one word. And with that, I'll turn it over to council. Alderwoman Traynor. Thank you, your honor.
 I wanted to acknowledge a gem in my ward. It is the West Rock Wake Park. They receive national recognition for best wakeboarding park in the country at the 16th annual summit in the Snow Awards in California. So that's a really huge honor and brought some pretty great esteem to our city. So I wanted to acknowledge that. Congratulations to them and it really is truly an awesome park.
 Also wanted to just let everyone know it was posted on the city's Facebook today, but there is a Information session for the entire city not just fifth ward residents this Thursday, March 10th 530 p.m. At the ethnic heritage Museum on South Main. It is a Barbara Coleman information session The developer will have representatives there and
 Will be there and we also have representation from the city of Rockford Community Economic Development Department. So Residents will be able to ask questions Have their feedback shared and they'll also be able to kind of just get information about the project the timeline and other key Key information that we're actually able to give at this point So I just want to make sure that everyone's aware that that's that's happening. Thank you very much. Thank you other reports alderman rose. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to second what you had mentioned on the brovary response and give great thanks. I know Laura, our communications director, played a huge role in that, and John Groh, the community foundation. So thank you for getting that out to the community. I know there's a lot of people suffering over in Ukraine.
 But I also did want to mention that this weekend on Saturday, we have the Irish Marching Society Parade starting at 3. And so it's a big event that is annual that hasn't gone on for a few years. And just hope that our city will come out and support one of the first post-COVID parades in our community.
 Thank you. Going back to Alderwoman Trini, you had a- Thanks, Mayor. I just wanted to clarify the event again. I just want to say it one more time because I don't believe I gave all the right information. It is again, Barbara Coleman Resident Information Session this Thursday, March 10th, 530 p.m. taking place at the Ethnic Heritage Museum and the address is 1129 South Main Street. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Toonberg. Thanks, Mayor. I would preface my statement with just I don't think I need to remind anybody what inflation is about and what's going on out there and filling up your gas tanks. I think you realize that first and foremost or going to the grocery store. Just this last week, in one day,
 Wheat was up 24% in one day on the board, on the Chicago Board of Trade. For the wheat it was up about 46%. So get ready for some big grocery bills coming up soon. Even things like nickel, which is made in appliances, jewelry, a whole host of different things is up 72%.
 but with that said the reason i stayed is that i've i've had a uh constituent call and and would like me to bring it to the attention of city council in the city that there is a wide array of gas prices throughout the city and within the boundaries outside just outside of the city uh question would be is what is the city are we doing anything to uh do we have any
 processes in place to prevent price gouging, et cetera, on such a thing. Thank you. And I don't know if that should go to Legal Director Meyer or Mr. Cagnoni, but I do recall in the past we have definitely had mitigations in place, and we would send out letters for price gouging if we saw different what we thought were
 excessive prices from different establishments i don't know if it was necessarily on the gas alderman tunberg or if it was during covid when we saw certain folks escalate prices in need director meyer do you recall yeah we we um initially during the covid crisis there was a steep uh price increase in certain um i think grocery stores in particular
 Those are referred down to the Attorney General's Office for review. I think we acknowledged if we got in a complaint and we thought it was serious, we would refer that down. And also let anybody who contacted us know that the appropriate avenue is to contact the Attorney General's Office either by phone or through their website.
 all right i had to uh already refer alderman logan into the illinois commerce commission i didn't think it was in our boundaries that uh he thought there was price gouging in in a box of cocoa puffs so uh i knew that wasn't in our boundary thank you uh any other reports alderman fronting
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to let you all know and then to also thank Mayor McNamara for that he was able to spend the morning at Roosevelt talking to young people about civic engagement as well as voter registration. So I want to thank you for helping us kick off our voter registration drive.
 Looking forward to having the kids be more engaged. I think some of them, they found their ward, so they might be looking for you really soon to report potholes. So thank you again for coming out and speaking with the children and staff at Roosevelt. Absolutely. Thanks for the opportunity. Any other reports?
 Okay. Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulation committee. So we'll go back to Alderman Frost for finance and personnel committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for police vehicle equipment installation for 36 vehicles to ultra-strobe communications.
 in the amount of 354 thousand twenty nine dollars and fifty nine cents the funding source is capital lease funds number two the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for two john deere backhoe loaders to west side tractor in the amount of two hundred and forty six thousand eight hundred and sixty three dollars and sixty cents the funding sources of twenty twenty two water division capital budget
 number three the committee recommends approval of the request to take proposals for website design number four the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering uh for well number nine to fair graham in the amount of fifty one thousand one hundred dollars the funding sources the water replacement improvement account number five the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for 11th street improvements to state portion to crawford murphy and tilly in the amount of eight hundred and twenty nine thousand one hundred and three dollars
 The contract duration is Spring 2022 to Spring 2026. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the Board of Engineering for the 11th Street improvement, the city portion, to Crawford, Murphy, and Tilly in the amount of $1,957,634. The contract duration is also Spring 2022 to Spring 2026. And the funding source is also the 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the application of the award of the U.S. EPA Brownfields Revolving Loan Fund grant supplemental funding in the amount of $5 million. The grant does not require a cost match, and the term is 16 months from the date of entering into a formal cooperative agreement with the U.S. EPA.
 The grant funds will be used to capitalize the city's existing RLF program and will be loaned out to private or public entities to perform environmental cleanup at Brownfield properties. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the memorandum of understanding between the City of Rockford and Jay Jeffers Group for US EPA Brownfields revolving loan fund grants supplemental funding in the amount of $5 million. I place these eight matters before you.
 Thank you. So there's eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Ogeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. 13 ayes.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to new business and alderwoman meets for planning and development committee Thank you your honor an ordinance approving the tax increment reef tax increment financing Redevelopment agreement between the city of Rockford and GG Cedar Street LLC for the redevelopment of 502 Cedar Street 5xs
 South Winnebago Street 5xx Cedar Street 600 Cedar Street 608 Cedar Street 624 Cedar Street 628 Cedar Street and 642 Cedar Street. Thank you. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logoman to burn frost Torino Prenti Wilkins Hoffman
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor. Item one is an ordinance proving a variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the front yard from four feet to eight, eight feet, four inches for the existing fence along 19th Street and a variation to increase the maximum fence height permitted in the side yard from six feet to eight feet.
 10 inches for the existing fence along east property line in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 2303 16th Avenue. Item 2 is an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from a C1 limited office zoning district to an R2 two-family residential zoning district at 5924-5926...
 5942, 5944, and 5972 Appalami Way, and 910 North Mulford Road.
 Item 3 is an ordinance approving a variation to allow two dumpsters in the front yard along North Court Street, a variation to allow a dumpster enclosure six feet in height in the front yard along North Court Street, and a variation to allow a shed in the front yard along North Court Street in a C1 limited office zoning district at 412 North Church Street.
 item 4 an ordinance approving a special use permit for residential self-storage buildings a variation to reduce the required side yard setback from 6 feet to 0 feet a Variation to eliminate the 4 foot open green space along the north side North and south sides of the property in a variation to allow two freestanding Monument signs on one lot in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 33 oh 3 North Main Street. I
 Item 5 is an ordinance approving a special use permit for an indoor residential self-storage facility in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 1321 sandy hollow road item 6 is an ordinance proving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals and the sale of packaged liquor in a c3 general commercial district and r1 single-family residential zoning district at 24 28 42 and 28 XX
 11th Street and 2845 Kinsey Street. Item seven is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink in conjunction with a social club and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1201 Sandy Hollow Road and item eight was laid over. Thank you, so we have seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 6, ayes. Prenti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Canones? Aye. Meeks? Bonnie? Items 1 through 5, 13 ayes. Item number 6, 11 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 7, 12 ayes, 1 noe. Thank you. Next we'll go to Alderman. I'm sorry. I changed my vote as well. I'm sorry about that. 6 and 7, please mark me for a no.
 The new vote on 6 is 10 ayes, 3 noes, and on 7 it's 11 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 number one is an ordinance approving an agreement for als ambulance services with northwest rescue to provide backup als ambulance services to the city of rockford this agreement will only be exercised when the city does not have the internal resources available to respond to calls for service there is no cost associated with this agreement
 Number two is an ordinance approving the purchase of the property located at 605 Whitman Street in the amount of $63,000, which was accepted by the owner, Melvin Cruz. The property is part of the CIP project that is reconstructing the intersection at Whitman Street and Ridge Avenue. The funding source is the CIP General Fund. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. There's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye.
 Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? Bonney? 13 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a great night.