UCA Bridge Ministries. Let's pray. God, I want to thank you, first of all, for this beautiful day, and I want to thank you for this beautiful city where I live. I want to thank you for all these people who make this city work, all the aldermen, all the department heads, all the staff, all the people that give so much of their time and energy to make this a better place. I appreciate them, and I appreciate that you are here tonight, and
 as interested, more interested than we are in making this a good place. So we submit the plans, we submit the needs, we submit all of the people of this city to you, and we ask that you make this the place that you want it to be. And we ask that this evening, the work that we're about would be pleasing to you. And we pray it in Christ's name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Gasparini? Here. Thunberg? Here. Frost? Here. Hervey? Here. Irvins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Beck? Here. McNeely? Here. Chiarelli? Here. 12 present. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 18th, 2020? So moved. So we have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion,
 All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have one proclamation this evening. I would ask that the members of the Irish Marching Society please come forward. What's going on? A little bit biased, but one of my favorite proclamations of the year. Mm-hmm.
 So, whereas Irish Marching Society Rockford Chapter Number 1 is strictly a not-for-profit organization chartered in 1976 and was established to preserve and promote Irish heritage within our community. And whereas Irish Marching Society continues to contribute financially from its various activities and events to charitable organizations.
 And whereas, Irish Marching Society's 44th Annual St. Patrick's Day Parade will be held on Saturday, March 14, 2020 at 3 p.m., beginning on 7th Street and 5th Avenue and ending at the Prairie Street Brewhouse, 200 Prairie Street for the St. Patty's Day Fest.
 and it will be held at the Brewhouse from 4 p.m. to 11 p.m. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of March 9, 2020, to be Irish Marching Society Week.
 And I hear you guys may have an announcement that you may want to share with us this evening to add some to the festivities. So without further ado. That we do. To be sure, to be sure. Anyway, okay. Operation, we'll call it Emerald Water, is about to happen. This year we plan to turn the river green.
 Okay, so we're going to bring everyone down. It might not stay for a while because we've got the current, but we're going to attempt to keep it there as long as we can. And for everybody to enjoy, from Patty Fest or the end of the parade, you'll be able to catch all the activity there. And it's going to be a historic first for us. So I want you all to know, we raided out of 200 cities last year.
 We were number nine for the St. Paddy's celebration, the parade. Number nine. Yeah. And they rated it on all kinds of, you know, tradition and safety and all that stuff. So kudos to the entire city for getting us that high of a rating. And that was on wallethub.com. You can check it out on your phones there or whatever. But it's a great privilege and an honor to be standing before you here today. And, you know...
 Just to elaborate a little bit, every heritage is important here. When they say America is a melting pot, it's not just a pot of mush.
 It's a pot of flavors. It's a pot of, you know, those ingredients that make us a really wonderful experience to just say, wow, come on, take a big bite of Rockford because it's got so much to offer, so many flavors, and this is one of those flavors. So remember, everyone's Irish on St. Patty's Day, right? So just, you know, come on out, wear something green. Right, everyone. All right, thanks. Thanks, Mayor.
 Okay, thank you. We're going to move forward with petitions and communications. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee first with Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the Rockford Area Economic Development Council RADEC 2019 year-end report referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank You alderman Rose next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Shirely. Thank your honor I have a memorandum from LaFleur Curie Yvonne the assistant city attorney Regarding the fourth quarter report from October through December 2019 liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement Second is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on March 11, 2020
 20 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on March 23rd 2020 The third is a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager Regarding upcoming special events which include heritage run Rockford City Market Northend City Market RPS 2.5 fun run and life scape 4th of July run
 Number four is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the planning and zoning manager, regarding the final plat of Love's Rockford subdivision. Number five is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding a road detection plat for Brookwood subdivision. Number six is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding an authorization to allow the zoning officer to file text amendments. Refer all those to codes and regs, your honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Torelli. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Vepp. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one tonight. It's a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic Engineering, regarding an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and IDOT for governmental body maintenance of traffic control devices. Refer this to Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next, we'll move to public speakers. We have three public speakers this evening. I'll just remind the public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left of council chambers. You'll hear my phone beep when your three minutes is complete. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 33rd chapter, the 4th to the 5th verse, it says, For upright is the word of the Lord, and all his works are trustworthy. He loves justice and righteousness. Of the kindness of the Lord the earth is full. What I want to speak about tonight, the 19 reasons why children drop out of school. The state of American school play a role in students' wilderness development.
 and motivation to attend. When students feel unsafe, unchallenged, or not important at school,
 One, school related factors contribute to dropping out. Poor supervision and maintenance of school facilities. Two, safety issues such as teachers and school officials failing to address behavioral problems. Three, harsh punishment for minor infractions such as automatic suspension or automatic help for being late. Four, lack of notification to parents when a child is not attended or performing as expected. Five, the home factors are
 Abuse and neglect by the child's parents. Six, substance abuse by family members. Seven, parents' lack of interest in education. Eight, financial issues, such as single parents working multiple jobs to make ends meet. Nine, low self-esteem, often due to poor grades. 10, undiagnosed or untreated mental health issues or learning disabilities. 11, substance abuse issues.
 12, bullying. 13, illness. 14, caring for a parent who have a mental illness or who are sick. 15, hungry, not having any food at home. 16, drop out of school to go to work so they can have money to buy clothes and food. 17, have to walk.
 long distance to school. 18, being homeless. 19, illiteracy. Not able to read, which makes one have to struggle in school. Can be demoralizing for students and leaves them wondering whether it's worth going to school in the first place. My studies of children who are in juvenile center in the United States, 95% can't read. 95% of adults in prison can't read, which makes them have a negative self-image who they are, which makes them hate themselves and other people. If you eliminate
 these 19 things, I guarantee you, you can eliminate truancy, children from dropping out of school, increase the graduation rate from high school and help lower the poverty rate and homeless rate and crime rate in Rockwood at the same time. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Maurice Jannison. While attending one of the mayor's fireside chats at the Natural History Museum,
 The topic of the evening session was public safety. The emphasis was on domestic violence and the mayor's attempt to curb this malady in Rockford. As long as we were discussing public safety, I brought up the subject of snow removal at Rockford Mass Transit District bus stops.
 Being a senior citizen, living on the city's high rises, having access to a sheltered bus stop in front of our building makes for easy access to all the RMTD has to offer. The maintenance people in our building pride themselves in maintaining both the parking lot, sidewalks and shelter areas for the RMTD bus stop. As Public Works makes their rounds with a snow plow, they always manage to push the snow and ice up and over the curb where it has been cleared by our building maintenance.
 A veritable glacier extends to where the curb ends, meets the street, and extends to the entrance of the bus. As for someone who is extremely agile and mobile for my age, there are many that are physically impaired and handicapped. That small journey from the curb to the entrance of the bus can be deadly for anyone who is challenged.
 This is a dangerous and unsafe practice for the city to pursue. I asked the mayor who is responsible for snow removal at the RMTD bus stops. He calmly answered the Rockford Mass Transit District. The RMTD has enough to do without being burdened with snow removal at the RMTD bus stops. There must be hundreds of bus stops and expecting them to clear all of them after heavy snow is ridiculous. Public works makes it feasible for cars, trucks, and buses to travel our roads and streets.
 during inclement weather. It's a shame the same consideration cannot be afforded to pedestrians who depend on public transportation to easily board and depart the bus from any of the RMTD bus stops. No, Mayor McNamara, the responsibility lies with Public Works
 to remove snow and ice from the RMTD bus stops. They are not called city streets for nothing. To compare what the City of Rockford and Public Works has at their disposal to maintain city streets during snow removal compared to what the Rockford Mass Transit District has at their disposal to maintain RMTD bus stops.
 is a no-brainer. The imbalance is yet another shining example of what is important, cars, and what is not important, pedestrians. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tackbramley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28 verses 27 say, God wanted us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor will be blessed.
 If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God would supply our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? The power of the party precinct community can't be underestimated.
 As the duty of a precinct committment and precinct captain, a lot of people here in Rockhead have no idea what a precinct committment or a precinct captain role are until they saw me. I come before you to tell you that some of the things that have been informed in these three, so stop hating the messenger and ask what we can do to work together. We have our own bonus block that cover from Alpine to Concord, from Riverside to Sandy Hollow. We...
 We are not controlled by Democrats or Republicans. I have signed up over 350 people so far. We we are we have we we we have different ethnic groups with us. This year is very important year. Our vote and voice and concern will be heard. We also want to thank all the sponsors for the past year and two months that have been helping the renewal turning point program, youth and adult, plus to have not in our community.
 This will be our second annual time at the St. Patrick's Day parade with the Newark-Purning Point youth and adults. So what is the story of St. Pat? Patrick Patron said in Ireland, born in Roman Britain.
 in the late fourth century he was kidnapped at the age of sixteen and taken to Ireland as a slave. He escaped but returned about four hundred and thirty-two people he converted to Irish to Christianity. By the time of his death on March the seventeenth, four hundred and sixty-one people had established monasteries, churches and schools. His immigrant particularly
 The immigrants, particularly in the United States, who transferred St. Patrick's Day into a large circle of holiday revising celebrations of things in Ireland. Cities with a large number of Irish immigrants who often waged political power staged the most extensive celebration which include parades. Boston held its first St. Patrick's Day parade in 1737 followed by New York in 1768, Mayor Daley in 1962.
 And although blue was the color traditionally associated with St. Patrick's, green is now commonly connected with the day. Irish and non-Irish alike commonly participate in the wearing of green. So will we. Sporting the item of green clothes or shamrock, so will we. The Irish national plant is the label
 corned beef and cabbage are associated with the holiday. Even beer is sometimes digrained to celebrate the day. Although some of these practices eventually were adopted by the Irish themselves, they do so largely to benefit the tourists, which is all of us. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Thank you.
 Okay, we'll move to new committee reports. I don't believe we have any items under planning and development, so we'll go to code and regulation. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. First, does the committee recommend sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish handicapped parking on the west side of Ohio Parkway from 310?
 310 feet south of Dartmouth Drive to 370 feet south of Dartmouth Drive. Thus repealing the existing two hour parking restriction from 7 AM through 3 PM on the west side of Ohio Parkway from 310 feet south of Dartmouth Drive to 370 feet south of Dartmouth Drive.
 Number two, the committee recommends amending the traffic commission's approval to establish a 35 mile an hour speed limit on North Lyford Road from East State Street to the city limits north of Royal Oaks Road.
 Number three, committee recommends approval of the request for a modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Don Carter Lanes, 4007 East State Street. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the request for a modification for existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Bigfoot Bar and Grill at 1609 South Alpine Road.
 Number five the committee recommends approval of the request for a modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at my place bar and grill 4578 Harrison Avenue number six committee recommends approval of the request for a modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal machine at fraternal order of Eagles Rockford area number 392 Inc
 38 29 11th Street number seven committee recommends approval of the request for a modification of existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at whiskeys Roadhouse 3207 North Main Street number eight committee recommends approval of the request of a modification and existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Taco San Jose at 3725 East State Street
 Number nine, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit to construct a 75-foot high telecommunication tower at 455 Ware Avenue.
 Subject to conditions. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval of a modification of a special use permit for the rental, leasing, storage, parking, and or sale of commercial trucks at 3909 and 3911 Sandy Hollow Road. Subject to conditions. Number 11, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for a veterinary clinic at 7145 Spring Creek Road. Subject to conditions.
 Number 12, there's been a request from the alderman of that area of the application to hold this item out. Number 12 will be held out this evening. Number 13, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's
 approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals at 30 31 and 30 35 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions number 14 committee recommends sustaining L tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern at 1241 Broadway subject to conditions
 number 15 committee recommends sustaining LTAP's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern outdoor beer garden video gaming terminals at 4412 Manchester Drive subject to conditions number 16 committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the modification of existing liquor license in conjunction with the restaurant to include video gaming terminals at 1631 North Bell School Road subject to conditions
 And number 17, committee recommends sustaining all tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the conference center at 402 South Main Street. Subject to conditions, I place these items up for passage, Your Honor.
 Okay, great job. Oh, number 18. Thank you, Mr. Beck. Number 18, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's advisory for approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the hotel and restaurant with outdoor seating at 416 South Main Street and B, the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the hotel and restaurant with an outdoor seating area at 416 South Main Street. Now I place those all up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 All right, well done. So you have 18 items in front of you, one's being held out, so there's 17 in front of you. Is there any discussion on those 17? Alderman Hervey. With regard to the video gaming terminals here where it says subject to conditions, which one of these had the limitations? Okay.
 So if you'll bring that mic down others can hear you so correct me if I'm wrong team I have item 13 has three item 15 and 16 both have five item 14 has zero item 17 has zero And the other list out the number I'm sorry. Yeah, some of the the ones that had five my understanding is that's the maximum that they could and
 until they've been in operation for a year. Then they can move to add an additional machine. Were there any here who were restricted? There were one or two that were restricted. There were a couple that came to an agreement that, correct me again, team, if I'm wrong here, item 13 has three, item 14 is zero, and item 17 I don't believe requested any.
 Okay. Item 14, they didn't ask for any, did they? Or did we say no? They did not ask for any. Okay. Any other questions, discussion? Alderman Frost? Thank you. With respect to number 9, the 455 Ware Avenue, is that the same site where the proposed parking lot was? I believe so.
 i believe so director fans yes yes it is i'm just curious when they came forward with the parking lot why they didn't come forward with the ask for the um cell tower at that time director franzen or uh mr cagnoni do you know why uh they didn't come forward they did identify it as their site plan that they would be pursuing it but it wasn't part of the request understanding there was two independent proposed land use requests thank you other discussion on the 17 items before
 Alderman Rose Just my understanding of the conversation from last week for number 15 that used to be jeans place, correct? Correct, and they had Previous gaming there that had the five machines and they performed pretty well. They had five machines. I Director aware of their performance, but they did have five machines Okay, and then for 16 have they had previous gaming before or no? I
 No, this would be new gaming at the at Garrett's. What was staff's recommendation for 16? What was that? Uh staff had recommended no gaming other uh discussion Seeing none. Uh clerk. Will you please call the roll? Yes, brainy toomer frost herbie Hoffman, i'm sorry urbans. I'm so sorry. Was it three through eight? Hoffman rose Beach
 Quinones McNeely Shirely item 1 12 eyes and I'm 2 12 eyes and I'm 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 11 eyes 1 no item 10 11 12 12 eyes item 13 11 eyes 1 No, I know 14 and 15 12 eyes item number 16 9 eyes 3 nose items I'm sorry 12 was taken out. I apologize item number six
 17 and 18, 12 ayes. Thank you. All those items pass and move forward. Next, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, your honor. I have a committee or I'm sorry. I have the vouchers and the amount of five million five hundred ninety two thousand five hundred Forty three dollars and twenty eight cents and then I have a recommending approval of the authority to hire a nine-one-one manager position Salary would be paid for by the Winnebago County Emergency telephone system board place these two items up for passage. Thank you. So there's two items before you is there any discussion? alderman McNeely Thank You. Mr. Mayor
 When this item came up number two came up in committee there was questions regarding the dollar amount and It was stated by staff that the amount was an estimated amount So did we come up with an actual amount for this position? I don't believe so because I believe the ETSB is handling all that since they're paying the final salary for Everything in whole but I'll go to director Haggerty. I
 The final salary wouldn't be determined until the position's been filled. You know, it would be posted, and then the final salary would be determined once the position's filled. The benefit cost can vary based on health coverage selections, things like that.
 So we wouldn't have that the hundred thousand dollar number is an estimate based on what we would normally budget for average Fringe benefits based on the salary range that we have in place for the position But until the person's actually here and chooses health coverage and things like that. We wouldn't have a final actual number yet Thank you. Any other discussion on those two items before you see none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Yes, bring me I
 Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones back McNeely Shirely I am number 112 eyes item 2 11 eyes 1 no Those items pass Next we have officers reports alderman Herbie. Thank you your honor a couple things I wanted to announce the conference center
 with the Embassy Suites Hotel is hosting a job fair. There was a kickoff on Saturday, it was again today from 10 till 7 p.m. So you still have about 35 minutes if you want to get down there. And the fair will continue tomorrow from 10 a.m. until 7 p.m. I didn't bring my copy of the sheet but
 every level of job is open from management positions, wait staff positions, not the hotel positions just yet, but some of those they are looking for, some positions. But this is just a tremendous opportunity and I want to really encourage people
 who don't have transportation in particular very short bus ride from most of the locations adjacent to downtown it would be a one bus trip
 to get there. It's walking distance from the bus station. It's a little jaunt, but not a bad one, a good one for getting your heart rate up. So I really hope people go out and apply. They had a good turnout on Saturday. I think they had over 200 people. I don't know about today, but, you know, let's give them 500 for tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports? Alderman Irvins.
 I just wanted to say thank you to you, Tom, for your generous sponsor for the SOAR Radio Gospel Awards that will be airing, or not airing, but held here March 9th at Heartland Church at 7 p.m. If you have not, there are still tickets available. But yeah, I just wanted to announce that and thank you for your sponsor. Thank you guys for all that you do.
 Maurice West as well. He also was a sponsor. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. I want to give credit today for operations Fallen Flags for taking down the damage and huge flag and fix the pole at Lubeck Road today and put up a new one. They braved the cold and the wind today and I want to thank the fellow veterans for doing a good job today.
 Thank you. Other reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. First of all, I want to recognize yesterday was Bloody Sunday. There was a parade. There was a national event there at Pettus Bridge.
 Also, I went to events Saturday at Washington Park for Black History Month. It was, I believe it was the intentional group that did the event. It was an excellent event. A number of people attended and certainly some great speakers. And lastly, for the aldermen, I had mentioned last week regarding meeting with the city attorney.
 Regarding the gaming legislation so we don't have questions and open discussion as we vote on the locations for gaming machines. And again, I just want to remind you, it's this Thursday at 2 p.m. at Attorney Meyer's office. So if you can attend, please do so we can get that resolved.
 Thank you. Thank you. I would just add for that, if you do plan to attend, we'll need to know who is attending so that there isn't an Open Meetings Act violation. If we need to, we can publicize it. But just want to make sure that everyone is welcome. But if there's going to be so many of you, we'll have to publicize that. We want to make sure that we report that out appropriately.
 alderman thunberg thanks mayor a few weeks ago we had an incident in the third ward that was consisted of an airbnb it was an apartment and they had evacuated about 40 people out of this apartment found some weapons i was just made aware by another constituent this weekend there was another airbnb this one was a house and
 She counted approximately 70 people coming out of the house once the police non-emergency were called. So I think there should be some conversation coming up at some point. I know we've had some conversation in the past. I don't really...
 weigh it too heavily on the owners of the Airbnb necessarily. I think many of them are trying to do what's best for their property, but you can get a rogue individual renting an Airbnb out with different intentions than to just sleep there.
 So maybe if we can entertain some ideas, I would appreciate that because I think instead of it's becoming now the new instead of a hotel room party back when Alderman Beck was in his day, this is now the Airbnb parties.
 and they use social media and all and um if you know maybe weighing some consequences or such on the party throwers so i'll i'll turn you over to our uh legal director in a second but i almost called my own alderman the other night uh because one of those parties was like across the street from me so uh director meyer uh if you could give us an update on what we're doing
 Dr. Meyer. So the issue with Airbnb parties or short-term rental parties is an issue that's not only facing the city of Rockford, but it's really becoming an issue that all legal departments for municipalities are trying to address and come up with ordinances. So we are actively looking to see if there's any ordinances out there that we can pull off of.
 We we do have a couple of parties that were out of control that were arrests were made We can tell you that they are we are looking at issuing notices do appear for the folks that are responsible for those To make sure that if you are deciding to have it one of those parties The word needs to get out that the city of Rockford is not going to tolerate ones to get out of control and responsible people will be Have to deal with that and that would include a
 The property owners if they're if they're letting this happen knowingly then they'll need to be responsible for their property We we try to make sure our renters are responsible for their tenants and the same is true for the short-term rental ones Thank You alderman herbert. Yeah, just a quick note. I believe I
 There are several of the smaller cities in California that now require the property owner to specifically prohibit in their written agreement. First they have to have a written agreement with the Airbnb renters that parties larger than four people, whatever, or events are prohibited at their home.
 And if they don't have that written agreement and they haven't prohibited the party, the owner is responsible for all things that would reasonably flow because their argument is
 Airbnb's are being used for this increasingly, so it's not a big surprise to anybody. Some of the homeowners are getting huge deposits, by the way, and then they know what's going on. So I would hope that we could look at a consequence not only for the people throwing the party, they typically get in their car and drive somewhere else, but also for the homeowners for not prohibiting. Certainly. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman McNeely.
 Me? Yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't report earlier. The young lady that was here this evening, she reported that there's vacant property at 426 Forest Avenue. There was a fire there approximately six months ago, so if it's not on our list, I would like to make sure that we do include it on our list.
 Had a request from Saturday at 23 23 Green Street a Lot of activity there for a police department. Thank you. Thank you. And just so I got those correct It was for 26 forest Avenue and then 23 23 Green Street. Yes. Thank you. We'll make sure that we get on that any others moving on
 So the appointments laid over is laid over until after March 4th alderman Herbie, yeah, I would like to move that we Suspend the rules. I mean today is the sweat the second second suspend the rules and and move this forward so that Thank you. So we have a motion a second to suspend rule 18 for the appointment of Jeremiah Griffin to the Community Action Board. I
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item will be up before you. So before you is one item, the appointment of Jeremiah P. Griffin to the Community Action Agency Board to serve a three-year term and fill a vacant client sector position. Is there any discussion on that item? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Item passes unanimously. Okay.
 Next we are going to go to motions and resolutions and I am going to hold back item Roman numeral 8 B 1 until later on in this evening and we'll go right to See finance and personnel with alderman back. Thank you, Your Honor first item is donation of use 2012 and
 Ford wheeled coach ambulance to Swedish American Hospital for their EMS training program. Item two is rescinding the award for the fire station number six, HVAC replacement. Rescinding the award to temperature doctors.
 HEATING AND COOLING AND AWARDING THE GEO STAR MECHANICAL IN THE AMOUNT OF $58,448. NEXT IS THE AWARDED BID FOR CITYWIDE STREET REPAIRS GROUP NUMBER ONE TO ROCK ROAD COMPANIES IN THE AMOUNT OF $665,593.72. NEXT IS THE AWARDED BID FOR PCC PATCHING 2020 TO CAMPUS CONSTRUCTION FOR AN ESTIMATED ANNUAL BUDGET AMOUNT OF $200,000 BASED ON UNIT PRICES.
 Contract duration is the date of the award through December 31st, 2020, with an option to extend for one year by mutual consent of both the city and the contractor. Next is the awarded bid for garage commercial labor for medium and heavy duty trucks to Lakeside International for an estimated annual amount of $75,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extensions.
 Next is the award of bid for traffic signs and posts and finish signs to blank signs, Vulcan signs, oh, blank signs are going to Vulcan signs. Company sign posts are going to Newman signs and finish signs are going to Newman signs.
 The estimated total value of all contracts is twenty six thousand dollars based on unit pricing Duration the contract is one year next we have an award a joint purchasing agreement for police dash mounted cameras laptop computers and docking stations for 2020 patrol squad cars to CDS office technologies in the amount of 92,000 two hundred fifty five dollars next we have the change order for purchase of police vehicles to curry motors and
 of Forest Park, Illinois. The original contract was $749,436. The
 The current proposed change order is $25,911 for an amended contract amount of $775,347. Since the pricing, the initial quote after council awarded the purchase prices for the vehicles has gone up an average of $1,079. The increase in expenditures will be offset by the reallocation of equipment, mainly camera equipment of the vehicles that are being replaced.
 Number nine is award of engineering agreement for Whitman Street Rehab Phase 1 Engineering to IMEG Corp. for an amount not to exceed $337,760.56. Contract duration is 2020 through 2021. And then the final one is acceptance of the Illinois HEALS grant award from ICJIA for Victims of Crime Act funds.
 The Illinois Heals Helping Everyone Access Link Systems Initiative aims to address child and youth victimization by coordinating prevention and intervention services for victims of crime under age 25. In Rockford through the Family Peace Center, grant amount is $162,741. And I place these items up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Beck. So there's ten items before you. Is there any discussion on those ten items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Brainy. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Montan. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. Items 1 through 9, 12 ayes. Item number 10, 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Item passes. Next, we'll move to new business and go to Alderman Shirelli for code and regulation.
 drive to 370 feet south the Dartmouth Drive, thus repealing the existing two-hour parking restriction from 7 a.m. through 3 p.m. on the west side of Ohio Parkway from 310 feet south the Dartmouth Drive to 370 feet south the Dartmouth Drive. Number two is an ordinance establishing 35 mile an hour speed limit on North Lyford Road from East Day Street to the city limits north of Royal Oaks Road.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the request for a modification of a liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Don Carter lanes at 40 070 State Street and
 Number four is an ordinance approving the request for a modification of existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal At bigfoot bar and grill at 1609 south alpine road Number five is an ordinance approving the request for a modification to the liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at my place bar and grill 4578 harrison avenue
 Number six is an ordinance approving the request for modification to an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal At the fraternal order of Eagles Rockford at 38 29 11th Street number seven is an ordinance approving the request to modification Existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at whiskey's Roadhouse 3207 North Main Street number eight is an ordinance approving the request to
 To modify the existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Taco San Jose at 3725 East 8th Street. Number nine is an ordinance approving the special use permit to construct 75 foot high telecommunication tower at 455 Ware Avenue. Number 10 is an ordinance approving a modification of special use permit for a rental, leasing, storage, parking, and the sale of commercial trucks.
 At 3909 and 3911 Sandy Hollow Road. Number 11 is an ordinance approving the special use permit for veterinary clinic at 7145 Spring Creek Road. Number 12 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store. I'm sorry, that one was held out, Your Honor. So number 12 is held out.
 Number 13 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals at 3035 and 3031 North Rockton Road Number 14 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern at 1241 Broadway 15 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern outdoor beer garden and video gaming terminals at 4412 Manchester Drive and
 Number 16 is an ordinance approving the modification of existing liquor license in conjunction with the restaurant to include video gaming terminals at 1631 North Bell School Road. Number 17 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the conference center.
 At 402 South Main Street, number 18 is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the hotel and restaurant with outdoor seating at 416 South Main Street. And number 19 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink with the hotel and restaurant with outdoor seating at 416 South Main Street. I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman. So there is 18 items in front of you as one was held out. Is there any discussion on those items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Yes, Perini. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Sorry, could you repeat that? I have 3 through 8, 13, 16. 13, 16.
 13, 15, and 16. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. No, on 16. Aye on the remainder. Beach. No, on 16. Quinones. Yes. Beck. McNeely. I'm glad to see on number four, Campos, I'm glad to see that that construction company is back doing business with the city of Rockford and it's aye on all of them. Thank you. Cirelli. Aye. Aye.
 items one two twelve eyes item three four five six seven eight nine eleven eyes one no item ten and eleven twelve eyes item number twelve was held out item number thirteen is ten eyes two nose and in fourteen twelve eyes item fifteen eleven eyes one no item sixteen eight eyes four nose seventeen eighteen nineteen or twelve eyes
 It's really impressive. Thank you. Those items pass. Next we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Beck. Thank Your Honor. I have one item. It's an ordinance approving the authority to hire a 9011 manager position. Place is up for passage. Thank you. You have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yes, Marini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irving. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Warren.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. So that item passes. Next we'll go to Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation and labor negotiation matters. So we have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Yes, sir. Durkee. Here? Yes. Gasparini. Yes. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Yes. Urbans. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Rose. Here. Beach. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. We'll move to go into closed session.