H. Kinones, Kinones, Shirely, 10 present. Thank you. This evening we are giving a run for their money, our clerk and videographer, as we practice our social distancing and have aldermen moved around quite a bit. So appreciate both of your efforts tonight.
 As for a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 2nd, 2020. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Thank you.
 Meeting minutes are approved next. Well, there's no proclamations this evening We'll move to petitions and communications and alderman rose for planning and development. Thank you your honor We have five items under planning and development committee the first item a memorandum from Jonathan Bell economic development and diversity procurement coordinator Regarding a funding agreement for Southwest ideas for today and tomorrow under Swift referred to planning and development item two
 A memorandum from Jonathan Bell, economic development and diversity procurement coordinator regarding a funding agreement for River District, referred to planning and development. Item 3 is a memorandum from Jonathan Bell regarding a funding agreement for Miracle Mile of Rockford, referred to planning and development. Item 4, another memorandum from Jonathan Bell on Midtown District, referred to planning and development committee.
 And item number five is a memorandum from Jonathan Bell, Economic Development and Diversity Procurement Coordinator, regarding the 2020 allocation for the impact fund referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you alderman rose next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman. Shirely. Thank you. Your honor. 1st is the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on March 17 2020 in the minutes from that meeting. For consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on March 23rd, 2020. the 2nd is the liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda.
 for the meeting to be held on march 17 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on march 23 2020 third is a memorandum from martin bloom project manager for special events regarding upcoming special events which include kentucky derby party miracle mile cruise and car show memorial day parade pride kickoff party bite night swedish american state street mile and the head of the rock regatta
 And the fourth is a memoranda from LaFakiria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the jurisdictional boundary line agreement by and between the village of McChesney Park and the city of Rockford. All four of those will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelle. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost.
 Thank you. First is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the 2019 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinances to be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number two is a memorandum from Jennifer Kachapaya from the Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention regarding the acceptance of the ICGIA Violence Prevention and Street Intervention Program Grant Award. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Third is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the consideration of a marketing agreement for service line warranty coverage with utility service partners. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number four is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, City Traffic Engineer, regarding an application for the Better Utilizing Investment to Leverage Development Build Grant for Jefferson Street and Chestnut Street, Walnut Street, First Avenue. This also referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Number five is a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding a line of credit extension with Associated Bank. This will refer to Finance and Personnel. And number six is a memorandum from Fire Chief Derek Berkson regarding the approval of the Emergency Triage Treat and Transport, known as the ET3, Model Orientation Program. And this memorandum will also refer to Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you alderman frost next we're coming to our public speakers would remind all of our public speakers and we have 3 this evening that there's microphones on the back right back left. You'll receive 3 minutes to speak and you'll hear an alarm on my phone go off 1st speaker this evening is profit use of good evening. Ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Ecclesiastic, the first chapter, the ninth to the tenth verse, it says, What has been, that will be. What has been done, that will be done. Nothing is new under the sun. Even the things of which we say, see, this is new, has already existed in the ages that precede us. What I want to speak about tonight, the power of Golic.
 Garlic is good for virus, fungus, parasites, bacteria. Garlic cloves were discovered in the tomb of Egyptian King Tut and were fed to the Hebrew slaves building the pyramids. In 460 B.C. hypocrisy,
 of medicine used garlic to treat diseases. This, of course, a physician in the Roman army during the first century AD prescribed garlic for different types of infection. In the first century AD, Pliny, a Roman naturalist listed 61 diseases that respond to garlic.
 Pliny wrote of the healing power of the plant. Physicians in India during the first century consulted the Shakurak Sahabi and found garlic were recommended to ward off heart disease and rheumatism. By the end of the 19th century, doctors in America and Europe were using garlic to treat tuberculosis. They talk about the number of patients cured of the illness. During World War I, garlic was used to fight typhus and Dyson Trench and to disinfect battle wounds.
 Dr. Elvis Schweitzer also had much success using it to treat typhus and typhoid. In Russia, garlic is so popular it was nicknamed the Russian pillow-silly. Hospitals and clinics there use garlic as an inhaler. Garlic is good at building the immune system.
 I also then want to tell Mrs. William White, Cicely Vangelis Brandy, or the woman Ann Thompson, this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight.
 I don't like you, I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. I don't want the people that let this coronavirus upset them.
 If you read in 1918, they had the Spanish flu. It killed 100 million people. But if you use that garlic, I guarantee you it eliminated. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Brendalynn Langdon. Good evening, Mayor and Council Members. I'm here as a citizen that is very outraged. Last week,
 Your officers performed a dirty arrest in the process of a DUI in front of my house. And so there's no misunderstanding. I recorded the entire thing. We just had to get some bonds cashed in to pay a settlement. And from what I see on this video, you better get some more bonds ready because I feel obligated to turn this over to the Public Defender's Office. This young man did everything that was asked of him.
 Some of the things were outrageous and just before you say, well maybe you're not versed with DUIs, my father was an alcoholic and many times I was in the car with him when he got caught.
 I know a dirty DUI and that was a dirty one. This man was terrified. He had a passenger in his car who did indeed have a warrant out. They left him in the car. They spent over 20 minutes doing a sobriety test on this young man. He passed every piece of the test.
 When it came down to them, the three officers got together and they mumbled, I couldn't get that part. But then the one that was performing the field sobriety told him, well, would you take a breathalyzer? The young man got scared. I told him,
 Take the test because Illinois law is mandate. If you refuse a DUI, you're going to automatically, the sobriety test, you're going to automatically be arrested and they're going to revoke your license for six months. He was terrified. Three cops walking in on him as they're telling him to, asking him over and over if he wanted to take the DUI. And he said no. They immediately just bombarded him.
 I asked him his name. I'm going to go back on there. I'm going to go into the court records. I'm going to find out who his public defender is. That man should not be in jail. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker is John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and citizens and our youth in Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 18, verses 13 to 17 says, These are three basic principles for making sound decisions. Get the facts before answering. Be open to new ideas. Make sure you hear both sides of the story before judging.
 I was going on my Facebook page two years ago, Donald Trump disbanded CDC that deal with what we got going on today. And they could have been in place to help prepare us for this epidemic that we have. This disease that we have came out in 1918. It had mutated.
 And what we have done was they have exploited it to where we got everybody that's paranoid. Mind you, we got election tomorrow. We got that half percent sale tax is very important. We got the censors that's very important this year that we need to take up that we need to do.
 I'm worried about two things, and I'm going to bring it out there because I see it coming down the road. We talked about it last year, but we see it happening this year. I see right now that if this epidemic spreads and continues to go on, that Donald Trump will use this as a mechanism to cancel elections or declare mockery of law to keep elections from going on.
 I hope I'm wrong, but I'm putting it out there as we speak, because I'm not the only one that's bringing this topic up. We're going to be two weeks out of school, while our kids is going to be at home. The library is closing. The park district is closing.
 keeping the kids at home is uh what is that going to solve who are we helping i'm 65 years old they worrying about the elderly but yet i still keep our youth around me i'm still working with with our youth i don't work in fear and that's what i'm afraid that this epidemic is causing fear among our uh our community and among uh all over this here country if you can provide a cure for age
 And Michael, I mean Magic Johnson had AIDS and he's still living. They found a cure for AIDS. I have no doubt in my mind with the technology that we have in this country, that there is a cure for this here virus and they should find their cure soon. Thank you for allowing me to speak. We're supposed to be going to Janesville because this is the group that went with me when we went to Milton, Wisconsin.
 And Jamesville invited us because they was going to do bowling and skating and have pizza with our kids to show them what Jamesville is like. Taking our youth out the neighborhood, taking them someplace else. So we're waiting to hear back from Jamesville. We was invited to Belvedere. Everything been canceled because of this here virus.
 And I don't want us to be living under fear from this here virus. And I used to feel like there should be fear or they should be afraid to be around individuals that are 65 and older. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you.
 Next up, we have new committees, and we have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to code and regulation. Alderman Chiarello. Thank you, Your Honor. So under new committee reports under B1, there's been a request by the aldermen of that area to hold that out. That's 2209 North Main Street, so I'll be holding B1 out. Number two is the committee recommends approval for the final plat of Love's Rockford subdivision.
 Number three committee recommends denial of a request of a modification of existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at spinning slots at 1625 sandy hollow Road and
 Number four your honor there's been a request to hold that item out also That's for 922 7th Street for an additional video gaming terminal for Ross Pearson post number 5149 veterans of foreign wars of the United States, so that will be held out on
 Number five the committee recommends approval of the request of a modification of existing liquor license to add one additional Video gaming terminal at Illinois Cafe and service company doing business as Dottie's at 318 North Alpine Road I placed those Three items up for passage your honor. Thank you So alderman before you you have items number two three and five is there any discussion on those items? I?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm not. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. I choose no on the list. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. And before you do the final count, Alderman Irvins, do you have? Number four wasn't on. It's not on. Okay, so it cannot be a person in. So what's your vote on number three? Yes. And your vote on number five is still no? Yes.
 Were you able to grab that? Yeah, I would say the same for me. I have to read the denial part. Okay, so Alderman Rose is, will you just repeat all your votes so that we have it? So, aye on two, aye on three, no on five. Thank you. Okay. Item number one was held out. Item number two, ten ayes. Item number three, nine ayes, one no. Item four was held out. Item five, six ayes, four nos.
 Thank you. Okay, next up we'll go to Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $4,882,888.77 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on March 9, 2020.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the water building ordinance. The changes do not affect the rates or how they are applied. They serve to memorialize current practices and provide sufficient clarity to staff and customers. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois Department of Transportation and the City of Rockford for traffic signal maintenance on state routes. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four is an intergovernmental agreement among the city of Rockford, the Rockford Mass Transit District and the Rockford Bank and Trust for a guarantee of a $1.5 million line of credit annually to fund district operations. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Governor, I believe that has placed those matters before you for vote. Thank you. So, Alderman, you have four items before you, items one through four. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Chiarelli. Ten ayes.
 Thank you. Now on to officers' reports. Just want to provide you some information that I think much of this you've received. Some maybe you have not yet as things are very fluid and moving pretty quickly as new requirements and guidelines come down from the federal government and the state government. One is our next city council meeting is going to be on April 6th.
 because next week is the 23rd. Those are committee meetings. We feel at this time we can let you know later this week if it changes, but at this time we can move those committee meetings to the next scheduled council meeting, which we could do both committees and council the same evening.
 The 30th is a planning session. We were to take a tour of the Gorman Hotel Embassy Suites. That right now has been canceled. If that changes, again, we'll update you. But right now, since we're going to move committees to the next scheduled council meeting, that would be April 6.
 And so we can ensure that all that business gets done that evening. But the 30th right now has also been canceled as well. I want to make sure that you are providing some information to your residents. One is a phone number if they have questions. The phone number if a resident has any questions is 815-319-6705.
 Again, this is obviously for COVID-19. If they have any questions, it's 815-319-6705.
 There's also a website that's been created locally called COVID19 at WCHD.com. Also would make you aware that the city of Rockford has created a page on our website that's a pretty good use.
 Kind of a gathering place for all of the information that's been coming out to keep residents up to date I'd also urge your residents to follow reliable sources of information Winnebago County Health Department's putting out information in the city of Rockford's putting out information as to places that they can get reliable information and
 Also want to provide you an update on some of the steps that we have taken to ensure not just the health of our employees, but also that we are continuing to provide the basic essential services that our citizens need.
 So last week we implemented a new temporary emergency paid sick leave bank of time to allow City of Rockford employees sufficient paid time off to self-quarantine or seek treatment for up to 14 consecutive calendar days without having to burn through their regular accrued sick or vacation leave.
 We also created a telecommuting policy to allow our employees to work from home as that situation necessitates itself and it's seemingly coming upon us more and more quickly. We also understand that water is obviously essential to preventing COVID-19. So late last week, we temporarily halted our practice of disconnecting water service to any residents or business.
 uh obviously the customers will still be responsible for their water usage but not at this time then we also have waived a one-time electronic bill fee as well as a one-time by phone fee encouraging residents to pay their bills either electronically or by phone and not to come into city hall
 I'm sorry yep yeah so the the any of our convenience payment options that allow residents to pay without coming into City Hall that is online one-time online payment or one-time phone system payment
 Those fees for those payment methods have been waived through April 3rd the existing Electronic bill fee that we approved that has not been changed just the one-time payment fees to give people some flexibility Thank you for that clarification. That's helpful Secondly there's also elections tomorrow. I want to make you all aware that I
 Every resident except for two locations will be using the regular polling location. Each polling location, the election judges have been directed to wipe them down as well as a pen. Rockford residents and Rockford residents only can bring their own black ballpoint pen with them if they so choose.
 Also, the two voting locations that have been changed is one is if you voted at Fair Haven, that now has moved across the street to Rockford Lutheran High School
 The second location is Spring Ridge Senior Living has moved to East Branch of the Rockford Public Library at State and Perryville. So if you voted at Fairhaven, you're now voting at Lutheran High School. If you voted at Spring Ridge Senior Living Center, you're now voting at the East Branch of the Rockford Public Library at State and Perryville.
 Next, I want to make you aware that the Rockford Public Library will be offering remote services only, beginning at 9 a.m. on Wednesday, March 18th. Full services will continue to be offered at all Rockford Public Library locations through Tuesday evening at 8 p.m. That includes them being a voting location both at their East and Rockton Center branches.
 All events and classes have been canceled as of Wednesday, March 18th, but library staff will be on site and will be available to provide telephone or email services. Lastly, I think lastly...
 Yesterday, Governor Pritzker came out with an announcement to shut down the dining areas, the in-house dining areas of our restaurants and bars, and today clarified that it includes gaming parlors.
 This obviously has created a tremendous hardship on our local businesses, so many of them. So we're doing a couple of things. One, we are encouraging all residents to patronize them for delivery and curbside pickup and or purchasing gift cards from our local business establishments. We've also worked with the Rockford Local Development Corporation to create a process
 for small businesses who do have loans with the Rockford Local Development Corporation to defer loan payments during this time. We're asking other financial institutions to consider programs that will also help small businesses and citizens during this time.
 The City of Rockford is also creating a process to defer liquor license renewal fees for bars and restaurants for a period of at least 60 days. Now, this is important because license holders will still need to submit their paperwork, but their fee will not be due in the 60 days. We were expected to be collecting these fees between April 1st and April 30th, and so it will be 60 days at least deferred.
 We're also working been working with both state and federal partners to find out other programs that we can provide relief for small businesses As well as their employees had the opportunity to meet with a host of
 restaurants and tavern owners late yesterday. It was pretty inspiring to see their greatest concern wasn't themselves, their greatest concern was their employees' health, both financial and physical health, as well as citizens. So I've been working the phones with Congressman Kinzinger and Congresswoman Bustos.
 As well as with the governor's office to find out what assistance during these really unique times we can provide Above and beyond what we can here at the city Provide to these small businesses because so many of them They can't survive two three four five eight weeks without Being fully operational so it's of utmost concern. I will say a couple of things and then turn it over to all of you and
 Think you should be pretty proud of the amazing work Our entire staff has done during really unprecedented times of making sure that a were coming together putting together all of these policies and procedures were now giving all of these to smaller municipalities here locally, but also some policies throughout the state
 uh and making sure that not only our employees are taken care of and the way that i think is right but also making sure that these services are provided there's been obviously a tremendous disruption and change in protocols and procedures from
 our public works employees, Head Start employees, police and fire protocols. Literally every single thing we do day to day has changed. If you believe it or not, if you're fearful or not, what has been handed down to us has made us change.
 nearly every single thing that we do. So I appreciate all of your patience and working through this and your support working through this, and we'll continue to try to update you all as much as we possibly can throughout the week as we tried even over the weekend to just get you information as we can.
 If we falter in that give us a gentle reminder and we'll make sure that we step it up even more But you've been front of mind To get information as we roll it out. So with that I turn it over to officers alderman Durkee the comment on the information for folks another very good website and actually a
 rapidly updating source of information on this virus is the Center for Disease Control. Yes. From which most of the health department get their information. So it's Center for Disease Control or www.cdc.gov. Great point. Lots of folks are reading that, too. Thank you. Great point. Alderman Hoffman. I just want to know, how do we know in advance when you will be giving a presentation on TV? I just found out...
 Yeah, so it hasn't been firmly set, so I apologize for that. Some of these have been more rapidly evolving, and so it really has been difficult to see them live. So I apologize for that, but I believe we'll end up doing them Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays.
 Then Tuesdays and Thursdays obviously if new information pops or something that's pertinent comes up that we don't feel can wait that 24-hour period We would do that and there's been some talk of doing one over the weekend But I don't have the exact time yet for you either Well more than likely I'm assuming and I'll push this out to all of you as it gets finalized We just started talking about a regular pattern Today
 More than likely, I would assume that we would follow the governor's press conference because the governor has been and Dr. Ozike have been releasing the new numbers and information And also it's nice to follow the governor and or the federal government Because if we need to react to some of that information we can provide you local localized reaction to those
 Uh, so I will update you but right now it looks like monday wednesday friday But we will certainly uh push out to you once I know the regular schedule question is is there any way to
 see it again if we weren't home at 2 o'clock. I think you were on today at 2 o'clock or 2.30? Yep. So yes, absolutely. So a couple of things. One is the Winnebago County Health Department and the City of Rockford, and I believe all three TV stations, and I believe the Rockford Register Star all streamed it today.
 But certainly you can go to the city of Rockford or the Winnebago County Health Department's Facebook page and see the streaming of that And I just posted it as well so that you can see it as well But yes any resident who can't watch I mean two o'clock is a tough time for anyone to watch it Obviously can replay it and ask that you share it too so that other people are getting up-to-date info alderman, Toonberg Thanks mayor. I appreciate you
 Meeting with those business owners. I've had a few reach out to me and I've also reached out to a few and I mean this is real life stuff and they are They are really struggling on being closed for a couple weeks and who knows if that's going to be for a couple weeks So, you know in in my profession You know
 I've been battling a lot of stuff along with everyone else. And but I mean some things I would, I'm glad you touched on the banks. I think no matter what they're doing on a federal level or state level, how much it trickles down to our local businesses that sit at least in my ward, let's just say right here on East State.
 how much trickles down to them is yet to be seen. But I would like to encourage and put it out there our local banking institutions. I know the Federal Reserve...
 has cut the Discount window to historic low of 0.25 percent Which is basically what banks can borrow money from from the feds And they are encouraged to do so and to lend those to businesses that need help at this moment also our banks local banks included that normally have to keep a
 10% on hand in relation to their deposits. That is being waived right now by the Federal Reserve. So you have the instruments put in place for our local banks to extend to these businesses who may be in a liquidity crisis because of this coronavirus.
 they are being heavily encouraged to reach out to these businesses and offer
 their services to get to get by during this time so I would encourage our citizens and all to try to frequent these businesses on a carryout level to hopefully get them by because of course they're also stuck with inventory right now that could spoil in the next couple weeks but
 It's going to be a hardship and it's disheartening or it's heartbreaking to talk to a few of them and really the struggles they're going to have. So we're all in this together. Thank you. I think those are really wonderful points. Thank you. I mean, it's also...
 You hear the federal or even some of the higher up state officials. They talk about the businesses to us It's like neighbors and family members, right? It's just a different world You're taking different types of phone calls and people at the federal level are and it is heartbreaking is the best word for it But thank you. I will follow up on that. It's great suggestion other reports other questions next up
 And if you don't feel comfortable with this, but I would ask you to someone to consider making a motion to waive rule 18 because we more than likely won't be gathering before April 1st. And this would allow the housing authority to replace Ken Oliver, who was their resident board member.
 with Jessica Wilson as a new board member. We had done this once, if this seems familiar. We did this maybe four weeks ago, five weeks ago, but that individual had circumstances in their life change that had to pull them out. So we've already approved someone and now they need a new board member. So we have a motion and a second, is there a second? Second. To waive rule 18.
 All those in favor of waiving rule 18 say aye those opposed Okay So now up before you as appointment of Jessica Wilson to the Rockford Housing Authority Board to serve a five-year term expiring March 2025 replacing Resident member Ken Oliver. Is there any discussion? Alderman Hoffman am I allowed to vote on this? I did not vote on the last part that you did and I'm wondering if I can vote on this director Mars. I
 This motion is to suspend the rule? No, we already did that. So no, the vote should, no, you shouldn't vote on the appointment. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? And then we have one abstaining, Alderman Hoffman. And I abstained in the first one too. Sorry, I will take note of that. Thank you.
 Next up we have motions and resolutions Planning and Development Committee has no items. So we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman Shirely motions and resolutions First is the authorization to allow the zoning officer to file text amendments for the following floor area ratio for c4 district density for c4 district outside parking of vehicles and residential districts and solar collectors murals
 violation penalties and to delete the ash trees. Number two is the heritage run scheduled for April 26, 2020. Number three is the Rockford City Market, scheduled for every Friday starting May 15, 2020, ending September 25, 2020. Number four is the North End City Markets, scheduled for Saturday, May 16, 2020, ending October 31, 2020.
 I believe I've got the RPS 2.5 fund run and IDOT resolution scheduled for May 23, 2020, and the LifeScape 4th of July run scheduled for July 4, 2020. Place those resolutions up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Aye.
 Toomer frost urban Hoffman Rose Beach you know Ness he known as Shirely 10 ice thank you those items pass next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost thank you your honor we have 13 items the number one is an award of bid for police vehicle equipment in installation for 29 police vehicles to alter struggle communications
 of crystal lake for the contract amount of 219 150 the funding sources capital lease funds number two is an award a bid for water water quality testing the pdc laboratories of peoria for an estimated annual contract amount of 50 000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is through june 30 2020 with two one-year extensions the funding sources the water operating budget
 Number three, an award of bid to Riverside Tower Rehabilitation to MaxCorp of New Lenox, the amount of $999,440. The project will be completed by December 1, 2020. The funding sources is the water replacement and improvement account. Number four is a change order for submersible pump services to Lane Christensen's Water Resources.
 and the amended contract amount is $775,000. The funding source is the Water Division Capital Budget. Number five is an award of joint purchasing contract for furniture and equipment for Police Department's Shepherd Trail facility in an amount not to exceed $150,000. The contract duration is through December 31, 2020. The funding source is bond proceeds. Number six, the resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code, Highcrest Road from Spring Creek to Alpine Roads.
 for preliminary engineering services for a report proposing installation of off-street bicycle facilities amount of $200,000 the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds number seven is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code Parkview Avenue from the University of Illinois campus extension to Anderson Gardens as well as a multi-use path between Parkview Drive and Highcrest Road for preliminary engineering services the amount of $100,000 the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds
 Number eight is an award of engineering agreement for the high crest road multi-use path phase one designed to fair Graham in the amount of $123,050. Completion is scheduled for 2021, the funding sources motor fuel tax limit.
 number nine is an award of engineering agreement for parkview avenue sidewalk phase one designed a fairground in the amount of sixty nine thousand five hundred dollars completion is scheduled for twenty twenty one the funding sources the motor fuel tax funds number ten an award of engineering agreement for the charles street rehabilitation phase one engineering to chastain associates of rockford the amount of one hundred and forty thousand eight hundred dollars the contract duration is twenty twenty
 through 2021 the funding sources sales tax number 11 is a resolution authorizing sent the central services manager to execute a contract for street lighting and well pump pumping electric supply number 12 is an approval of acceptance of the illinois census 2020 sub award grant in the amount of one hundred and sixty thousand five hundred and ninety dollars the grant will help educate and communicate the importance of the 2020 census to rockford area residents
 and lastly number 13 award have been for the 2020 demolition package number 12 to northern only service company of rockford in the amount of 159 800 the duration of the contract is 45 days the funding source is the east state alpine tiff i place these matters before you thank you so alderman we have 13 items before you is there any discussion on those 13 items
 Alderman dirt you're gonna have like a national holiday for tearing down the magnet building I just I wanted to again express my appreciation for the diligence that you and Matt and Todd and company all have had and getting that building and Starting to get our city shaped up So I I hope the citizens appreciate the efforts because they were I think they were pretty considerable. So my congratulations on this
 Thank you. We're going to let employees telecommute for that. Thank you. So we have 13 items before us. Is there any additional discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirelli. 11 ayes.
 Thank you. Those items passed. Next we'll go to new business. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, I'm going to be holding that item out. I held it out earlier under committee reports. And number two is an ordinance approving the request for modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at
 Dottie's at 318 Alpine Road and I place that ordinance up for passage. Your Honor. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Gasparini. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. No one toons. Hoffman. Rose. Oh, sorry. That one too. That's okay. Beach. No. Quinones. McNeely. Aye.
 Shirely Seven eyes four nose you want to vote? Yes. All right. Okay eight eyes four nose. Oh
 Thank you. So next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving the revisions to the water building ordinance. The changes do not affect the rates or how they are applied. They serve to memorialize current practices and provide sufficient clarity to staff and customers. Number two is an ordinance approving the amendment to the intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois Department of Transportation and the City of Rockford for traffic signal maintenance on state routes.
 And lastly, number three is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement among the city of Rockford, the Rockford Mass Transit District, and Rockford Bank and Trust for the guarantee of $1.5 million for a line of credit annually to fund district operations. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items that are before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasperini. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? McNeely? Shirelli? 11 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. For your attendance tonight, we are canceling closed session. So with that, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved.
 We have a motion. We have a second. All those in, is there any discussion? Seeing none. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.