. .
 Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Monday, March 11th. We have Chaplain Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church to begin our evening with an invocation. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask tonight that your presence will be felt in this room as decisions are made for the city. Amen.
 for the people of this city, and Lord, that it may be their benefit. Lord, may everything go according to your will and to your word, for your word says that everything must be done decently and in order, for we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Logeman? Here. Thunberg? Here. Frost? Here. Urbans? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Beck? Here. Shirelli? Here. 12 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Before we get into petitions and communications, I have a couple of items that I'd like to address. I'm going to go ahead and ask the board to come up with a motion to approve the motion. I'm going to go ahead and ask the board to approve the motion. I'm going to go ahead and ask the board to approve the motion. I'm going to
 So the first one is the loss that we saw last week of Sheriff Deputy Jacob Keltner. I'm going to ask for a moment of silence, but before you stand, I just want to say, I think our police department, our fire department, our telecommunicators, our public works team, I probably saw a different vantage point than most citizens and probably the alderman as well.
 Each and every one of them would have made you proud with the professionalism that they handled their job. How they were able to put aside their emotions and deal with such a difficult and really tragic incident over a long period of time, I think would make all of you proud. And just want to say thank you to our police, fire, and public works and telecommunicators for the work that they did on Thursday and that they continue to do on our behalf every single day. So thank you for that.
 Secondly, as we have this moment of silence, I'd ask that you specifically also keep in mind not only Officer Deputy Jacob Keltner, but all of our first responders and all of their family members. Remember that.
 As difficult as a day Thursday was in our community, that day will have forever changed the lives of Jacob's wife, Becky. They're two young boys, Caleb and Carson. And as someone who has two young kids myself, and I know many of the aldermen have two young kids, I can't imagine having my kids grow up without my wife, Sarah. And to think that this gentleman just came to work.
 to make sure that all of us could be safe, really puts things in perspective. And I just want to say one tremendous thank you to all the outpouring of support that all of you aldermen have done throughout this difficult time. Also a tremendous thank you
 to all the citizens who stepped up in various roles. If it's Giovanni's restaurant who opened up their doors and provided food and shelter to people who were staying at extended stay. If it was Chick-fil-A who brought food for our officers. I'm not going to go through the litany because there was literally just so much
 Support that was brought out, but before I ask for a moment of silence, if you don't mind, I would like to read a note that McHenry County Sheriff's Office posted from their sheriff bill print. And this is was in the evening, late evening of March 7th.
 And it stated, as this horrible, unimaginable day draws to an end, we would like to take a moment to say this. As we escorted our fallen officer, Deputy Jacob Keltner, to the Winnebago County Coroner's Office tonight, we saw you. We saw the group standing out in the cold with their blue line and American flags waving. We saw the men, women, and children standing at attention.
 We saw the people who stopped in traffic and got out of their cars with their hands over their hearts. We saw the businesses who let their employees stand outside to pay their respects. We saw the car dealerships with all their cars or all the car lights in their lots flashing.
 We saw the respect paid by the hospital staff, the EMS, and firefighters. We saw all the agencies that came to show their support and join in this procession. We saw you tonight, and we want to thank you for your support. I would just say, unfortunately, our community has seen far too much of this.
 But it's a really amazing and humbling thing and in many ways inspiring to see how the community does come together. I think we're a pretty unique city that when we see challenges like this, we come together and we face those challenges and we face them together. So I just want to say thank you to any citizen who is watching this tonight. A special thank you to our police, fire and public works.
 And thank you to all the aldermen for all the support that you provide every single day to our city staff So with that I'd ask that we stand for a moment of silence Thank you a couple of housekeeping items. I have this evening one We are very thankful that we have troop for 11 or the 4-1-1 Is in the council chambers tonight to learn about local city government. So thank you for being here Appreciate you all taking the time
 Second, our very own Diana Walker's birthday is today, so happy birthday, Diana. And, yeah, she deserves an applause, I'd say. Next up, a couple weeks ago now we had an opportunity to see the heavyweight champion, wrestling champion.
 come into city council and tonight we have more champions coming into our city council so i would ask that navigate abel linda green ethan strombeck liliana chavez leaf verace and justin abel and all those who are with them please come forward and i apologize for butchering anyone's names but please come on forward
 As they come forward, I just want to let you know this is an Auburn High School Scholastic Bowl team. Auburn High School Scholastic Bowl team placed first in the National Academic Quiz Tournament's Illinois Scholastic Bowl Championship.
 That championship was down at the University of Illinois in Champaign-Urbana on February 23rd, so congratulations for that. And also, if the information I have is accurate, good luck is in order, as the team is headed to Peoria this week for the IHSA state tournament for the 18th consecutive year. That's unbelievable. So, yeah.
 I don't know if you're aware, but at the City of Rockford we're trying to recognize individuals in our community and staff members who go above and beyond. Folks who could just be doing their regular day job, but go above and beyond to highlight their special talent and make the City of Rockford proud.
 You all have certainly done that, and so with that, I want to provide you a challenge coin just to say congratulations and thank you, and I know that you'll continue to make us proud inside the classroom and outside, so thank you so much. You guys wanna say a few words? You sure? Thank you. One of you's related to Thunberg. I've never heard him not take a microphone. I'll give it to you.
 Yeah, so I just want to thank everyone here for recognizing us. It's really kind of a cool experience. I've actually never been here, so kind of cool to see it. Obviously, Chad is my uncle, so good to see him here. And yeah, just thanks for all this. Found a relative that admits that they're related. That's awesome. Well, congratulations. Thank you for making Rockford proud. We also have some really special guests here from...
 our sister city and lid shipping so if our special guests would like to come on up as you know we've partnered with uh lid shipping for 13 years and we have a delegation that's in town now to talk about the future of that partnership uh and i am really hoping i do this well we have uh mayor jonas sunstrom vice mayor freda nelson deputy mayor rasmus moeller
 City Administrator Jan Fransen, and Educational Director Ove Brodin. All right, all right, practice all day. And we have our very own, Linnea Bankston, who is an international business developer. Before I hand this over,
 We have some sad news this evening. So Linnea, who has been just absolutely phenomenal, and you talk about someone who's forged relationships with our business community, forged relationships with our hospital systems and with our school system. You've really become a Rockfordian.
 And Linnea is going to be leaving her post here in the States, which I think is a great opportunity for you but really sad for all of us. And just want you to know that you've made a tremendous impact and I think probably one of the nicest things is that impact that you've made has been institutionalized. So that impact will continue to grow even while you're gone, which I think is probably one of the best impacts any of us can make. So thank you for the work that you do and to all of you, thank you so much for being here. Would you like to share a few words?
 Thank you so much. Yes, thank you, Mayor, council members, employees, and citizens of the wonderful city of Rockford. Thank you so much for having us here tonight.
 I'm joined by the A-Team from my city tonight, if I will say. They just landed at O'Hare a few hours ago, so we planned so we could come here and be here with you tonight. And I just want to say so much thank you for being a partner to us for all these years, and I hope it will continue. And this week the leaders will meet with the mayor and other leaders here to discuss how we can move forward. But thank you so much for all of your wonderful support.
 Okay, thank you very much for having us here. We have had good collaboration for many years with Leadshipping and Rockford and our county. So I'm really pleased to be here. This is my first time in Rockford but not in this area because before I became a politician I worked at American company. Snap on.
 Yeah. So I have been to Crystal Lake where I have a storage. So I've been not so far away from here, but it's many years ago. And I'm really proud to be here tonight. And we also have a little bit gift here. So we are going to hand over after the presentation. Yes. Thank you. As you heard, my name is Frida Nilsson and I'm the vice mayor in Linköping.
 I'm really happy to be here tonight and looking forward for the days we are going to spend here in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you for letting us visit your city Rockford this week. It will be very pleasant. And I hope to learn more about Rockford so we can come back soon.
 My name is Jan Fransson and I'm an executive director for the city of Lidköping and this is my fifth time here in Rockford. I think it's very important to continue building bridges between our two cities, so thank you. Nice to be here.
 My name is Ove Brodin. Now that I've said everything, I can say that we are very pleased and honored that we get the invitation that we could come here. We are looking very forward to this meeting that we will have there. Thank you very much. Here we have a little gift for you from Lidköping. This is a little balloon from the sky of Lidköping. Thank you.
 Okay, next up we have petitions and communications. Just want to draw your attention to one communication that is on your desk. I received a letter of resignation from Marcus Hill, who serves on the RAVE Board, and have put up for your approval an appointment of Martisha Brown to fill that important vacancy.
 And Martesha would fulfill the term of Marcus Hill, which is set to expire on June 2020. So that is up before you, and as Rule 18 will be laid over for 30 days. But if you have any questions of Martesha, her contact information is on the resume that's in front of you now.
 with that i will turn it over to code and regulation alderman shirely thank you your honor two items this evening the first is a memorandum from scott capovilla the historic preservation commission secretary regarding the proposed landmark designation of 1245 north court street that's the chancery building
 And the second is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Historic Preservation Commission Secretary, regarding the proposed landmark designation of 1231 and 1229 North Court Street, St. Peter's School and Convent. Director Myers, have you been tendered the report? We have. We did receive the report last week. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Director Myers.
 Thank you. So we have no other planning and development and or finance personnel committee communications. Next up would be our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that they have three minutes to speak. And there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of chamber. And just provide that you have three minutes. Our first public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf.
 And if you give me one second, Prophet, I'm just trying to get this set up for you. You are good to go, sir. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, 111 chapter, the 10th verse, it says, The fear of the Lord is beginning of wisdom. All who follow his precepts have good understanding. To him belongs eternal praise.
 What I want to speak about tonight on Wall Street, us, our toys. As America emerged from World War II, the public generally agreed that the ordinary people were to endure the sacrifice to share in the good times ahead. A golden age for the American worker commences. Business labor has since fallen off. Behold!
 the specter towards us. About a year ago, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy. Its private equity owners closed 800 stores and laid off 33,000 employees, skipping out on $74,946,325.81 in service pay. Toys R Us had its challenge, but it wasn't a dime business. It was a straw by private equity culture that sees workers not as stakeholders, but as nothing. More than 40%
 percent of the major retail or supermarket companies that have gone bankrupt since 2015 were owned by private equity companies. Toys R Us offers a vivid example of how they operate. In their 2005 leverage buyout, three private equity firms immediately piled on over $2,995,725,215.51 of new debt, with 97 percent of its operating profits now going to paid interest.
 The company had little left to fix up the soil. How could it compete with Walmart, Walmart much less Amazon? There was no cushion when the Great Recession the investor had put the company in handcuffs, seized its life vest and thrown it into the ocean. Other countries have significant private equity investment. More, but more rules of the game in Germany. Most workers have
 I guarantee service payments. It seems highly unlikely with Trump in office that he would do anything to make Wall Street mad at him. It's time for the American people and for freedom, justice, and equality to stand up and speak up and say, we are tired of these companies that we are making rich in America. And they don't give us nothing. We are tired of losing our jobs in America. And so we are tired of your garbage. And we're not going to put up with it anymore.
 I'm tired of hearing about people in China working. I'm tired of hearing about people in the New World. I'm tired of hearing about people messing. I'm tired of hearing about robots. What I want to hear about is the people in the United States working. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Dexter Botters. I'm just going to say it.
 But what we're trying to do, it's all in this, anybody that wants one, I got to tell everybody what I'm, who I am, what I'm a part of, and I'm a part of the community we work with. The Baptist pastors, Pastor Bennett, Pastor Malone from St. Luke, we've been doing this, I've been doing this for over close to 25 years, trying to stop the unstoppable. I was at a laundromat in this neighborhood.
 young healthy black woman was sitting on my right instead of taking the boy's hand out of his mouth she was hitting him harder and harder and I looked at her and I kept saying God loves you sister God loves you I didn't say stop what you doing but as that girl was hitting that baby that baby was looking at me holding back them tears three years old now and this heavy set woman that was not a fair fight I wasn't mad
 the kid cuz the kid after he got after this lady got through hitting her the kid ran up to me cuz I was giving him something good out of this mouth I didn't say stop that don't do that just you know cuz we would've gotten into a big argument
 And this is what the message is about. To get the churches, stop the, we don't need a Bible study on Wednesday and rehearsals on Saturday and Sunday. We need to open up the churches that are sitting there waiting now. They're waiting right now to do this.
 what has to be done uh setting up tables some of these churches got beautiful basketball courts for the kids to play but we need compassion for them now some people may not can do that but i have a t-shirt called no more weapons i i we're down at the wednesday council meeting with sister thompson and all them and they know it and i passed out the t-shirts to them and uh it's a beautiful t-shirt the t-shirts
 Just put them on, and that will stop them from hurting somebody because they'll look and say, God loves me. Nice big yellow ones. And I've been working with the, like I said, the council meeting there. My message is, this is what God said. God said, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him shall not perish.
 We are perishing because of this. The weapon is right here.
 You think wrong, you're going to do wrong. We want to work with the polices. We want to get them involved and just set up tables. They're right there. Every church I got is in this booklet. Now, if you can't help out, you know, I got an address where you can just call me. You ain't really got to have money. Just a letter saying, I believe in what you're doing, whatever it may be, because it's going to take all of us to change the unchangeable. Thank you, Mr. Vossers.
 Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McAmey, our mayor.
 our persons and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Today I have before you, I'm getting away from Nick talking about east side, west side, it should only be one side. I have Orton Keyes and I have all the men and youth here with me today. I'm also glad to see Earl Dotson that's sitting out here because I want to address something that should go to the Board of Education. I've been to a couple of schools
 I'm appalled at the number of four-year-olds and five-year-olds that's being suspended out of school. How do you suspend a four-year-old that has a disability problem? What I want to talk about is this weekend, our youth has been encouraging to go into the library. We had a birthday party. Coming up for the past six years, we have been in every parade but Shep.
 for the St. Patrick's Day parade. So this year will be the first time we'll be in the St. Patrick's Day parade. So on Saturday, we're having what I call a soul food breakfast with Dr. Leticia Wallace and a couple of others and those running for the Rock Valley College Trustee Board. Have you, must I remind you, I'm taking the page out of McDonald's. McDonald's, in order to get the parents, to get to the parents to come to McDonald's,
 McDonald's had what they call a happy meal. So they go through the kids. We have a large number of our youth that don't understand the system about politics and what have you. So bringing them to city hall, bringing them to the Democratic caucus meeting,
 bringing them to the school board meeting, getting them, they hear me talk, and they say, Brother John, why come you ain't teaching history in the classroom? Well, if I was teaching history in the classroom, I'd be fired because our history has been eliminated to a certain degree. But what I want to do is thank
 our sponsors that sponsored me with 50 t-shirts green t-shirts we for the first time we have our own t-shirts with renewal turning point program on it and also want to thank the sponsor that's going to pay for all the letterings on the t-shirt coming this sunday we've been invited to the art museum and at the art museum they're going to have these uh
 Guests from out of Chicago, artists, they're going to be in the big boxing ring and it's called Nothing Without a Fight. So the artists are going to be doing drawings and I got a lot of youth who want to draw but don't have the opportunity to draw. This is going to be a chance for the art museum to absorb some of our hardcore kids and send them writing on the wall. They can be writing.
 at the art museum. Also that day we're going to have pizza. So I'm going to the kahuna where we're going on on 11th street where they got that uh hurricane pizza so we're gonna have pizza chicken wings and and uh and chips and juice on on that on that day. I want to end by saying coming that Monday the first day of spring break we're going to the police station to the district to watch a movie.
 All right, thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Brandy Gardner. Is Brandy Gardner here? I'm here.
 Don't see Brandi garden. Okay. Next up is motions and resolutions my understanding is that there's only one item under code and regulation and It has not went through committee yet. And my understanding is it'll be tabled at committee So with that I would ask if there's any motion to adjourn We have a motion a second, uh, I need discussion all those in favor say aye aye
 Those opposed, same sign. Have a good night. Tom, you stole my agenda. You took my agenda. You've got it. Sure. All right. We will call to order the Finance and Personnel Committee for tonight. And in attendance, we have Alderman Logerman, Alderman Frost, Alderman Hervey, and Alderman Shirelli, myself, Alderman Beck.
 First item on our agenda is information only item regarding the Head Start governance review of documents. Who would like to speak on that? Okay, go ahead.