Good evening and welcome to the City Council meeting in the city of Rockford, Illinois. The date is March the 16th, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Chaplain Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church. Let's pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father we come into your presence asking for you to come and be in this chamber tonight.
 be with each one that's sitting around the council table tonight lord around the committee tables lord we just pray that you would speak to their minds and help them lord to make the right decisions for the city of rockford then also lord we want to ask that you would take care of those who protect us from fire and from danger of any kind with the police department and fire department lord may your hand of protection be upon them as they overlook the city of rockford as we sleep by night as we go by day
 We just pray that you'd have your way, Lord, in all that is said and done. And may everything be done according to your will. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll call? Take a look at the roll call. Turkey. Turkey.
 Getschus here McNamara here Frost here Hill Odo Newberg Beach Ellier Beck McNeely Oh Shirely 12 present your honor Thank you very much we do have a quorum Is there a motion to accept the journal Okay There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal Are there any amendments or changes to the journal
 I'll come back and read it out. Is there any request for a change? I'll come back. I move to amend item 8-1 of the March 2nd, 2015 Journal Proceedings to reflect the correct term for Carol Santiago to the Community Action Advisory Board is for a three-year term ending January 2018. Second. There's been a motion and second to amend item 8-1.
 On March 2nd, journal proceedings reflect the correct term for Carol Santiago to the Community Action Advisory Board for a three-year term ending January 2018. It's been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Change to the journalists approved. Any other changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of approving the amended journal, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye.
 We have no other parents who will be receiving this. We have several speakers signed up for public participation. As a reminder, our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphone in the back of the chamber. Once they hear the buzzer, the time's up and we'll all ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Derek Sheldon. Dr. Sheldon. Second Thessalonians chapter one verses seven, eight, and nine. And to you who are troubled, rest with us.
 When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. He shall be coming in Jesus Christ in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them who know not God. I want to speak from the subject today, the Lord Jesus Christ.
 Point number one, the vengeance. Point number two, the punishment. Punishment from the presence of the Lord Jesus. We're so deep in the last days, I stay with a heavy heart. See all the mess going on in the world of humans, that's cool. But Rock is doing better. I could give you probably a bunch of reasons why. But I'm glad of that because there's a whole lot of Ferguson's. And I ain't just talking about the race issues.
 I'm talking about human beings are so screwed up now, they don't even know what's right or wrong. I listen to all kind of insanity that they think the Lord agrees with. And let me tell you all something. God is holy. Jesus was the only human being that did not sin and was crucified for us. Now, the whole world is getting ready to celebrate that, the ones that believe in Christ. The whole Muslim, the Islamic religion is a false religion.
 Mohammed was a false prophet. He's in hell. He didn't die for us. And neither did Moses, neither did Dr. King, and them two was in heaven. Neither did President Kennedy, neither did Obama, neither did me or anybody else. Jesus Christ was crucified for us. And listen, his vengeance starts now.
 Let me tell you something. You think nobody gets away with nothing, not a thing. The Lord writes down everything you do, and you're going to die. Reverend Schill. Yes, sir. You should take it down a notch or two. You're going to die one day. Mr. Jardim just passed. He met the Lord. He didn't meet no Allah or some other Buddhist god or Hindu god or Judaic god. He met Christ. Point number two, punished from everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord.
 Everybody got to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. And guess what he loves? Everybody on this planet. But you don't hear people preach this kind of stuff. It's all through the Bible where the Lord's wrath comes. He's getting ready to show up, y'all. The world is messed up. The Lord's getting ready to come. And listen, I tell you, if he don't come back until tomorrow, you might die today. The Lord Jesus helped y'all. Bless you. Thank you. Thank you, Reverend. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Hoskin.
 Okay, two minutes and 50 seconds. Uh, we had a good weekend. We got our first international Fishy Whales. Uh, the guys from Jerusalem became Fishy Whales. Uh, heartbeats. We are doing very well. Fishy Whales are achieving respect for all. We're at about 84% of the world at that level. We are expanding thinking.
 but less than 50%. We are ending prejudice, probably 50%. Ending violence, probably around 50%. We haven't started expanding the money supply yet, but we're going to go into it very, very strongly. Ten months ago, I realized that there's absolutely no reason not to expand the money supply, not to start Social Security at the beginning. I've been having some very, very good conversations
 Whereas before I used to laugh and snicker, now people are starting to talk about it and are really thinking about it. And we have to stop revenge so we can end war in 63 years. On the whole, it was a very good weekend. I was hoping to introduce some of the stupid fishy wheels today, but Sir Luber left for Washington yesterday.
 My hot chick from Minneapolis had tire trouble, so he couldn't make it. The teacher couldn't make it. So none of the stupidest fishy whales that I was going to introduce I can introduce next week. Thank you, our next speaker is Jim Buckingham. Howdy, folks. I have three things to share with you tonight. First of all, you all take too long, I get hungry, so I'm going to be opening up some oranges for me.
 Now, I wanted to share with you what I've been doing for some of our residentially challenged. I have bought several orders of can openers and these mini flashlights for our folks. I go out and pass them out, and one of the things you folks need to know is that these people just need to know they're worth something. And when I explain to him that the people
 where these little flashlights and little can openers come from, their eyes light up when I tell them that all our city hall leaders are supporting these folks. The second thing, Alderman Harvey had brought up a concern, a safety issue for these same folks. And I told her I'm working on that in two weeks, I should have a prototype to show you folks what that's about.
 As we have been working several years on this, on April 7th, you're going to see this question on your ballot. It's been taking a whole lot of us for several years to get money out of politics, so if you're voting in Winnebago County, you're going to see this on your ballot. So thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Toby Hultman. Last week I noticed that the foot patrol was finally back on Broadway.
 While the foot patrol was on Broadway, a truck started to squeal its tires. The officers walked out into the street, stopped the truck, and ushered him into a parking lot to issue him at least one ticket. Had the officers been in their squad car, they probably would not have been able to pinpoint where the squealing tires came from. More foot patrols, please. Just hours after a meeting was held, the city started demolition on a building to make way for parking spaces.
 This story reminds me of what Mayor Daley did in Chicago. In the dead of night, he ordered the demolition of an airport. Oh, what a sad day it is in Rockford, Illinois, to find out that the city has no intention of using geothermal, wind turbines, or solar panels in the construction and remodeling of the three geographic police stations. It can be done. It should be done.
 It's up to you, the elected officials, to change the ordinance to make sure it happens. You are elected to be our voice, to have our best interests in mind, to be good stewards of our city and its resources. By not putting in green technologies in these three buildings, you will be none of those. Here's an idea. Don't jump on the bandwagon. Be the bandwagon. Let's get this done.
 I will not be silent. I will be heard. And lastly, I would normally stay for the duration of the council meeting, but my mom has got a big juicy meatloaf in the oven and I'm going home to enjoy it. Thank you all. Have a good night. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is John Brantley. All the women of Rockville, Illinois and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, this is part
 verses 9-10. God's grace to us led Christ to his death. Jesus did not come into the world to gain status or political power, but to suffer and die so that we could have eternal life. It is difficult for us to identify which Christ served to. Perhaps we need to evaluate our own motive. Are we more interested in power or participation or service or giving
 Last month, I had a meeting with some members from Washington, D.C., HUD. I was very surprised that they wanted to meet with me. And what they were asking me was, they were looking at fairgrounds and the fact that we build a coalition around fairgrounds, and they want to take that and use that as a pilot in other cities. Where I'm going with this is the fact
 After 88 youth that I have up under me, this year so far we have a tour of Woodward Governor. We have six people to get signed up. We're going to do a tour of Rockford University. We're going to do a tour of Rockford College and what have you. What's coming up on the horizon is that on April 1st, we're going to be doing a tour at the YMCA. Hopefully, I can take them 50 or 60 to the YMCA, and we're going to plug into that
 five hundred and five applications that they have. That's what our at-risk youth should need, because this is bigger than me. This is more than just about me. One of the other big things we want to do is that our African American youth and even our Hispanic youth don't even know that we have minority judges that are sitting in office.
 So I'm setting up with the city. They're going to get back with me. And I could use your help. We like to meet with the judge, Judge Yalbert is over the youth court, Judge Gully. And then the assistant state's attorney
 that's up under the state's attorney, to meet and sit down and talk with our kids. A lot of our kids don't know them, but the bad kids do. They know the negative side when they got to go face the judge, but they don't know the positive side. So I think that would be a good learn for us to be able to go there and meet the judges and see that we have positive role models instead of seeing me. I'd like to challenge our chief of police. They will open up a house.
 would they go have in one geographic area where the policemen's going to be living in that house? Why not have a house in all three districts? Especially in District 1, if you look at Fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights area, have a house there too. That would be an excellent idea. I think it's an excellent idea
 with that house, I want to add on to the fact that this is growing. We started getting busier and busier with the changes we're doing. We want to do something with the fire company. Taking our youth out there to the fire station where they can do a tour. The firemen can show them the interesting parts of being a part of the fire department. And last, I want
 But now at least I just want to say that in order to transform Rockford, we've got to transform by working together. I want to challenge my pastors, my ministers. We've got the pastors that don't like the apostle and what have you. How can you be...
 Christians and not be gossiped, love thy enemy. And if you do not trust Transform Rockford, that means you don't trust yourself. And the only way we're going to transform Rockford is not dependent on somebody else to transform us, but we've got to start transforming ourselves. That's the beginning of Transforming Rockford. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Ridley. Thank you to our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. The first is a memorandum regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, also known as RACVB. Their 2014 fourth quarter report will be referred to Planning and Development.
 Next, a memorandum from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator, Community and Economic Development Department. It's a proposed agreement with Oliver Emerson, LLC, for the redevelopment of the Commercials Trip Center located at the southwest corner of Auburn and Central, known as 3814, 3820, and 3824 Auburn Street. That will be referred to
 planning and development for Monday, March 23rd. Next is a proposed development agreement with Sugar Jones Inc. for the establishment of a central commissary and associated uses at 3600 East State Street, Suite A1. Also will be referred to planning development for March 23rd.
 And lastly, a proposed development agreement with Dine Capron Holdings LLC, which is part of First Midwest Group for the demolition and redevelopment of 6122 Mulford Village Drive with mixed commercial uses including retail, service and restaurant. This will also be referred to Planning and Development for the March 23rd meeting. Thank you for the petitions and communications.
 thank you your honor I have four items tonight number one was the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on March 17 2015 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on March 23 2015 that will be referred to the codes and regs committee
 Number two is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on March 17, 2015 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on March 23, 2015. That also will be referred to the codes and regs committee. Number three is the Rockford Traffic Commission minutes for the meeting held on March 11, 2015. That will get referred also.
 Number four is a memorandum from Julia Valdez, Director of Human Resources, regarding special event costs. That will also be referred to codes and regs. Thank you. Thank you. For the petitions and communications. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memo from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding a special line of credit that referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 I have a memo from Jennifer Jager, community services director, regarding approval of a subgrant agreement between Lutheran Social Services and City of Rockford Human Services Department and this will also be referred to finance and personnel. And then I have another memo from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding the PB and PA 2015 collective bargaining agreement that will be referred to.
 Finance and Personnel regarding the matter of retention of outside legal counsel. Consulting Services. And then I have another memo from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding Intergovernmental Agreement with Rockford Mass Transit District. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel. And then I have a memo from George Davis, Executive Director, Human Services, Department regarding Pre-Kindergarten Grant Application.
 Another memo from George Davis regarding early Head Start child care partnership contracts. A memo from Matt Vittner, city engineer, regarding local agency agreement for federal participation between the city and state involving reconstruction of North Rockton Avenue and Custer Avenue intersection.
 A memo from Matt Vintner, city engineer, regarding stipulated agreement with Illinois Commerce Commission, the Illinois Railway, the City of Rockford and Illinois Department of Transportation for improvements to airport drive, railroad crossing. A memo from Matt Vintner, city engineer, regarding a city-state agreement for South Alpine box culvert between city and IDOT. And a memo from Joanne Lewis, director of Head Start, for a Head Start non-federal share waiver request.
 All these will be referred to finance personnel. Thank you. Managed to be referred for the petitions and communications. Reports to the committee. Sorry, we have proclamations first. We have one proclamation. It's regarding All-Star Rebels Day. And would head coach Vince Scheidemann please come forward along with any of the other partners that are here?
 Whereas All Star Rebels, Rockford's premier competitive cheerleading gym, consists of 15 teams and members ranging in age from 6 to 20 years. And whereas as a result of their success at the championship Spirit Groups competition in Schaumburg, March 7th and 8th, the Rebels International Level 5 team, the Assassins, have been invited to the World Cheerleading Competition April 25th through the 27th in Orlando, Florida.
 Whereas the Assassins will be competing against over 300 other teams from 120 different countries. Whereas the members of their team are between ages 14 and 20 and are the first state line team to be invited to the world competition.
 And now therefore I, Lawrence Dean Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 16th, 2015 to be All-Star Rebels Day. And we congratulate their team on their successes and we wish them the very best at the competition in Orlando. Congratulations. Thank you, Sheryl. Yeah, thanks. First, I'd like to thank a couple people here around. Mr. Cagnone was kind of instrumental in getting our first gym open out here. Without him, we wouldn't have been able to open the doors.
 Former Alderman Jacobson also was a huge help, and late Alderman Robertson was a great, great help. And it's good to see that my father-in-law's seat over there is in good hands, too. Thank you again, Mayor, and thank you, City of Rockford. It's a great place to start and grow a business. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you very much.
 Thank you very much, and again, wish you the very best at the international competition. Reports to committees. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item, and per our current format, I would ask for a suspension of the rules. This is under new committee reports, A1, proposed 18-month extension to the mortgage agreement for West State Street, Shopstead, and...
 non-compliance. This is at 1718 West State Street owned by Sheila and Khalid Zarulai and 1720 West State Street owned by Dorothy and Curtis Redd. I'd like to suspend rules. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on the new committee report for window 4A1. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye's have the rules be suspended.
 figure out and then I'd like to place it up for passage that's not for passage is their discussion hearing I'm sorry thank you very much much I just would like to say that I have been requested to lay this item over for one week and I will not be doing that tonight I understand from staff
 that they would like for this item to move forward because of a previous contract that would be delayed if we didn't work on this tonight, even though I will not be supporting it. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke? Aye. Getsch? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye.
 Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No. Shirelli? Aye. Levinas, one note. Madam Pastor, thank you. Further reports from the committee? Thank you.
 Thank you I have 10 committee reports this evening number one is the approval of a special use permit for a fast food restaurant with drive through that includes site parking and landscaping plans with deviation from the regulations approval of a variation to require eight feet height monument style freestanding business identification freestanding sign
 approval of the variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for a freestanding sign from 64 feet to 108.6 square feet and approval of a variation to increase the number of allowable business identification wall signs from 2 to 4 subject to conditions at 241 North Phelps Avenue subject to conditions.
 Number two is a committee report approval for a special use permit for a motor vehicle repair shop in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. A variation to reduce the required off-street parking from 18 parking spaces to 10 spaces at 3135 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions. Number three is the approval of a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store.
 at 31 35 North locked in Avenue subject to conditions number four is the approval of a request for the sale of packaged liquor the conjunction with the gas station convenience store a request for the fellow tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience
 at 4106 Harrison Avenue subject to conditions number five is the approval of a request for the sale of package liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience
 at 3302 11th Street subject to conditions number six is the approval of the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience
 at 3429 North Main Street subject to conditions. Number seven is the approval of the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. The request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience
 at 3730 North Alpine Road subject to conditions number eight is the request for the sale of package liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at fifty three thirty East State Street subject to conditions
 Number nine is the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station.
 and convenience store at 172 South Bell School Road subject to conditions and number 10 is the settlement in elder versus city of Rockford in case number 13 8 are 542 in the amount of twenty four thousand seven hundred fifty dollars with the release to be obtained I moved to suspended rules on all 10 of those items
 thank you there's been a motion second to spend rules items for me it was one two three four five six seven eight nine ten there's been a motion second to support suspend the rules all those in favor please say aye aye opposed no I say I have the rules be suspended place those items up for passage Your Honor the matters of that number for passage is their discussion with the fellow patient thank you Your Honor under under number one I remember right there was to be a discussion held
 with culverts and the National Bank bugging that sign up on the sign that's already there. If not, it was going to revert back to the other. Did that take place? To Mr. Cagnone. Mr. Cagnone. Made you incorrect at the Codes and Regulations Committee. There was an additional condition added on to the proposal, so I would be included with this approval.
 certainly so understand that even though it's not written here if we vote on it that will take place
 60 days for staff to work with some of the joint property owners to see if we could facilitate a mutually agreeable sign along East 8th Street. That's the specific condition as it relates to where we're at in that action. We've had communication with some of the adjacent property owners and the applicant and are working towards a proposal for all the parties to review.
 Thank you, sir. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I guess my question to the staff would be if within that 60 days the matter is not resolved with these adjoining property owners, then what would happen if we passed this tonight? Mr. Koehn-Miller. Thank you, Your Honor. The variation as requested by the applicant for the free standing 25 foot high sign would be allowed.
 The staff know perhaps when we may be able to, if we are able to work out this issue with the adjoining property owners before we vote on this particular variation. Mr. K. Milligan. I'm sorry, could you rephrase the question? I'm just wondering if there's a way we could perhaps work on the front end of working it out with the adjoining property owners before we approve the variation.
 we had discussed that with the applicant and they had relayed that that was unacceptable that they needed to advance forward with the request for the variation now but they were open to an agreement in the future and that's what was requested by Alderman Beach and the
 Any further comment for us? I would make a motion that we lay this matter over, or be number one until we are able to see what comes of that, working it out. It's been moved and seconded. And Mr. Hayes just needs to give me a reminder with our new protocol. Would this be subject to an automatic firm council rules automatically over?
 Pursuant to state law, when a matter or committee report is first presented to the City Council, a motion and second would lay the matter over automatically. I'll admit you. Before that vote is taken. It's an automatic layover just for the motion and second. Is it done? Well, feel free. I'm going to take this as a procedural question, so go ahead. Have we voted on it? No, no, so again, this is... Okay, well, yeah, I'd like to make a comment here.
 I don't necessarily like it when people say, if you don't do something, we're not going to do something. But they had a restaurant in there, which was Arby's, and they want to come back again. They're going to be spending about a million dollars to put a restaurant back in there. And the whole debate all along was about this 25-foot sign. They'd like to at least be visible from where they are down in the valley as compared to those that are already high on East 8th Street. And we thought that this was a reasonable compromise.
 that if Todd and his staff could work out to get their name on the other higher billboard that now displays culverts in the bank by Walgreens over there, that would solve that problem. But if that couldn't work out, then we were going to go ahead and give them that 25 foot that they asked originally, and they want to break ground and start. So that's really where we are after several weeks of discussion, but it's going to lay over now
 I believe so yeah Mr Hayes again that's currently in operation of state law that provides the first time matters up for passage in Kansas this is the first time right correct okay thank you Mr Hayes just as a reminder our meeting on the 30th is a
 planning or retreat meeting. So this will actually lay over three weeks to the City Council meeting on April 6th. Now I just also want to remind Council, not that I'm trying to create more work for anybody, but should we want, this is an example of what we talked about when we passed the new procedure, we can run this item and specially set it for next Monday, a week from today.
 And if we have an issue where the applicant is in a time crunch, I would certainly be supportive of that. Not that we do it all the time, but if there's special cases, you know, we can do that, add it to the agenda to make sure it gets discussed, debated, but decided in a timely manner that's appropriate for the applicants. Thank you. Mr. Kegnell. I apologize for this talk. You're welcome. Thank you.
 When we were in conversations with the applicant immediately prior to the codes and regulations committee they had shared that they had concerns related to the timing of the construction
 of the armies for the season. This item had been before the codes and regulations committee approved and advanced forward to city council. I believe I had been advocated for some additional concerns because of the deviation in the sign ordinance. So it was referred back to the codes and regulations committee for discussion. I just wanted to make sure that I'm relaying that information to the alderman as to if there was a time sensitive situation based on the applicant's statements.
 thank you discussion all of it you were thank you I'm just clarification on my part please this was before the city council previously so this isn't it it was before the council has a committee it's the first time it's been up for formal pass or so thank you thank you
 by everybody right so the last week would have been up last week probably it would have been just by the committee your honest stories is a director couldn't kick no dimension this actually was on the city council agenda for approval of the committee report and at that point it got referred back to the so it actually was in front of the council for action on one prior occasion still its committee report that's back from the council state law still applies but
 I just wanted you to know it was in front of the council I believe in February. It got sent back. Sent back. Thank you, Your Honor. You are correct, but we still have to operate under that state law rule as a matter of first impression coming back from the committee. So it would have been voted on again by the committee and sent back on all of our media. Thank you, Your Honor. Then what would we have to do tonight to get it on?
 the agenda for next week under those special circumstances the council would so decide mr hayes could you just remind us how we get items set this happened a couple weeks ago and all the gadgets have the um thank you your honor uh if director cagnoni is able to strike a deal um we can by friday then we can
 okay if if we're prompted to put this back in front of the city council off for next Monday night as long as we know by end of business Friday will included in the agenda and we'll call a special city council meeting as we did when we passed the MRO project on a committee night that the general would be in front of the city council on Monday the
 I'm sorry the 23rd for action and that would be a special city council meeting so anytime before end of business Friday we can accommodate that direction and under our ordinance either the mayor or any three aldermen can direct the special city council meeting so just as a reminder I just wanted to add what mr. Hayes just said at the end there any three aldermen can get an item set per request
 Or if the committee chair wants to get it set, that's our general practice, can get it set. If there's three aldermen, they don't have the support of the committee chair and they still want to get it set, they can. What I would suggest, having done it for the first time with Alderman Goetsch's suggestion when we go to the MRO, is next week after we would finish the committee work for this would be what codes and regs.
 So we go through the codes and regulations and immediately then just call our special meeting of the council if that's the only item and get it voted on if we can. If that's the way it ends up, if the chair is for that and or the three only. So right now to lay over. Yeah, Alderman Beach. Well then just one more clarification. I was just tongue in cheek about Todd getting it done by Friday.
 So here's the rule. Whether he gets it done or not, I mean, it would be great if he got something done that there was an agreement upon. But even if it doesn't, what was just laid over will still be before us to take a vote on. It doesn't need to change at all. The whole point is to not let our new structure interfere with an applicant request if they've had a specific timeliness issue. Vote it up or vote it down, but at least the applicant will know where it stands at that point in time. Thank you. Any further discussion? Thank you.
 That matter lays over then by automatic action. Any other discussion on the other items that are for passage under codes of bremss of the committee court? Hearing none, then we'll ask for the clerk to call roll on those items. Durkee? Aye. Goetjes? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hill? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye on two, no on the rest.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 I have a fine reduction request at 1321 Garrison Avenue that will reduce it to $1,000. And I have a voucher in the amount of $5,318,122.03 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee on March 9th, 2015. I move for suspension of rules on these items. Second. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Road 4C12 and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7. Thank you. Second. Any other questions? No. Any other questions? No. Any other questions?
 Any place that's up for passage? If that is up for passage, is there a discussion on McNeely? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number 1C1, between the Swedish American Foundation and the City of Rockford, I wanted to know, I would like to know, I'm sorry, my sinus is killing me. I'd like to know, will the city incur any cost in making use of that building?
 Let's take that. Is that Chief Everson, Mr. Cagnoni, Mr. Hayes? The police submitted along with the other materials was a budget for this project. It included equipment and hardware and software for the materials and equipment that will be utilized at the station, at that facility for the police officer who's present there. It includes security items as well. Total cost of the equipment and hardware was $5,250.
 In addition, there are certain other costs that are estimated on an annual basis to total $20,158 and that includes such things as utilities for gas and electric.
 The internet cable and phone package for the facility, city water charges, Rock River water reclamation charges, the lawn service and snow removal costs. We've agreed to pay the property taxes on the building. Right now those are about $2,500 a year, miscellaneous supplies for office goods and the
 hospitality items there for coffee and things like that, a charge for the security system and some limited moving expenses that will be likely internal staff costs. That totals we believe that the total budget will be $20,158. I apologize, a portion of those will be non-recurrent. Thank you. Mr. Rayer.
 So the total cost that would be given to Swedish American Foundation would be for the real estate taxes. Yes, ma'am. The real estate taxes would be a reimbursement to Swedish American Foundation because they own the property. We're going to be asking to get that exempted, but I don't know that we'll be successful in that.
 The agreement has a structure to go on for five years. It's five single year agreements that are either party can cancel at any time. As I mentioned, the total cost would be $20,000 for the first year and a portion of those
 I'm sorry about 12,000 will be recurrent each year. That's what the budget means. I'm repeating that thank you very much. The only cost that would go directly to Saludation American Foundation would be the real estate taxes. Correct. Thank you. One more question. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you for working on this partnership as well as the chief. So thank you so much for doing this. That neighborhood is Jackson Oaks Neighborhood Association over there. They've had some activity in the neighborhood and a
 Alderman Getches and myself share the neighborhood over there, and they have just done a fabulous job, as I mentioned last week. When we first went to their neighborhood meeting, the first one that they had, they had about five individuals at. Now they've moved locations over to Swedish American, who has been a great partner for that neighborhood, and they now are getting 30, 35, 40 people at those meetings. So they're making a tremendous amount of progress in
 in a neighborhood that needs a lot of help and so I'd urge for your support for this and it's good for the neighborhood it's a good partnership and it's again Swedish American doing fabulous things in our community and specifically in those neighborhoods thank you thank you for the discussion hearing none clerk please call the roll on those three
 Beech, Elia, Beck, McNeely, Shirely, Romano-Moore 4, C1, Levanise went up staying the remainder 12 by 0 now. Manager Paltin will pass thank you very much. Further reports of committees? Aye. Officers reports? We just have a few items I wanted to report on tonight. Number one, I had the chance this evening.
 to attend a retirement party for Paul Calligan, a long time representative for Commonwealth Edison that's worked in our market and had a deal with us and our staff and our council members and our citizens in some very tough times. When there have been major storms, he was there to help provide information on behalf of the organization, just did an outstanding job. We would many times have conversations with Paul when times were at the toughest.
 And he was 100% of the time, never ever anything beyond absolutely professional and patient in dealing with all of the challenges that we've had.
 He was supportive with us on both short-term and long-term improvements that we sought to obtain within our local electrical grid. We're going to invite Paul to come into one of our council meetings in the coming weeks to give him a formal thank you. But I just want to share with council members tonight that he did have his formal retirement party this evening and I had a chance to share with him on our behalf our thanks for his many years of great work.
 Also want to just thank all the organizers for another great St. Patrick's Day parade. Unfortunately our crew kind of got pooped out after the parade and we didn't make it to the party afterwards, but I heard it went very well and certainly appreciate that. And finally I just want to report it's going to be a very busy spring as I think we all know from a governmental affairs standpoint dealing with spring field issues and challenges in state budget.
 Last week, on Monday, I wasn't able to be here because I was at a hearing where I was able to testify on behalf of cities like ours that would be hit very hard if the proposed cuts from Governor Rauner to the local government distributive fund were to occur.
 This is going to be an ongoing issue that we have to make sure we provide good information on. But for us, as I think the conversation went, we're currently projecting that if the cut went through as projected, it would be the equivalent of about 70 positions. And those are things that we can't continue to absorb. We're down 70 employees, I believe the number is, since 2009 to start with, at a time when our costs certainly haven't stayed the same. They've gone up during that time. So we've got fewer people helping to deal.
 with all the challenges that we have and we don't want to have to absorb further cuts on what we've already had plenty. So that was one critical conversation. Also had a chance with Mayor Jim Artis from Peoria to speak on behalf of the River Edge Redevelopment Zone, a state historic tax credit extension. We had a very good reception from the Senate
 side revenue committee. I want to thank Senator Solomon who helped give testimony on behalf of our communities as well as Senator Severson and other members of our local delegation that were there. The truth is we have five cities all very supportive of seeing that thing extended. Given the challenges, however, within the state budget, we don't expect further action probably to occur on this until May of the coming year. If there's other questions on any of the legislative agenda items, I'd certainly support our ongoing
 focus on those items as we move through the spring session and our legislative lobbying committee will do whatever we can to continue to stay briefed and updated so we can move those, be responsive to whatever issues and opportunities may come up. Further officers' reports? Alderman Newberg. Thank you, sir.
 Two things. I would, one, like to thank the fire and police departments for their help with our Senior Citizens Expo at St. Bernadette's last Saturday. I think it's their 31st year that they've had it. It was very nice to see people intermingling with the police and fire. Of course, they took over my two tables, so next year I'm going to have three tables so I got a place to sit, too, guys.
 And the other thing is, recently it's been in the paper about the city and the county, the agreement they've come to for the PSB building. Year and a half ago, that was what I wanted to see, was that the police department be able to stay in the public safety building until we have our geo-policing sites up and running. And I want to commend the city staff and the county staff for working together.
 to come up with a solution that is fair to everyone. The public safety building, I worked down in the county for 25 years. Yes, the building does need something done to it, but again, thank you so much to all the people that worked so hard to come up with this compromise on both parts, but that shows that we can do it if we talk to each other. Thank you. Thank you, Oliver Frost. Thank you.
 On some good news, I wanted to thank Alderman McNamara, Odo, Elia, Shirely for having a chance to walk with the Mayor and his family and our families in the St. Patrick's Day parade, which was Saturday. The weather was great. The parade was great. The folks attending the parade were very friendly. I wish I would have brought more candy. Thankfully, Alderman
 had a wagon full that the kids were able to help out. But I'll make sure next year that we bring plenty of candy. And I wanted to, again, thank the Irish Martian Society for throwing a wonderful party. It was moved this year from Clock Tower down to the Prairie Street Brewhouse. And they did a wonderful job accommodating all of the supporters. And it was just an outstanding day. So thank you. Thank you for their officer's report. Solomon, back to you. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak.
 Over the last week we've had a lot of discussions and a lot has been said in private emails or group emails and in the paper. I just want to clarify a couple of points regarding the watch factory. This meeting, it's been insinuated that it was behind closed doors or rushed. I just want to state that we certainly, this meeting we had
 It's also been said that we had the wrong people at the meeting. I would say this meeting couldn't be further from the truth than that. To me, we had two aldermen, one the longest serving alderman in the history of Rockford, myself an alderman of that ward.
 two department heads, an architect, a member of FOS who is a group that brought us and saved the Amrock building which is now the $60 million hotel project that we're all hopeful and excited for. It was also mentioned that what we wanted to do in this meeting is delay the downtown sports complex. And as someone who's been a supporter of that complex since I've been in office, I would
 Furthest from the truth, I think everyone at that meeting came away knowing just a couple of things. We certainly did not want to delay that project. It was our understanding at that meeting that the watch factory wasn't to be demolished until April 1st.
 And during that meeting, we agreed, let's take seven days from March 10th to March 17th at 1130 when we had a meeting scheduled for tomorrow, St. Patty's Day, to just see if we could do this. And see if it's even feasible, see if we want to move forward.
 I understand previous votes. I understand full council actions. I want the council who wasn't part of the meeting to know my actions were by no way to be disrespectful or to cut off your previous votes. Obviously anything coming out of that meeting would have had to have been brought back before council, discussed with our great partners at the Park District and the RACDD.
 But, so, there is no intent to delay. The use of the building. There's been much discussion about the potential uses for that building. I'm not a developer. I'm not an architect. I'm just looking for what's best use for the taxpayers. And to me, if it's residential, I think we should be open to it. To say that we're not open to residential or we're totally against it,
 and use a we in sentences. I've been receiving emails, I don't know who the almighty we is because my understanding that use will be determined by the residents in our community, the residents of that neighborhood association, the developer, the market will determine it and final determination will be by this body, the city council. The last two items is we certainly understood
 that it was a long shot. I think it was a total 11th hour. Everyone understood that aspect of it, and that's why we just looked for the seven days so that we wouldn't potentially delay this. And, again, we would have to talk to our partners. We would have to find out if it's financially feasible to do these things. And we certainly weren't trying to keep you out of those discussions. I mean, that's why there was department heads there. Lastly, I have to say I was disappointed by your action.
 or reactions. I don't think it was the right approach. I think there's ways to say no to development. There's ways that Alan Alderman could get in his place. There's ways to
 promote respect in future developments, and I don't think the action that you took that evening was the best action to take on that topic. I don't think it fostered respect between us, and I just said, I guess it, I walked away from your talk the other evening, the Ted Style talk,
 down at the Nordlof, when you talked about collaboration and communications, I'm empowered by that. I'm eager for that. And if I failed in some regard, I apologize for that. But I don't think we did on that aspect.
 I think we gotta put those words into action and start doing that here. And if I own some of it, I'll certainly own it. But we have to start talking. And I don't think having actions of bringing a bulldozer over at that late hour with no fencing around it and all of that, it just gives an idea of something of this. And I don't think there was. I think you have good intentions in your heart and I think you're doing the best job that you can. It's a hard job, I don't mean.
 a lot of times. But I would say I did feel disrespected. I felt like staff was disrespected. I felt like the folks who were in that meeting who walked away from our knowledge at that time, nothing would have been interrupted except a potential opportunity.
 The parking would have been ahead of, from everything that was discussed at the meeting, a minimal impact, withdrawing, showing just 12 parking spaces potentially lost, maybe up to 15. I just don't think it was the right action at the right time. I think there was a number of things that we could have done as a city a lot differently. And I'd like to see us put that action, put those words into action, start collaborating, start communicating better. And I think that's all of us.
 I guess again, just deeply disappointed by the actions and I'd love for that developer, I know you're gonna be meeting with them, so thank you for that. I'd love for you then to give them those seven days. I still think that building's salvageable and not gonna deter anything unless it's down to the ident look.
 But I think there's a portion that we could continue a lot of the demolition on while keeping the two portions that potentially haven't, as something to be saved. We've seen it just here. I mean, we're all celebrating the Amrock building. We've seen that these buildings can be saved and seven days isn't going to hurt anyone. You said it best. We've been waiting years for this and I don't think seven days is going to kill the project. So I appreciate the time. Thank you. Thank you. Further off-street, Mr. Waldenbeach. Thank you, Your Honor.
 continue along that same subject line. You know, we've all been a part of getting where we are here. And that Amrock deal and that Ingersoll deal was not easy. We've all been a part of that with a lot of debate. And I wrote you back a note to tell you that no one was trying to undermine you in that meeting. That's the last thing in the world that was on our mind. I say it for this reason.
 because if it wasn't said one time in that meeting, it was said many times to the developer, to his face, to the architect, to his face, and to our staff, to their face, that if this is going to derail this project, we want nothing to do with it. All we wanted to do is see if there might be some add-on, if it were possible, and you would agree to it, to expand that program. That is it, the bottom line. The thing that hurt me the most
 is my handshake means a big deal to me. I was raised that the handshake is a man's work. And when we all shook hands around there, and I asked the director, tell us right now if there's no time. If you have no time, just tell us and we'll end the discussion right now. And the word came back, no, I think there's probably seven days, and that's it. Seven days not to change anything. Seven days to see if it's worth even coming and talking about it.
 And we all shook hands. And then when I heard that it was just totally away from, I felt somewhat violated by that because I shook hands on that seven days. Nothing more, nothing less than that. So please accept from me my apology if you feel violated from me. That was not my intent whatsoever. I love this city like you love this city. And I put my neck on the line like you have with the votes I've taken down here for these projects.
 because we all want to see them work. Thank you kindly for your time, sir. Thank you. Further officers' reports? I just want to add, I'm happy to meet with any of the council members privately about this issue. I had not planned on this thing being a public issue until I had to respond to it. I was, would just suggest that in the future, you need to have, you can't point to a department head
 and put them in the position when ultimately it's my call. And this is very clear, I don't, and I apologize to staff if they felt like they were caught between a rock and a hard place, but in this kind of a call, after three, at least three separate votes approving the plan, the final one being the award of the contract, to reverse course is a huge deal. And I don't want to make any mistakes.
 give any mixed signals. And so if you would have had me at that meeting, if I'd have known what the topic was in the meeting, I could have provided a lot of direction. We could have avoided that. I'd suggest in the future, anything like this, make sure I know about the meeting. Further officers' reports, Solman, Derrick, Cullen. Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. I would just ask the Mayor to inquire, or at least ask Jim Ryan
 to clarify for the public and the taxpayers what would happen if the use of that building was changed to residential
 with the Department, the State Department of Economic Development and all the contracts that have been signed and how that project would have been delayed should that have occurred. I think the public should understand the nature of the contracts that we have currently in place. Well, I'm Eric and I won't speak on Mr. Bryan's behalf, but just based on what I know and he can fill in any details I might miss on, the short answer is it's not come up.
 So I don't believe it's in our contracts. I don't think our contracts prohibit the use of the watch factory building.
 the contracts that we have, the memorandum of agreement that we reached with the state if you recall last year when we went through this whole process, gave us authorization to demolish both the school district administration building completely and the post-1930 portions of the watch factory, the additions that were placed onto it. I don't believe there would be limitations on the use. That being said, from all of our conversations with our partners,
 Park District and the CVB. There's never been a conversation that I'm aware of with those partners about any use, about residential use. They've all been about the conversation about complimentary retail or commercial uses. But Mr. Ryan, and get that right from there. I just wanted to note that this wouldn't be a seven day issue. We have eight different funding sources in this project.
 We would have to go back to our grant review authority, which is the DCO. We would have to have it reviewed by HUD because we have CDBG monies involved with that. So it wouldn't be that we would have an approval in seven days, not to mention all the development agreement negotiations that you go through on a typical project that would be looking for TIF assistance or anything like that.
 In no way could we be in a position where we could approve this and move forward in seven days with all those different approvals. Thank you. Oh, Dirk, did you follow? No, that was more of a rhetorical question because I know then the building would have to go out to bid to another developer. And so I think the folks on the other side of this issue need to understand that.
 changing it, at least in my opinion and what I've heard, changing it to a residential or changing the use according to the state economic development or use for that property as well as transferring title of that property would turn this into a six month endeavor or something, right? By the time it's all said and done. It would be, well, again, it's maybe a matter of, somewhat a matter of opinion but definitely
 You're absolutely accurate. Mr. Hayes can echo this, I'm sure, from a legal standpoint, transfer of property by itself is a very lengthy process, as we know, when we've looked at various RFPs for the Chick Hotel or the truck building or any other. So these are very complex deals, and that's why I've just said, if I had been at the meeting, I would have probably said just very directly or early on, it's too late, and I wouldn't want to waste anybody's time in that process.
 I commend the creativity of a group like this, a developer like this, people in our community wanting to get involved with a creative idea. Sometimes these ideas work and sometimes they don't.
 I've been involved with the Ingersoll project since coming on council. And I remember sitting up on the eighth floor talking to Mr. Casazza, the owner of the watch factory building, where there were other people present and we talked about do we buy it, do we not buy it, because it had been discussed with the previous council. We were able to strike a deal the second time around.
 to buy that building and the whole intent of that was we have to save part of the building, but the two parts going north and going south, it was very clear from the very beginning what the plan was. This was the plan that we worked with St. Combs on from day one, was to demolish those two wings of the building. We had a parking issue, parking was discussed with several Alderman in Waterbury who were gonna run a shuttle back and forth. This was a strategy that was discussed at length
 That's how it got to council. That's how it got in front of us that we voted on to demolish this part of the building. So having said that, I hope that these folks come back to town. I'd like to see, we have lots and lots of vacant buildings in our community that are shovel ready, ready, willing, able to be repurposed, redeveloped.
 And obviously we don't mind new construction either. So I hope these folks come back here and look at other projects. I know they were just here a week ago. I understand they're coming back again, so hopefully someone we can show them other proposals to be created with within our town. But as has been discussed, this building was coming down. We voted, I don't remember the vote, whether it was 14 or 13 to one, but 12-0 vote that we were,
 demolishing the building with a bid.
 I just want to say that I think that was the purpose all along and I understand it's come up and made the paper and people have talked about it many different ways, but that was the plan of the council and that was the plan of the project, the Ingersoll project that we've been heavily vested with our taxpayers' dollars from day one and come forward at the last minute. Like I said, I don't mind the creativity of that, but if it doesn't work, it doesn't work and let's make something else work for these folks. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for allowing me to speak in. I just want to clarify something that the meeting was scheduled for well over a week. I don't find it my job to make sure that everyone who...
 some people believe need to be at the meeting are there. When department heads are there and two aldermen are there, I believe it's satisfactory for the meeting. So the meeting was set well before actually Alderman Frost, before we made that vote. They also put in
 a letter of interest on that property before we made that vote and to my understanding we were going to move forward but still have that meeting so the conversation was known about and so I just want that point of clarification out there. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. You talk about a meeting that was held and there were two aldermen there. Out of the 14 aldermen, how many were invited to that meeting or even notified of that meeting? I'm just asking, does anyone know?
 Thank you, sir. My answer is I don't know. So I don't know if our staff could provide any direction. Mr. Capnone or Mr. Hanson? From a staff perspective, we didn't invite any alderman to the meeting. We had arranged the meeting with the investors approximately two weeks prior to the meeting taking place. I had conversations with the investors.
 multiple times over that two week time period to update them in regards to the legislation related to the demolition of the watch factory additions as well as advising them in a respectful way that we weren't able to advance their request. The intention of the meeting was to talk about how we can move forward with the other properties and the remaining portion of the watch factory for redevelopment. That was my understanding based on my direct conversations with the investor.
 And I would just say it's not unusual to have a developer contact an Alderman of the Ward and invite them in advance of a discussion with staff, but my experience has been if there's something that's of a critical issue with timeliness or otherwise, I'd get a heads up that I need to be at the meeting. And that didn't happen in this case. Any further officers' reports on finished business? Hold on, Beth. Thank you, Your Honor. Oh, wait. Yeah, I got an appointment.
 I was almost going to start doing motions and resolutions. Okay we have under Roman numeral six the reappointment to the mechanical board of James Sweep term ending June 2016.
 The reappointment to the mechanical board of Mike Saban, term ending June 2018. The reappointment to the mechanical board of Mark Buckner, term ending June 2016. The appointment to the mechanical board of Ryde ASLM, term ending June 19. And the appointment to the mechanical board of Richard R. Beck, term ending June 2017. I place these up for passage.
 Thank you. Up for passage, a motion to roll six appointments laid over items one, two, three, four, and five. If the matter's up for passage, is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes seven, thank you. Motions and resolutions. These matters are up for passage. Alderman Shirely, Code of Regulations. Thank you, your honor. I'm going to call the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion
 Number one is a special event permit for the YMCA Heritage Run on April 26, 2015. Number two is a special event permit and S-permit for Hooters Swimsuit Pageant scheduled on May 21, 2015. Number three is a special event permit for Northern Illinois Food Bank Rockford Marathon, Half Marathon and 10K Run on May 31, 2015.
 Number four is a special event permit for the Rockford Public Library summer reading kickoff on June 6, 2015. Number five is a special event permit for the Rockford Public School District 205 fun run on June 6, 2015. Number six is a special event permit for Rockford MELD organization classic July 4th run and
 Number seven is an SP permit for Rock River Development Partnership for downtown Rockford Vintage Markets on June 20th, July 18th and August 15th, 2015. And number eight is a special event permit and liquor permit for the Rock River Development Partnership for the North End Farmers Market on Saturday from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. beginning May 16th, 2015 through October 31st, 2015.
 Please close up for passage. Thank you for passage of the motions and resolutions. Roman world 7a items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. Those matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. All those in favor say aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Fost. Aye. Hill. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott.
 back all right I'm really I'm sure I like I'm on your most 7 8 to 11 nice one abstain the remainder 12 I 0 no that's that's thank you thank you back as personnel thank you
 If you're here with me, I have 17 items. First is an award of bid for citywide grounds maintenance to Jose Rodriguez for $22,830, ANA Lawn Care for $35,325, for Reyes Rodriguez for $18,525, RCS Grounds Maintenance for $6,900, and Jose Rodriguez for $3,300. Next, I have an award of bid to Gray Iron Sewer Castings of Neenah, Wisconsin,
 I'm sorry, to Neenah Foundry Company of Neenah, Wisconsin for their bid of $93,815. Next is award a bid for Gateway Landscaping Contract to Choochna and Son Services.
 of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $30,760. Next is award a bid for a tree purchase to Fox Bridge Nursery of Harvard, Illinois in the amount of $42,426. Ak-Ak Nursery of Loves Park, Illinois in the amount of $11,340. Ivanhoe Nursery of Mundelein, Illinois in the amount of $31,224.
 Goodmark Nurseries of Wonder Lake, Illinois in the amount of $24,000 and J. Carlson Growers of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $27,978. Next is award of bid for Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairs Package 1 to Campus Construction of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $82,404. Next is award of bid for Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairs Package 2 to Campus Construction of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $81,704.10.
 Next is the award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group Number 1 2015 to William Charles Construction of Lois Park, Illinois for a bid of $1,422,142.44. Next is award of bid to West State Streetscape to Shosterman Stuns of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $592,143.60.
 Next is the award of bid for Montederra Drive Drainage Improvements 2015 to Fisher Excavating Freeport, Illinois for their bid of $40,531.50. Next is the award of joint purchasing contract to Public Safety Building HVAC Systems upgrade to Mechanical Inc. of Freeport, Illinois in the amount of $278,130.
 Next is an engineering agreement with South Main Street Construction Inspection to Fair, Graham & Associates of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $118,400. Next is an engineering agreement to Column and Beam Repairs for Jefferson Street Bridge to H.R. Green of Rockford, Illinois for a contract amount of $57,627.43. Next is to take bids for demolition of training tower at Fire Station 1. Funding source will be the fire department operating budget.
 And next is the change order for grant administration for the River's Edge Redevelopment Zone Grant Services with Allen Bergeson, Inc. for an amended amount of $35,000 and a new contract total of $64,000.
 Next is the local agency agreement for ITEP grant IR bridge across Rock River rails to trails path. Grant funding amount not to exceed $740,000. Next is a resolution authorizing the central services manager and finance director with the assistance of Rock River engineering energy services to negotiate and enter into a wholesale electric supply contract for street lighting for the city.
 And finally, a resolution urging Governor and General Assembly to protect full funding of local government distributive fund revenues. I place these items up for passage. Thank you. The motions and resolutions are on number 7B, finance personnel committee. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17 are all up for passage. Is there discussion? Alder Frost. On number 15, the
 local agency agreement with the rails to trails path. That grant funding, is that all specific money coming from the state to us or does that include some of our own funding? Let's take that question. Mr. Hanson. This is an ITEP grant that is coming from the state. It's $740,000 and our portion will be up to $185,000. Is our portion included? Is that part of the $740,000 or no? No, it's a $925,000 project.
 Thank you. Is there further discussion on amendment 8? Thank you Ms. Meyer. On item number 8 for West 8th Street, did we receive the money from the State of Illinois to finish West 8th Street this year? Ms. Jansen?
 This portion of the West 8th Street streetscape is the downtown area, which is between Wyman and Church. So it will encompass the new sidewalks, the lighting, the landscaping amenities. It's not the portion out on the second phase of West 8th Street. It's River's Edge money. I apologize. Thank you very much. And secondly, Mr. Mayor, for the street lighting, the resolution
 for the street lighting that's out for new lights or for new service or just in general? Which number is that again? 16. 16. Mr. Hanson, Mr. Black, I'll take that. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. That's for existing electricity supply, the electricity supply contract for our street lighting. That, I believe it was a two-year contract.
 on March 18th we'll be able to review pricing with a small increase, I think with less than 1% of over the previous pricing. Thank you. Any further discussion? I just wanted to thank all of our staff again for getting all these packages, bid packages prepared. It's a tremendous amount of work and getting them out to bid and getting them out as early is certainly helpful. Any further discussion on the items? Clerk, please call the roll.
 Gensches 16 McNamara Aye Frost Hill Odo Aye Newberg Aye Beach Aye Elliott Aye Beck Aye McNeely Aye Shirely Aye Roman numeral 7B15 10 ayes, 2 no Roman numeral 7B16 11 ayes, 1 abstain The remainder 12 ayes, 0 no That is all passed, thank you
 for the motions and resolutions. Chief, you can do business. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under Roman numeral 8A1, 18-month extension to mortgage agreement for the West State Street Shopsteads, noncompliance. This is for addresses 17, 18 West State Street, owned by Sheila and Khalid Ziraleh,
 and 1720 West State Street owned by Dorothy and Curtis Redd. I ask that we suspend rules and place this up for passage. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on 8A1, the 1718 and 1720 West State Street shopsteads. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk please, I'm sorry, we will motion to suspend first. All those in favor of suspending the rules please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Aye.
 Then your honor, I'd like to place that up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there further discussion? Eric Nott, the clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gutjes? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hill? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Back? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Levin-Icewindo, your honor. The matter passes, thank you. Further, in business, Walton Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor.
 through new business ordinances. B1 was laid over. So B2 is an ordinance for a special use permit for a motor vehicle repair shop in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. A variation to reduce the required off street parking from 18 parking spaces to 10 spaces at 3135 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions.
 number three is an ordinance for the request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 31 35 North Rockton Avenue subject to conditions number four is an ordinance for the class for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 4106 Harrison Avenue subject to conditions
 number five is an ordinance for the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store and a request for the cell sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at thirty three oh two eleven street subject to conditions number six is an ordinance for the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store
 at 3429 North Main Street subject to conditions number seven is an ordinance with a request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 3730 North Alpine Road subject to conditions number eight is the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store number
 and convenience store the request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store at fifty three thirty East State Street subject to conditions and number nine is an ordinance for the request for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and a request for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store 172 South Bell School Road subject to conditions
 Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules. Thank you. And assuming those motions are suspended, items 2 through 9. Yes. Motion to suspend the rules on... Second. ...the moment around 8B, numbers 2 through 9. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye.
 I'm not sure if you can hear me. The place moves up for passage. The place moves up for passage. Passage items 2 through 9 under B. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke? Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hill? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Could you repeat that? Frank? Aye on 2 and 3. Aye on 2 and 3 and no on the rest?
 Elia? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirelli? Aye. Form No. 8B213-1250, no. Remainder, 11 ayes, 1 no. That's all, miss. Thank you. Thank you. Well, rep? Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a license agreement between the Swedish American Foundation and the City of Rockford, Illinois, for the use of 1233 Rebel as a police department community resource center. My place, Dr. Passage.
 I think we need a motion to suspend rules first. Oh, I'm sorry, yes, I move to suspend rules. Thank you. Motion to suspend the rules. Roman Romanates, on the floor, in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rule is to be suspended. And now I place it up for passage. It is up for passage. It is their discussion. Very good. Please call the roll. I'm sorry, I'll let you be the... No, no, I'm sorry. I just would like to know the dollar amount of the real estate taxes.
 I think you estimated it was about $2,500. The budget estimates it at $2,500 last year. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Yes, ma'am. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Fost? Aye. Hill? No. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye.
 I have a nice one abstainer on it. Matter passes thank you. We have an information item that has been requested for council. I heard one last board was planning to deliver that. Mr. Hanson are you part of that? Mayor we had sent out a report to all the aldermen for them to look into it and if they have any questions they just call either me or Mark Stockman. Any issues that anyone wants to raise tonight?
 developing our budget which has been years of development and all of the strategies we've had in common over the last four years. There's been a number of community participants and other part of our organizations involved in the project. And I think there was a request to go into closed session. Yep, I, let's see. I move that we go into closed session in order to discuss litigation matters and labor negotiation matters.
 Second. Second. There's been a motion to discuss the closing session for purposes of discussing litigation matters and later negotiation matters. That has been moved and seconded. Any discussion? If there are not, clerk please call the meeting. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hill. Aye. Odo. Aye. Odo. Mover.
 Thank you. Speech? I'm here. Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Sciarelli? Aye. 12 ayes or noes. And our passes, we move to a motion and a two. All right. We are approaching, almost ready, or we're back in session. Is there a motion to adjourn? There's been a motion and second adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.