meeting. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Yerkey. Logerman. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Present. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Here. Alderman McNeely. 13 present. Thank you.
 Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 1st, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, Hanley, McNeely. Alderman, what was that? Oh, it's meeting minutes. Okay, thank you. Absolutely. 13 ayes.
 Excellent. So, just a reminder, we are allowing some aldermen to attend virtually, some obviously here physically, because we, during the global pandemic, we don't believe it's prudent or practical at this time to require all aldermen to be present physically. As we move forward, we have no proclamations this evening, and we'll move into petitions and communications, and we'll first go to Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have, it looks like two items, I'm sorry, four items. The first one is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an amendment to the City of Rockford's adopted 2020 Comprehensive Plan to include the 11th Street Corridor Study referred to planning and development. Item two is the memorandum from Carl Franson, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the approval of a resolution for the Kishwaukee and Harrison Redevelopment TIF.
 Item 3 is a memorandum from Carl Franzen community and economic development director regarding the approval of a resolution for the amended Amrock hotel Redevelopment if an item 4 is a memorandum from nickel Nick Meyer legal director regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Rock River water reclamation For the installation of an antenna at 204 South First Street all referred to planning and development committee Thank You alderman Rose next we'll go to code and regulation committee all the beach. I
 Thank you. Under Roman number 3, letter B, 1 through 6, the first two items, 1 and 2, have to do with the agenda of the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Liquor and Tobacco that will be held March 22, 221. And number 3, a memorandum from Marty Bloom, project manager permits for special events. Here's a listing of events which conclude the Kentucky Derby Party, the Miracle Mile Cruise and Car Show,
 The Memorial Day landscape, 4th of July SK walk and run, 4th of July parade, and celebration of Block 5 trucks and tunes, the 4th of July celebration, all those refer over to the closing rakes as well. Number four, memorandum from Angela Hummer regarding the application of modifying existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Katunas De Rosa located at 1620 North Bell School Road.
 Number five, memorandum from Brooke Benet, Assistant City Attorney regarding a Code of Ordinance, Disorderly Conduct Ordinance Section 19-13B34, 19-13B35, and 19-13C.
 And the last one, number six, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director, regarding the amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 3, Liquor Ordinance, and all of these items, 1 through 6, will be referred to codes and regs, sir. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one is a memorandum from Brooke Benoit, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an update to the fee schedule to include hookah license. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an extension of the City of Rockford's line of credit. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 thank you alderman frost uh we have uh we've already went through public speakers uh we will move to new committee reports uh we have one or we'll move to new committee reports planning and development goes first alderman rose
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Sci-Fi Networks, Rockford LLC, for utilization of public way right-of-way for the establishment of a citywide fiber optic network system. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Excellent. So there's one item before you, Alderman. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on that one item? Is there any? Alderman McNeely?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I did review this, and I did review the company online. I think this is so significant. I don't know about the other aldermen, but I certainly didn't have enough time to research this to give an appropriate vote on it. So I would ask that this be laid over. So are you making a motion to lay it over? I'm making a motion. Is there a second? Second. Second.
 We have a motion and a second, so it's been automatically laid over. Next up, we'll go to Code and Regulation, Committee Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. One item, Committee recommends approval of a proposed right-of-way vacation for the portion of Gardner Avenue located east of Rural Oak Stopping Center, 600 North Gardner Avenue. This will be placed up for passage tonight, Your Honor. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item here inside Council Chambers? Is there any discussion online?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. No. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. 12 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Item passes. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,059,741.83.
 as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on last monday march 8 2021. number two the committee recommends approval of the agreement between the city of rockford and comed for u.s business 20 also known as west state street from day avenue to independence avenue outline the city's desire to relocate comed facilities off the right-of-way and underground the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you so we have uh two items before you is there any discussion on those two items
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm very pleased on item number two to see that the state and the city is moving forward on West 8th Street and certainly glad to see that some of those wires will be put underground. We won't see all those poles, although we have a lot of poles laying on the ground now waiting to be put up.
 So very pleased about this. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other discussion inside council chambers on those two items? Seeing no discussion inside. Is there any discussion online? We'll go with Alderman Hervey, I believe first. And then I think that was Alderman Thompson Kelly. Yes, Your Honor. Yes, Your Honor. My question goes back to the same concern I had from last week. What is our policy?
 on burying wires. I know we want to do it in some of the corridors, but my understanding was we were also doing it in neighborhoods. So are we not going to be burying underground cables in our older neighborhoods as we revamp these corridors and use that opportunity to remove some of that blight? Or are we going to...
 relocate them to the right-of-way or alleys,
 In neighborhoods, while we're removing them from the quarters, I think both are important. Industrial and business quarters are important for aesthetic purposes, but so are neighborhoods. And as I said, one of mine got destroyed when they moved those poles from South Main Street and put them into the front yard of people in the Cole Avenue, Bird Street neighborhood.
 Thank you. Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Hervey, I think you said it best. Both right that there are times where we will relocate overhead electric down alleyways. You know, this is a prime example where putting the utilities down the alley, not in the front yard, where other utilities exist certainly provides us access.
 the ability to relocate those overhead utilities. On this project, we are burying about 2,000 lineal feet of aerial electric as well. It's just a combination of both underground and relocation of poles to the alleys. In the situation that you mentioned,
 And I circled back with our engineering team. Our direct intent is not to relocate poles into front yards. We want to understand, you know, if we are, in some cases, we're moving utilities back off of our public infrastructure improvement, it may stay within its current capacity.
 location in a corridor. If we do advance eliminating those overhead electric facilities from the right-of-way altogether, that is a situation where we may put it in an alley, it may go into a street off of that corridor, but certainly it's more of a project-based decision at that point. So certainly taking that into consideration moving forward, that we're not putting poles in people's front yard or putting undue burden is certainly something we need to look at. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly?
 Yes, my question is the fact that the last time we did this and we buried the wiring, AT&T had to dig up the surface about three times. And on this committee report, it just identified comments. Does it include AT&T and cable? Director Saunders?
 Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, I do believe that it includes some Comcast facilities and some AT&T facilities. I can get you the specifics on all the utilities impacted by this. I can certainly do that. Thank you. And my other question is, are we on time? Are we on the schedule? No.
 Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, we are finalizing the last parcel of property acquisition. We are still shooting for a June letting. My team is pushing with absolutely everything we have, along with Director Franzen's team, to finalize that last property acquisition. So at this point, we are pushing forward as if we are going to hit that schedule and doing everything we possibly can to hit that June letting. So I can put it in ink instead of pencil, right?
 Yes, that is that is our intent. Absolutely. I have a feeling I have a feeling if we don't hit that timeline, even though you won't be on council, you'll be back at council. So we will do all we can to ensure that doesn't take place. Any other discussion online. Seeing hearing none clerk, will you please call the roll? Logamon timber for us. Herbie no on both. I'm sorry.
 No, we can pay the vouchers. So I on one and no on two. Thank you. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Aye. Item number 1, 13 ayes. Item number 2, 12 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. Items passed. Next up we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or codes and regs. So we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost. Thank you. Number 1 number 1 is an award of RFP for actuarial services to night heart company of Deerfield. For a contract amount of 12,200 for year 1. 12,600 for year 2,13,000 for year 3.
 $13,400 for year four and $13,800 for year five. The contract duration is one year with four one year extensions. The funding source is the finance department operating budget. Number two is approval and acceptance of the administration of children and families office of Head Start annual continuation of early Head Start child care partnership grant. For a period from July 1, 2021 through June 30, 2022. The total grant amount is $638,955.
 will provide comprehensive school readiness and family engagement services to 34 low-income children and families in winnebago county and serves children birth through three years of age number three is an award of professional services to grant consulting and administrative services
 associates of Rockford for an estimated annual contract amount of $75,000 based on hourly rates. The contract duration is one year with an option to extend for two one year periods by mutual consent of both the city and the consultant. The funding source is sales tax, motor fuel tax, CIP, general fund, water replacement improvement account, and various departmental operating budgets.
 Number four is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code requires council authorization for the use of the motor fuel tax rebuild Illinois bond funds for 6th Street and 9th Street two-way conversion phase one in the amount of
 $1.3 million for preliminary engineering. Number five is acceptance of Community Services Block Grant from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity in the amount of $1,015,293. The grant will be used to develop and implement programs to assist low-income Illinois residents
 working towards family stabilization and self-sufficiency in furtherance of this purpose the grant does not require a cost match I place these five items before the council Thank You alderman frost we have five items before you is there any discussion inside council chambers alderman McNeely Thank You mr. mayor item item number three
 The use of outside individual to, or company to prepare grants. I thought, I'm not sure how long ago, but we hired for a grant writer in the Mayor's office. Do we not still have that?
 So alderman McNeely, we've never hired for a grant position grant writer in the mayor's office. We have written grants out of the mayor's office, but with the number of grants coming out of federal and state right now, we've historically used Ellen. I think just in 2020, we've received about $20 million worth of grants overall.
 We don't have the capacity of staff since as you know, we have one-third less staff than all for comparable cities so we're we often will outsource that My memory doesn't serve me well, but I thought we had hired grant writer for the city secondly regarding Public Works wanting to to hire grant writer I have complained
 consistently regarding things over in my area that I thought with streets beyond the neighborhood dollars that that we should have so I'm concerned because we got a grant for the bicycle we got a we got a number of grants but I'm not sure that all of these grants are helping
 the whole city and certainly not within my area. And I won't be so selfish as not to support it, but I would want Public Works to certainly look at grants that can be beneficial in all of the city. Thank you. Any other discussion? No, no, I'm not finished, I'm sorry. And then on item number, sorry I don't have my glasses.
 and item number five how um do we know where we're going to focus for the dollars that director
 Ultimately, this is a continuation of our community services block grant program. So again, this will go along with our focus previously around stabilization of families and poverty, which is the goal of the community action agency. So we will be providing those services both in Winnebago and in Boone County. So that includes.
 a number of things. We have plenty other sources for rental assistance right now, so likely these allocations from this grant will go towards education and training, different options that folks need that are uncovered via case management for other stabilization aspects, getting ready for work, other assistance that they need with regards to that. This grant can even be used towards childcare assistance for folks that cannot
 qualify for other programs if needed to kind of stabilize their situation and help them to get back to work. So it's the gamut of poverty mitigation services. So you're not, you as the director haven't focused on one particular area that you've seen in the last 12 months that we should work on? So the…
 As part of our annual process, the Community Action Agency does a community assessment that looks at where some of the greatest needs are. And then in terms of where our programming is, that's how we focus our budget. So what I'm saying to you is generally where we spend our funds in the community. So no, I have not personally said this is my personal clearing call that I think we need to allocate the majority of our funding in the community. We utilize the community assessment to
 to determine our primary objectives. All right, thank you. Any other questions Alderman McNeely? I'm sorry, it's just so hot here. I think that's it, thank you. No problem. Any other discussion inside council chambers? Any discussion online? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next item is under new business. Planning and development item has been laid over. Under code and regulation, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Under B-1.
 An ordinance approving the right-of-way vacation ordinance for a portion of Gardner Avenue, located east of Rural Oak Shopping Center, 600 North Gardner Avenue. We place it up for passage tonight, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Beach. So there's one item before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Seeing none, is there any discussion online? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerkey. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye.
 Aye. Irvins? Aye. Alderman Irvins? Aye. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? McNeely? 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. That item passes next. It's Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 There's one item, and it is an ordinance approving the agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for U.S. Business 20, also known as West State Street, from Day Avenue to Independence Avenue, outlining the City's desire to relocate ComEd facilities off the right-of-way and underground. Please sign before the Council. Thank you, Alderman Frost. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion inside Council Chambers? Is there any discussion online?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. No. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Kinones. Hanley. McNeely. 12 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent thank you next up we have officers reports just a couple of quick items. One is regarding COVID had a very successful weekend vaccinating citizens. I believe the National Guard site now is up to have vaccinated or provided 20 over 21,000 vaccines. The Ellis School site which was that partnership between Walgreens.
 City RPS and ministers fellowship provided. I believe it was 950 vaccines on Sunday. And they are certainly eager to open a second site, which they hope that second. I mean, I'm sorry. They're eager to open the second west side location. And I believe they're working with New Zion Missionary Baptist Church as that second location.
 uh... their quick items i have is uh... for the sci-fi development agreement is a large agreement if you have questions or concerns or would like more information uh... i know city administrator talking only has been reaching out please reach out to him he wants that we want to make sure that everyone feels comfortable with it and gets all their questions answered last two items is you have
 We've emailed you and provided them on your desk. Two different appointments. One is for the RAVE board to Roberta Holsworth, and the other is to the Fire and Police Commission to Dr. Rudy Valdez. And with that, I'll turn it over to officers' reports inside council chambers. And anyone inside council chambers have an officers' report? Alderman Rose. Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I'd just like to recognize Roy Sackmaster and the East Boys basketball team for their city championship. They won against Harlem last week, and I know a lot of sporting events haven't been taking place, but those boys worked really hard to get through COVID and get through those tough times.
 tough time so it was nice to see them bring home some hardware. Also I just want to recognize Cam Taylor who is a sophomore at East. He broke four records in swimming with the 200, the 500 free, the 100 fly and the 100 backstroke. So kind of a huge deal there in breaking those records. They've been there for a long time. So look forward to that.
 Looking forward to seeing what he can do in the future with those records gone. So just wanted to recognize some amazing kids. Absolutely, and I apologize. I should have mentioned the dance company called Domain Attraction went to Detroit and won –
 Won that competition and hopefully please help us remember all these teams that are winning. So as we do bring proclamations back forward, we can honor our young people who are doing so well. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just wanted to congratulate and wish Ingersoll machine tools. Well, and the Illinois Manufacturing Association holds a an event called makers madness for the.
 coolest uh things made in the state of illinois and they're they are in the it's a bracket kind of like the uh race to the final four for their work and in creating and working on the uh the giant magellan magellan telescope being uh set up or built in chile so good luck and it's uh
 It's great to see another Rockford manufacturing company working tirelessly around the country and the world. Thank you. Yeah, it's really amazing. I believe they are they still in the lead eight or have they moved to final four? Last I heard they were in the lead eight. Yeah, that's just awesome. It's over there on northwest side of town, just off North Main. Really exciting to see that. Any other reports inside Alderman Thunberg?
 Thank you mayor. I'd like to recognize our Rockford Police Department and the work they've done in the third ward in the recent past with three separate residents and two buildings on a street in the Jackson Oaks neighborhood. And they had, due to their diligent work, they were able to make a number of arrests and were able to confiscate drugs and weapons.
 The irony of this is that these people that are doing this to our community, the negativity to our community, I should say, is they've become so emboldened. This was right down the street from the Rock House by about, I don't know, maybe five or six residences from...
 I'm sorry, it was the Strong House in the neighborhood on Revell. So, I mean, they're doing it right under the nose of our own law enforcement. It's just they've become very emboldened in our community, and I want to again thank the Rockford Police Department for all the work they're doing. Thanks. Thank you. Any other reports inside council chambers? Any aldermen have officers' reports online? I do, Your Honor. Thompson Kelly? Go for it, Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I first want to acknowledge all the women that work for the City of Rockford and all the offices and departments. This is Women of the Month in March, and I want to make sure that we appreciate all the women that do all the work of supporting for them. Nothing would get done. And that we acknowledge all the hard work that they do.
 Secondly, I would appreciate it if Director Kyle could give me a call because I'd like to know where the Auburn Street Corridor study is. Where we are with that right now. Thank you. Absolutely. And he is aggressively nodding his head, meaning that he will call you. Anyone else online have any reports? Yes, Your Honor. Go ahead, Alderman Hoffman.
 I just have a question, and I can't see if Chief Bergsten is in attendance or not. He is in attendance. My question is, I believe that last week he said that Pfizer and Moderna would be issued at Sandy Hollow, and Johnson & Johnson would be at the mobile locations. Is that still correct? Chief Bergsten.
 Solomon Hoffman, it depends on the supply. If they have extra supply of Johnson & Johnson, that would be at the Sandy Hall location only. It all depends on how much they have of each vaccine. But the goal is to have Johnson & Johnson be in the mobile sites only because it's a one-time. They don't have to have a follow-up. But if there's no Johnson & Johnson available, they will use the McDermott and the Pfizer for when they go out for their mobile sites. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. Because my son has just moved up the list, and he wants to make sure he gets Pfizer and Moderna. And I know we can't ask, but I thought chances were pretty good out at Sandy Hollow. Am I correct? Yes, you are correct. And again, you are correct that you cannot pick which one you want. When you have your appointment, you have to get what they have for you. Okay, thank you.
 Yeah, only the fire chief is allowed to select which one he wants. Is there any other reports online? Yes, Your Honor. I would ask if one of our staff members could, just for the public, we received information regarding yard waste pickup. If they could just sort of announce that. I don't have mine on me, but when it starts and ends.
 How yard waste has to be bundled in order to be picked up. Yes, the date that yard waste can begin to be picked up is March 29th and it. Has to be bundled I don't remember all the qualifications director Franzen.
 As we approach March 29th, we'll work with Laura Mayer and our communications team to make sure that we push out and some infographics the proper way to place yard waste. Okay, thank you. I just know we had a problem yesterday.
 A couple years when large herb branches would blow down and people would simply drag them to the right of way. Not the right of way, but put them out with the yard waste. And they do have to be broken down. Might help also to give some idea of when you call public works to pick those up and when they're required to break those down on their own. Whenever that comes out.
 that's not always very clear to to people thank you absolutely thank you any other reports saying none is there a motion to adjourn we have a motion we have a second no discussion clerk could you please call the roll jerky logeman tunberg frost hervey hi irvins hi thompson kelly hi hoffman
 Rose, Beach, Quinones, Hanley, McNeely. 13 ayes. Have a wonderful night.