of Rockford Community Church. I invite you to pray with me. Oh God of wisdom and truth, as the city council gather to deliberate on issues relating to the progress, success of this city, I ask for wisdom, I ask for grace, and I ask for strength. And I ask that even as we look forward to just the coming election, we commit it to you and say, God of grace, we know everything is in your hand.
 We ask all this in your name. Amen. The allegiance of the United States of America, the republic for which it stands, for liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Irvins. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. 11 present.
 Wonderful. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 5th, 2018? So moved. Second. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion and journal passes. We're going to adjust a closed session to go after proclamations and then after public speakers so that we can respect the time of the public speakers. So we will switch to...
 First up, we have a proclamation for the Ronald McDonald Caremobile 15th year anniversary. If Tony Ellingson and Christy Briggs-Smith could come forward. Hi, how are you? Great to meet you. I'm Tom. Nice to meet you. Great to meet you. Thanks for being here. And if they're taking photos, if you want to come in, you can go over here and take photos. We'll put you on the spot. Yeah. Thank you.
 Whereas the Ronald McDonald Caremobile is a 40-foot, 26,000-pound pediatric clinic on wheels that delivers medical and dental care to uninsured children across the region. And whereas since the Caremobile program began in 2003, over 2.2 million of free care has been provided to more than 8,600 children. And whereas over the past 15 years, the Caremobile program has provided children in need with nearly 3,100 immunizations
 immunizations, that's a hard one for me today, and avoided an estimated 120 emergency room visits. And whereas the Care Mobile also participates in numerous community events every year, including parades and festivals to increase the community awareness and educate children and families. Whereas the Care Mobile has dedicated full-time staff of two individuals that have been with the program from the beginning.
 Tony Allinson is the nurse practitioner and manager, and Christy Briggs is program coordinator. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim 2018 to be Ronald McDonald Caremobile's 15th anniversary year. Would you like to share a few words with us?
 Sure. Wonderful. Well, I hadn't planned on it, but I'd just like to say thank you so much for giving us the opportunity to be here. Christy and I have been with the program for 15 years together, and we're so happy that we've been able to be out in the community serving children and families and making a difference every day. So thank you very much for letting us be here. Thank you. Thank you. Great to meet you. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Also this evening, we have a special group with us today of visitors from our industrial partnership with the City of Lead Shipping in Sweden, if they would like to come forward. I know we have Linnea Bankston and Katarina, I'm just going to go with the first name, Katarina, and Tim Anderson and many other students. How are you? Good to see you. Thanks for being here. Thanks for being here.
 So together with our business developer, Linnea Bankston, we have 10 nursing students and two instructors from Lidschipping's upper secondary school who are in Rockford for two weeks as part of their educational partnership with Swedish American Health System and Guilford High School. The students are here to learn more about the U.S. health care system and the U.S. educational system. We had our first group of nursing students from Lidschipping come to Rockford back in 2012, and I've actually had the opportunity to meet...
 with a couple of groups now that have come through, and it's always such a fantastic partnership. I think the education goes both ways. So we are just thrilled to have you here. And Linnea, would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor and Council Members and employees and citizens of Rockford. Thank you so much for welcoming us here tonight. I wanted to add to the Mayor's comments about this partnership that we have seen a great increase to the health care program in Lidsköping, Sweden, thanks to the opportunity to provide two, three weeks' visit to Rockford. So thank you so much. It truly has been a great economic development result for us. And now when we are partnering with Guildford High School,
 We keep saying to them that we would like to see them come to us, so we hope that together we can make that happen so you can see the same benefit on your side as well. So thank you so much to the Rockford community for working so nicely with us. And now the students and teachers will introduce themselves too. Hi, my name is Katarina Svanström and I'm a nurse instructor. Hi, my name is Kristoffer Lidberg and I'm a student. Emily Dahlberg, Swedish student. Malin Kall, nursing student.
 Clara Persson, Swedish student. Anna Hanfvast, student. Isabel Nord, Swedish student. Sanna Lind, a Swedish student. Hi, and I'm the second teacher. I'm Tim Andersson, and I'm an upper secondary school teacher. Ida Karlsson, student. Maja Malmberg, student. Hi, I'm Sofia Gelgren, and I'm also a student. And we have Swedish presents for the mayor.
 Here you go. Thank you so much. Well, thank you so much. I think that was an open invitation for us to go to Sweden. So maybe after we get that budget thing done, we'll take a trip. Thank you so much for coming. Appreciate it. Great to see you. Next up, we have petitions and communications, and we have codes and regulations. Alderman Joe Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Petition I have is a memorandum from LaFerriere Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Tobacco Ordinance, Chapter 3, Article 2. The second is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for that meeting to be held on March 20th, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Rights Committee meeting on March 26th, 2018.
 The third item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on March 20th, 2018, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on March 26th, 2018. The fourth is a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughn, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding annexation of 3506 20th Street.
 And the fifth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding Platte No. 8 of Quail Run Subdivision. All five of those items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee meeting, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Alderman Shirely.
 Next up, we will have our public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. I'll just remind all five public speakers that you have a three-minute time allotment. And I do not see our first public speaker, John Tech Brantley. I got his e-mail with his speech. I could give it, but I will put him to the end so that way we can give him another opportunity to be here. Next speaker, we have Diana Chandler.
 good evening before i start when i refer to man i'm talking about mankind and not gender so i don't want the trolls to get me faster than the speeding bullet more powerful than a locomotive able to leap tall buildings in a single bound look up in the sky it's a plane it's a bird
 It's Superman, Superman who can change the course of mighty rivers, bend still with his bare hands, who disguises Clark Kent, mild manner reporter for a great metropolitan newspaper, fights the never-ending battle for truth, justice, and the American way. Why? We cannot wait for Superman. We the people may
 may neither be able to bend steel nor change the course of rivers, yet God has endowed us with powers greater than we can imagine. We can change the course of our destiny if we exercise the power. There are some who masquerade as a mild-mannered OBGYN yet rise to the occasion consistently displaying the giant S and addressing the trolls on social media with facts and challenges to offer solutions.
 Now is the time for the remainder of us to don our superman gear, march to the polls in mass tomorrow, rise to the occasion, overcome darkness with light by voting yes for the Home Rule Initiative. It is our ultimate battle for truth, justice, and the American way. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Next up, to put Mr. John Tack Brantley on the spot, do you need a minute?
 out here working these elections and what have you and that's what I'm going to talk about. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our audience, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs say, with all the problems concerning the leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very peoples who deserve most attention. Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard, help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success.
 Be sure that in all your worrying, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most. What are the duties of a precinct committeeman and a precinct captain? A lot of people here in Rockland have no idea what a precinct committeeman is or a precinct captain role are until they saw me.
 In Chicago, Illinois, a precinct captain, also known as a precinct chairman, precinct delegate or precinct committee officer, is an elected official in the American political party system. The office establishes a direct link between the political party and the voters in your local election district.
 You cannot go into a precinct neighborhood in Chicago without going through the precincts, Captain. Precinct committee men or women represent a political party to members of their public by relaying the wishes of the community. Remember, they relay the wishes of the community on social and economic issues to those just running for office.
 Pre-C Commitment and Women's also canvassed the neighborhood, watched for new residents, made sure people have identified themselves as either Republicans or Democrats or registered voters. Here in Rockland, for the first time, we had three different residents.
 people running for governor that came to speak to the residents on RHA property in the last four months. I have been invited to so many fundraisers. However, what I have learned at these fundraisers, they recognize everyone at these fundraisers but the precinct committeemen. We are elected officials too. Thus, finally here in Rockford, they see how important a precinct committeeman is.
 in the city. Check out the mayor and other officials that are elected. So on Tuesday, the primary election day here in Rockford, we have 67 state representatives with four people running. We have a governor race with both parties. And mainly here we have two different referendums. I have over 30 people out here working in elections. So what are the other precinct committee members doing? By the way, 90% of the people that we back up
 I have a lovely winning record. This year, we will not be used. Our vote will not be taken for granted. So let's see what's going to happen tomorrow during the election. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next public speaker we have is Reverend Ken Borden. Good evening, Mayor, City Council, aldermen, city employees, people of Rockford.
 I stand here on behalf of the committee for home rule here in our city. I just want to encourage you tonight, please call your constituents if you haven't, aldermen. I received a call from my alderman, Frost, on last evening, and I was blessed to receive it. Many of us have party affiliation, but we're at a point in the city of Rockford where we can't stand on the sideline. We need to...
 cross over, extend ourselves beyond political parties to do what's best for our city. We really need the revenue. Our mayor inherited a $10.2 million deficit and it's not going to go away with just magic and a bunch of big talk. Those who are opposing home rule have not brought anything to the table to say how can we erase this deficit. It takes courage to be in leadership. It takes vision to be in leadership. It takes the
 discernment. And so I want to say to you, not only should you encourage your constituents to vote yes for Home Rule, but you should vote yes regardless to your political party, not worrying about how some of your constituents will take it. There are members of the church that I pastor who are against Home Rule being passed, but as a leader, I have to decide what's best for all the city of Rockford. I have no family members in this city. I'm a Southern, as you can tell by this deep draw, but I have a loving, loving, loving
 commitment to the city and the citizens of Rockford. I know many of you all in this room, and we've worked together over the years in various areas. This is the first time in my life that I've taken a stand for anything publicly, politically. When I went into ministry in 1996 full-time, God told me not to become overly involved in politics.
 Everything about life is politics, and I'm concerned about our city. If home rule is not passed, then what? But I also want you to think about, Alderman, when home rule is passed on tomorrow, then what? Let's come up with some constructive plans. Let's show the naysayers, the distractors, and the lawyers that God is in home rule and God is in this council and under the leadership.
 uh over the leadership of our mayor our mayor was elected with over 68 percent of the vote that tells me that the people of this city has trust in the mayor and has trust in you we must come together and approve home rule vote yes on tomorrow for home rule thank you next uh public speaker we have is mary jo courageous reynolds good evening
 Mayor McNamara, distinguished councilmen and women, city employees, residents, and friends. My name is Mary Jo Paragis Reynolds, and I was born and raised in Rockford. After school, I chose to move back to my hometown to establish my career and family. It is my privilege to discuss why I am a strong supporter of home rule this evening. I first learned about home rule during my state and local government class at the University of Illinois College of Law.
 Home rule is not a controversial thing in the majority of Illinois communities. It is simply a nonpartisan governance tool that a city automatically gets when its population reaches 25,000. Much to my surprise, I learned that my community, my hometown, didn't have home rule. Moreover, it's the largest city in the state without it.
 This troubled me because Home Rule seemed like a useful tool that could provide Rockford with opportunities. My interest in Home Rule was reinvigorated through my involvement with Next Rockford, an organization of young professionals. Over the last few years, we have been studying Home Rule and hearing from opponents and proponents. We are confident that the timing is right for our city to reclaim its Home Rule capabilities, and here's why.
 Without home rule, our city has to look to Springfield to act, let alone to progress. We need the state's permission to take action, forcing us to rely on state legislators.
 to vote on local matters. While our elected representatives in Springfield are fantastic, they are only five out of 177 voices, and they often get drowned out by other priorities. One glaring example of this was the Reclaiming First project. The project required approval from the state, which delayed it for two years and cost us $32 million in revenue. Homeward
 Home Rule will allow us to efficiently and effectively move ahead with such projects to generate revenue and benefit our community. It will allow us to get creative, which is necessary to overcome our $10.2 million budget crisis. Further, I trust Rockford, not Springfield.
 I trust Rockford because I know my elected officials. We have a mayor and council members who take the time to know my name, respond to my emails, and care about my interests and my values. What's more, if this trust were to erode, we will now have the opportunity to recall our officials, holding them to a new level of accountability. Additionally, I support Home Rule because I am frustrated with high property taxes.
 Home Rule is a solution to help us get property taxes back under control by generating alternative, diverse sources of revenue, including revenue from visitors. Home Rule will also improve Rockford residents' quality of life. It will help us get rid of blighted properties, secure funding for public safety, and enable us to have a local contractor preference to strengthen local businesses.
 In closing, home rule is simply another tool in City Council's toolbox. Just like builders have hammers, local representatives need home rule. The time is ripe for our community to continue its positive progress and momentum and seize the opportunity to regain control of our destiny. Please vote yes tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Proverbs, the 22nd chapter, the first verse, written by a wise man, Solomon, it says, A good name is better than great riches. To be esteemed is better than silver or gold. What I want to speak about tonight, credibility, is the foundation of leadership.
 The 21 qualities a credible visionary leader must have to be successful in life. One, he must be honest. Two, forward looking. Three, competent. Four, inspired. Five, intelligent. Six, decisive. Seven, fair minded. Eight, broad minded. Nine, supportive. Ten, straightforward. Eleven, dependable.
 12 cooperative, 13 determined, 14 imagine, 15 ambition, 16 courageous, 17 care, 18 mature, 19 loyal, 20 self-control, 21 independent. Without credibility, you can't lead people. You can't follow someone who isn't credit, who doesn't truly believe in what they're doing and how they're doing. If you use
 my 21 qualities of a credible visionary leader that I invented, you could deal with any crisis that come your way. I've been wanting to tell Alderman Anne Thompson this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight.
 I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. I also want to thank all the women, Linda McNeely and my good friend Tiger Land and my good friend there for standing up for the poor people on the west side. God bless you and your family. They are true followers of Jesus Christ. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Father.
 next up we have a new committee reports and alderman jerky's here yeah i show up every now and then um it could be bad if we invite you or not depending on who we are um under roman numeral uh 11 is that where we're at six six six a one yeah we're in the committee report
 Under Roman numeral 6 a 1 there's one item That's the committee recommends approval of the bike sharing service agreement between the city of Rockford and neutron holdings Inc Doing business as lime bite legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. They set up for passage. Thank you Is there a discussion alderman Beach?
 thank your honor i certainly would like to see this happen in rockford i did speak with zach as we were encouraged to last week my concern was three years out
 where no other company can come in without any return at all to the city other than just having this company here. And I would be hoping, I was hoping at that time, I spoke to Zach, that perhaps we could have one year and then maybe some options going beyond that one year, if we saw that, or if we could set some fee for...
 compensation maybe some structure I gave some ideas I won't take time now on the Council floor to outline that but that's just my personal opinion about um I'll give me someone exclusive right to do business in Rockford for three years without any compensation other than the fact that they're going to be here which I do support I think it's a great idea but I certainly
 I will support it this evening, but I need to tell you how I'm feeling in terms of the fact that we're going to lock that thing up for three years. And no matter who would want to come in here with their operation, they would not be able to do that. So thank you. Thank you. Is there further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Nogaman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Ross? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Hoffman?
 Rose Beach Quinones Beck Shirely 12 eyes. Thank you item passes Alderman Shirely
 Your Honor, I've got one item this evening. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming facility. Sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming facility in a light industrial zoning district at 2327 Kishwaukee Street. Sherry Rogers is the applicant doing business as TNT as subject to conditions.
 Place that up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman. Is there a discussion? Alderman Hervey. Just more of a request that at some point in the future, we come up with some kind of standard or guideline for package liquor sales for establishments that have pouring rights, right?
 It just seems that, you know, this is going to go the way of video gaming. One person had it. Now everybody has to have it so they can be, quote, competitive. It just seems that liquor is just saturated in this city. And I'm not a teetotaler, but I don't understand why bars all need to have package liquor sales every service station. Right.
 has packaged liquor sales now restaurants are asking for packaged liquor sales outside of the growlers and the craft beers that's different but you know the golf course restaurants i just think it's getting out of hand and at some point i'd like to see what is the criteria because zba seems to be approving all of them and i just think it's bad policy i'm not going to vote against this one because we don't have it but
 Going forward I would ask that staff maybe in the next 90 days come up with some kind of criteria if that's Important to anyone. Thank you. Thank you. And we can certainly do that old man can Jonas Yeah, I believe that this here liquor license establishment had a had a liquor store in it and he had purchased it in it just I
 When he purchased it, it just remained a liquor store. He has a right, you know, but I don't think he's going to open a liquor store. But he just wanted to buy the license that was previous there that included packaged liquors. Thank you. Is there further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Irby. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. No. Beach. No. No.
 Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Nine ayes, three nos.
 Thank you. And before we get to Alderman Beck, I failed to mention at the beginning, we got a number of complaints and concerns about the volume of speakers at council. Last time I know a number of aldermen did as well. We had reviewed all of our speakers. We also then had Comcast come in and put in some new equipment here. The one thing I will remind, so I'm hoping it'll get better. One thing I'll remind all aldermen, make sure you have the microphone at least leaning towards you and.
 Speak as close to it as you you can Next up is alderman back for finance and personnel. Thank you, Your Honor Just on the note of the volume twos is one of those complainers when I had to miss a meeting But I was watching it from home. You were static. Yeah This is static static is really I mean, there's a hum that gets really loud and it's very annoying It's very hard to listen to the debate. So you that's that's the other issue. I'll take them to resolve. I'm really open. It's I
 Equipment not just us. Yeah, it's the static. Right? Yeah. Yes. Yeah, absolutely alright, I have six items first under Under new committee reports first is approval of the vouchers in the amount of five million two hundred eighty eight thousand one hundred eighty seven dollars and twenty eight cents next is Approval of the application for federal I'm sorry. Is that the item that we just laid over tonight? Yes, so that correct. I
 Okay, so item two did not come out of committee yet Number three is the approval of the amendment. No, I'm sorry item number two has come out of committee last week But item five will be later very good So item two is the approval of the application for federal grant funds for early head start childcare for 2018 2019 budget year for the Human Services Department head start division and
 Item 3 is approval of the amendment to the section 231 rules of procedure and order of business requiring a supermajority vote to amend or repeal home rule self-limiting ordinances. Item 4 is approval of the city railroad agreement interagency agreement with the city of Rockford and Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad Company for 20th Street underpass signal preemption.
 Funding source for the city's portion is sales tax in the amount of $23,318.89. Item 5, as mentioned, did not come out of committee. And item 6 is the 2018 budget and appropriate ordinance. I place these items up for passage. Alderman Chiarelli. Yes, Your Honor. I move to lay over item 6. All those in favor of laying over item number 6, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 items laid out thank you i guess it's a two alderman rule automatically that was automatic yeah didn't take a vote just went the extras all right so we have items one through four then excellent so we have items one through four ahead of us uh this evening is there discussion on items one through four alderman toomber hi thank you mayor uh this question would go to human resources director davis or of human radio humans human service sorry uh
 On here, one of the challenges faced by the city in continuing to serve as granny for Head Start is the risk of having to pay back federal dollars if the program cannot generate the full amount required in local non-federal match. It says we have missed this target consistently for the past seven years, but have been successful in applying for federal waivers. Do we know if we are not successful...
 Applying for federal waivers what our local taxpayers are on the hook for if anything Solomon I want to make sure I understand you're referring to item two or are you referring to item? Five this is listed under the background I think you may be looking alderman toonberg at item five that could have been up that is not Gonna be up because it didn't go through committee. So this okay, so this is one of the ones okay, so
 Item is so is the only one that's up tonight, okay? Perfect for item five. I mean good. Thank you other discussion or items on items one through four seeing no discussion clerk Will you please call the roll? Hi Hi Oh
 It's one three four thirteen eyes Thank you and alderman rose, I think you may want to consider abstaining on item two he's fine You as well And vote on item to you. There's no conflict with number two So it would be 12 eyes one. No, thank you. Oh items pass next up. We have officers reports alderman McNeely. Oh
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're welcome. Mr. Mayor, the question of home rule has been pushed very hard this election season by both sides. We all know that there are usually two sides to every issue, but I am most interested in what the voters want. I think the best way to address home rule would have been to circulate the petitions to put it on the ballot.
 but you decided otherwise and skipped the petitions and called on council to decide to put it on the ballot. And they did. Larry Flint once said, majority rules only works if you're also considering individual rights because you can't have five wolves and one sheep voting on what to have for supper.
 This body has given the taxpayers of this city an example of how home rule will work if passed. I encourage Rockfordians to maintain some degree of ownership of their destiny. I remind voters of an excerpt from one of Malcolm X's speeches.
 Oh, I say, and I say it again, you've been had, you've been took, you've been hoodwinked, bamboozled, led astray, run amok. Voters know that this applies to you if you vote yes to home rule. Voters, you should have been told that home rule will help. You've been told that home rule will help the city deal with police and fire pension costs.
 I encourage you to Google cities facing financial crisis due to police and fire and pension costs. You will see that home rule cities in the state of Illinois are all facing the same problem. This problem is not addressed by home rule. Another appropriate quote from Malcolm X that voters must consider before they vote tomorrow, if you're not careful, the newspaper will have...
 will have you hating the people who are being oppressed and loving the people who are doing the oppressing. This could not be more accurate in the way that the Rockford Register Star has handled this issue, in my mind. And I thought that a newspaper was to be objective in its reporting, not a party to the story. I want to encourage voters to vote no for home rule.
 As the proponents of home rule advertising says, you decide. I agree. You should decide. Not the mayor. Not the 14 aldermen. You decide. It's your money. It's your vote. It's your city. Vote no on home rule. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey.
 Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple of points. I actually wanted to remind people, and I believe it's today that yard waste pickup starts.
 Yes. It is today. So whatever your natural day is to put stuff out, you can actually start doing the yard waste. Please go on the city website and read, though, the requirements. A lot of us have bundles of sticks. There's a limit to the size. There's a limit to the weight. I believe the weight is 50 pounds. The bundles, I believe it's two by four.
 not inches but feet um and you have to be they have to be um tied up uh twine or or something of that sort but um but not metal so take a look at all those rules before you uh before you um put those things out um i want to speak on home rule and encourage people to vote for it um
 I don't care how Home Rule got on the ballot. You know, there's been a lot of hysteria about the fact that, you know, we could have gone out and had this big petition drive. I don't understand why. It's to put something – it gets something on the ballot. Either way you do it. And I think Home Rule needed to get on the ballot. I think it needed to get on there quickly. People have been inundated with information. Going straight to the ballot did absolutely nothing.
 to abrogate citizens' rights or their voice. The biggest falsehood that's being spread about home rule that I really resent is that it takes away people's rights to vote on something.
 I did the first robocall of my life. That's how angry I got that people were spreading that falsehood. If you vote for Home Rule, you lose the ability to ever vote on taxes again, tax increases again. I mean, a lot of this stuff simply isn't true. I resent the way that it's been targeted towards certain communities.
 telling people things in a way that's really twisted. You know, you can use one word that can taint something one way or the other.
 I have to respond also to the issue about whether the city has said that Home Rule will help us solve pension costs. The only thing Home Rule is going to help us do is not have to pay for pensions by cutting essential services. We've got to find revenue to pay for pensions because those costs are going through the roof, like it or not. 100% of pension costs are paid locally.
 that comes out of our tax dollars i think right now it's either 47 or 48 per or cents on every property tax dollar goes to fund public employee pension the majority being police and fire those folks were promised their pensions i am not one to abrogate uh those pensions we have to pay for those but if you look at the escalation in costs um
 They're gonna swallow up the city budget in a very short period of time. The state doesn't want to deal I'm sorry. Let me go back at the state level. We have a 122 billion dollar that's with the be pension unfunded pension liability and it's escalating out of control and
 As long as Springfield decides what pension benefits are, as long as Springfield can add pension sweeteners for campaign contributions or for support, we're going to keep running into this problem. Pensions need to, at some point, get managed either at the local level or be protected from political influence at the state level. But that's not happening. The reality is,
 In the city of Rockford, we have to pay for those pension costs. Something a lot of people don't know, even before I got on city council, every single year Rockford funded its pension liability at 100%. The bill came in and we paid it. I think there were two or three years on city council right around 2009, 2010 that we shorted the pension payments by what, a million dollars?
 out of multi-millions. That's not what threw us into our pension, I don't even want to call it a crisis, our unfunded pension liability. It is a function of the actuarial table. Home Rule is going to help us deal with some local problems. Blighted, slummed properties that we can't deal with. People who use residential properties for commercial purposes and don't take care of their tenants.
 many issues that we can't address at the local level. If Rockford wants to continue with the same way that we're going now, then vote no for home rule. And we can keep rolling down that path. If you want things to change and you trust the fact that we know you can kick our, let me back that one. Rockford voters showed us in 1983 that if you break your promises, we will take your power away from you.
 We're asking to have some of that authority and some of that power back so we can stop going down this slide. I don't think there's anybody in this horseshoe that doesn't respect the voters of this city and who will not listen to what voters are telling us.
 Home rule gives us the power to address some things, to change some revenue sources that we desperately need without putting them on the backs of your property taxes. I think that's the biggest threat most of our residents face. In my ward, people have told me that the nickel and diming is what kills them, too. That's why I cannot vote to support a utility tax.
 Even though I might feel that it's necessary, we haven't done it in the nine years that I've been on city council. And I'm not going to. So I'm asking you to listen to look at the facts. Look at what Rockford is doing now and ask how well we're doing without home rule. And ask yourself if you're willing to give us the chance to improve Rockford with home rule. Thanks. Alderman Irvins.
 I just want to piggyback and compliment everything that Ms. Vanilla Hervey just shared. I tend to compare this whole discussion of home rule to one of a bad relationship where the person is making you pay for the wrongdoing of someone else's relationship.
 or your previous relationship, like it's a bad boyfriend. And I'm thinking, you know, this city has struggled with trust, hope, character issues. And when I look around this first year, I see a number of new faces. When I look around the city, I see a number of new businesses come in. And there's so much potential.
 You know, something that completely blows my mind, you know, I'm still new to the whole political thing, but when I look at my mayor, the person that I voted for, the person that I trust, and I see that, and then my coworkers run this horseshoe to put themselves in a place where they could be removed from their position in order to make this city a better place
 asking to build that trust, to rebuild that trust. Me personally, I believe that there's a time and a place for everything, and there's a season for everything. And that season where we were under home rule, or we weren't home rule, I believe that time,
 has come to an end. There's transformation that needs to take place. There's change that needs to take place. Change is never easy. No one ever really wants to consider change, but the truth is change is what stretches us. Change is what grows us. And as we continue to work together around this horseshoe and around with the different businesses in the city, I mean, I live in Rockford. I don't want my taxes to go up either. I think we all are concerned with that issue.
 But if we're going to get down to the to the root of the situation, the root of what's really taking place in Rockford, let's start by changing what we do. So, yeah, that's my my little thank you. Alderman. Oh, yes. Alderman Rowe. Thanks. I just wanted to respond to all the men. When you when you quote. Malcolm X and talk about the people being taken advantage of and hoodwinked. I don't really think that's a fair representation was taking place.
 I do like the idea you have about you decide what you chose to say, then vote no. So you're telling people to vote no. So I just felt like a rebuttal was needed. We are a bipartisan group here. I don't think, and we have bipartisan support, I'm sure probably for or against home rule.
 I represent the fourth ward of Rockford, probably considered more of a Republican ward than others. Every time, or not every time, but quite often when one of my constituents calls me to tell me about a problem, I get more often than not about a reminder to me about the high taxes that they pay.
 And I'm cognizant of that because I live in the fourth ward. I pay a high property tax myself. And everyone seems to always blame the city of Rockford for our high tax bill. And the city of Rockford makes up a portion of the tax bill. And frankly, one of the prime reasons why I've been in favor of home rule is because I would like to see –
 My tax bill everyone in the fourth Ward's tax bill and everyone the city Rockford's tax bill go down because we always are at a competitive Disadvantage by having a higher tax bill than surrounding communities. So if home rule passes and we are allowed to Whether it's have a additional fee on a on a gaming license or whether the hotel motel liquor and
 1% would go up, you know that would actually if we let's think about it for a second We've been faced this year with an eight million dollar deficit if we had five million dollars We raised through the hotel motel tax alone We may then only be looking at a three million dollar deficit around this horseshoe and I can honestly say and I've told this to Many people that I can't think of what one of my fellow Council members here that really was really is interested in raising anyone's property taxes in the city of Rockford regardless of what Ward you're in and
 We struggle with this all the time and we don't want to raise property taxes. And if we can find an alternative way to raise the same amount of revenue by not using property taxes, it's a win-win. I just, I don't understand former county board members, people running for county board, our own aldermen that really don't want to get behind this because if you don't trust yourself,
 Why are you serving? Why are you here? Why does someone want to run for office to say, I want to be an elected official, but I don't trust myself? Well, because let's face it, if someone doesn't like a decision that any of us make or doesn't like the decision of the city council or
 Frankly the mayor, what are they going to do? They're going to vote the ballot box next election and change that. So everyone seems to be so afraid of how we as a group are going to vote. I've been on the city council now for going on six years. We've held the levy the same or lowered it in every one of those years. And we did that together here as a group. I don't think any of us were really a proponent ever of raising anyone's property taxes in the city of Rockford.
 I just want to say that. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman Rose, and then Alderman Beach. When I talk to people about home rule, the first thing I start out with is that I'm not a robot. I pay taxes, too, and I don't want my taxes going up. In fact, I want my taxes going down, and I've made it public. I've said it numerous times that if we don't get property tax relief for our citizens, I will not run. I will not run in the next election.
 And I want to share a few conversations I've had because, you know, I don't always agree with Alderman Durkee on things. But this is one of the things I do. We had a discussion one week and we were talking about.
 Home rule and alderman frost talked about how this is a bipartisan issue. It's not a democrat. It's not a republic it's all of us in this together and Alderman Durkee talked about the fact that there are areas in this town that have been wasted that haven't have been ignored for far too long and I see those places all the time because I live in in that area and
 And we're only as good as our worst neighborhood. Our town is only as good as our worst neighborhood. And not having home rule has done that to us. I've seen my friends who are young professionals leave this city because of the lack of opportunity. Most of my friends don't live here. And it's because of crime and it's because of lack of opportunity.
 And so I urge people to take a serious look at this issue and be confident in the fact that we ran for you. We're public officials, but we ran so that you could trust us. And home rule, the home rule that we would pass would be the most regulated home rule in the state of Illinois. The most heavily regulated home rule in the state of Illinois. It's not like any other home rule that is out there.
 So I urge you to vote yes on that. Thank you. Alderman Beach. I'm sorry. I did want to talk. I was at a neighborhood meeting, and Northern Illinois Food Bank is offering every second, fourth, and sometimes fifth Thursday, they're out near the airport at 567 Research Parkway. They offer...
 Food and food supplies to families, regardless of income. They are open at 8.30 to 11 every Thursday. I'm sorry, every second, fourth and fifth Thursday to families of any age from 18 on up. On the first and second Thursdays of each month, they are servicing
 Senior citizens with the same kind of food, but I'm urging citizens if if you're looking for a little, you know some extra produce They are servicing anyone in the city regardless of income That's again 567 research Parkway and Northern Illinois Food Bank. Thank you. Thank you Alderman Rose Alderman Beach Thank your honor a couple of things on my mind regarding this. I remember several years ago. I
 The way we were doing our capital improvement program was that we were coming up with a list, staff recommended, and then we'd sell bonds. And those bonds would cost us interest, and every year we would put bonds, and that would go on our property tax. That's what we were doing. But several years later, we decided that wasn't the best thing to do. It would be better if we didn't have to pay interest, and it would be better if we pay as we go. So we went to the voters.
 And we tried to explain that. It didn't come out so well the first time. And so we went back and explained it again. And they said, yes, we want to see if you'll do it. So we had the plan and we set it up. And we've been using that CIP model ever since. If there's ever an issue of trust,
 That's an issue of trust, and we've saved this community hundreds of thousands of dollars on interest expense because we've paid as we've gone. And incidentally, just last year, I believe it was, finance director can correct me if I'm wrong, we paid off those bonds. They're gone. They're just away. The second thing I want to say is it was alluded to just a few minutes earlier, but for just a moment,
 Picture your utility, excuse me, your tax bill, whatever that may be, $2,000 a year, $3,000. Just get that number fixed. Now multiply that by 22%. That 22% is what comes to Rockford. Now out of that 22%, 79% overnight goes away to police and fire, their wages, and their legacy costs. We're not arguing about that, it's a fact. So if your tax bill was $1,000,
 22% is 220. 79% of that $220 is gone. You add public works to it, it leaves us about 17% left to operate the rest of this city. Now, I just don't understand why we want to allow Springfield to limit our ability to govern.
 When at the same time they tried to balance their budget by ripping this community off for $2,400,000, just took it away without any regard to the impact that decision of theirs has on every single taxpayer in this city. I don't get it why we want to put ourselves under that kind of governorship instead of our own.
 I know there's some say, well, you can't trust the politician. And as Kevin said a moment ago, that kind of reasoning is an indictment against themself and unnecessary to fear to so many. And besides our state elected officials who are part of this community,
 Those in Springfield that we want to put ourselves, keep ourselves under, they're not invested in Rockford. They don't live here. They don't work here. They don't worship here. They don't raise their families here. But we want to say we want them to continue to govern what we do down here. I'll have to tell you truthfully, I'm going to vote for Home Rule. I'm invested in this community. And you know what? So are you. So whatever your decision is,
 Go to the polls tomorrow Exercise your duty and your privilege to vote. See you at the polls tomorrow. Thank you. Your honor alderman McNeely Mr. Mayor, I certainly understand My colleagues because it was the majority of my colleagues here other than myself and alderman Quinones that supported
 Having home rule put on the ballot as opposed to getting the signatures I do believe getting the signatures is significant as opposed to allowing the City Council to put it on the ballot because if the taxpayers of the city truly wanted home rule it would not have been a burden to obtain the signatures to get the item on the ballot and
 I have to look back at the time period in which the city of Rockford did have home rule. The taxpayers at that time were not pleased with home rule. They voted to remove home rule. It has been removed. And I certainly have to...
 comment regarding Alderman Frost comment. I think that regarding my statement from Malcolm X. I think it is that serious For the taxpayers here in this city as the 14 of us sit here tonight We're we may or may not be the same 14 of us
 at the next election or the next election. So your concept of what you can and what you would do on behalf of your constituents and regarding home rule is one thing. We don't know what the future holds. We, the taxpayers, the voters, should consider...
 How to to finance the various items that we have come before us and in the past we have Springfield has not said here and one of these 14 chairs to tell us whether or not we want a city market Springfield has not said here and one of these 14 chairs and told us whether or not we want the Metro Center We decided that we the ottoman that were elected to
 by our constituents, they decided, and they have trust in us,
 And that's why we're sitting here. But I want this to be a fair understanding of what home rule is. Home rule is not limited to property taxes. There are a number of taxes or fees that can be charged to the taxpayers, the voters of this city. And it should not be limited to what the discussion has been about
 on those that are in support of home rule. So I am not trying to rattle any one particular group. I'm trying to make sure that the voters come tomorrow, understand what a home rule is. And it is the opportunity for this body to move forward in a number of fees as well as taxes for the city.
 I know that one thing that a number of taxpayers were concerned about in the past was streetlights. That was a decision that was made by the 14 people that sat around this horseshoe at that time that was not made by Springfield. So the taxpayer should understand that argument has flaws in it, considerable flaws in it. So I hope that the taxpayers, the voters tomorrow
 that have not already voted will move forward and vote against home rule. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Irvins. Thank you, Mayor. You know, I can't necessarily speak for all the other aldermen here, but for myself, you know, I've always sought God's face. At, from the age of seven up until now, every morning I get up and I pray for this city with passion, with, with veracity.
 I get and I fall before God and I see a body of people that are in bondage to themselves, in bondage to alcohol. There's addictions that take place here. There's mindsets that need to be broken. We're not just looking at physical, but there's spiritual as well. There's emotional, there's mental. And Homeworld to me
 As a Sixth World Alderman means being able to do the most good that I can for my constituents. It's me having an opportunity because this lifetime I only have one. I don't even know if I'm going to run again. This is too much, honestly. To try to convince a body of people to help themselves, it's heartbreaking, honestly.
 You look at this city, look at it for yourselves, look at your neck, look next door. I can't go down the street without seeing plywood on a window. Common sense says we need to do something different. We need it. My daughter is three years old and that's my precious. And if I'm going to raise her in this city, I'm going to make sure that I do the best by the city. I don't want my taxes raised. And I think that everybody agrees here with that. Yes, there may be other revenue sources that we could pull from.
 But that's conversation down the line. If we don't start now, if we don't start moving now, where else, what is, what's the solution? Where else are we going to get funds from? I trust my mayor. I trust the city council. The Bible says there's wisdom in much counsel.
 And not coming in here knowing much about politics, but being able to hear from all of these individuals' hearts that you trusted, Rockford. You placed your trust when you voted, and we're asking for you to continue to trust in us now. At least trust in me, because I know God is on my side, and that's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'm sorry alderman Durkee because he hadn't spoken yet. Thank you your honor So I might as well jump on in this because everybody knows who knows me that I've been on the fence on this issue for quite a while And I've only recently come to the conclusion that home rule isn't I yeah, I've been pretty militant on the issue because I agree with alderman Irvin's
 For some strange reason, I didn't grow up in Rockford, but some strange reason, I don't know who did it or why, but we've developed into a tale of two cities. And that has to stop. That just plain has to stop. And to a person, these are leaders on the board or wherever they come from, to a person when they're put this question, what are you going to do with blight? You hear crickets everywhere.
 There is no Plan B. There is no Act II. People like to talk, I get the tax issue. We all get the tax issue. We all live in Illinois. My goodness. And that's why I wrote in the editorial, gee, rub raw the resentments of the people. Great.
 So you fire up people anti-tax and you turn it into a keyhole issue and you forget about the big picture of what's going on in Rockford. The only way that Rockford gains revenue is by, what we face now is by economic development and growth. When you have half a city, Ellis Heights in 2015,
 26% of the property was vacant. There are two elementary schools in Ellis Heights. What do you think those kids see every day? How do you think they grow up? What do you think, do they grow up with despair or hope? And to a person, you query them. You don't want home rule? Fine. Because of taxes? Great.
 And I hear this, well, this is what happened in 1983. Well, great. I'm going to go out and buy a pair of polyglass tires with inner tubes in them. I really don't care what happened in 1983. Okay? It's 2018. Get a calendar. The challenges that the city faces are complex, they're immense, and they need to be addressed. And I was in favor of putting on the ballot this way because time is of the essence. I'm really tired of waiting.
 The only way to deal with this is to grow the EAV out on the west side and certain areas on other portions of the city where blight remains. Their EAV goes up, revenue goes up. But blight has a cost to it. It costs police service. It costs fire, social services, community services, and it costs in the schools.
 So whatever those folks who voted against home rule, they like to take a bow. We eliminated home rule? Well, fine. Get in a car with me. Let's go to Ellis Heights. You stand in front with these reporters and take your bow. Take a bow because that's what you accomplished. That's what's happened with home rule. I get the tax issue.
 Get it, but home rule is much more than taxes and if you don't get that then we'll be left with the tale of two cities But blight expands blight costs and if you if it's not addressed and if it's not addressed quickly it becomes How do you get out of it? I mean, where does it stop we get into a vicious? Downwards spiral so those who are opposed of home rule. I need your act too. That's great if it fails then
 I hope you get in the well and stand in front of that microphone and you give us your wisdom and how to fix the blight. Because I am really tempted to call some people out. Okay, they call themselves leaders, well then you can step up right here and you can be a leader. Or better yet, pick out a pack of petitions and run against me or something. But there needs to be, in some sense,
 Almost a holy resentment for what has happened to certain communities in Rockford. And I just don't see it sometimes. And that is why, you know, I've always run. Those of you who've watched the stuff I've written, even when I was a candidate, I have always run on home rule as an issue. This is not new to me. So I implore the voters to...
 Take the big picture, take the 40,000 foot view and look at what it really means to the city. You have high property taxes, I get it. Redevelop a portion of the city. The EAV downtown, when I started on city council, there was no brew house.
 Okay, so don't tell me development can't come. It will come if we grease the wheels, if we take the time and are wise and get rid of the blight and get after these guys, these dumb like a fox landlords. Give me a break. So I really, really urge voters, take the 40,000 foot view, be wise. Look at all the things that home rule brings to you. Look at its long term effect.
 What will happen 10 or 15 years down the road when it's passed? Thanks. Do you want to now tell us how you really feel about it? I told you, I was on the fence. Anyone who hasn't spoken yet, and then I'll. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you. Just on that 40-foot level. Will you pull that mic up just so? Just on that 40-foot, 40,000-foot level. Can everyone just count with me? Five, four, three.
 Three two one lift off hopefully on Wednesday We have a lift off the successful launch and we start a new day in this city, and we can all become one Community again, that's my hope and my pray. Thank you any other people who have not spoken before I do a whole nother round I
 Please, no. Well, we have two hands. Alderman McNeely, you had your hand up again? Yes. Okay. Yes, thank you. And I'm sorry that I'm speaking several times, but because I am one of two people here that are, that's against Home Rule, I'm trying to respond, not just to respond, but certainly to address statements that are being made, statements that was just made by Alderman
 Blight is the result in my ward is the result of not having home rule is to totally Disregard all the other factors that go into blight in a city not just this city but any other city there are plenty home rule cities that have blight and
 within their cities. So I take objection to that, and I certainly want to put into consideration the fact that we've had a number of crises
 crisis in the city, not just this city, but throughout this country that had a lot to do with blight such as the financial crisis Which afterwards you could drive through? The 13th ward and see blocks of houses that were vacant. They were not boarded up They were vacant and they had become vacant within the last 12 months due to that crisis So home rule had nothing to do with
 a lot of the blight that's in the 13th war today. And certainly we have to look at education.
 Number of individuals that that are graduating that from that area the type of education that that they're receiving You only have to look at the go to the state website and look at the numbers that are there for the The test rates for individuals in district 205 so I
 I hope that the voters that are listening to this tonight reconsider what Alderman Durkee just said, because it's flat and out, not the whole truth. Thank you. Do you have your hand up? I'm actually going to pass. You're going to pass? Yeah. Everyone take no. No. Alderman Rose. Alderman Rose. So, Ann's not, Alderman, you're not entirely wrong there. You know, I'm not.
 Linda, right. Sorry. You're not entirely wrong there. You know, Home Rule didn't cause this problem, but it sure as heck hasn't addressed it either. And when we look at towns that have all of all the towns throughout the United States that went through the same crisis, they're recovering. I just bought a car in Aurora. I drove around that city for a good hour and it took a long time for me to find blight there.
 I can drive a few city blocks here in Rockford and I'll find it. And so that's the big difference here is that it may not have been a major cause to blight, but it sure as heck isn't addressing it. And we don't have the tools to address it. The state hasn't given us the tools and it costs more. And the taxpayers pay for it. They pay for it when we have to take care of the properties. They pay for it when the banks sit on it.
 and let these properties turn into zombie properties. We pay for it when our property values go down because of these homes. So as one home on one city block deteriorates that entire area, we lose that money. And that's a direct result of our high taxes because we have so much blight. As those property values go down, where do we have to make it up?
 We have to raise taxes. When we take on blight in our city, we can lower property taxes, period. Thank you. We're all good? Quickly, yes. Rockford, I give you permission to dream again. Thank you. I'll just say since it was first mentioned to me, and in some ways for the chairs, I won't speak for them of the citizen led initiative, it's been 35 years.
 I wasn't even born when we lost it. I will say they asked that it goes up before the aldermen because they wanted to know if we could trust ourselves before we asked citizens to trust us. I would also say that Rockfordians have the opportunity to elect 100% of the people in this body. And we have an opportunity to elect 3% of those who serve us in Springfield.
 And I'll just finish with the property tax issue, since so many other issues have been addressed. Our operating property tax levy has grown 185% since being non-home rule. It is proven beyond a doubt through empirical data and research by Northern Illinois that home rule communities rely less on property taxes and revenue from people who live in their communities than non-home rule communities.
 So with that, we will move forward to unfinished business with Alderman Beck. I've got to find my spot on the agenda here. Okay. Yeah, and this item we are going to hold out without objection? Certainly. Okay.
 The appointment is still laid over until April 4th, or the meeting following April 4th. Under motions and resolutions, Alderman Beck will come right back to you. ALDERMAN BECK All right. I have quite a few, so just bear with me. First is the award of bid for tires and tire repairs.
 to Treadrock Tire Service of McChesney Park for an estimated annual value of $30,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions. Next is the award of bid for West State Street Phase 2 Demolition Package H, 2018 to N-TRAC Group of Lowe's Park in the amount of $56,303. Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for Prince...
 printing services to Meridian of Rockford Illinois and Bosley printing and mailing of rock in Illinois for an estimated amount annual amount of $60,000 contract duration is two years with possible three one-year renewals Next is the award of net non-competitive bid purchase of prop proprietary parts for four slope mowers to cut quick corporation of Brunswick, Georgia for an estimated $30,000 per year
 Next is the award of RFP property cleanups to Zion West Enterprise J&K clean out and preservation a and a lawn care all of Rockford, Illinois and then Jimax landscape of Peoria's CMM of associates and affordable solutions of Rockford for an estimated contract of $185,000 next is the change order for the water system contractual services originally awarded to n track and
 of Lowe's Park for an estimated annual amount of $150,000 due to several large emergency projects that have significantly impacted the contract. The Water Division recommends authorizing an amendment to the service contract with N-TRAC for an additional $150,000 for a new annual amount of $300,000. Next is the engineering agreement for citywide pavement reconditioned index inspection of 2018 to Transmap of Chicago in the amount of $156,798.44.
 Next is the resolution for improvement of the Illinois Highway Code for pavement condition index assets asset management system and the amount of $180,000 and those items I would place up for passage. Thank you, sir We have a motion in a second. Is there a discussion on those items seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Toomer frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose
 Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? Twelve ayes. Thank you. Under new, those items pass under new business, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under room numeral 11A, an ordinance approving the bike sharing service agreement between the City of Rockford and Neutron Holdings Inc. doing business as Lime Bike. I place this up for passage. Is there a second? Oh, I'm sorry.
 got waylaid with all the discussion earlier uh all those are i need discussion i'm sorry seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll jerky hi logeman hi tomb bird frost herbie urbans rose beach quinones beck mcneely shirely 12 eyes one no
 thank you item passes from alderman shirella thank you your honor under 11b1 is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming facility the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming facility at 2327 kishwaukee street raise that up for passage thank you is there a discussion seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the role turkey hi logeman hi
 Toomberg? Aye. Cross? Hervey? Irvins? Aye. Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? Aye. 12 ayes. Item passes. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you. And I have five items. However, items four and five will not be up for passage tonight as they were not moved along earlier.
 So we have items one through three. First is an ordinance approving the application for federal grant funds for early Head Start child care for 2018-2019 budget year. Next is an ordinance approving the amendment to Section 231, Rules of Procedure and Order of Business Requiring Supermajority Vote to Amend or Appeal Home Rule Self-Limiting Ordinances.
 And the third is an ordinance approving the city railroad agreement interagency agreement with the city of Rockford and Chicago Central and Pacific Railroad for 20th Street underpass signal preemption. Funding source for the city's portion is sales tax in the amount of $23,318.89. And I place those three items up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Frost. Irby. Aye.
 Irvin's, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. Items 1 and 3, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Alderman Beach, should you? Yes, please. I'd like to back up and be registered as a no vote under B1. Actually, it would be 11 B1. Under codes and regulations? Yes. Okay. Thank you, sir. That item still passes.
 Yeah, okay that item passes I would ask for a motion to adjourn but alderman Shirely has something for us Yeah I apologize to the council, but I'm forced to do this I moved to go into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters Clerk will you please call the roll? Logum in Ross Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones
 Mack, McNeely, Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Thank you. We'll move into closed session.