Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, March 18, 2024. This evening, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Kenneth Henley to open us with an invocation. Let's pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask that you come into this chamber tonight and guide the minds and thoughts of those who are in charge of the city. Amen. Lord, help them to make the decisions that's good for the city of Rockford and the people who live here. But most of all, Lord, that we might be able to say we have a good place to live. And we ask, Lord, that you take care of our fire and police departments as they go about their daily activities, protecting us from harm and danger. And Lord, give them the stamina, the strength to do their job. their shift so they can go home at the end of their tour of duty and be able to be with their families. Keep them safe. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The President and the Assemblyman of the House of Representatives The President and the Assemblyman of the House of Representatives I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. The President and the Assemblyman of the House of Representatives Clerk, could you please call the roll? Frost. Here. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Bailey. Here. Barrios. Bonnie. Nine present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Also want to say thank you. We're fortunate to have school board member Nicole Bennett with us, so thanks for being here. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on February 20th, 2024? Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next up, we do have actually two proclamations this evening. The first proclamation that we have this evening is for World Water Day, and we have Chris Weikert with us. And Chris, if you'd like to come forward, you can sneak right through there. Chris is the Director of HOPE for Haitians. Thank you for being with us. Whereas water is essential for human life, enabling health, dignity, and prosperity, and the Rockford community enjoys the fundamental right to safe drinking water and privilege not afforded in much of the world. And whereas in Haiti, most families face dire circumstance of obtaining water from unsafe sources, contributing to the stark reality that unsafe water is a leading cause of disease and responsible for one third of all deaths among children under five. And whereas Hope for Haitians, a Rockford-based organization dedicated to improving lives in Haiti since 2001, had successfully provided access to clean water for over 270,000 people, demonstrating a profound commitment to humanitarian aid. And whereas, with the initiation of Wells of Hope Initiative, Hope for Haitians aims to extend this life-saving resource to additional 4,000 individuals in the village of Akul Samiti, northeast Haiti. I'm hoping I got that. Significantly impacting the health and well-being of the community. And whereas recognizing World Water Day on March 22nd serves as a reminder of the importance of clean water and the ongoing efforts required to ensure every human has access to this vital resource, underscoring the significance of Hope for Haitians mission. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 22nd, 2024 to be World Water Day. Chris, would you like to share a little bit with us? Sure. Thank you, Mayor. We're really proud to be based in Rockford, where the generous community for 23 years has supported our efforts among the poorest of our neighbors in the Western Hemisphere. Very grateful for this recognition of the importance of water, which we take for granted every day. Appreciate it. Thank you. Also want you to know, Chris, you probably made Kyle Saunders. It's his last city council meeting. When we talk about water, no one gets more excited than Kyle Saunders. It's going to be all night, Kyle. Next, we are fortunate we have Mary Trujillo as well as a number of social workers with us today for Social Work Month, if you would like to come forward. Okay. Whereas, social work is a profession truly dedicated to helping people with the primary mission of enhancing human well-being and helping meet the basic and complex needs of all people, especially the most vulnerable, oppressed, or living in poverty. And whereas, social workers follow a code of ethics that calls on them to fight social injustice and to respect the dignity and worth of all people. And whereas for more than a century, the social work profession has worked to improve society by playing a role in establishing a minimum wage, promoting behavioral health, social security and Medicare, and working to ensure equal rights for all. And whereas social workers are on the front lines helping solve pressing social problems, including an increased demand for mental health services, an opioid addiction crisis, and economic inequality. And whereas social workers operate in our schools, hospitals, community organizations, the military, mental health centers, social service agencies, the criminal justice system, corporations, and local, state, and federal government to meet people where they are and empower them to live their lives to the fullest potential. And whereas the 2024 Social Work Month theme is empowering social workers, embodies a need for society to support our social workers. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 2024 to be Social Work Month. Mary, would you like to share a few words? Thank you very much. Today we have social workers present who represent various organizations. They work as program and grant managers, they are researchers, data analysts, they provide trauma therapy to those impacted by trauma, they work with children and youth in the Rockford schools, they work in the community in private practice counseling and more. And I think we have representation of all of those types of organizations here today. Want to thank City Council for acknowledging the very important work the social workers do Very honored to have this be Social Work Month. Thank you Thank you for the work that you do every day Next we're going to move to petitions and communications Petitions and communications will start with planning and development committee, you know older woman Wilkins. Thank you your honor. I Item number one, we have a memorandum from Sarah Lace, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the 2024 Home Rental Rehabilitation Program Agreement between the City of Rockford and Lafayette Apartments, LLC, for the property located at 411 Mulberry Street. That item was referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number two we have a memorandum from Scott Capovilla planning and zoning manager regarding an industrial survey 1850 to 1930 referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you next we're going to move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino Thank You Your Honor Number one the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on March 19th 2024 and minutes from that meeting consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 25th 2024 referred to Code and Regulation Committee number two the liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda for the meeting to be held on March 19th 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on March 25th 2024 referred to Code and Regulation Committee 3. A memorandum from Mike Hackinson, the Land Transaction Officer, regarding authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 323 Soper Avenue, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. 4. A memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the plot of Southgate Plaza Subdivision, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Number five, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding the plat of Cuco's subdivision, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, number six, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a proposed ordinance establishing a process for licensing of cannabis consumption lounges, referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we're going to move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. All these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from John Posey, Police Department Business Manager, regarding the consideration of acceptance of the fiscal year 2024 Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board Recruitment and Retention Grant Award. Number two is a memorandum from Owen Carter, Deputy Director of Operations for Health and Human Services, regarding the approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Township, in which the township will provide emergency rental assistance funding of $15,000. Number three is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockford to execute a loan agreement, taxable general obligation promissory note, series 2018, which is a six modification agreement. I place these three mayors in the committee. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost next up We have our public speakers want to remind our public speakers that there is a microphone on the back right and back left of council Chambers you have three minutes to address City Council You should be hearing an alarm that comes from my phone if for some reason it doesn't work I'll ask you to close up your comments, but when you hear it just ask that you close up your comments and Our first public speaker this evening is Daniel Harris. Good evening. My thanks to the mayor and the city council for this opportunity. On March 4th, 2024, Accuride Corporation announced to the global vehicle market that their Gunite 3922X brake drum will now be produced in the Rockford Gunite Foundry. This product can be used to maintain almost every Class 8 vehicle and trailer on the roads today. The vehicles that we use to haul our freight, maintain our cities, clear our roads, and build our infrastructure. First established in 1854 as the Duncan Iron Works, the founder relocated to the 38 Parcel located over on Peoples Avenue in Rockford's 11th Ward, represented by Alderman Barrios. Jane Orr, Accuride's Senior Vice President of Sales for the Americas, said, Customers have been asking for an American-made version of the 3922X brake drum. We listened and are bringing it back to Rockford, Illinois. It is because of the strategy, planning, and action of Rockford's mayor and this city council and their focus on improving schools, protecting neighborhoods, repaving our streets, and rebuilding municipal infrastructure that corporations like Accuride are deciding to stay in Rockford, invest in Rockford, and build in Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jacqueline Landreth. Good evening, honorable mayor, McNamara, alderman, and staff. My name is Jacqueline Landreth, and I live here in Rockford. I also teach English at Rockford East High School, but all remarks here are my own and do not represent the opinion of Rockford Public Schools. I've come here to urgently request the city of Rockford issue a call for permanent ceasefire in Gaza. On Sunday, UNICEF reported that over 13,000 children have been killed in Gaza, with many more facing intense starvation. As a city that cares about children and their welfare, we cannot sit by and allow this to continue. Many of you are educators like myself, and I know we all want to do what's best interest of children. More importantly, we want to be role models for the next generations of Rockford. If we want them to be moral and upstanding citizens that we know they can be, we must take decisive action against genocide and suffering. In the halls of Rockford East, I often pass a memorial to the East Gold Star Boys, 34 alumni killed in World War II. We will never forget those brave service members' moral courage to fight against the evils of Nazi Germany. What I'm asking today is for each of us to show the same moral courage in issuing our own call for a ceasefire in Gaza. We will be a model and a light to our own children and help end the suffering of the children of Gaza. Thank you for your time and consideration. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Acts, the first chapter, the eighth verse, it says you shall receive power when the Holy Ghost come upon you. What I want to speak about tonight, we should advocate for universal health care. As a United States citizen and a veteran of the United States Navy, a Vietnam vet, I'm ashamed of the healthcare system of the United States. I'm outraged by the idea that any citizen with a commitment to equity would argue against universal healthcare. at the very least for minors who have no say in what level of medical coverage their parents can afford. We are putting children at a disadvantage before they are even born based on how we tie high quality prenatal care assets to wealth. Then the disparities compound every year, every day, really throughout children's lives. We can't mitigate the effects of these atrocities with wraparound service and school nurses. But we cannot eliminate them if we continue to prioritize the wealth of insurance, pharmaceutical companies and other healthcare related corporations over the health of children. Reactive healthcare, waiting until somebody becomes sick or dies and then providing a subsistence level of care would not do. Preventive healthcare is essential. poverty, miss too much school, and develop long-term health problems from preventable disease because we in the United States don't care enough about them to ensure that they have ongoing healthcare. No amount of grit or growth mindset can make up for those entirely abortable health problems. We should stand up and speak up as collective followers of and insist on universal, high-quality health care. I'll be going next week. But my friend, before I leave March the 23rd and Mayor McNamara, I've got to get this off my chest, and I'm going to get it off tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to my good friends. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening Mayor McNair, all the persons I've seen in Rockville, Illinois, but most of all Four times today people say they've been seeing me on TV. I want to address the Chief of Police. This past Thursday, I was in a van accident. And just so happened it was good that I dropped off the kids. I'm going on Park Avenue, where it's going east and westbound. Church Street is going southbound. I was almost through the traffic. A young guy driving the van tried to make a turn in front of me. He was on his phone, and he hit me. And after he hit me, he did. I got out. I was pissed. I got out. He said, I'm sorry, O.G., The police got there, she recognized me. The firemen got there, they recognized who I was. The tow truck people got there, they recognized who I was. What concerned me is two things. One, I posted on my Facebook page, a couple of these family members responded back in a negative tone in a threatening manner. I'm like, you're on Facebook. He was trying to make a turn. You posted yield to right of way. Why would you threaten me on Facebook knowing that I can keep that? The second thing I didn't mention, me and the police officer both preserved the young man, one of his family members, three of his family members came up One of them went to the car. He had all kinds of stuff in the car. But they were able to get a black bag and we observed the black bag. And we observed it. By me being from the streets, I knew it was in that black bag and redheaded. And so she, the police officer said she could not stop him from going in the car because he had all state. I'm like, really? And I was wondering if another police officer could have been there because they had to prevent him from people from going in that car, taking anything out because if they had it, they would have found that he had some illegal paraphernalia that they took up out of there. I did not post that in my Facebook page. I left that out. Now I'm making it because what he did and what his family members did was dead wrong. But I'm going to stop talking about that because the work is plentiful, but the work is our fuel. We're going to the Museum of Science and Industry next Wednesday. Mind you, the last time I went to the Museum of Science and Industry was in 1974. And if any of y'all have seen the movie School Days, that was us. Fishburn, because back then I was the president of the black student union. So, Lord have mercy, I was a mess back then. But now they charge. They charge $25 a youth, they charge $44 adults. We are able to go, but we only charge them $20, but we have to pay for the special events that they have there zitted. I've seen the train, we've seen the coal mine, but we want to go see 007. So we reaching out to all you men. You know, tomorrow is the election. And you know, a lot of times you never see your politician until election time. When election time is over, you don't see them no more. Mr. Manley, you're done. My minute is up. What about looking out for our grassroots kids and donating us $20 so our kids can go to see Museum of Science and Engineering? Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Come on, y'all. And try a different alarm here. Bear with me. Okay, we'll try this one. Our next public speaker this evening is Kenneth Dickens. Good evening to everyone in their respective places. My speech is the same every week because I haven't had any answers as a citizen of Rockford. So I'll keep asking the question until I get an answer. Now, I want to use references to make this, to give this some context. Since 1971 until 2023... The US has given Israel, now this is not a matter of pro con, this is just a matter of math. America has given Israel over $300 billion. Now I've never heard a senator, congressman or president say, well we gotta give them handouts because that's what they deserve, they're handouts. They don't really deserve it but we're gonna give them handouts. I've never heard it referred to as handouts, I've heard it as needed and essential finances Given to Israel. Now, it's not a matter of pro and con. That's not what that's about. Let's just talk money over three hundred billion dollars since 71. Right now, you factor in 2024, it will be well over one hundred and sixty billion dollars between Ukraine and Israel. So you can most likely cap that off at roughly almost four hundred billion dollars. Still not referred to as a handout. Why am I saying that? because statistically the marijuana in Illinois, right? Let's talk stats because I'm not a big fan of talking opinion. Let's talk facts because facts don't care about how you feel. Facts are just facts. High times for Illinois. High times for Illinois pot industry as annual recreational marijuana sales top $1.6 billion. Right? Why do you keep talking about the regrow grant? Because the regrow grant is just a fraction of the tax money off of that. It's not Rockford, Illinois taxpayer money. That's why. That's why. That's why I bring it up. Because it has nothing to do with Illinois money, meaning it goes in a separate account. But it hasn't been given out since 2021. No one in here as an alderman can say, I didn't get an application. I don't have one. My constituents can't get one. Mayor can't even say that. Why? Because I gave them all the only copy that anyone had in Rockford because I printed it out the week that the link online was broken and eventually it was removed because if you go on the city's website and put in regrow grant, it goes nowhere. It doesn't search anything. Now my point to the officer in color red again is if someone in this room has committed a crime, whether it be a misdemeanor or a felony, are you prepared to arrest them in this room at that time? If so, it is divulged or exposed that they have committed a crime. I'm not saying politely take them out in the hallway. I'm saying, are you willing to take your cuffs out in this room and say, arrest that man? Because it may happen to possibly go that way. It's possible because... There are finances that are not being released. Thank you. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next we'll go to new committee reports. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, your honor. Item number one, we have committee recommends approval of an extension for the agreement between the city of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1007 15th Street for the resident officer program Rockhouse. The legal directorship prepared the appropriate ordinance. Item number two the committee recommends approval of an extension for the agreement between the city of Rockford and the Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of the 1233 Revel Avenue for the resident officer program by house the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you all the woman Wilkins. There's two items before us council. Is there any discussion on those two items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey Logan? Toomer Frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose sorry Beach barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent next we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Thank you your honor The committee recommends approval of the annexation of 612 South Forest Avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seem no discussion clerk. Could you could you please call the roll your key? logeman To berg frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie 12 ice excellent. Thank you next out. We'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you. Number one the committee recommends approval about should the amount of eight million five hundred and forty nine thousand four hundred and seventy three dollars and forty seven cents as approved to the finance personnel committee meeting held on March 11 2024 and number two the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental city state railroad agreement for the railway highway grade crossing improvements at burton street and the canadian pacific railroad tracks using illinois commerce commission grade crossing protection funds the agreement outlines the funding of this estimated 300 000 project which shall be 100 covered by the gcpf and the railroad with no cost to the city the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you. There's two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, I'm going to go to legislative and lobbying. I'll go back to Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the renewal for professional services contract with Zephyr government strategies for the amount of $10,000 per month for the City of Rockford's 2024 lobbying services. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Excellent. One item to force. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey 12 eyes. Thank you. Next. We're gonna go to unfinished business and committee reports laid over We have nothing under planning and development or finance and personnel will go to code and regulation committee and alderman Trina. I thank you the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of north pierpont avenue from 200 feet south of auburn street to 1100 feet south of auburn street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance excellent thank you there's one item before us council is there any discussion on that one item alderman bailey yeah um i i can't support this ordinance uh for for a variety of reasons I've had conversation with principal Meyer and during my Investigation I found out that this is a bigger issue from my perspective the students pay a parking fee I don't quite understand. I don't know where the money goes but when I attended Auburn there was no such thing as a parking fee and I don't know the the the income or the financial situations of those students at Auburn High School and but this is certainly not a auburn high school issue as principal ryan pointed out i know that we've had some issues at auburn with the tragic shooting and that parking lot is a barricade but i i just can't support this restriction i understand you know it's a safety concern for the buses to get in and out students have been parking on the street for several years the last three years So I don't know why it's come before us now, but I've had conversation with both the executives over at the RPS 205 as well as our traffic engineer. So I just wanted to be on record as saying that. Thank you. Other woman, Wilkins. thank you your honor um as alderman of the ward i just wanted to state that i share some of alderman bailey's concerns as well and i will not be supporting this item tonight due to i have not received any complaints from residents or had any major public safety issues in the area there are no homes or businesses right there that will be impacted by the parking um This side of the street and I don't want to impose any other or additional financial burdens on those who might be financially challenged So I will not be supporting this tonight. Thank you any other discussion alderman, Bonnie. Oh, thank you I read a email from the alderman for the 13th Ward that I think went to just members of the codes and regs committee and I think that that mentioned something about whether or not I The traffic commission was aware of all of this Some of this additional information about student parking fees and whatnot when it went before them And I was wondering if I know we refer things back to the traffic commission out of codes and regs But can we refer things back to the traffic commission from council director? My yeah, I don't can't think of a prohibition on referring something all right back down to the I Commission itself. I don't believe we have to there's a prohibition on doing that That case I would make that motion that we refer this back to the traffic Commission Yeah, we have a motion on the floor right now to refer this item back to the traffic commissions or a second We have a second. All right. We have a motion in a second. We're getting there Motion in seconds or any discussion on the motion to send this back to traffic. It's a Alderman Bailey, I just want to add that I THE ALTERNATIVE OPTIONS THAT I SUGGESTED TO OUR PS205. WAIVE THE FEE, REDUCE THE FEE, LOOK AT A SLIDING SCALE, OR ELIMINATE THE FEE. JUST WANTED TO BE ON RECORD. THANK YOU. OLDER WOMAN, TERINA. THANKS. I JUST WANT TO MAKE A COMMENT THAT I REMEMBER PAYING FOR PARKING IN HIGH SCHOOL, AND I'VE BEEN OUT OF HIGH SCHOOL ABOUT 25 YEARS, SO IT'S NOT LIKE IT'S A BIG FEE. I NEVER WOULD HAVE GUESSED THAT LONG. OF COURSE YOU WOULDN'T. But if that was a question as to whether or not people are aware I think people were because against not something new I don't necessarily agree with it either. So I do plan to not support this as well. Thank you Any other discussion right now? We have a motion. We have a second to send it back to traffic any other discussion? Alderman Bonnie. Well, I go back a little further than the alderman from the fifth ward How many and I paid a parking fee at East High School. So I I believe Jimmy Carter was president Okay any other discussion we got a motion in a second to send it back to traffic commission All those well clerk. Could you please call the roll? Logan to burr frost Trina Wilkins Hoffman Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Yes So it's not going back to Traffic Commission. Now it's still on the floor. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call a vote on item B1? Durkee. Logerman. Tunberg. Frost. No. Tarina. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. No. Barrios. No. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Two ayes, ten noes, one abstain. Okay. Thank you. Excellent. Next we're going to move into officers' reports. I want to take just a couple of minutes here. So we've been really fortunate, and I've been really fortunate, to call Kyle Saunders a friend, and I think we've all been very fortunate as a city to have him as our public works director. Before I get into my compliments of Kyle, I just want to say thank you to his mom, Donna. You should be incredibly proud. He's an amazing guy. And I want to say thank you to Kelly for, I don't know how many times I called Kyle, but I hope all the times I swore you were not in the car. But I do know that you did quite a few of those runs with him and just lost hours of being with him on a day-to-day basis. Appreciate your dedication to our city as well, and thank you. So we joke quite a bit at council about thanking Kyle. We joke even more probably in department heads about thanking Kyle. But he really has been an amazing leader of the public works department and for our entire city. You look at just the last handful of years, the last four years consecutively, and I know when I say these things that you have done, I know it's your entire team. So don't come back and say it's your entire team. I know that. But someone is leading that team and you have done an amazing job. For the last four years, I believe it is, we've approved the largest capital improvement plan each year, year over year, and that's because of your leadership and your great team. You are currently seeing, I believe, with the most recent win of the Reconnecting Communities Grant for Witnessry. I believe that you're overseeing now more than $70 million worth of grants that have come into this community, doing large part to your leadership. You have helped modernize our water system. Just this past year, we approved the largest by, I believe, double, largest water infrastructure investment plan in our city's history. You have exceptionally served myself, all of the departments, the city council, and all of our residents. You've been invaluable as we talk about all the public art. If it's sculptures, if it's getting concrete readied for large installations, if it's the murals, you've been invaluable in making sure public art is reaching our community. You have seen us seamlessly through major storms as well as some of our toughest winters. And personally, I really did not know you, and so it really started out as professional and has just grown into a true friendship and tremendous respect and admiration I have for you. Thank you. Thank you for... an amazing amount of dedication to the city. At all hours of the day, it did not go unseen. So thank you for all of your work. Appreciate you. Are there other reports? Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Last Thursday, under the supervision of Rhonda Robinson Greer, who is now the program chairman for AAUW, we joined with Alpha Kappa Alpha Phi Gamma Omega, and we will be continuing to join with them. We put on a minority women and business luncheon at the Banana Cherry restaurant up at AAUW. Colonial Village, which is a black female owned business and as our panelists we had Janine Stevenson owner of Stevenson Business Center umbrella under excellence Mercedes joiner cheese in marketing melody Harris Second I believe well she's known for Gabby goodies, but she's known for her cakes. I JAJA JOHNSON, AN ESTATE INVESTOR AND SHADE CALLOWAY, AN ASSISTICIAN AND SHE SELLS BODY BUTTER THAT IS GREAT. She gave us all a sample. And so I want to thank Rhonda for all her hard work and all the women that came to speak to us. And I've told Rhonda I would love her to take this show on the road because I think there's a lot of other women that need to hear from these ladies who started out just about as scared as scared could be, and they've gone on to be very successful. Thank you. Other reports? Alderman Meeks. I don't know if this is. wrong time but you gave a really nice speech for Kyle I just feel like we should give him like a standing ovation or something like that is all thank you other record I was the last to stand all right Nick wants for the record he was the last one to stand that's so great director Myers yes thank you other woman Trina and I'm missing people here thank you my Comments are directed towards director Saunders I'll keep it brief because I'll choke up, but I don't say this about very many people But you are one classy you're a classy guy You really are you really epitomize what that means and I appreciate you. Thank you Thank you alderman frost You know lock vest but uh It's just a regular Monday night. It's just like another regular Monday. I know his mom's here and she's like, wow, this really is the way it is all the time here. I'm always like, when is this going to end? But truthfully, I mean, when we all, or when I first met Kyle, he was a young buck in the water department and I'm like, why is this guy so excited about water? Our lead service pipes, he's really excited about replacing these and I understand the importance of it. He was really, really excited about all aspects of water. And then he became our public works director, and it was no different. Whatever was thrown at him, and like Alderman Treen just said, your level of professionalism, your ability to deal with the public. Kyle, we've been to some constituents' homes together where literally we've had someone get pretty upset. you know kyle held his ground in a professional format matter which frankly this the entire city would be proud of seeing him do that and at the same time he's getting another degree from cu and he's telling me about you know he's got to stay home this weekend he can't watch go to the notre dame game because he's got to write a paper i'm like this guy like when does it stop you know like when's it gonna when's it gonna end and it just frankly It never ends, right? Your time and dedication, and I'm gonna give the city some credit for helping you along the way with professional development, but your own level of engagement with that is truly amazing. I asked the mayor if he could double down on your salary a few months ago, and he said he already tried and it didn't work. And we wish you the best of luck, and hopefully you stay in this community and do great things for others. Kyle, it's been a pleasure to know you and get to know you on a personal level and to watch you professionally grow. And, again, like, I mean, no offense, but I can't ever think of anyone else that's received the Love Fest, but it's because it's truly deserved and earned, Kyle. So keep up the good work. It's also weird that he went there, like, just because Deion Sanders went there, too. Like, that was weird. Yeah, it was. Sorry, real quick, I have Alderman Beach and then who else did we – Rose. Okay. Okay. Alderman Beach. Okay, it's my turn. So it's tough. I've been down here a long time and we've got great employees in this city. But I'll tell you, I've never met a man that gives the example of servant leadership like Kyle. And he's become more than just a staff member to most of us. He's become a friend. It's a hard curve when you're in this business. So don't think you're going to the excuse from these phone calls, Kyle. We've all got your number on the speed dial. Thank you for putting shoe leather to your convictions. Appreciate that. Thank you for stepping outside of the norm to help our people because that's why we're here, to help our people. We ask that God go with you and your family. We know they have sacrificed. We know that you've helped to make this community a better place for for us to live, work, worship, and raise our family. So hats off to you, dear friend. You won't hear the end of us. We love you. We thank you for what you've done. And I echo the mayor's and all the rest of our comments. Blessings to you. Thank you, sir. And I know he won't say it, but he has volunteered to drive with you every time you do your ward plan each year. He's happy to do it. Yes. Alderman. I have Alderman Bailey, then Rose, then Bonnie. Alderman Bailey. Donald, it's been a short ride for me, but I echo everything that everybody has said. And I truly believe that you've left your department in good standing based upon the team that you've developed. Because I feel your presence here. that department and I'm quite sure they'll miss your presence but I think Tim will do a good job if not I'll call you but I you know I miss you man love you alderman Rose I'm gonna get into the cow love fest in a second but I do have that April 6th 9th Ward Nezah neighborhood meeting coming up April 6th at 6 p.m. I will be sharing that link with people It will be a virtual meeting and actually Tim Hinkins will be leading that discussion on a part of the Auburn reconstruction work, but I do want to circle back to Kyle because You know what everyone has said here tonight really does reflect exactly who Kyle is and A servant leader when I first got into this position as an alderman, I found out that Kyle was an East grad East Arab and I kindly reached out to him and he went above and beyond and not only serving the people here in Rockford as the director of public works, but then he also came back to East on multiple occasions working with kids. And one of the things that I would always tell them when they would graduate is I would say, remember where you came from. That was something that I knew Kyle took into his heart and followed that. And so I always tried to use that as an example of, you know, if you're an East ERAB, you always come back to your school and you always, you know, pay it forward. And Kyle was always one of the first people I would call and always one of the People that would pick up the phone and be there and so I would just encourage you Kyle I'm not there anymore, but The kids loved you there They loved hearing your stories. They loved hearing your excitement even when it was about water And I would encourage you that even though you're going into the private sector that I That work that you did with kids, I think, showed that you went above and beyond and to continue to do that because I think kids could use a role model like you in this community. And I wanted to share that. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you. So I think it was two years ago I was happy to nominate Director Saunders successfully for the Chamber of Commerce's 40 Leaders Under 40 Awards program. And I remember in writing that nomination saying that I could see that he could easily be a future mayor of the city of Rockford. And I, although I thought that might be a good line, I meant it because I think he has really just this rare talent to be able to talk about, you know, how many particles per thousand of something is in water and yet be equally good at essentially retail politics, you know, and relating to everybody he deals with. I've worked, you know, in my career with in originally in journalism and then later and as a public employee myself and now on the council with a Lots of public employees and public officials over several decades and I say to my constituent Every time somebody is upset over a pothole or their cul-de-sac wasn't plowed to their satisfaction that I I don't I have never known a public employer public official who's as responsive as Kyle Saunders and I I knew him before he was a young buck in the water department. He made the mistake of pointing out to me that he used to skateboard with my son in my driveway. And I'm going to officially, as of now, tear up the bill for all the damage that he did 20 years ago. But he, and I guess just have to be content... with the, as we're all gonna miss him, I'm not sure if Alderman Beach realizes, but should the two of us be fortunate enough to be back here in 2025, that under the new ward map, former Director Saunders will be living in the 14th ward. And he's already suggested to me that because he lives in a cul-de-sac, he won't be shy about calling when he isn't plowed adequately. And I just live in fear that he's going to do this sort of Dr. Jekyll, Mr. Hyde number and become like the most ornery constituent in the world after being the nicest public official in the world. But, you know, it's – You know, I'm sure that in if if I had, you know in business school, they tell you I'm sure I wouldn't know but you know Everybody's reprate replaceable, but I think Kyle is irreplaceable. Thank you Other reports alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I know a lot of people have made comments I don't want to reiterate it, but I will say this. I think all of us would agree. You made us look good. I We look good because of you. And I think some of the emails, I got tired of typing, don't thank me, thank Kyle Sanders. Don't thank me, thank Kyle Sanders. But what a great problem solver you are. I mean, just an amazing talent and a work ethic that you just don't see very often. So that's innate, and I hope it's your mom that did that, so... So we give her a lot of credit, you know, for the stuff she's done. In all the years that you were doing this, I can honestly say you only pissed off, can I say that? One constituent in the first ward. You know who that is. My wife. The forestry department cut up one of her trees. And I saved you. I never gave her your phone number. So thank you for just an amazing time. the amazing person you are from the inside out. Thanks for making us look good. Alderman Toomer. Yep. I'll jump on the bandwagon. There is a I do happen to know a dentist coincidentally and this story goes back a few years and This dentist called me up and said we just got done with our Winnebago County Dental Society meeting and everyone was kind of looking like they were gonna be pretty bored because the next speaker was speaking about water and he was from the water department and This dentist said told me that he had never heard someone Make water so interesting to all the people in attendance so he was he was very ecstatic to tell me to give this individual a call and say great job on behalf of the Winnebago County Dental Society and I Now fast-forwarding to more recent time we had a one pretty decent snowfall this winter one of the snowfalls and I got a complaint about contractors pushing that snow from a road onto a sidewalk and blocking that I Drove by I happen to drive by on my way home and saw yes, that is an issue and called Kyle or shot you an email, I think, and then gave you a follow-up call. And I was going to say, well, I'm just going to go over there maybe and shovel it myself. Calling Kyle, well, Kyle was already in the elevator on his way down to go do it himself. So we met there and got it done, but just knowing that he was already taking that initiative, you know, really says a lot for where ethic is, and Farrah Graham is definitely gaining a very, very good asset to their team. Thanks for all you did for the third award. Thank you. Alderman Logeman. Thank you, Mayor. I've had the privilege of meeting a lot of really excellent leaders, you know, like colonels in country in Afghanistan. And, you know, the you always think about the leaders who do the work on the ground are the best leaders. And that's what's always preached. And I think all these compliments. 100 100% support I think the best compliment though like alderman Tudber was saying that The amount of times Kyle that you have personally sent me a picture text of something that you have done yourself Because I know you know we all get complaints and you know nobody likes pulling out snow pulling out garbage and Remember I just remember when you did it yourself that I mean that just hit me to my core about how excellent of a leader you are And I like I can't think of any we could we could all talk about all the the wonderful compliments But just doing that Doing those types of things that just speaks to your you and yourself as a leader and I like alderman Durkee said You've made us all look good and I so deeply appreciate everything that you have done for the city of Rockford, but the Those little things are the things that nobody sees. They're not put in the paper, they're not on the news cameras at all, but that's the work that we all try to do around here and that is supported by you, Kyle, Public Works Director there. And for the Public Works Director to be doing that type of work, that hit me to my core. And I thank you for it, I'm proud to know you, I'm proud to call you a friend. proud to continue to know you so thank you other uh reports ultimate barriers thank you mayor i just want to thank kyle for all his uh knowledge i'm so amazing how many skills this person got it makes you know things look so easy when he navigates and computer telephone and and kyle is It's going to be almost a year that I start serving, helping this council. And he was one of the person, the first person that he called me. He said, any questions, please call me. He's a person that he deals with all different type of persons. And he's a person that is not selfish. He share his knowledge for the benefit of all of us. So thank you for teaching me so many things. to walk with me in 11 Ward, all those sidewalks, all those streets we walk together. So it's going to be a little while for me to let it go. It's still going to be in my heart for many, many years or maybe forever. Thank you, Kyle, for your knowledge. OTHER ONE, WILKINS. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. KYLE, I MEAN, YOU ALREADY KNOW, WE'VE ALREADY SAID IT, AND LIKE I ALWAYS TELL YOU, YOU CAN SELL A ROTTEN APPLE BOTTLED UP BY, YOU KNOW, DO YOU HAVE ANY BROTHERS, UNCLE, DAD, YOU KNOW? I GOT FRIENDS. BUT BESIDES PROFESSIONALLY, YOU'VE BEEN THERE FOR ME PERSONALLY, AND ON ONE OF THE HARDEST NIGHTS HERE ON CITY COUNCIL. I was not holding it together at all, and was not running my committee at all, to the point to where I remember Mayor McNamara came over to me and he asked me, he said, do you want me to just go ahead and run it? And I said, I think you already are, just go ahead. And I remember looking down at my phone and you sent me a text and you said, hang in there, you got this. And so I appreciate you from that night and even till today, you've checked in on me. Personally outside of a professional and I appreciate that that's all I have to say. Thank you Thank You mayor well, I just want to save to his mother house so tonight everybody checked in but have we ever had a week of When somebody hasn't complimented Kyle for the great work, I mean seriously, didn't we just used to wait like okay, whose turn is it? Because every single time we had officer reports, there was at least one person who thanked him and some nights many more than that. So tonight is just showing what's been going on ever since he took the position. So great job mom. Thank you. Director Myers, did you want to say negative comments about Kyle? Just a little jab, you know, to keep him honest. Anybody else? No? I'll wait until after the meeting. I have a lot to say. So thank you, Kyle. We appreciate you. Next, we're going to go to – we're in motions and resolutions. We're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderwoman Tarina. all right item number one the committee recommends approval of the request for authorization to allow the zoning officer to file text amendments for multiple sections of the zoning ordinance the proposed amendments are to the following sections front setbacks use Classification table care used classification table character standards c2 and c3 districts use classification table the mandatory plan unit developments maximum wellhead setback overlay district minimum wellhead setback overlay district penalty outside parking of vehicles and residential districts solar collectors temporary construction dumpsters and storage pods maintenance and Signs in residential districts, maintenance, uses prohibited as home businesses, general fencing regulations, fence height in residential commercial zoning districts, lapse of a special permit, entertainment, and spectator sports. Item number two, the committee recommends approval of the Memorial Day Parade and IDOT resolution. This event is scheduled to be held on May 27th from 8 a.m. to noon. The parade will step off at 9 a.m. and will follow the traditional parade route beginning at 7th Street and 5th Avenue ending at Memorial Hall on Wyman Street. Item 3 the committee recommends approval approval of cars and coffee This event is scheduled to be held on the following dates April 6 May 4th, June 8 July 6 August 3rd September 7th October 5th each event will be held on 7th Street between 3rd Avenue and 6th Avenue from 9 a.m To noon item for the committee recommends approval for spruce up day at the veterans roundabout This event is scheduled to be held on May 18th from 8 a.m. To 4 p.m at the veterans roundabout located at Main Street Auburn Street and Lastly number five the committee recommends approval of the South Main Mercado and I dot resolution This event is scheduled to be held on June 9th from noon to 7 and the event will be held on South Main Street between Morgan and Kent Street. Thank you. Thank you. Council is there any discussion on the items before you clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey? Tumor frost Terina I Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach REOs meeks Bailey, Bonnie, 13 ice. Thank you. Alderman frosted you have an item you wanted to bring for it. I'm sorry your honor um two weeks ago council There was I voted no on an item Involving I think was a tobacco license at 1344 East State Street And there's been new information brought to light so I would like to Ask this time not to be heard tonight But if a motion to reconsider that matter for our next city City Council meeting so we have a motion to reconsider Is there a second to that motion okay? So we have a motion, we have a second. We will bring that up, if it's okay with you, at that next meeting. Is that fair? Thank you. Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee, and back to you, Alderman Frost. Thank you. number one the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for the west state street sidewalk gap phase two design engineering to ces in the amount of thirty one thousand two hundred and seventy five dollars the project is estimated to be completed in 2024 and the funding source is the one percent sales tax number two the committee recommends approval of award of non-competitive contract for intersection cameras to flock group in the amount of ninety nine thousand two hundred and sixty dollars Contract duration is one year following a 90-day trial. The funding source is the Organized Retail Crime Grant Program. Number three, the committee recommends... approval of an award of joint purchasing contracts for heavy duty service trucks to Lakeside International in the amount of 1 million 227 thousand four hundred and sixty dollars in standard equipment in the amount of four hundred and seventy four thousand five hundred and seventy dollars The funding sources the Street Division capital budget and the water fund capital budget capital lease funds for a combined total of one point seven zero two million dollars and number four the committee recommends approval of an award of bid for citywide sidewalks 2024 package 2 to tci concrete in the amount of 258 450.50 it is estimated to be completed by june 28 2024 and the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number five the committee recommends approval award a bid for decorative anodized valmont light pole shroud to springfield electric in the amount of eighty five thousand dollars based on unit pricing The contract creations through December 31, 2024 were three possible annual extension options with annual price adjustments for CPI considered at renewal only. The funding source is the Traffic Division Operating Budget. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Riverside Path and Guilford Rural Prospect Median to Stenstrom Excavation and Blacktop Project. IN THE AMOUNT OF $210,298.50, THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY DECEMBER 2024. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE 1% INFRASTRUCTURE SALES TAX. NUMBER 7, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF AWARD OF ENGINEERING FOR ALPINE ROAD IMPROVEMENTS TO ALFORD BENISH AND COMPANY IN THE AMOUNT OF $4,999,982. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY AUGUST OF 2026. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE REBUILD ILLINOIS. bond, which will be reimbursed 100% with state funds. Number eight, the committee recommends approval resolution authorizing the appropriation of motor fuel tax funds, rebuild Illinois bond funds to be used for phase one engineering for Alpine Road improvements in the amount of $5 million. number nine the committee recommends approval award of engineering agreement for the high crest high crest multi-use path phase one design addendum to fairgram the process may be completed by december 2024. the original amount was 123 thousand fifty dollars and the additional amount is thirty two thousand three hundred dollars the funding source is the motor fuel tax funds Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the award of architectural services for the Coronado Performing Arts Center architectural lighting study to DLR Group in the amount of $40,000. The project is estimated to be completed by July 2024. The funding source is the redevelopment fund. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for Davis Park improvements phase one supplement to Smith Group, additional amount of $745,000. Funding sources DC o capital grant grants DC o tap grants redevelopment fund CIP fund in the RPD foundation number 12 the committee recommends approval of the grants agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford corridor Improvement for school crosswalk improvements the city will receive up to eighty thousand dollars to construct enhanced Crosswalks near three neighborhood schools, which are Gregory Lewis Lemon and rolling green. I place these twelve matters before you I Is there any discussion on those items that are before you? We're going to have to have Kyle retire every Monday night. If there's no comments, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to new business. We'll go to planning and development. Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, an ordinance approving an extension for the agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1007 15th Street for the resident officer program, Rockhouse. Item 2, an ordinance approving an extension for the agreement between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1233 Rebel Avenue for the resident officer program, Rockhouse. Thank you. Council, we've got two items before us. Any discussion on those two items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks Bailey 13 eyes excellent next we'll go to code and regulation committee alderwoman Trina Thank you an ordinance approving the annex number one an ordinance approving the annexation of 612 South Horace Avenue and Number two an ordinance establishing a no parking anytime restriction on the east side of North Pierpont Avenue From 200 feet south of Auburn Street to 1100 feet south of Auburn Street. Thank you Did we not vote down number two? Correct. Oh, yeah. Okay. All right. Nope. Perfect. All right. So, Council, one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Aye. Number one is an orange proving intergovernmental city-state railroad agreement for real way highway grade crossing improvements using ICC grade crossing protection funds this agreement outlines the funding of this estimated three hundred thousand dollar project shall be 100% covered By the GCPF in railroad with no cost in the city council one item before you is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk will you please call the roll jerky? logan Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. 13 ayes. Thank you. Alderman Frost for Legislative and Lobbying Committee. I'm in ordinance approving the renewal of professional services contract with Zephyr Government strategies for an amount of $10,000 per month for the City of Rockford's 2024 lobbying service. Thank you. One item before us. Is there any discussion on that item? No. Will you please call the roll? Gerke, Logeman, Toomber, Frost, Tarina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie. 13 ayes. Excellent. Is someone going to offer a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a great night.