Under Petitions and Communications, Roman numeral 2A of a memorandum from Kerry Partridge, the interim legal director regarding the ComEd Access Agreement to city property and intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Public Library during remediation and reconstruction. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you very much. The matter will be referred. Now we'll move on to, is there any other petitions or communications? Hearing none, we'll move on to unfinished business committee reports laid over.
 And I'll call on Alderman Durkee again. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 3A, 1, 2, 3, and 4, Planning Development Committee recommends approval of the Rock River Development Partnership, also known as RRDP, the amended agreement for the indoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Rock River Development Partnership operational funding agreement for indoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the Rock River Development Partnership Outdoor Market Lease Agreement for the indoor and outdoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Four, the committee recommends approval of the Rock River Development Partnership Outdoor Use Agreement for the indoor and outdoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those up for passage.
 Thank you. Roman numeral 3A, items 1, 2, 3, and 4 are placed up for passage. I understand there's some amendments that are going to be proposed as well. Do you have the first series of those? Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to make the following amendments, which are written, and hopefully all the aldermen have these in hand. The proposed amendment to the indoor market amended agreement are as follows. Number one, Section 3, RRDP responsibilities, subsection E,
 Payment of the project costs and verification of expenses also on page six will include the following language quote any savings Realized on the project through the bidding process for example lower bids than estimated closed Parentheses shall be directed to death reduction and the reduction the city's payment set forth in section 2a of the agreement and
 Amendment number two is in section three, RRDP responsibilities, subsection one, maintenance and operation. References on page seven include that the maintenance and operation provision shall extend for perpetuity and include a deed restriction recorded against the property at the time of issuance of certificate of occupancy and prior to the first payment under section 2A.
 Amendment number three is in section three. RRDP responsibilities subsection one, maintenance and operation. For reference, it's on page seven. Will decrease the term of funding for maintenance and operation from five years to three years. Number four in section three.
 RRDP responsibility subsection 1 maintenance and operation on page 7. Change the date on which the city shall provide RRDP $100,000 annually from the date of issuance of certificate of occupancy to quote the date of issuance to the written notice to proceed from the city to RRDP per section 3C unquote.
 The other proposed amendments are to the operational funding agreement for the indoor market, and they are as follows. On page one, change the operational subsidy from five years to three years. Number two, in section three on page one, change the payment date from, quote, the date that a certificate of occupancy is issued, close quote, to, quote, date that a written notice to proceed from the city to RRDP is issued, close quote.
 Number three, Section 3, which is on page 2, change the number of payments from, quote, five payments, close quote, to, quote, three payments, close quote. The proposed amendment to the Indoor Market Use Agreement will be amended as follows.
 Number one, in section four, which is on page three, to include the following language, quote, food and beverage must be obtained through Winnebago County licensed caterers. Licensed caterers possess a current business license, catering license, liquor license, and if applicable, insurance and applicable Winnebago County Health Department permits. Close quote.
 Quote, use of any other caterers outside of Winnebago County licensed caterers will be considered for approval only after showing proof of business and catering licenses, liquor license if applicable, proof of insurance and health department permits. Close quote. And two, in section four, striking the provisions requiring food and beverages be obtained through RRDP's preferred licensed caterers.
 No revisions are proposed to the indoor market lease agreement. I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business committee reports, Roman numeral 7A, item 1, amended agreement for the indoor market to reflect the changes. Second. So I just want to give a little guidance that's been moved and seconded as we go through these. I'm going to ask for the – we'll take the changes to the development agreement first.
 Those are the ones that are, if you've got a crib sheet, the first section of the items that you read, which are section three, the first, let's see, one, two, three, four items. And then after assuming those passed.
 There are some ones from some other aldermen. We'll just do all the development agreement stuff first, and then we'll work on the operational funding agreement and the outdoor market use agreement. So the first amendments I'd like to take up will be related to the development agreement.
 Mr. Partridge, I just ask you to speak up if I misstate from a parliamentary standpoint any of the work that we had before the council. So there's been a motion and second. I'm going to read these back just so we're all on the same page. The motion and second is to amend the committee report on our unfinished business, Roman numeral 7A1.
 an amended agreement for indoor market to reflect the following changes. In section 3, RRDP responsibilities, subsection E, payment of project costs and verification of expenses. Page 6 include the following language. Any savings realized in the project through the bidding process, for example, lower bids than estimated, shall be directed to debt reduction and the reduction of the city's payment set forth in section 2A of this agreement.
 In Section 3, RRDP responsibilities, subsection 1, maintenance and operations, page 7, include that the maintenance and operation provisions shall extend for perpetuity and include a deed restriction recorded against the property at the time of the issuance of certificate of occupancy and prior to the first payment under Section 2A. Thank you.
 Number three, in Section 3, RRDP Responsibilities, Subsection 1, Maintenance and Operations, page 7, decrease the term of funding for maintenance and operations from five years to three years.
 Number four in section three our DP responsibilities subsection one maintenance and operation page seven change the date in which The city shall provide our DP $100,000 annually from the date of issuance of a certificate of occupancy to the date of issuance of the written notice to proceed from the city to our RDP per section 3c That's been moved and seconded is there discussion on those proposed amendments runner just as a point of clarification on
 It's subsection I rather than subsection I. And items two, three, and four should be subsection I. Instead of what? Instead of I. Subsection I. Yeah, it's supposed to be an I, capital I instead of a Roman numeral I. Got it. What he said. Any changes to the, or any discussion on those items? Alderman Hervey. Your Honor, with regard to
 The amendment that the indoor market is prohibited from relocating downtown businesses into the tenant spaces located within the indoor market for a period of three years for the date of occupancy? That's not up right now. Pardon? That has not been read in. That proposed amendment has not been read in yet. Is that part of the... That's going to come in a little bit later. You're only on 1, 2, and 3. Okay. 1, 2, 3. I thought that one was read in. Yeah, 4. Yeah, it said Section 7, Item 8.
 Okay, that's where I got mixed up. All right, I'm frost Regarding number four. I didn't know about the change from the date of the issue it's the certificate of occupancy to the state of the Issues of written notice to proceed that that would be the most proceed from the city saying that we've reviewed all the documents Let's take I just didn't know what to change. Mr. Cagnone. You want to take that? Thank you your honor. I
 You know, as stated by the amendment, it takes the funding agreement from five years to three years, and that was a request that was driven by some of the aldermen through my discussions with them and ultimately confirmed with Rock River Development Partnership. The alternative request is understanding that that time frame is going to be reduced by two years and to be able to go out and market
 the future tenants as well as the activity, the vendors and so forth, they had asked for that to be adjusted. So the timeframe of three years still remains reduced, but this allows them concurrently to advance forward with the construction and then simultaneously have the operating funds so that they can go out and market and be as successful as possible, very similar to
 see take place in other private developments where you're trying to fill your space and get operational simultaneously with the completion of the project. So in my discussions with some of the aldermen, we felt that that was reasonable as a counter with the reduction of the two years.
 So with the, I'm not sure if it's the notice to proceed in item four, but is the project still forestalled until they actually receive the other funding, the new market tax credits and the historic preservation tax credits? Ms. Cato. Can construction begin, in other words, before they actually, and what is the approval process for the city before any of our funds are expended?
 to be able to say, or construction starts, let me put it that way, because we're pretty much paying for a lot of that, that it can't proceed until all the ducks are in a row. Mr. Cagnone? So in short, yes, all the ducks have to be in a row. They cannot proceed without first securing the historic tax credits and the new market tax credits as well as the costs associated with the project.
 prior to them being able to move forward, they need to provide staff all that information so that we can review it and then to our satisfaction, consistent with the agreement, if they satisfied the criteria, we would then prepare the written notice to proceed. So the thought process is to make sure that we know that the project can be successfully constructed with our funds. Okay, and then a follow-up. One of the things I had...
 expressed a concern about and maybe it's not that big of a deal for people but there's nothing in the agreement that says that any of these vendors have to be City of Rockford residents and I didn't see anything about outreach that there was going to be any kind of effort or outreach or recruitment to get people from the City of Rockford to actually be those vendors and to be the people there and it bothers me that again we've got
 City of Rockford funding, we're putting $100,000 for three years into it, was five, and every single one of those vendors could relocate their businesses to one of the suburban communities or not be a single solitary Rockford resident. And I asked that something be inserted to make sure that that was a reality, especially when we started looking at lower income and more distressed areas of the city. Thank you.
 So I would just ask if you are planning on making a motion to do it after we... No, I asked for it to be put in. I'm done. I was wondering if that was even going to be included or why it wasn't. Thank you. Further discussion on the proposed amendments that are up for discussion right now? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have it. Amendments are approved. Roll call, please. Clerk, please call the roll on those first amendments.
 Durkee aye getcha sir McNamara cross Herbie no Connell Thompson Kelly Newberg Beach Lea back McNeely cheer Ellie nine eyes for no sure on the Motion passes so those amendments are in I believe there's some additional amendments to the development agreement All the McNamara did you have some? Thank you mayor
 Move to amend the amended committee report under unfinished business committee reports Roman numeral 7A item 1 amended agreement for indoor market to reflect the following changes. First amendment is in section 2 city responsibilities subsection A financing to include the following language.
 Any funds from the Winnebago County, any funds from Winnebago County to RRDP for construction of the indoor market shall reduce the city's contribution dollar for dollar. Amendment number two in section two, city responsibilities, section A, financing, which is on page three, include the following languages. Any funds provided to the indoor market from the...
 River edge redevelopment zone grant for the construction of the indoor market shall reduce the city's contribution dollar-for-dollar amendment number three in section 3 RRDP responsibilities subsection subsection G plans And specifications page number seven revise the last sentence to read the city shall also receive a
 City shall also receive from the RRDP a copy of the executed contract between the RRDP and the contractor or subcontractors in the city staff shall advise and provide substantial assistance to RRDP during the construction phase of The project consistent with this agreement Sarah's second It's been a motion and second. These are would be for additional amendments to the proposed development agreement as follows as
 In Section 2, City Responsibilities, Subsection A, Financing, Page 2, include the following language. Any funds provided from Winnebago County to RRDP for construction of the indoor market shall reduce the City's contribution dollar for dollar.
 Number two, in section two, city responsibilities, subsection A, financing, page three, include the following language. Any funds provided to the indoor market from the River Edge Redevelopment Zone grant for the construction of the indoor market shall reduce the city's contribution dollar for dollar. And number three, in section three, RRDP responsibilities, subsection G, plan specifications, page seven, revise the last sentence to read, the city shall also receive from the RRDP a copy of the executed contract.
 Between the RRDP and contractor or subcontractors, if applicable, and city staff shall advise and provide substantial assistance to RRDP during the construction phase of the project consistent with this agreement. Those proposed changes have been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion on those? Alderman Hervey. With regard to number two that says...
 If there's any funds provided from the River Edge Redevelopment Zone grant, is that speaking of a new grant? Are we now talking about giving back the $1.2 million? So why is that in there? Mr. Cagnone, do you want to take that?
 That is not a new grant. One of the requests through our conversations had come up that should by chance that there be any award of the River Edge Zone grant that goes to the Indyar market that overall city costs are reduced for the construction. But it's not anticipated that it will be. I'm sorry, River Edge redevelopment is all money coming from where? From the state like a new allocation?
 No, it's not anticipated there will be a new allocation. The context of the amendment, understanding that the previous agreement approved identified River Edge redevelopment zone grants.
 it was to be specified that should there be any benefit that is not compounded with the proposed commitment that the city's making on the project. So again, should there be any benefits from the River Edge redevelopment zone, it would reduce the overall commitment that the city's making. Further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor of these amendments, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have it. Thank you.
 And I believe Alderman Elliott had a final proposed change amendment rather to development agreement. Alderman Elliott. Please. There was just some concerns from other downtown business property owners that house storefront businesses just to not be that we're subsidizing the two storefronts on Madison Street and Eason
 understanding that the purpose of this market is not to just move businesses around downtown, but to incubate new businesses into storefronts. So that's the background where this comes from. And I'm going to add one more word into it that's not printed here. So I'll just go ahead and read it. The indoor market. Okay, so I move to amend the amended committee report under unfinished business committee reports, Roman numeral 7A, item...
 amended agreement for indoor market to reflect the following changes. In section two, city responsibilities, subsection B, rehabilitation property, page five include the following language. The indoor market is prohibited from relocating downtown storefront businesses, I'm adding in the word storefront there, into the tenant spaces located within the indoor market for a period of three years from the date of occupancy without city council approval. So second.
 Second. It's been a motion second to amend section two under the development agreement, city responsibilities subsection B, rehabilitation of the property, page five, to include the following language. The indoor market is prohibited from relocating downtown storefront businesses into the tenant spaces located within the indoor market for a period of three years from the date of occupancy without city council approval. That's been moved and seconded as there is discussion. Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no.
 I just have it. Thank you, Your Honor, that I would place this multiple amended item up for final passage before conference. So all of those items have been amended. I'm sorry, the development agreement has been amended by those three separate series of amendments from Alderman Durkee, Alderman McNamara, and Alderman Elliott.
 The amended development agreement is now before us for, as a committee report for passage, is their discussion on it. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Ditches. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Irby. No. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. No. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Aye. McNeely. No. Chiarelli. Nine ayes, four noes. The matter passes. Thank you.
 Holden-Jerkey, you had... Yes, Your Honor. Under new business ordinances, I have four items. The aforementioned amended... Actually, I think we needed to finish up the... Stop me if I'm wrong on that. We did the development agreement. Now we need to do the... Operational funding. Where is it? The operational funding agreement. Yeah, the operational funding agreement. Okay. So we have items two, three, and four. Okay.
 You placed all four up for passage. I placed all four. One point of order, Your Honor. Items 1, 2, 3, and 4 were placed up for passage. They did place up for passage, and they passed. So hold on a second. Well, item 1 has been passed as amended. Items 2, 3, and 4 were placed up for passage but haven't been read in by the mayor yet. So I may have misread that, but the way I couched it was the development agreement. So I didn't list it.
 Mr. Partridge correct what we passed fully was the development agreement which is number one so we're still back on the operational funding agreement has not been done nor has the outdoor market lease agreement so we have those two items that are in the operational funding agreement is 3 a 2 on our agenda outdoor market lease is 3 a 3 and the out there some
 Outdoor, I'm sorry, the outdoor use agreement is 3A4. So we have to, we take up the operational funding agreement items next, and those have been scripted on the, you read those in earlier, Alderman Durkee? You want me to read them in again? I will read them in if you try to move along with it. Actually, you need to make the motion on it first.
 And this is the operational funding agreement. Make a motion from Planning and Development, Upper Passage, Roman numeral 3A, items 2, 3, and 4. No, just right now, just 3A2. I'm going to read it back to you and make sure you see it on here. It's a motion to amend the committee report under unfinished business committee report.
 for the operational funding agreement to reflect the following. On page one, change the operational subsidy from five years to three years. Number two, in section three, page one, change the payment date from the date that a certificate of occupancy is issued to the date that a written notice to proceed from the city to RRDP is issued. And number three, in section three, page two, change the number of payments from five payments to three payments. Does that accurately reflect your proposed motion?
 Yes, sir. Is there a second? Second. It's been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion on those items? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. So that's been moved and seconded and approved as an amended operational funding agreement. Do you place that up for passage? Yes, sir. So the amended operational funding agreement is up for passage, and again, that's 3A number 2. Any additional discussion?
 hearing on clerk please call the world turkey aye getchas frost herbie connell thompson kelly newberg beach ellier beck mcneely cheerle 94. matter passes so next we would have roman numeral 3 a 3 the outdoor market lease agreement
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 3A3, a place up for passage in the amended committee report recommending Rock River Development Partnership, the outdoor market lease agreement for indoor and outdoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. So, again, I want to make sure I have this correct. Give me one second. It should be here. Is this the lease agreement? This is the lease agreement. Why is it saying this here? This is the lease agreement.
 So the Endowment for Market Use Agreement has to have these two amendments. He's red. I'm sorry. You have to go back. You can't wait for us. Are we voting on 3 and 4? 3. Or is the lease agreement not? The lease agreement has no changes. My apologies. The 3A3 has no changes. It just needs to be approved as presented. Thank you.
 That is the lease agreement. We have a couple changes after for the use agreement. So, Roman numeral 383 is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschus. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. No. Connell. No. Thompson-Kelley. No. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Cheer really nine eyes four nose matter passes now we have the three four which is the outdoor use agreement where there are a couple of changes that need to be read in.
 Mr. Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. On the place of passage Roman numeral 3A4, the committee recommends approval of the Record of Development Partnership Outdoor Use Agreement as amended for the indoor and outdoor market. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. So we actually need to take up, we didn't get the amendments yet on this, but I'll read them and just ask you to confirm whether this is indeed your motion to amend.
 In section 4, page 3, include the following language. And again, this is on the use agreement. Food and beverages must be obtained through Winnebago County licensed caterers. Licensed caterers possess current business license, catering license, liquor license of applicable insurance and applicable Winnebago County Health Department permits.
 Use of any other caterers outside of Winnebago County licensed caterers will be considered for approval only after showing proof of business and catering license, liquor license is applicable, proof of insurance and health department permits. Number two, in Section 4, page 3, striking the provision requiring food and beverages be obtained through RRDP's preferred licensed caterers. Is that your motion to amend? Yes, sir. And is it seconded? It's been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion on that amendment? No.
 All those in favor of that amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Ayes have it. The matter is then as amended, placed up for passage, I'm assuming? Yes, sir. Matter's up for passage. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Ciavelli.
 9 eyes for no journey better passes thank you so we will move on to new business for all the turkey thank you run under Roman numeral for new business ordinances planning development recommends the amended or items an ordinance approving the record development partnership
 the amended agreement for the indoor market two an ordinance approving the rock river development partnership operating funding agreement as amended for the indoor market three in ordinance approving the rock river development partnership outdoor market lease agreement as amended for the indoor and outdoor market
 Four, an ordinance approving the Rock River Development Partnership Outdoor Use Agreement as amended for the indoor-outdoor market. I'd like to suspend rules first on these items. There's a second? Second. There's a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 4A, items 1, 2, 3, and 4, based on the previously passed amendments to those respective items. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Clerk, please call the roll. We need ten votes for suspension of the rules. Aye.
 Durkee aye getcha Macamara frost Herbie Connell Thompson Kelly Newberg Beach Le back McNeely cheer Ellie ten eyes three nose. Thank you matter Motion passes rules be suspended. Thank you your honor Then I place those four amended items up for passage matters are for passages their discussion hearing none clerk. Please call the roll jerky aye yes Mac Tamir frost
 Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Nine ayes, four noes. Matters passed. Thank you. Is there any additional business before the council? Motion to adjourn. There's been a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Meeting's adjourned. Thank you.