Motion to appoint Alderman Shirelli as Mayor Pro Tem. All in favor? Opposed? You guys have it. Alderman Shirelli. Good evening, everybody. Welcome to the City Council meeting on Monday, March 21, 2016. I appreciate everybody being here tonight. This evening, we're going to start out with our invocation. Whoever would like to stand. Thank you.
 The invocation is going to be given by Chaplain Jay Johnson of Freedom Baptist Church. Is the chaplain here? Okay. Alderman Beach, would you like to give the invocation this evening? Sure, thank you. Let's pray together. Father God, we are grateful that we can meet here together and represent our community. We thank you for that privilege that you give us. I pray, Lord, that you give us attention, you would guide our thoughts,
 and that we would discuss matters that will ultimately affect the people, our friends, our neighbors of this community. Thank you for, again, that privilege. And we ask this now in your name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with human justice. Thank you. Okay, clerk, can you call the roll, please? Thank you. Thank you.
 Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Here. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Thank you. And now, do we have a motion to accept the journal? No. We have a motion and a second to accept the journal. Is there any amendments to the journal? Hearing none, all in favor of the acceptance of the journal, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Now we'll move on to public speakers. We have several speakers this evening.
 You can come to the back. There's two microphones. And please come forward. The first speaker will be Mr. Brad Long.
 Thank you Chairman. Appreciate your time, City Council. My name is Brad Long with the Northwestern Illinois Billing Trades, representing the eight northwest counties of Illinois and about 15,000 men and women of the billing trades. I'm here in support of the Mercy Agreement and I thank the 11 aldermen and our mayor for agreeing to the annexation agreement.
 It means tremendous impact for jobs, especially in the construction industry. I've given flyers out to you, Shaw, and have in front of you. We have our seventh annual Building Trades Career Expo. It's part of the result of our Building Trades Outreach Program that we started seven years ago in an effort to build a diverse workforce that's reflective of our community.
 And if you could pass this information about the Expo and the opportunities with the apprenticeship programs to your constituents, I would sure appreciate it. And again, thank you for the support. Thank you, Mr. Long. Our next speaker is Pastor Louis Malone. You can come forward, please. Good evening, all of you. I'm speaking on behalf of Mercy Hospital as well. I'm doing it from a personal standpoint. I've been a pastor in this community for 35 years.
 in and out of Rockford Memorial Hospital and four children that was born in that hospital. And we know that the hospital is not up to date because I got a granddaughter that was born with a very rare muscular disorder. They treated her for seizures at Rockford Memorial for a whole year until my daughter demanded they take her to Madison. We drove her to Madison. She was almost dead. They found out in just a couple of days what was wrong with her.
 They treated her by putting a trach in her. She's living, she's three years old, she's going to school, she's doing very well. But we spent 90 days going back and forth to Madison, I mean, to Madison for the hospital, back and forth. In 2014, our son had an accident. He was run over by a semi on his job. His leg was so badly crushed, Rockford Memorial couldn't do anything for him. They sent him home.
 They called him two days later and told him to get to Madison as quick as he could. We took him to Madison. He was there for 60 days. We drove back and forth for 60 days with him. We need a state-of-the-art hospital in Rockford. It would be sad if we let this hospital, all of the things that come to Rockford look like end up in some other state and we lose jobs and all the other things that goes with it.
 I think it's time for Rockford to step up and become a modern city like some of the other smaller cities around us. We've been boasting about second largest city for years, but we haven't acted like that in a lot of the things that we've done. We need to step up to the plate and put a hospital in Rockford that can take care of the people in Rockford. Thank you very much. Our third speaker is Brenda Reddick. If you could come forward, please.
 Hello, my name is Brenda Reddick, and I am here on behalf of my daughter, Dorothy Reddick, who couldn't be here tonight. As you know, Dorothy is an active healthcare advocate for people in the Rockford. She's been a generational healthcare provider for our family for three generations, and I want to share some of my thoughts on my perspective of being a patient at the Rockford Health System. I've been a patient there for over 40 years. My doctor is Dr. Charles Washington.
 He is knowledgeable and kind-hearted, good mannerism. He's confident, and I love the care that I have received. In 2012, I was diagnosed with breast cancer. It was a very difficult time for me.
 and I went to the Rockford Health System, the Women Care Center, the Cancer Center, and all the doctors and the patients and the nurses there gave me good care. And I praise God for the care that I received, and I'm very grateful to the Rockford Health System. And I think that it would be best that we have the Rockford Mercy Hospital here, because they are committed to spending over $50 million within the next 10 years
 and they are repurposing a 2,000 square feet campus for the community development. They have committed to building a multi-million dollar facility that will bring good care to patients throughout the region of Rockford. I believe that this would be a great investment for us, and I believe that they would be committed to giving the great care that they've always given. So I think if we vote yes tonight, it would be beneficial to the Rockford community. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Deuteronomy, the 28th chapter, first verse, it says, If you fully obey the Lord your God and carefully follow all his commands I give you today, the Lord your God will set you high above all the nations on earth. What I want to speak about tonight, what's wrong with our children in America?
 It is time for adults of every race and income group to break our silence about the pervasive breakdown of moral, family, and community values, to place our children first in our lives and to struggle to model the behavior we want our children to learn. School children don't need one moral officer's slam, as some students refer to the white South Carolina school resource officer who shamed the nation with his vile ejection of a 16-year-old black female student from her classroom for a non-violent offense.
 The last thing children need is violent assaults in school, which ought to be a safe haven. A suspension, exposure, or arrest is a block on schools' records that can push students closer to the prison pipeline. And the very last thing children need is an out-of-control adult using violence as a way of resolving differences. I'm often asked this.
 What's wrong with our children? I'm always asking adults what's wrong. We tell our children to control themselves while slapping and spanking and ejecting them violently in our homes, childcare centers, school detention facilities and prisons. Adults tell children to be honest while they lie, steal and cheat and not to be violent while mocking and glorifying violence.
 parent, adult, educator, faith, and public leader to conduct a personal audit to determine whether we are contributing to the crisis our children face or to the solution they urgently need. And if we are not a part of the solution, we are a part of the problem. I need to do, and we need to do better before we can pull up the moral weeds of violence, materialism, and greed in our society that have strangled so many of our youth. We must pull up the moral weeds in our own backyard.
 and the education institute. So many children are confused about what is right and wrong because so many adults talk right and do wrong in our personal, professional, and public lives. If we are not supporting a child we brought into the world as a father and mother with attention, time, love, discipline, and the teaching of values, then we are part of the problem rather than the solution to the family breakdown today that is leaving so many children at risk.
 tobacco, alcohol, or other drugs while telling our children not to, then we are part of a problem rather than the solution. Our overly addicted society, it's nothing wrong with our children. The problems are us, the adults in the United States of America. I'm glad I've been wanting to tell all the ladies, Ann Thompson this for a long time. And I'm
 I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, and I wish you many more, my good friend, and God bless you and your family. And I got something else I want to say. If you give me 30 men or women who've been in the military, who've been in combat, I can reduce crime and rock for the 90 days by the help of God. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Now for our final speaker tonight is Mr. Roland Posca. I made it again.
 I, Roland Posca, Fishy Whale, 32116, make life perfect. Make it happen July 4th, noon plus noon, noon through noon. Expand the money supply. Demand a loan. You ain't gonna get it if you don't demand it. Damn it, demand it. Demand it. You ain't gonna get it if you don't demand it.
 I trust everyone is working on their 4th of July noon speeches. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all our speakers this evening. Now we'll move on to our agenda. Ruman numeral 3 is Petitions and Communications. Planning and Development Committee, do we have someone representing tonight? Alderman Elie. Action program resolution and certificate of incumbency referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 And a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding homeowners property tax refund program, also referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Those items will be referred. Next is Code and Regulations Committee. Mr. Frank Beach. Thank you, sir. Four items. First is the Traffic Commission Minutes, held March 9, 2016. Incidentally, all these will be referred to committee. Number two, memorandum from Kelly Noakes regarding several upcoming events.
 Career on Wheels, Memorial Day Parade, Rockford Fire 9-11, 3K Run and Walk, Rockford Public Library Summer Reading Kickoff Event, the Multi-March and 5K Run Mill Classic 5-Run, Rockford Starfire, Speech Orchard Classic, Labor Day Parade, as well referred to committee.
 Number three, memoranda from legal director regarding the honorary street name change for Fifth Avenue from Fourth Street to Seventh Street. And the final one is a memoranda from Kelly Noakes, assistant operator of medical request, a place honorary street name sign. And this is all going to be referred to codes. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Those items will be referred to committee. Alderman Beck, you don't have one? I don't have any here. I believe you have one item. Yeah, go ahead. Alderman Hervey? Yes.
 Yes, this is, there's just one. It's a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, our interim finance director. This is regarding referral of the authorization to issue bonds to finance the construction for the district police facilities for District 1 and District 3. Referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, that item will be referred. Thank you. Move on to Roman numeral IV, which is proclamations. I was told we have no proclamations this evening.
 We'll move on to Roman numeral 5 is the new committee reports. Planning Development Committee, Alderman Elliott. New committee reports. Committee recommends approval of the Rocknell Fastener Temporary Road Extension Development Agreement providing access to Logistics Parkway to allow for expansion at the Rocknell Fastening Manufacturing Facility located at 5309 11th Street in the 6th Ward. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. We need a motion to suspend the rules. So moved.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Any discussion on that? Hearing none, I'm sorry. Alderman Newberg? Thank you. I notice that it says temporary road extension. This is actually going to be a permanent road, is it not? Mr. Cagnoni? Yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The development agreement, the responsibility on the city is to provide temporary access to Logistics Parkway. There's not a commitment within the development agreement to construct the permanent logistics parkway, but we have proposed it as a future improvement. Thank you. Any further discussion on the motion?
 Hearing none, all in favor of the motion to suspend the rules, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules are suspended. Alderman Elliott, would you like to place that up for passage? Yes. Thank you. The item is now up for passage. Any further discussion? Hearing none, roll call, please, from the clerk. Aye. Thank you. Item is approved. Move on to the Code and Regulations Committee. I thank you, under 5B.
 Number one, the committee recommends sustaining ZBA to decrease required front yard setback along Country Club Terrace from 30 feet to 5 feet for an attached garage addition.
 Variation to decrease the required side-back setback along the north property line from 6 feet to 5 feet for an attached garage addition. Variation to increase the maximum purpose surface ratio from the required 40% to 53% for an attached garage addition in an RE, rural estate zoning district, and R1, single-family residential zoning district at 2811 Country Club Terrace. Number two.
 committee recommends approval of the revision of the ordinance section 368 basic training to include provision for special event liquor permits number three and four uh your honor not only here under committee reports but also under ordinances is being asked by staff to be held out so i will not be reading either three or four in now or under ordinances number five
 The committee recommends approval of the ComEd permanent easement on city-owned property located at 1303 Harrison Avenue for the Harrison Avenue project. And the final one, the committee recommends approval of the ComEd permanent easement on city-owned property located at 14 XX Harrison Avenue between LePay and 10th Street for the Harrison Avenue project. Your Honor, all these are up for passage.
 We need a motion to suspend the rules. So moved. Second. Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Roman numeral 5B, 1, 2, 5, and 6. Is there any discussion on that? Hearing none, all in favor of the motion, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules are suspended. I'd like to place those up for passage.
 Yes, sir. Okay. Again, Rm. 5B, 1, 2, 5, and 6 are up for passage. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Newberg? Thank you. On number two, the BASIT training for special event permits, I would like to urge the council to again remember that this is so that it would be easier for having volunteer workers at non-for-profit only events.
 This is not across the board, but it's hard enough to get volunteers for service where with this, if we don't pass it, each volunteer that is serving liquor will have to take a four-hour course or pay to take it online. And I think this is an added burden we're putting on non-for-profits. So I would just encourage our aldermen to vote for this, please. Thank you. Very good. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? Thank you.
 I'd like to ask staff or legal counsel for clarification. State law permits the exemption for not-for-profit organizations. I just want to make sure we're not carving out a potential area of liability for ourselves. And I guess the second question is, are they required to have any kind of dram shop coverage?
 at their not-for-profit events, or is that just for stationary bars and nightclubs? Attorney Hayes? All S permits still require the DRAM coverage. Okay. The state system exempts not-for-profits from the BASC training requirement. I believe on similar sensibilities that we're recommending we adopt that same exception.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk can you call the roll? Aye. Thank you. Committee reports are approved. Move on to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. This item is the recommendation of the Office of the Planning and Adoption of the and finally is the approval of 2016-2017 Intergovernmental Agreement for City Police Services between the City of Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Public School District number 205 and I ask for suspension rules on these items.
 We have a motion and a second to suspend the rules. Is there any discussion on the motion? Alderman Odo. Question on two and three. We're reducing fines. Again, was this something that somebody bought and they were rehabbing the property? What's the story with this that we seem to keep reducing these fines? I'll let Director Cagnotti answer if that's okay. Mr. Cagnotti.
 Thank you. In both of these circumstances, the individuals that owned the properties did not own the properties at the time that the fines were assessed. 2107 22nd Street is an investor-owned property and is rental. 2225 Holland Street is an owner-occupied structure. Both situations, they did correct the issues that the properties were initially fined for.
 That is correct. They acquired the properties with the existing violations, and the outstanding liens have since corrected the violations and are now seeking the reduction in the fine and the lien. Thank you. Thank you. Any further questions? Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to the vouchers, on the first page of the detail, we have a list of different funds.
 And then it says total vouchers of $13.9 million. Were these all specific payments that were made just as of today, from the last two weeks, or are these projects that are used, are we getting a recap of a multitude of dollars spent? Finance Director? These are checks that will be processed once we have your approval for all of these invoices. This is work that's been performed, invoices that have been approved for payment by staff.
 Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on the motion to suspend the rules? Hearing none, all in favor of the motion, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules are suspended. Up for passage under Roman numeral 5C, 1, 2, 3, and 4. Is there any discussion on those items? All of them in Herbie? On the vouchers, I think the question some of us had, it's almost $14 million, which is
 at least double, even when we get super large ones. So I guess the question was, did we have an accumulation, or is this just the result of end of summer with large CIP payouts?
 because of the huge amount of work, not summer, but the huge amount of work we've been doing on the sports center and contracts coming up for... Certainly. That, as well as we're closing out transactions related to fiscal year 2015. So we, you know, established this as a deadline for departments to get final 15 expenses in.
 I just I don't believe some of us were saying I don't think I've ever seen one at 14 high. Yeah Yeah, that's why I think there was a little hesitation. So if not, it can come out of Jim's Reserve pay very good any further questions clerk. Can you call the roll? I think you the committee reports are approved. I
 Move on to Roman numeral six under officers reports. Just a couple things to report. I want to thank the citizens of Rockford for everybody that came out and voted.
 This past Tuesday, we appreciate that. I heard that there was the amount of voters came out were a lot more than previous elections. We appreciate that. And I also want to thank the citizens and rebuilding Rockford citizens on the road referendum. We appreciate that support and that item was also approved in the election on Tuesday evening.
 I want to say happy birthday to one of our colleagues here, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly, and also to Alderman Jamie Goetsches. So congratulations and happy birthday. Now, officers' reports. Alderman Newberg.
 I also would like to say thank you to the citizens of Rockford that came out and voted. It took me like 45 minutes to vote at my, Wesley Willow's place of voting, and it was nice to see. There were a lot of young people out there, but seeing as I'm part of the senior citizens group, there were a lot of us senior citizens out there that voted for this referendum. The other thing is I would like to take a minute, I know we're voting on it later tonight,
 tonight, but I want to thank the council, Mercy Hospital, and Transform Rockford for their support in getting all of the knowledge and information out to the city of Rockford concerning Mercy. Rumors are one thing, but when you can go to people and ask them outright, is this going to happen? Is this not going to happen? What do you promise? What are you saying? I think I have to say that everybody who
 involved, was conscientious in trying to get their opinion across, whether you were for it or against it, and I'm glad to see it coming to an end tonight. Thank you. Alderman Linda McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor Pro Tem. I want to thank you, Alderman Hervey, for being an obstructionist. That is what the Rockford Register Star called you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey, for doing your job, protecting our people.
 We were attempting to stop the further decline of our communities. I am proud of your efforts to inform our community of what was happening and the possible effects of the proposed development. I believe that as aldermen, as leaders, that's our job.
 We are to stand up for our communities when they are being threatened. Our job is not to succumb to ridicule from people outside of our community, such as the editorial board of the local paper, or the mayor who put together a group of aldermen and himself to sign a PAC and then to hold a press conference to reassure the developer and others that
 that the father destruction of our communities will proceed as planned. Mr. Mayor, we are part of this city too. I can't recall reading a newspaper quite like the Rockford Register Star. A newspaper that reports the woes of our communities, yet cheers for the father demise of our communities. The Rockford Register Star
 and its editorial despises Alderman Hervey and myself because they say we are causing harm to the city as a whole. The true harm to the city as a whole is the neglect of our areas. Where is the disgust, the frustration for the condition of our community?
 The editorial board stated that they do not understand us and hope that we will be replaced at election time. You sound like the governor of the state of Michigan. You would like to put up an unelected appointment and speed up the demise of our communities. We are not like some in this city. We don't grin from ear to ear and scratch our heads and do as you tell us.
 I can only say to the editorial board that if you don't understand us, then you won't understand our people when they reelect us. So, Alderman Hervey, we have not lost the battle, but the struggle does continue. It is written, and I declare, this mountain will be removed according to Jesus. I am not pleased with the Rockford Register star insensitivity to the 5th and 13th Ward residents. Thank you.
 I must say, however, that I am surprised but pleased with the Rockford Register Star coverage of the Balmore trial. The Kingdom Authority International Ministries Church is in the 13th Ward. The pursuit of Mr. Balmore into the church I still can't understand. Every time I think of it, I think of the church bombings in the South during the Civil Rights days.
 The lack of diversity of the jury that is hearing the case also reminds me of the days of civil rights. It is truly unnerving. On Sunday in the Rockford Register Star, there's an article, there was a quote by Attorney Glenn Jasiewicz, a lack of diversity raises question about whether a black or Latino is getting a fair shake.
 My argument is always anytime you have a trial like that, when you have an African-American defendant or client, and that segment is not represented within your jury, there is a problem for a fair trial, Jasiewicz said. I am very concerned for our city, Mayor Pro Tem. The state's attorney office has started a second proceeding against Marissa Browne.
 with four counts of felony. This case is quite disturbing as well. And again, I applaud the Rockford Register Star for reporting on it. I'm disturbed because my understanding is that the four felonies all relate to Ms. Brown telling her story to four people. Four felonies. She first told her story to two people at school.
 then asked to repeat it, asked to repeat it, to employees of the police department. Yes, that is the four felonies. My understanding is that the city ordinance, section 19-13, under disorderly conduct, would have addressed the city and the state attorney's concerns. This ordinance is a fine of
 $50 up to $750 in our public and or public community service. Why give a teenager four felonies? Why is the state's attorney office pursuing this young girl? My understanding is that Ms. Brown has not committed any crimes.
 Why is the state's attorney office, Joe Brescato, pursuing a case where there was no crime against anyone or property? Should 17-year-olds be charged with felonies or with, in this particular case, a city ordinance of disorderly conduct and therefore no record?
 The issues of fair arrest and sentencing a minority is a main topic being addressed by presidential candidates. State Attorney Joe Briscato should join in these discussions. These are issues that we as aldermen in our areas must address in addition to economic disparities,
 educational disparities, housing disparity, street lights, and so goes the list. But you truly do know this. These cases are disturbing, but I do think Mr. Colkey of the Rockford Register Star
 For his informative coverage of these cases. I thank the Rockford Register Star for allowing Mr. Koltke to be a reporter. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Alderman Hervey. Thank you.
 Thank you. I want to make sure people know that because the 31st falls on the last Thursday of the month, there is no fifth ward meeting this week. It will actually be next week on the 31st. There's a little confusion whether it's the fourth Thursday, the last Thursday of each month. So next week on the 31st. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNamara, Attorney Hayes. All right. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem. I just wanted to...
 Ask my colleagues. Next week at Planning and Development, the Homeowners' Property Tax Refund Program will be coming to Planning and Development for a vote. I just wanted to say if there's any questions or concerns that anyone has on it, I am open all week to meet with you one-on-one or by phone to handle any questions or concerns that you have about it. Thank you. Thank you. Attorney Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to make note that this is Statement of Economic Interest season.
 Everyone here, all our senior managers as well as the aldermen, should have received a letter from the Winnebago County Clerk.
 indicating your obligations under the Act to go ahead and file those matters, they've converted to an online system. If any of you did not receive that material, my office has made some sort of error. So I'd ask you to make certain if you haven't received the letter from the clerk that you contact me immediately so we can get that resolved and get you that notice. I'll remind you all and our senior managers that that's due to be filed for the 2015 calendar year
 not later than May 1st. Otherwise, fines apply. So I'd appreciate your attendance to that matter, and thank you for allowing me to make this report. Have a good day. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Okay, thank you to everybody. We'll move on to Roman numeral 7, which is the Unfinished Business Committee reports laid over. I see there's none for Planning and Development Committee. We'll move on to the Code and Regulations Committee. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Under...
 Roman numeral 7 B. There's one item the committee recommends approval The annexation agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Memorial Hospital Mercy Rockford for the properties listed below Billy building permits and fees not to exceed 900,000 and they list the addresses. Do you want me to read each one here sir? I believe those were read in last two weeks ago. Is that correct? I
 All right, so I will not then read the addresses in and I will place this issue up for a vote tonight Do we need a suspension of rules attorney Hayes? Okay, so the matter is up for passage Roman numeral seven be one. Is there any discussion on this item all of them in Kevin Frost? I know this this part and parcel right now is just the annexation agreement But I'd like there's been some comments made I'd just like to address a
 the importance of the Mercy Rockford Annexation Agreement and Development Agreement at one time. It was back on November 17th of last year when I had the chance to go speak in front of the State of Illinois, Illinois Faculties and Review Board, which unanimously approved the plan of Mercy Rockford to have the idea of one hospital, two campuses here in Rockford.
 And I know we've all, thank you for the way, there's a lot of support here tonight from Mercy Rockford, and there's been questions raised. And I just think it's important to address why this is a good thing.
 For our region, it's a great thing because it allows us to expand, allows Mercy Rockwood to expand and serve the needs of a multitude of counties that will actually, as one gentleman said today, prevent the need for people to travel great distances and for families to travel back and forth, for instance, to Madison or Milwaukee or Chicago or to Mayo Clinic. So it does serve a great need for...
 for the region and most importantly Rockford. We're all here, the 14 wards representing the people of the city of Rockford. And this just so happens if approved to end up in my ward, but it wouldn't matter to me whether or not it was in my ward, or Alderman Beck's ward, or whose ward it was in, because it's not about protecting a ward or going into a ward. It's really for the great benefit of our city and all of our citizens.
 Putting aside the benefits, the health benefits, and we all, we did, I'm not going to get too much into it, but it has been discussed about the two campuses and there has been a commitment made by Mercy Rockford to keep the Rockton Avenue Center open for a number of years and a substantial investment of $50 million spent on that campus as well. So it's not as if they're relocating, but they're creating a new campus to serve new needs, right?
 which I think is great for the region again. On the economic impact side, you can't ignore, and I know the paper's been quoted, and Mr. Leif will take note of this, normally I stand up here and I sometimes have comments or questions about something that's written by the editorial board. But in the last editorial board, when they said, quote, this is a big deal, Alderman, the largest building project in the history of Winnebago County.
 almost double the size of the $250 million Woodard Governor project. That is unprecedented. We have not had a size project in scope and construction dollars and the jobs it's going to create in the short term and construction dollars happen in our city in a long time. And that's important, but what's equally important, if not more important, is the creation of new jobs that are going to be at the new facility.
 And that's so vital to our town because we've definitely seen our share of losing manufacturing jobs and losing higher wage jobs and get replaced by call center jobs and jobs at distribution centers. So here's a chance for an employer to step up and bring to the city of Rockford
 a great number of jobs that are going to be high wage jobs. And it's not just the new physicians it creates, but each new physician creates approximately seven jobs that are directly inferred from each physician that they bring in. So there's an economic impact here that really, as the paper said, is a big deal. Because it's a big deal to all of us to have great jobs and to bring up the
 to move the scale of the economic impact of jobs and the wages of jobs in Rockford. There are, and I'd like to congratulate, and I know it got a little murky there in the negotiations. I was involved in the negotiations early on.
 and then had to step aside. But in any negotiation between the city and a developer or between the city and the business coming to town, it's inherent that everybody, like, what can we get from the city or what can you give us on this deal? And that went back and forth for some time. And to me, that shows that really this was a good development agreement and there was a good agreement because it took movement from both sides to get this matter approved in the process.
 in the state through this today. So I think it's important to congratulate all of the city staff that worked tirelessly on the development agreement and the negotiations. Everyone from our Chief Berks in the Fire Department to Todd Cagnotti to Jim Ryan and Patrick Hayes
 and the mayor, you guys did a great job, and thank you. I really appreciate that. It took a lot of work. I know the amount of work that went into that. And at the same time, I want to thank Mercy Rockford for not going away, right, for not picking up the ball and saying we're going to go to Beloit or we're going to go to Janesville or we're going to go to Walworth County because I think they truly knew all along that this is where they wanted to be. This wasn't like they came to us last summer and said, we're between building a hospital in Rockford and we're in X city.
 That was never part of the equation, so I want to thank them for their commitment to Rockford. And with that, I would encourage all of my fellow aldermen to vote yes for not just the annexation agreement, but for the development agreement as well. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Any further discussion? Alderman Hervey? Yes, thank you. There's just a couple of things I want to say. A couple of things I want to say with regard to Mercy Rockford,
 I'm not going to even address my vote to lay it over. There's just a couple of things I want to clear up, especially some of the incredibly vulgar and nasty emails and telephone calls that I received. I was not elected to represent my fellow aldermen. There was a suggestion in the newspaper that I ignored the rest of my aldermen on city council, and I think they know better. I listen to them. I consult them.
 I appreciate them, but I wasn't elected to represent them. I was elected to represent, first, the residents of the Fifth Ward of Rockford, second, the residents of the City of Rockford as a whole. Some developments are fantastic for the city and for the region. They are a death knell for certain segments of our community. I will continue
 threats, name calling. I cut my teeth on the civil rights movement. I work the people who care case in Rockford. Nothing, nothing fazes me. Not at all. I will continue to represent the people of the Fifth Ward who are often unseen, unheard, and feel voiceless and disenfranchised. That doesn't make me some saint. I
 It basically means they have a right to be heard. They have a right to a different opinion about this development. And my opinion is different than almost everybody else's. I really don't care. I believe that the diminution of services at Rockford Memorial Hospital, the removal of essential health care services, will be detrimental to the citizens who live there.
 I am very, very concerned about the impact on Swedish Americans' emergency room and the access to emergency services, especially trauma services, in an area that has the highest level of trauma services.
 No one will ever convince me that it makes medical or economic sense to have two level one trauma centers within four minutes of each other when the area with the highest level of traumas is 15, 20 minutes away. Never will.
 I will continue to represent that. Not against Mercy Rockford, not against Rockford Memorial. It's been my hospital for most of my life, especially since I returned to Rockford. It's still the situs of my healthcare for some things. Gonna move most of the rest, but it's still a great hospital in many, many ways. But I do believe that this new development is going to be one more
 area in which we have removed essential services from the west side of Rockford. It will hurt businesses along Auburn Street. See, it's great when you have the luxury of just thinking how great it's going to be for people. Somebody has to look at the people who are going to be hurt. I'm going to continue to ask city staff how we're going to make up for the excess time that our ambulances will be out of service
 for distance that they have to travel to get to Riverside or to St. Anthony, and how we're going to make up for that gap that's going to be created when Charlie 27, 28, and 29 are all somewhere way in the eastern quadrant and there's nobody there for backup. People forget none of the private ambulance services are located anywhere near the western parts of Rockford. They're all up north.
 That's going to be a gap in response time for people who need those services. So I'm not going anywhere. I'm not going away. We're going to continue to fight and look to make sure that our health care needs are going to be met. So call me.
 Threaten, name call, any of those things. And then one more. I just have to get this one in to the register star. Don't waste your time raising money and mounting a vigorous campaign to get me unelected. I believe that any incumbent who has to fight hard and spend a lot of money doesn't deserve to be reelected. So it'll probably be pretty easy because I don't campaign hard and I won't.
 If the residents of the Fifth Ward don't know what I do and see what I do, public service is an offer. I'm willing to spend some time and what I think are some skills and expertise to try to make life better. If they say no thank you, I have a wall of fabric that wants to be quilted. So it's not going to be like I'm going to go home and cry in my milk.
 But I still want to work to help the Fifth Ward, and if I decide to run again, I'll do that. You mount a campaign with as many people as you want. I'm not going to change my stance or my opinion. So to all the folks who gave their really wonderful calls of support and said thank you, no need, but I appreciated it.
 There's some great people that live in this city who are going to be hurt by this development. And I'm hoping that as a city, we will all keep our eyes on the negative effects that Mercy Rockford's half-billion-dollar project is going to have on the city. And I would say to the construction industry, I don't know if Brad is still here.
 Yeah, a thousand jobs sounds great. I drive up and down the street watching our road construction projects every year, and I seldom see an African-American face. I see very few Latino faces. That needs to change.
 So all the benefits that are flowing from this project are not flowing to the people who will be hurt the most. So please give some consideration to that and to city staff. I will see you during the week of spring break, and I want some answers with regard to how we're going to make up for the loss of these services. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Roman numeral 7B1, Alderman Beach. Thank you.
 I must tell you here, my friends around the council chambers here, I do have a high regard for Alderman Irving, and she knows that. I respect her opinion on this issue. I just want to make this comment here. We've been trying for years to dig out of a problem here in our city, the whole city. Back in 2007 when the economy took a tank, we've been having a hard time with real estate.
 The foreclosure, you know what our city looks like. And businesses and permits for startup, for building, we haven't had it. But in this last year in our region, I think we're a bit over a billion dollars, maybe $1.3 billion of new building coming to our region. And to me, that needs to be celebrated.
 I know there's issues here that needs to be celebrated that people are willing to spend their money in this region. Developers are willing to come here and not necessarily ask us for everything. They just want a place to be involved. I think that's very important and ought to be accruing to the community and to the people around this horseshoe here who have gone with it and made some pretty tough decisions. So I want to thank, frankly,
 The hospital was willing to make this kind of commitment. They have to pay for it as well to come into this area. I also want to stop right there. All right. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Any further discussion? Romanum 7B1. Hearing none. Clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Thank you. Item is passed. There's nothing in finance and personnel this evening. Alderman Beck? Thank you. Thank you.
 We'll move on to Roman numeral 8, motions and resolutions. It looks like we have the Codes and Regulations Committee. Alderman Beach? Yes, under 8, Roman numeral 8B. We have the Unitarian Universalist Church Rummage Sale. Do you want me to read all of this for everyone here tonight? Yes. Yes. Do you want it done? We'll get the Attorney Hayes' opinion on that.
 I'm just saying, I'm just hoping you can read it, but, I mean, we've all had it. If you'd like, I can read it. If you just mention the events, Alderman Beach. Yes, I will. Thank you, sir. All right. The next one would be the YMCA Heritage Run. The third is the Edgebrook Farmers Market. The fourth is the Hooters Swimsuit Event. The sixth is the Rockford City Market and their schedule.
 And the seventh is the Rockford Finnish Market. And these are all up for passage tonight, Your Honor. Thank you. I think you skipped over item four, which is the Edgebrook Thursday markets, which are different than the Edgebrook farmers markets. Well, I apologize. Thank you. I apologize, and you are correct, sir. Very good. Up for passage under motions and resolutions, Roman numeral 8B.
 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Is there any discussion on the resolutions? Hearing none, clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Thank you. All the items have passed. Alderman Beck? Under Finance and Personnel Committee, I have a word of bid for Group 14 demolitions to landmark excavating in the amount of $22,030.
 to GIMAX Corporation of Peoria in the amount of $7,833.94. Next, they have the award of bid for citywide weed abatement to a variety of different companies for $80,000. Next is the award of bid for tree purchasing to another variety of companies, primarily local, for $146,936.
 Next is the award of bid for wood grinding to Timber Industries for an estimated value of $15,000. Next is the award of bid for rental of traffic control devices to traffic services for $240,000. Next is the award of bid for Citywide Street Repairers Group number one to William Charles Construction for $1,131,465.46. Next is the award of bid for Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairers number one
 to Campos Construction for $38,251. Next, the award of bid for Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairs number two to Campos Construction for their bid of $38,150. Next is the award of RFP for Data Storage to Data Link Corporation for an estimated $100,000 to $150,000. It's $500,000 to $750,000 over a five-year term. Next is the award of RFP for Materials Testing to Rockford Testing Company.
 for not to exceed $150,000 annually with mutual extensions for an additional three years. Next is the award of sole source contract of water meters repair replacement to Badger Meter Incorporated for not to exceed $300,000. Next is the engineering agreement amendment for North Main two-way conversion from Park Avenue to Whitman Street.
 for an additional $28,153.30 and a new total cost of $81,573.30. And I have a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for Citywide Streetlight Electric 2016 for general maintenance in the amount of $2,500,000
 And finally, I have approval of the lease schedule with JPMorgan Chase Bank for an aerial ladder and an ambulance. And I ask, I'm sorry, I place these items up for passage. Thank you. We have under Roman numeral C, 1 through 14, up for passage. Is there any discussion on any of these items? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Item number two, could staff please give an explanation of where the location is for the weed abatement? Question four.
 Thank factors that will be responding to citizen complaints for a long long weeds. That's the morning contract. Yes, right. Yeah, thank you. Number two. We have a motion to lay over item number two. Do we have a second? I have a second. We have a motion and a second. Yes, thank you. It's automatically laid over item number Roman Roman numerals eight C number two is laid over any further discussion.
 Any other remaining items? Hearing none, clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Aye. Item number 15. Thank you. Items are all approved. We'll move on to Roman numeral 9, new business ordinances, planning development committee, Alderman Elliott. We have the Rocknell Fastener Temporary Road Extension Development Agreement, and I'd like to put that up for passage. Do we need a motion to suspend the rules first? I move.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules on item number Roman numeral 9A1. Any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, all in favor of the motion say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you, Alderman Elie. The item is up for passage. Any discussion? Hearing none, Alderman McNeely. Thank you. I'd like to know the cost. The cost? The cost. Okay. Who would like to take that question?
 Director Cagnoni? I believe you were referring to the cost of the temporary access road. Yes. But let me provide a little bit of an explanation.
 So the proposed development agreement allows the developer, Rocknell, to move forward with two-phase development. The first phase is about a $7.7 million investment. About 2.1 of that will be in the building improvement on the site, and including increment in Global Trade Park No. 1, which is the TIF in which this property is located.
 Phase 2, which is anticipated to take place by 2020, is a similar type investment, but there's not a direct commitment from Rocknell at this time to move forward with Phase 2. However, should they move forward with Phase 2, they are committing 100 percent of the increment for Phase 1 and Phase 2 off this project to go into the TIF.
 for the cost related to the temporary access and for additional funds for the permanent construction and extension of Logistics Parkway. The temporary access is estimated at a cost not to exceed $183,000. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any further discussion? Clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Thank you. Items all pass. Alderman Beach. Yes, sir. Roll number nine, number B.
 Number one is the zoning board regarding the variation at Country Club Terrace 2811. Number two has to do with the Bassett training for special events. Number three, to amend the, excuse me, three and four are being held out at the request of staff. Number five and six have to do with permanent easements on city-owned property located at 1303 Harris.
 and Harrison Avenue and the other at 14XX Harrison Avenue. Number seven and number eight address the Rockford Mercy request for annexation and also for building permits and fees not to exceed $900,000. And that would be, I place those up for passage. And as for the suspension of the rule, maintain on this issue. Do we have a second? Second.
 Okay, we have a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 9B-125678. Any discussion? Alderman Newberg? I'd like to separate number 7, please. I'm sorry, I didn't hear that. I'd like to separate 7. Okay, we'll separate item number 7. And 8. And 8. Okay. Any further discussion on the motion? Hearing none, all in favor of the motion to suspend the rules?
 Say aye. Aye. Opposed? No. Ayes have it. Okay. Now we have the remaining items. We'll put number 7 and 8 up for vote, Your Honor. Very good. We have item number Roman numeral 9B, 7 and 8 up for passage. Yes. Your intention to take all but the matters that were separated for a vote because we didn't take a vote on those yet? We'll take a vote.
 My mistake. Thank you. Thank you, sir. What we'll do is we'll take the roll call on the first items before seven and eight. But can you call the roll? We need to have the vote on the suspension of rules. I think we did. We did vote to suspend the rule. OK, very well. And then after that, it was asked to separate. Does that suspension still hold?
 If you like, we'll call for the vote again. I'm just relying on the clerk. I perhaps missed the vote to suspend the rules. I apologize. No, that's fine. Would you like to call the vote again to make the motion? I'd like to make a motion to suspend the rules on item number 7 and 8. There's a second. Okay, but we also need to have the roll call.
 for the separated item. Well, I think the question here that would settle this issue is we did call for the suspension of the rules, all the committee reports, and we did vote on that.
 And then an alderman asked if we could separate two of the issues. So my understanding would be we are under the suspension for the separated issues on item number 7 and 8. So we ought to be able to just discuss it and vote on those, right? So if we could, please proceed with the vote on the items all but 7 and 8 on the substance of those items. Thank you. Very good. Alderman Getchis. Your Honor, just request the clerk note my abstention for the rule suspension on items 5 and 6.
 Alderman getches is abstaining from suspension rule on item five and six that's correct. Thank you. That's right Okay, I will call the roll call for everything but seven and eight call the roll Hi, very good. Thank you move back now to items number seven and eight. Is there any discussion on those items? Oh
 Hearing none, Alderman Frost. I would just like to reiterate the support and encourage all of my fellow aldermen to vote yes on 7 and 8 due to all of the previous comments, not only how it's going to be good for the region, how it's going to be good for the entire city of Rockford, and also, most importantly, for the economic development side of this project is paramount to the continued growth of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on 7 or 8?
 Harry Nunn, clerk, call the roll, please. Aye. Thank you. Both those items pass. We'll move on to the Finance and Personnel Committee, which is Alderman Beck. We just have one item, and that's the 2016-2017 Intergovernmental Agreement for City Police Services between the City of Rockford and the District 205. Place that up for passage. Actually, I asked for suspension of rules on that. We have a motion and a second. Suspend the rules. It's Roman numeral 9C1. Any discussion on that?
 Hearing none, all in favor of the motion, say aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. I place it up for passage. That item is up for passage. Clerk, can you call the roll? Aye. Item's passed. Do we have a motion to adjourn? All in favor of the adjournment, say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.