Good evening, everyone. Just as we begin to open up this evening's city council meeting, just a reminder, if you do not have a seat, I unfortunately will have to ask you to step out and just into the hallway until others leave so there's open space to get in and out of council chambers. So I will call to order the City of Rockford's specially scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, March 27, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logeman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Meeks, Bonney. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. This evening, the invocation will be provided by Corey Whitford of Stateline Youth for Christ. Would you all pray with me? Father God, we come before you and we're thankful for the abundant blessings that you've given each and every one of us. But God, we also come before you thanking you for many other things. We thank you for a city that you give us responsibility to care for. We thank you for families and fellowship amongst each other. God, I pray tonight that you would continue to lead and guide the leaders and the citizens within this city. That your hand would be over us all, God. We're grateful for your son, Jesus Christ, and what he's done for all of us. Father, thank you for, just again, this opportunity to come before you this evening. Would you be with us all this morning, this evening, and would you continually guide and trust in us as we trust in you. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. This evening we do have one proclamation, and it's for the Ronald McDonald Caremobile, the 20th anniversary. And we have Tony Ellingson and Shannon Belmonte with us. Whereas the Ronald McDonald Care Mobile is a 40-foot, 33,000-pound pediatric clinic on wheels that delivers medical care to uninsured and underinsured children across the region. And whereas since the Ronald McDonald Care Mobile program began in 2003, over $2 million of free care has been provided to more than 10,000 children. And whereas, over the past 20 years, the Ronald McDonald Caremobile program has provided children in need with more than 3,600 immunizations and avoided more than 150 emergency room visits. And whereas, Ronald McDonald Caremobile also participates in numerous community events every year, including parades and festivals to increase community awareness, educate children and families. And whereas, Ronald McDonald Caremobile has a dedicated full-time staff of two individuals. Tony Ellingson is the nurse practitioner and manager, and Shannon Belmonte is the program coordinator. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim 2023 to be Ronald McDonald Caremobile's 20th anniversary. And I just want to say on behalf of our residents, thank you for the service that you provide, and would you like to share a few words with us? Thank you. I just would like to say thank you so much for having us here today and Shannon and I are so happy that we're able to provide services to the children in the Northern Illinois area in partnership with Rockford and Rockford Public Schools and we just recently were able to get a new Care Mobile to our program and so we're excited to be able to continue providing these services to kids and so thank you so much for having us here today and helping us to continue to provide these services to the kids Excellent. We will move on to public speakers. I want to remind all of our public speakers this evening that you have three minutes to address the city council. There is a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers, and you will hear a somewhat annoying cell phone ring, meaning close up your comments. The first public speaker we have this evening is Lisa Jackson. Is Lisa Jackson with us? Next public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Proverbs, the 31st chapter, the 10th verse, it says, Who can find a virtuous woman? For her price is far above rubies. What I want to speak about tonight, Women's History Month, reminds us of women leaders overlooked. There's an African proverb that says, women hold up half the sky. Women constitute half the world's population, but still have not realized half of the world's potential, received half of the world's resources, or excised half of the world's power. But women have always been the invisible backbone, unseen, but strong of transforming social movements and of anchoring institutions in society. Our families, congregations, schools, and communities march together is Women's History Month and our nation, and a chance to reflect on women's transformation, impact on American history, and turn it into inspiration and action for the future. The National Women's History Alliance, which champions women's history across the United States all year long, put it this way, history helps us learn who we are. But when we don't know our own history, our power and dreams are immediately diminished. Multicultural Americans, women's are overlooked in most mainstream approaches to United States history. So the National Women's History Project champions their accomplishment and leads the drive to write women back into history. The impact of women's history might seem small to some and less pressing than the meat struggles of working women today. But to ignore the vital role that women's dreams and accomplishments play in our own lives will be a great mistake. We draw strength and inspiration from those who came before us and those remarkable women working among us today. Too often, the women who helped build American contribution went unnoticed. But achievements, leadership, courage, strength, and love of women that I have, as vital as that of men whose names we know so well. As Dr. Gerda Lerner has noted, women's history is women's right, an essential and indispensable heritage from which we can draw pride, comfort, courage, and long-wearing vision. I urge all homes, schools, libraries, community organizations churches, politicians to focus their observance on women who struggle for equality. Your mothers, your wife, your aunt, your sister, your niece, your friends, Susan B. Anthony, Sojourner Truth, Lucy Stone, Loretta Ma, Elizabeth Stanton, Harriet Tubman, Alice Paul, Ida B. Wells, understand the true history of our country would help us to comprehend the need for full freedom just as he quaffed under law for all of our people. I also been wanting to tell you, Mayor McNamara, this for a long time and Lisa at the Transit and Nate at the Bank for a long time. I'll get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. You thought I had forgot, but I didn't. Happy birthday, you. Happy birthday, my dear friends. Happy birthday to you. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Larry Washington. Okay, I'm gonna finish up some business about last week about the Rockford Mass Transit District. You guys know about all the bad reviews that they've gotten. Okay, so anyway, Mayor, every single day that Mike Stubbe Drexel McAlvin, Dan Engelkes, and those Metro guards are there. Do you not realize that you're sending a clear message to the passengers of RMTD that you don't care about them? You are sending a clear message because they're complaining about these people. So every day those people are there, you're telling those people who ride that bus, you don't care about them. Now I'm going to get to this line letter, Nicholas Holmeyer. Restrictions to protect the safety of security city staff. Okay, this is how the letter starts up. You entered city hall and advised personnel you had business under aid for. That's a lie. That's a self-service kiosk down there. You put in your stuff and you put on a badge and you go up and do your business. That's a lie. Okay, then he goes on to say, oh, but he contradicts himself here, okay? He says, I didn't have any business there, right? But then he goes on to say, although you did deliver a letter, my business. Oh my goodness. Then he says I'm hanging out on the second floor being suspicious, putting a chair, moving a chair over towards the bathroom. That's suspicious, okay? He does not mention in this letter The reason anybody goes on that second floor during the week. Doesn't mention it at all. On purpose I know he didn't mention it. It's to go to the flippin' bathroom. And he knows darn well that's what I did. But he's trying to make it look like I'm up there just hanging around for all this time doing nothing. No, I'm hanging around because those two flippin' guys in those stalls took forever to do their business. Okay? That's my fault? That it took them 15 minutes or so to do their business? That's my fault. I moved that chair over there, okay? Listen, I have good days, I have bad days with my back. That was a bad day, so I moved that chair over there so I could see when the heck those guys were getting out of that bathroom, okay? That's the deal. But he purposely left that of this. That's the only reason you're going on the second floor, is to go to the bathroom. Why'd you leave that important information out, Nicholas? Whoever you are, I don't know who you are. Why? Now, who's been falsely misleading? Me or you? So, thank you to our public speaker. Next, we have Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. Ye are the salt of the earth, but if the salt have lost his savor, why we shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. The facts and the figures we face in the black community are staggering. These statistical evidence paints a bleak picture of our plight, rooted in the sickness of America's racism. We Christians must be different, not unique, but different. The economic climate in America says, I got mine, you get yours. The downtrodden are ignored in this environment of greed. Christians must be different than those around them. It is why I'm committed to redevelop Westside Rockford. Here's, as we heard last week, some of our friends in Chicago with whom we are working. Are you guys serious about asking or requesting rather $240 million for phase one? My retort was this. The Biden-Harris administration is proposing spending $6 trillion over a few years. Do you guys know how many zeros in a trillion? Especially in the context of an ignored community, especially where black citizens predominate, where half of the black citizens in America live in poverty and below. We should be seeking a billion dollars for manufacturing, putting our youth to work, earning half, five, and six-figure income without a college degree, and establishing black-owned businesses. We are the salt of the earth. Salt is a preservative, and we must maintain preserving power, impacting positively our communities. and maintaining our savor, we rise to this age, in the place where he, God, has placed us, discovering anew that he has promised to be with us. Six trillion dollars and 240 million dollars, even a billion is a small amount, and we will get it. Working with, among others, my kind of state representative, LaShawn Fork from Chicago. Remember that name, LaShawn Fork. Right, Reverend Dotson? Our white colleagues down in Springfield are upset because we're demanding some of that money. Get ready, white boys, for some significant changes. We are the salt of the earth. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. I'm a citizen of Rockford, Illinois, and I owe the person and I owe you. Proverbs. Proverbs highlight several benefits of keeping quiet. It's best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you the opportunity to listen, learn, and give you something in common with those who are wiser. Make sure to pause to think and so listen so that when you do have something to say, you have something important to say. I'm going to slightly freestyle because of what's been happening the past few days. Just earlier today, a A suspect was killed in Nashville, Tennessee at a school. We have too many schools with bullying and people are coming back to school and shooting up the school. What do we have in place to... to deal with the bullying and deal with the, deal with prevention of bullying or people getting bullied and then they're coming back to school doing what they're doing. And that happened here in Rockford and hopefully it don't happen. Finally, I want to thank our PS205 once again for providing the school bus for the fairground kids. So now Lincoln Middle School, West Middle School, and other kids that's walking to school is asking for the same thing that fairground kids is able to get. And that was thanks to Renewal Turning Point going on the radio station. And I want to thank the radio station and thank the public again because the radio station raised $620.96. Once again, I met with the pastors. The pastors asked me. As a matter of fact, I was at Book of Washington Sunday. fundraising, a couple of pastors approached me and asked me the same thing. How can they work with our youth? Well, if I got 30 youth, if each church was to take 10 or 20 of our youth, our agri youth, and work with them. our core youth, we got over 100 churches here in Rockford. We will knock the crime down 80%. More than 80% of the crime is being committed by our young people. When you got a six-year-old that's going to school shooting a teacher, something is wrong with that. And also, I'm looking at the chief of police. I want to thank you. for there's been too many occasions where I've showed up with 20 and 30 kids with only two or three vehicles and what have you. And we already know the capacity of how many kids we can bring. But allow me to bring these at-risk kids, bring them off the street, to bring them to events. and what have you. Yes, I need, now everybody's saying I need a bus. But I want to add on and put us, they've been, at me again, we had a meeting last week with the pastors. They asked me, Brother John, how about you sitting down, you have a very powerful voice in the community. The mayor got one way of doing things. You got your way of doing things. How about working together because we all, you see me talking? We all for the same cause are looking out for our young people. A lot of people look at me, I'm a guardian. I don't play with our kids. And therefore, that's why they respect me. Thank you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Is Lisa Jackson with us this evening? Okay. We will move on to new business. We have nothing under planning and development. We have nothing under code and regulation, so we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is the ordinance approving a 2% wage increase for employees of the City of Rockford Health and Human Services Department Head Start for the period from January 1, 2023 to December 31, 2023. And I make a motion to suspend Rule 9. Second. Thank you. Number two is an ordinance approving the payment of recruitment, retention, and perfect attendance incentives for non-union employees of the City of Rockford Head Start program using grant funds. I make the same motion to suspend Rule 9.
 Second.
 We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 9 on items C1 and C2. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor of suspending Rule 9 on items 1 and 2, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. Next up, we'll take up the two items. Is there any discussion on the two items that are before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Twelve ayes. Next, we have a... really special opportunity and a unique opportunity i'll call it also a bit of a bittersweet opportunity we're going to be swearing in uh the new 11th ward alderman is zero burials and we are i will say as we get ready to do this just on behalf of the city of rockford i know uh alderman quinones family is with us and we certainly uh are CONSTANTLY KEEPING YOU IN OUR THOUGHTS AND PRAYERS DURING THIS DIFFICULT TIME. AND I THINK WHAT MAKES US THE SWEET PART IS WE HAVE SOMEONE IN MR. BARRIOS WHO WILL HELP WORK HARD TO FILL THOSE BIG SHOES LEFT BY ALDERMAN TUFFY CANONES TO LIFT UP THE VOICES OF THE 11th WARD. SO WITH THAT, THE MICROPHONES ARE ON AND READY FOR YOU. NEW SPEAKER PLEASE RAISE YOUR RIGHT HAND AND REPEAT AFTER ME. I, ISIDRO BARRIOS, DO SOLEMNLY SWEAR. Do solemnly swear. Legally swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And I faithfully... discharge the duties of the office. Discharge the duties of the office. Of 11th Ward Alderman. Of 11th Ward Alderman. Of the city of Rockford. Of the city of Rockford. Illinois, according to the best of my ability. To the city of Rockford, to the state of Illinois, in the best of my ability. Oh man, that's priceless. Well, we're excited to have you. We're excited you're with us. Thank you for your willingness to serve. Okay, so now I need a motion to adjourn the city council portion. So moved. Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye.