good evening we will call to order the city of rockford special city council meeting for monday march 25th 2024 clerk could you please call the role jerky logan tunberg frost terena prati wilkins hoffman rose beach varios meeks bailey 13 present excellent we have a quorum this evening uh We move to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulations, so we'll go to finance and personnel and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. There is an approval of one subrecipient service agreement for the Illinois Department of Commerce, an economic opportunity grant in the amount of $150,111.84. The grant agreement does not require a cost match. The grant agreement term is from July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024. The subrecipient service agreement is funded by a DCO grant that was previously approved by our City Council. I place this motion for you. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Loganman? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Martin? Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey I'm sorry, Bonnie 13 eyes. Thank you. I didn't pass this is there a motion to adjourn there is Before we have a motion in second alderman Durkee, yeah, can I do one request like an officers report for sure staff? Thank you. I don't know if any other aldermen have received this request and The new garbage cans, which I happen to like, some of the senior citizens don't happen to like. They are having trouble maneuvering them. So my question is, is there, with our waste hauler, is there a smaller size that a senior citizen or other impaired resident could request a swap out? That's my only question. Thank you, sir. Thank you. If you couldn't hear because of the rain, the question was make sure I get this right. I just had a hard time hearing you, too. So the question was Alderman Durkee likes the garbage cans, but some seniors and others may not like the size of them. Is there a potential for a smaller size? Mr. Cagnone? Okay. Thank you, Your Honor. So our garbage provider, Rock River Disposal, does not have an alternative size option for our residents. Alderman Bonney? Actually, I've had a lot of calls with the same question. And it was my understanding from talking to other staff that they do, but that you would have to pay for it and that you would still have to pay for the larger – can or receptacle and that you would have to keep it. And so I guess I would ask the question whether or not we can, we have any ability to negotiate this issue with Rock River Disposal even though these cans are already out to negotiate another option for seniors or anybody really who. Mr. Cagnone? Thank you. I'm not certain who you might be speaking with, Alderman Bonney, but it's not set forth in the contract agreement that we have with Rock River Disposal. I mean, certainly willing to go back and discuss with them on what that option would cost and could it be implemented again. you know when we have looked at other communities as well as Other Contracts that they have outside the city of Rockford. They generally don't provide that service for a Contract as large but I'm happy to talk offline on whoever you may be speaking with As well as follow-up Thank you. Other in Beach. Thank your honor. I do think that especially in since we're being charged for it without the council actually voting for that or the new contract, that Rock River should have known that all the citizens aren't able to handle that. And I, like other aldermen here, have got a lot of calls not complaining about the newness, but the 80-year-olds that I can't handle it. And now we're told there's nothing we can do about it. And I think for the same amount of money we're being charged per month for four or five years, they ought to come up with another container for people that can't handle the large one. And I don't know what we can do about it, but to put the owners back on their backs so you can go buy your own. But we went through this before. Ten some years ago when they wanted to bring these out here because they were automatically can dump them and so forth and They wanted to charge us and we said no at that time now was back here And and we didn't really vote on it, but they've now charged us and there's nothing we can do about it I think unless we decide to ask them to find some smaller container for people can't have large ones Thank you, sir So, Alderman Beach, just for clarity, you did vote on it. And you also voted on the grant that helped reduce the price of those totes. So we will, as Mr. Cagnoni stated, we will go back and have that discussion if Alderman want us to do that. But make no mistake, this council voted on it. Well, let me clarify myself. Please. On the recent garbage contract. but it came up for vote to this council. It didn't come up for vote. It was decided by staff, because of the short time or whatever, that we were not going to go out for bids for the current contract that we have. That's what I'm talking about. If we had gone out for bids and had come around this council chamber and we were to discuss these things, then we would have had a better understanding of what was happening. So I do respect the fact that we did vote on bids, the price for this, but I don't recall that we voted on just those two sizes. Those are only charts. Maybe we did, and I'm sorry, but something happened because we're all getting calls about it. So, one, we did vote on it, and we did not – staff said no – their recommendation was not to go back out to bid. And then we voted on the contract and we voted on staff winning a $750,000 grant that helped reduce the cost of those totes. So so how we're aware of the size of the totes Truthfully, I'll just speak for myself when you read the size of the totes Yeah, I mean 96 gallon or whatever it is. I don't know what a 96 gallon looks like until I see it You know so I I can understand that and I appreciate I mean, I know you all are getting calls I'm going to the same neighborhood meetings. You are I'm getting the same calls and emails and maybe it's times more or less I don't know But I can assure you we will take this information back and we'll see what we can do. Thank you, sir. Since we're on officers' reports, any other reports? Mr. Barros? Thank you, Your Honor. It's going to be a year that I'm part of this council, and I want to thank the Mayor, Tom, for the opportunity and be a part of the representation of our 11th Ward. And I want to thank the city council members who believe in me There's a lot of work we've got to be doing and all the staff. Help me travel in all different departments and learn all different departments, and I want to thank you all. It's like a good, good family. Thank you all. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Other reports? We have a motion. We have a second. I thought Alderman Wilkins was going to call the vote or call the question. So we have a motion and a second. Alderman Wilkins, any other discussion? No? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.