I talked to Chad for a second, and I'm like, oh, yeah. You know, I do a lot of things. I'm a lot of people. I do a lot of things. I'm a lot of people. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a lot of things. I do a
 All right.
 I'm trying to keep up. Sure. Good evening, everyone.
 We will call to order the City of Rockford Special City Council meeting for Monday, March 29th, 2021. This evening, we are fortunate to have Chaplain Dan Herman with us to provide an invocation.
 hi everybody chiefs thank you for allowing me to be one of your chaplains thank you very much mr mayor i didn't get a chance to thank you and dr martel i'm from rockton uh knock rockford just for guiding us through uh 2020 and colvin thank you very much i was thinking how unique this is that the city council actually starts
 with a moment of silence or prayer. And when we do so, we don't do so just in one religion, but we're really a diverse community, and it's a great beauty in all that diversity. So if you might bow your heads and hearts in God's name.
 Good and gracious God, we are here in the presence of great people. Great not just because we've accomplished so much, but because we've taken time from our lives to sacrifice from our living to be able to make our community a better place. And so we ask that you may bless each one of us, our mayor, our council people.
 the leaders of our fire and police department, all the community members that are here, all of whom have a great passion for making Rockford a success in so many ways, not just financially but spiritually in a sense of pride and hope for all people. So we ask that you might watch over the work and the words that we say, that we might be able to approach this work with great humility and a great sense of pride for the call that we've received
 and that we have to share with one another. So bless our work on this evening. Watch over us and guide us in all things. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. One nation, under God, with liberty and justice for all. Okay, good evening, everyone. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Kirby. Here. Irvins. Here. Here.
 Thompson Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Alderman McNeely. Here. Thank you.
 12 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening. Just a matter of public information. We still are having aldermen be virtual and physically present just because we don't believe with COVID-19 pandemic that it's neither practical nor prudent to have everyone in the same room at this time or require everyone to be in the same room at this time.
 With that, we will move forward and we do have one public speaker this evening and that is Mr. John Tech Brantley. And you can use either mic or yes, that's great, Mr. Brantley. And just a reminder, you have three minutes. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and citizens of Rockville, Illinois. This poem I see on TV every day, and it affects us so much that I had to come here to say this poem for all of us to hear and hear our feelings. Walking like you.
 Walk a mile in my shoe, make one step, you will feel my pain, how I fell, shout and wept. Walk in my shoe, just one foot, you will feel how I struggle every day to stay strong and be tough as wood. Walk in my shoe, just one yard, you will feel how I struggle every day to stay strong and
 feel my heart, my ache, and be able to emphasize how someday I truly hard. Walk in my shoes just one mile, you will feel the frustration I feel in having to keep a phony smile. Walk a mile in my shoes for one day, you will suffer the pain I feel with the judgment you so past is so obvious to me. Walk a mile in my shoes for a week, you will feel the pain I feel in having to keep a phony
 you will then come to realize how much respect you really will have for me. No need to walk a mile further, for you are able to stop, step out of my shoe. You will not know all the struggles it takes to survive and all the stress that is judged. Before you judge me, just try to walk a mile in my shoe for a moment, for you will never know where you will be wearing the same shoe. Systematic racism has been going on for over 400 years. We watched today on George Floyd case,
 and the fence want to shake the heat back from a bad heart attack and drug use yet what happened in atlanta georgia and building colorado they came a different picture because it was there by white person we have a message that's coming up next tuesday we like to have a face-to-face meeting with cdc and the health department they talk to the news but they need to talk to us you cannot take our vote for granted we have questions to ask if you want our support
 and trust and grant trust in your attorney for this meeting. I must remind you, we have two people running for city council. We have two people running for school board. We have over 120 voters block. And for the past week, Rockford Regents and Starr have been saying everything I've been saying for weeks and months out.
 about the propaganda that's been used by the CDC and why our people refuse and don't trust to taking this vaccine. Thank you. Thank you. On to motions and resolutions, and we'll begin with our Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Rosen.
 Thank you, your honor. We have two items. The committee recommends approval of the and Harrison tiff resolution calling for a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with approval. Of a redevelopment plan and project for the designation of the and Harrison redevelopment project area.
 The second item is the committee recommends approval of the amended Amrock TIF resolution calling for a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with their approval of the first amendment to the redevelopment plan and project and the amendment to the designation of the amended Amrock Hotel redevelopment project area. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So, Alderman, we have two items before you. We'll see if there's any discussion inside council chambers first.
 Seeing no discussion inside council chambers. Is there any discussion online? Yeah, and which alderman is that? I'm sorry. Herbie and mainly window speak to you 1st. I think I can hear you and make nearly why don't you go 1st? I, the only question I have. Mr. mayor is regarding the joint review board. I don't recall how the joint review board is selected.
 Thank you. Director Fronson? The Joint Review Board consists of representatives from the taxing bodies, so each taxing body would identify an individual who would participate as a voting member. Thank you. And Alderman Hervey, did you have a question? Yes, Your Honor. This is...
 In reading the resolution, the resolution right now says it's a draft. Is there any further amendment to that draft? Is there anything being added before this goes to a hearing? Director Franzen, is there anything additional? So these are not the... Let me clarify. My question was, were there any outstanding issues that were awaiting determination, or is this just a draft amendment?
 because it's not final for some reason. Director Franson? So the resolution is drafted, but there are no proposed changes to the copy that you're seeing prior to approval by council. This is a resolution just authorizing the convening the joint review board and subsequently a public hearing. It is not the draft resolution.
 the eligibility report or the draft redevelopment plan. So there certainly will be additional documents and I'll be providing that to council. That will be considered by JRB, commented on by the public and then put up for consideration to council in early June. Early June, okay, thank you. Thank you, is there any further discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman? Aye. Toonberg? Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye.
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Aye Rose Aye Beach Aye Quinones Aye Hanley
 I 13 eyes, thank you. We have nothing under item B, which is code and regulation committee. We have nothing under item C, finance and personnel. And prior to going to new business, I'd ask alderman frost if he has a motion for us. I do. Your honor I would make a motion to convene in the closed session. In order in order to discuss pending and threaten litigation matters as well as labor negotiation matters.
 we have a motion to go into closed session do we have a second we have a motion we have a second to go into closed session by alderman beach is there any discussion on going into closed session inside council chamber seeing no discussion inside council chambers is there any discussion online to go into closed session
 Seeing no discussion online. Your Honor. Alderman Hervey. Yeah, just a question. My agenda showed that there is an item under finance. Is that held out or laid over? No, good question. We're going to move to the closed session prior to taking up that item. So we've moved. Okay. That's a good question. We've moved closed session above new business or before new business.
 Good question. Thank you. Any further discussion on mine? Hearing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 13 ayes. Excellent. We'll move to closed session. And for those aldermen online, they should just stay on the phone or online. Thank you. We'll be right back. I'm pretty good at what I do, but it takes a toll doing it by myself. You know, I need to...
 We started capitalizing on some of the resources, you know, but, uh, you know, after work today, I came back home and I was trying to get together. I bought the baby girl, um, because she, she been, she been happy with her, uh, slide since she was two, but she's out going. And so I bought her a play set and I've been trying to get it together as the weather is getting better. And it was quite easy.
 The people across the street have the exact same one. They're building it at the same time. And my baby girl just put the slide on it today, and she was on the play set. And I'm sitting in the house looking out the window. Okay, good evening. We are back. Can we have a roll call? Are you two there? You two. Jerky. Here. Logaman. Here. Toonberg. Toonberg. Toonberg. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Urban's.
 Here. Thompson Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Here. McNeely. Here. 13 present. Excellent. So we are back into open session. We are, we'll go back to new business. We have nothing under item A, planning and development. We have nothing under item B, code and regulation committee. So we'll move to item C, finance and personnel committee. Alderman Frost,
 Thank you. There's one matter and it's an ordinance approving a one-time COVID-19 financial allocation for Head Start employees and we need to suspend pursuant to Rule 15. Okay, so we have a motion to suspend Rule 15. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. We have a motion and we have a second to suspend Rule 15. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye.
 Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. I'm going to ask the board to vote on the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion to approve the motion
 Next up is officers reports. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Now that we've suspended the rules for item C1, is there any discussion on that item? Seeing none inside council chambers, is there any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye.
 Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Warren? Aye. Warren?
 13 ice excellent. So thank you and next we'll go to officers reports. I just have one item this afternoon. I had the honor to join pastor Copeland. Dr. Martel chairman share Shirely as well as the National Guard representatives to announce that we're opening up a second site for covid vaccination.
 That second site is going to be located at New Zion Missionary Baptist Church. So a big thank you to Pastor Copeland, their congregation, and also the entire minister's fellowship for the work to get the site open. Obviously, it's been well documented the disparities in those who have received and registered for the vaccine.
 and we hope that we can ensure that those registered and those who get the vaccine are more reflective of those who live in our and make up our community really exciting news and this site will be open and fully staffed beginning this wednesday
 And every Wednesday through Saturday from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. I want to remind everyone that you still have to register. This is an appointment only site. So please urge your constituents to the alderman and those watching on TV. Please go to WCHD.org WCHD.org and register for the vaccine.
 You can also call a COVID hotline number to register as well. And registration takes less than five minutes. And we need you to register so that we can get you in that queue. With that, is there Alderman at City Hall who have any officers report? Alderman Rose.
 real quick i just wanted to mention the green town initiative that is coming to rockford through the great great neighborhoods program and transform rockford they did a magnificent job of bringing a bunch of people together last week around this green town initiative and they're hoping to do a large conference in november of 2021 to address some of the environmental issues facing our community which all
 A lot of it includes items around equity. And so if those are things that you are interested in, whether it's environmental issues, equity issues, you know, putting Rockford back on the map to be the forest city and celebrating our great river access, that's something to look forward to in November.
 thank you alderman rose is there any other uh discussion or reports inside council chambers alderman thunberg thank you mayor i've had a couple inquiries recently on the gravel driveways and i know that uh is coming up in november and so i was just going to ask that we consider a couple of different programs i know i've talked with uh uh
 Finance director Haggerty on this and just to let the other aldermen know You know we had talked about possibly working out a deal with some of the contractors And or doing something similar to the tree removal program and putting it on their water bill
 but I wouldn't also be opposed to possibly the consideration of extending it another year since we are still dealing with the ramifications of COVID this year and people are still under some financial hardship. And so I wouldn't be opposed to consider going forth here in the near future of discussions for possibly extending it another year.
 Thank you appreciate that any other reports inside council chambers seeing none any alderman online who have a report? Yeah, yeah, I believe alderman McNeely you can go ahead. Thank you Mr. mayor 1st would like to comment. Regarding the vaccination and the location. That's at new science, I would hope that the health department would.
 have something. There are plenty of churches in my ward, and it would be nice if they would have that option available for my constituents at one of the many churches that's here. And I'm not sure where Pastor Copeland, if that's going to be at his new church, or if they're looking at the old church.
 But I would hope that the health department would consider having it at one of the churches in my location. I know that our percentage of people being vaccinated is somewhat low, and I know that there are a number of my constituents still haven't received the shot.
 So I don't know if that would come through your office, or I certainly can give her a call directly. But I'm not pleased that she has not reached out beyond Crusader Clinic and the one event at Ellis School. Thank you. I would like to comment as well. I wasn't aware my niece told me about it.
 the two-year-old that drowned it a week or so ago i think that's so sad i know that the mother said that she wasn't going to use gofundme but she did want donations to come in for i believe it was for fencing so that no other kids could fall in the river
 But I would like to publicly offer my condolences to her and certainly offer her to give me a call. Thank you. Thank you. That was certainly a horrible and tragic incident.
 We can certainly relay messages to the health department, the Emergency Operations Center. I can tell you they are doing mobile sites. You mentioned one at Ellis where it was highly successful, where they vaccinate or vaccinated.
 about 950 people and absolutely Crusaders certainly participating and doing a great job but they will have other mobile sites right now with the allocation of the guard we will have just those two sites to my knowledge at this moment but I will certainly relay the message I know they're always looking for more mobile sites any other reports online yes sure alderman Herbie
 Um, piggybacking off Alderman Toonberg's comment, I would ask that we, I don't know if we need to put it on the agenda for next week, if staff could just put something together to extend the timeframe for
 Requiring people to put in the gravel driveway. I'd like to see us do both at the same time, offer the program for people who want to get it done now. And extend the deadline for getting it done. So maybe put together a list of contractors who are willing to.
 maybe do groups of them in certain neighborhoods or wards at a time. If they could get 15 or 20, it might be a better price than having to come back out with all the heavy equipment at the same time or different times. But at the same time, I'd like to see us extend the deadline by at least a year or maybe even two because people are just too affected by COVID. I think it would be, even though I want to see some uniformity,
 And I think it's confusing for people when some have gravel and some don't. Now is probably not the time to push towards that deadline. So if staff could bring something back to do both of those things, it would be great. Absolutely. I can tell you staff's already working on something. And if not next week, it'll be very soon coming forward before council. Okay. I don't have long, so. All right. Any other reports online? No.
 Okay. Oh, just real quick, Your Honor. Just real quick. I attended one of the Friday sessions that Dr. Martell is holding. I think they're at 2.30. And did we Zoom in or was it a phone call? I thought we Zoomed in. You Zoomed in. You can call in or you can actually attend.
 But she gives a quick update. We were supposed to finish in a half hour. We were on there well over for an hour. And she stayed because she didn't have anything else. And we had some good discussion, especially as Alderman McNeely is talking about with the equity issues. I still don't think we're doing anything to push COVID vaccinations for the most vulnerable and
 communities most vulnerable for COVID, but also most likely to have concerns about getting the vaccine. I'm really tired of people, their tactics in targeted towards the African American and somewhat the Latino communities. We all know about Tuskegee. We all know about some of the
 what you call experimentation or or studies that have been done within the african-american community that are questionable at best this vaccine is not one of them and for people to not get the vaccine because they're afraid
 of what may have happened during the Trump administration is insanity. Because if you get COVID, it doesn't matter whose administration it is. We have something like seven or eight times higher chance of dying from it or getting seriously ill and hospitalized. They're talking now about some of the COVID long haulers, people who have extreme symptoms, months.
 many months after they have survived COVID, if they survived getting off, were able to get off the ventilator. So if you want to call me, my number's online, but I'll talk to you. I'll tell you about what I know about mRNA technology that was being developed long, long before COVID.
 Donald Trump even thought about getting elected long before any of these companies. Well, some of these companies may have worked on our mRNA technology. I'm no expert, but I got schooled on it very quickly by some very good and trustworthy engineers, physicians and medical researchers. So stay offline. Thank you. Thank you.
 is there a motion to adjourn this meeting as we have another meeting we have a motion we have a second any discussion inside council chambers any discussion online clerk could you please call the role jerky logeman toonberg frost hervey hi urbans hi thompson kelly hoffman hi
 Rose Beach Kenonis Hanley hi McNeely hi 13 nice excellent thank you uh now I will call to order the city of Rockford's uh scheduled strategic planning session for