City Council meeting clerk, will you please call the roll here? Logan Frost, Hervey, Irvins, Hoffman, Rose Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely, 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Alderman Frost for legislative and lobby.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I would ask at this time that we refer the Legislative Lobby Committee on August 9, 2018 for the approval and confirmation of certain priority items for the City's legislative lobby efforts in the upcoming Illinois General Assembly. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Under New Committee Reports, Alderman John Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I would place up the approval of application for Head Start and Early Head Start services.
 We got a motion to lay over that item. Is there a second? All right, and it'll automatically lay over with two alderman Thank you moving on to unfit. I thought I heard that the due date was April 9th. It'll leave Okay. Yes Answer the question. Yes it would Moving on to unfinished business. We have alderman back for financing personnel. Thank you your honor I have six items
 and uh items two and three i am holding out as the no you mean items one and three items one and three i'm sorry i'm holding out because they are not within our ability to pass without home rule and so we are going to be taking up two four five and six two is the recommendation of the budget discussion packet number four item 14 rental registry fee
 for 25 per account and 15 per property next is the utility tax on gas and electric electricity next is the approval of the modification to 2018 fee schedule and finally is the approval of the 2018 budget and appropriation ordinance and i place them up for passage excellent so we have uh items two four five and six up for passage is there discussion alderman durkee
 Yes, thanks, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 4-2, under the rental registry fee, I move to amend the committee report to recommend approval of a rental registry fee to be established by the city and approved by the council. Excellent. We have a motion to amend item 4C-2. Is there a second to that motion? There's a second. Is there a discussion on the motion in front of us? Alderman Hoffman.
 I'm really concerned about the fee. I would like to see more work done on the ordinance that goes along with our landlords. We're seeing some real progress in our neighborhood, and I want to keep the good landlords on our side.
 And the ordinance that is in place that's not being used right now isn't working. Is there any way that we can revisit the ordinance and make it something that works for all? Because it's not working in my – it's actually working backwards in my neighborhood. I now have people that are afraid to call 911 and call the police because I guess the way it's set up is if you call –
 then your landlord gets a message that 911 has been called to your address. So now they're calling me to ask me to call the police.
 So something has gone terribly wrong. A couple of things. One, this will be referred. So they're kind of like all of the other financial packages. There will be more items to come before you. So tonight you are not voting on a particular final dollar amount or how it looks like. More language needs to be addressed, and the legal department will do so. As regards to the...
 Chronic nuisance ordinance you would and correct me if I'm wrong You would need to have three phone calls from the same unit in a hundred and twenty day period for there to be negative action placed to any landlord Which has been hard to come by Excuse me mayor. It is happening in my neighborhood because they're reporting drug dealers and so now
 They are calling me saying I can't call anymore because my landlord is wondering what I'm up to because it's coming back using the address. Apparently they don't say what the call is about or it's not working. Unless it's a drug dealer calling on the drug dealer. Yeah. I wouldn't have that issue.
 We can definitely address it, but we don't want that to happen if it is happening. We certainly don't want thank you Is there further discussion alderman can you honest? Yes? I want to know if If a person has owns a house and he rents out the upstairs so he would consider a landlord Mr. Cagnone. Thank you your honor. Yes, that would fall under the rental registry requirements of the chronic nuisance ordinance They would have to register the unit. Is there other discussion alderman Harvey just that the the
 Several of the ordinances that are being talked about a couple are coming before the housing committee We were going to look at having a meeting this week But we're going to actually postpone that until staff has a chance to get some things drafted so we can actually discuss it But with most of these things That were like modifications to certain items those are going to be coming To various subcommittees to to work on including housing certainly alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. I
 If this item is going to be discussed and reviewed and revised, should we even have it on here? Maybe we should. I make a motion that we lay it over. Not on that committee, but this is council, so I make a motion that we lay it over.
 Certainly, so the reason why it's out there like any other financial task force recommendation is with our slimmed-down staff We don't want them to put in a lot of time and energy if there is not a consensus of our aldermen To at least move forward with doing more work. I would feel I would feel Probably more comfortable if we take dollar amounts out. I
 So we have a motion right now that alderman Durkee put forward so we got a vote on that motion Then you can provide any motion that you'd like. Thank you So is there any further discussion on the motion that alderman Durkee has put forth seeing no So no dollar amounts It's written on the sheet and I think that's what you're saying
 His motion doesn't have it the paper does so we have a motion in a second without the dollar amount to alderman mcneely I apologize for making that more confusing So there's a motion in a second if other further discussion seeing no further discussion clerk Will you please call the roll on the amended amendment? Mugaman frost Herbie Irvin's Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones
 Beck? Aye. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes, one no. Excellent. So that amendment to number two passes. Now we have items two, four, five, and six before us. Is there discussion on items two, four, five, or six? Alderman Hervey? I just wanted to say on item four, because I wanted to be clear. I understand the difficulty that everybody has on the utility tax.
 i'm not gonna i can't support it for about the past five years i've had many discussions with fifth ward residents about what matters and what doesn't some of the hardships people face and i have promised on numerous occasions that i would not support a utility tax that's been an underlying thing for a long time that's a promise i'm not going to break because i'm a representative of them not
 I, if I had not made that promise, I would support implementation of utility tax based on the financial situation that we're in. And I think that's what we're doing.
 and the financial situation coming in the next six years. So I just wanted to clarify that because I don't want people to think that I don't support keeping Rockford moving forward and plugging the holes that we have. I just wish we had a better way to do it. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I've seen this council steady and consistently chop it way to trim our budget
 and to finally come up with a task force that brought a lot of debt to bear here, and we've supported that along the way. I know that there is a big elephant in the room that we have to address because this utility tax that is before us tonight is not going to solve this problem long term. At the best, we may get a couple years out of it.
 because we have some serious, difficult problems because of the elephant that's in the room. And I really urge the Legislation and Lobby Committee to discuss moving the fully funded pension time limit from 2040 to 2050, because that 10 years there will certainly bring a great dollar relief.
 to this community and every other community in the state of Illinois without jeopardizing the well-earned pensions that people are working and hope to receive. But right now we have a big problem there that is really creating a lot of tension for us and other communities, let alone the state of Illinois themselves to try to balance their budget. And I just call the word stealing
 2.4 million dollars from this community that doesn't make me very happy at all i'm not proud of that i'm not proud of that's the way our state is handling without any concern for cities or their constituencies so um that's just the remarks that i want to make your honor thank you for allowing me to speak um i will be supporting this tonight thank you alderman beach is there uh alderman rose
 Just like alderman beach said I will be reluctantly supporting the utility tax I think it should have a line item on our everyone's bill that says the realtors association non-home rule tax Because I think what it says is how big money influences
 our elections. I think it says a lot about money in politics and unfortunately, this is going to hurt a lot of families and I
 Like I've said in the past, I'm a taxpayer too. I don't want to pay this, but we had some choices and I would have much rather paid a few extra cents paying for a meal at a restaurant than paying a few extra dollars on this. And we had that choice and lost. So I hope people remember this and know that if or when home rule comes up,
 this can be something that we can get rid of. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, did you have your hand up? Yes, I do. Alderman McNeely. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I certainly was not going to speak regarding home rule tonight, but unfortunately my colleague has made a comment regarding the Real Estate Association and the utility tax. If I recall correctly, the citizens of Rockford, the taxpayers of Rockford,
 the voters of Rockford voted Home Rule down. This utility tax on gas and electricity was informed by the mayor and other groups that supported Home Rule at various meetings, as well as in the newspaper, as well as on TV. So the voters knew that this was a possibility. It was more than a possibility.
 the mayor was adamant that this was going to come if Home Rule did not pass. So to say that the utility tax is the product of the Realtor Association is incorrect. And the voters, the taxpayer of this city know exactly what they voted for. And it voted not by 10%, I believe it was like seven or 8%,
 of their entire vote. So I sit here. I don't want to support a utility tax on gas and electric. My constituents, not all of them, but a significant amount, you add five or ten dollars, yeah, it's going to make a difference to them.
 I supported no home rule. I knew that this was going to come about. I knew that I would have to sit here and make a decision and be able to explain to my constituents. But by no means whatsoever is the Realtor Association responsible for utility tax. We as a city are responsible.
 We're not, we can't separate ourselves from something because it's negative, because it increases dollar amounts to our constituency. We have to face the music, and I'm here tonight ready to face that music. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you alderman Hoffman. Thank you mayor. I just want to apologize to all of my constituents I am so very sorry, but I am going to have to support this tonight. Thank you other Discussion I'll mean Quinones. Yes, I can't support this utility attacks tonight My voters in the 11th Ward spoke majority of them that voted and I'm gonna have to go with them. I
 and it's going to hurt a lot of my people in my ward and plus the west side too now there's going to be excess fees and i like to see some of this money that's excess put into my 11th ward in the west side of rockford but i can't support it tonight another discussion seeing no other discussion clerk uh will you please call the roll on items two four five and six jerky boogerman frost herbie urbans
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely. No on two. Three is not up. We have items two, four, five, and six up. I on six, no on the remaining. Chiarelli. Item number two, 10 ayes, two noes. Item number four, eight ayes, four noes. Item number five, 11 ayes, one no. Item number six, 12 ayes.
 Item passes. Okay. We have appointments laid over. Now we have officers' reports. Are there any aldermen who'd like to share an officers' report? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. We had talked about, we had a meeting, as you well know, at Montague Library to discuss home rule and some other matters. We had, normally the Fifth Ward meeting would be this Thursday. I think that's the
 28th or 9th, 29th. I am going to cancel that because we did have one just recently, and I think we're just going to go with the April meeting. So that will be canceled. I don't know that we can still. I'd have to ask Chief, can we still do robocalls? Reverse 911s. Reverse 911s. When is that coming back? Okay.
 That's a question for IT for Glenn and we have to we're still in the process of transitioning to the new company and then we also there's more to come on that because we pay for a certain amount of minutes every year and then after we use up those minutes which we would prefer to use for emergency like major notifications we pay by the minute after that
 So it'll have to be brought to the council to decide if we want to spend more money for putting out robocalls for non-emergency, life-threatening things. Then I'd like to, because I don't ever see, I seldom receive one for emergency things like, you know, a crazed killer running around the area. I think that's almost normal. But I would like to ask if we could look at some of the other services that provide robocalls.
 you know especially during this election some of them were extremely cheap to do because maybe the service we're using for the reverse 911 it's important for some of us i send out postcards and i use email i still don't reach enough people and those reverse calls are important for my my ward meetings so
 We can't do it. I'd ask that someone find a way of do it myself if I have to I can certainly share with the information And how to perform a robocall and I can see if it's something if there's something that they could do that would give some Cost savings for the city as a whole that's fine, but if I have to pay for it. It's something we just have to do For our neighborhood groups. Thank you alderman Hoffman. I
 On a cheerier note, I would really like to thank Chief Bergstrom. I unfortunately, with everything that's been going on, forgot to mention that he held an excellent meeting for the AAUW women on March 10th. And we got to see what our firefighters are up against. But we also got to see the new facility.
 And it really impressed the women as to all the efforts he's putting forth to get women to become firefighters and about the new summer camp. So we want to thank him. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. If I may, I have an item here that should be submitted for the Planning and Development Committee, if I may enter it.
 Sure. That's from Progressive West Rockford and I would like to submit it for the Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. And secondly, thank you, and secondly I want to announce, and this is Auderman Hervey's area so maybe she just let it slip by, Booker Washington Center has a special event this weekend for the, introducing the library there at Booker Washington Center.
 It was in the newspaper that Booker Washington, I'm not sure, Mr. Mayor, if you will be present or not. This weekend on Saturday, I will be there. I just want to let the community know this is a very special event. They have been working and struggling, and the work that they're doing,
 The one thing that they decided to do that is coming to fruition is having a library there for the kids. They have a number of kids that come through that center, and they wanted to be able to give the kids the opportunity to sit down and read if they wanted to. So this will be a great event. And I'm so glad, Mr. Mayor, that you will be there on Saturday. Thank you.
 The library for those who were unaware, it's at Booker 1005 South Court Street and it's the library is to honor former representative Chuck Jefferson. Thank you. Other further discussion or comments? Okay, moving on to new business under ordinances and that will go to Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. All right, so item one was laid over so we have
 Three items to vote on. First is the utility tax on gas and electricity. Second is modification to 2018 fee schedule. And the third is the 2018 budget and appropriation ordinance. And I place them up for passage. Excellent. We have three items before us. Item one is laid over, so we have two, three, and four in front of us. Is there a discussion on any of the items before us? Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 I promise this will be the last time I use the term home rule for a while. But with respect to the utility tax, I was on the financial task force that spent a great deal of time this summer working on ways, department by department, and I commend our finance department led by Carrie Ackman in really giving us a great deal of information. And Alderman Beach was there, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly was there, as well as we had several people from the community that volunteered and
 a substantial amount of their time every Tuesday this summer to work on ideas that could help, hopefully, get our financial straits figured out. And out of that obviously came the idea to put home rule on the ballot. And in an alternative, it's been something that's been discussed since my first term of Alderman, and that was having utility tax. And in prior years, we really worked hard, like for many of the reasons Alderman Hervey mentioned,
 not to have that happen. Well, in this unfortunate year, I don't think we have a choice. And I hate to see, and I guess I challenge my fellow aldermen that we're adamant in their voting no on home rule, that now take the easy path tonight and want to take a no vote on utility tax. I mean, my ward voted in favor of home rule. And obviously those, like all wards, there are taxpayers in each ward, but no one voted no.
 And even though my ward carried in favor of home rule, I don't think the majority of folks in my ward either want me to take a yes vote on the utility tax. But it's a tough decision, it's something that I think we're all called here to do. And I just, again, I challenge folks to really vote no on it. Of course, if your voters voted no for home rule, then it wasn't as if
 It wasn't mentioned that this could be an alternative and is an alternative that we need to move forward. Nobody wants to vote yes on a utility tax here, just like nobody here wants to vote yes on increasing property taxes. And I don't want to ever have to actually vote to increase property taxes. I haven't done it yet and I don't plan on doing it in the near future.
 But in this particular case, since we don't have the ability to do a number of things that we would have been allowed to do under home rule, this is unfortunately one of the things that we are allowed to do to actually help pass an important budget, which we still need to do. Thank you. Thank you. Is there other discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I think one of the more important things is, as we take the U.S.
 We pay a lot of taxes. Nobody wants to pay more but the unfortunate reality is the city has to walk and chew gum It has to take care of roads and and and such and protect us from bad guys and from fires and and get us to the hospital When we're in trouble, so those basic services are important, but it also has to make the city livable so development and those things can't stop So we do have to walk and chew gum at the same time and and I would agree with the other comments but most importantly
 Is we did we're transparent with our budget process. We were transparent with expenses We were transparent and all that we were doing and we told the voters that here were our alternatives We could use home rule and try to find other revenue streams That weren't so punitive as a regressive utility tax or if we did not have home rule, we would have utility taxes
 So the more important thing is we told the voters what we were going to do, and for us to start getting shifty and, yeah, I don't really want to do a utility tax, when all along we said it was A or B. So I think we're compelled to vote for B because the last thing we want to do is come across to businesses or voters or anybody else as being a double-minded, wishy-washy council. We said A or B.
 so we're now faced with b and so reluctantly um i will be voting for the utility tax thank you is there further discussion alderman quinones uh you know the yes voters uh i respect everybody came out to vote but you know also the us voters kind of got uh it could have been a better situation got kind of what they were going to do to the no voters but you know it's uh now
 I'm like I said, I'm representing my 11th ward and and they want me to vote. No, that's what I'm gonna do majority voters, but you know, it was back and forth. It was a good race and you know, some things weren't said from the US voters. The US voters would have won. So you know, we can blame both sides there. That's it. Okay. Is there further discussion? I would just say a special well, is there further discussion?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Frost. Hervey. No, I'm two. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. No, I'm two. Chiarelli. Item number two, nine ayes, three nos. Item three and four, 12 ayes.
 Thank you. I just want to take a second and give a special thank you to a couple of people. Director Eklund, I don't know if you've attended more public meetings, having over 40-plus public meetings, not just to you but your entire staff for the work that you've done this year. Thank you.
 to the alderman, Alderman Thompson Kelly, Alderman Frost and Alderman Beach for attending nearly 20 public meetings. I thank you for your additional time and service that you gave to this community. To all of the aldermen collectively,
 nearly every one of those meetings that Director Eklund was at, you were here, asking thoughtful questions and finding ways that we could continue to decrease our property taxes and hold true to our principles and increase public safety efforts. So I thank you. And to those aldermens who had the courage to stand for something, I appreciate that.
 So without further ado, if there is a motion to adjourn, I would appreciate it. If there's a motion and a second, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.