Pastor Johnson here. Who would like to fill in? Do we have any pastors in the house? Pastor Copeland here. Pastor Copeland, do you want to come out? Pastor Williams. You guys can trade places, whatever you want to do. Right here. Shall we pray? Father, you've given us the privilege to be a part of this great city, and now as we get ready to conduct business,
 We invoke your presence, ask for your wisdom, your insight, your guidance, and that you would make clear pathways for the next step, the next right thing that should be done.
 We ask your blessings upon our city council, upon our mayor, upon the fire and police, all the agencies that are here, and that you would help us as a city to achieve the peace that we desire. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Now before we move forward, I don't want to make this mistake, we have a Cub Scout pack that is here, Pack 409 from Bloom School. I'd invite them to please come forward.
 I had a chance to meet these young gentlemen, their PAC leader, earlier today, and I want to thank you. We're going to stand right next to me, just right next to me here. Okay. And they did a great job asking me a lot of tough questions, but they were very inquisitive in their earning their badges and doing their work and getting ready to graduate to Boy Scouts soon. So go ahead, gentlemen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Great job, gentlemen. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Getchis. Here. McNamara. Here. Hervey. Here. Connell. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Odo. Here. Newberg.
 Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. So we have two journals for passage. The journal proceedings for March 6th and March 13th. Is there a motion to approve? There's been a motion. Second to approve each of those journals, March 6th and March 13th. Is there any discussion, amendments, or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye.
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The journal should be shown as approved. We have several speakers signed up for public speaking this evening. I'd remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Once they're done with their comments, I'd ask them to make room for the next speaker. We have a packed house tonight. Our first speaker this evening is Alicia Neubauer. Okay, this is where I speak? Yes. Okay, great.
 Members of City Council and Mayor Morrissey, thank you for listening to me tonight. I appreciate the time and energy that you put into acting as a civil servant for the city of Rockford. I assume that you took on this role because you love where you live, as I do. I understand that the decision to support the Amarok Hotel financially is not a black and white issue. If it was easy, it would have been done many years ago.
 I trust that as you look over all the information presented to you, that you will make the best decision for our city. I believe that the best decision is to say yes. Rockford needs a hotel and it's downtown again. We have worked hard redeveloping our city center and encouraging our citizens to rediscover its assets. We have gold medal winning park systems,
 an active and exciting hockey team, one of the best children's museums in the nation, and a natural history museum with the most complete juvenile T-Rex in the world. There are local breweries to visit and a weekly staple city market that I look forward to attending every week with our children. Visitors increasingly are choosing Rockford for their sporting events and their gatherings large and small.
 When a large group like the Synchronized Skaters books events at BMO and then drives north to Beloit to stay in a hotel, there's a problem. When I visit a city, I want to park my car and explore what is within walking distance. Where can I get coffee, lunch, dinner? Are there interesting shops along the way? In order for us to transform Rockford by 2025, we need a downtown hotel.
 You may think, yes, a downtown hotel would be great, but the city of Rockford can't afford to help. That is the role of a private developer, I've heard. Now, I understand that it costs less money to develop a building on flat farmland that was once a prairie. I understand that for many years in our past, Rockford extended east towards the interstate to develop hotels, convention centers, big box stores, and chain restaurants. As development flourished east and all around the outskirts of town,
 Our downtown was abandoned. Who paid for the extension of the utilities? Water, sewer, electricity, streets, street lights? The developers paid no impact fees as these services were extended outwards. Now in our very recent past, we are adding in sidewalks for pedestrians to travel safely from their hotel to get to a restaurant. Who paid for this added infrastructure? The city of Rockford and Winnebago County.
 It is the city's job to support its citizens to have access to utilities and roads for safe passage for police and fire. Now we have the opportunity to develop an existing building in the city center into an active hotel. Downtown Rockford is a place to visit, but also a place to work, dine, shop, and play. That is why my husband and I chose our location for a skateboard shop. Downtown business owners support each other.
 We shop in each other's establishments. We support downtown. Please consider voting yes to further support our efforts. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 The leading there Marcy, our aldermen, alderwomen and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Proverbs 17 verses 27 to 28 highlight seven benefits of keeping quiet. First is the best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who may be wiser than you. Make sure to pause to take a listen so that when you do speak,
 you have something worthwhile to say. I was going to talk about Donald Trump, but I'm going to bypass him for the day because they've been talking about him on the news all day. I'm going to go right into talking about Reese's. At Reese's Middle School this past Friday, they had Reg Night and they had St. Patrick's Day. And so I asked the youth,
 there were the St. Pat's. Some of them didn't know where St. Pat's were. So I said, I'll give you all $5 if you can go on your iPad and tell me, find out where St. Pat's is. After 60 students, 20 of them went on their iPad. And then I brought it to the principal and the staff attention about what my plans were.
 was. They all liked it. I was thinking maybe one or two students was going to participate. It turned around 20 students participated. Five of them stood out the most and they were able to tell me where St. Patrick's Day was and they were very enthused about talking about it. So we gave everyone who had a green shirt on, we gave them a t-shirt. I ended my conversation by telling them the importance of the iPad is using it for education and also instead of using it for playing games or, or, you know, playing games, you know,
 bullying or Facebook or talking down on one another, usually for educational purposes. They liked the idea. Sadly, we took 30 kids. We stopped at Tom McNamara's fundraiser for the breakfast program. They ran out of breakfast, but the kids still showed up anyway. So let them know what the Maryland race looked like. We left from there and we went to North Laugh. North Laugh, they had a program. They had
 They had a
 They had a play going on, but they had a sympathy orchestra there. Our youth was looking at the sympathy orchestra. They was upset. They was like they had to wrap. They wasn't into it. But the lady, the director there, she had enough sense to see my tears was distracted. She brought all of the youth to sit down up front. And then she engaged our youth. She talked about what the sympathy is so important. Once she started talking to the youth, they stopped playing with their iPads. They stopped talking to each other.
 and they start paying attention. That's what we need to do and engage our future generation as to what's going on besides what they see in those four walls. I want to go straight into, because I am a preaching committment for the downtown area. We did a choice neighborhood four years ago. One of the biggest outcry is building the west side. We talked about building a motel or a hotel in the downtown area. We say yes to building a motel in the downtown area, but what
 But what expense? We know Mayor Morsi is getting ready to go out. We know Alderman is coming in, Alderman is going out. We know we're going to have a new mayor. But at what expense is it going to cost? They built Morsi's Hospital way out there on the east side of town and there wasn't a big old fuss. Now there's a big old fuss about building a hotel downtown. We should find a way to be able to build a motel without the expense, without being paid on the taxpayers' back.
 Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Brantley. Our next speaker is Jane Hayes. Ms. Hayes here? Oh, there she is. Good evening to all the movers and shakers of Rockford. It's a pleasure. This is my first time to address you. I hope this past Sunday you saw in the paper Mary Jo Powers' guest column, which was entitled Amarok Opposition Fueled by Self-Interest.
 Mary Jo and I started, well, we've done many things together. We are both former teachers, and we started the Truth Squad, which is part of the Indivisible Movement, which started in Washington, D.C., to keep all levels of our government accountable and transparent. Mary Jo has lived in this city for over 50 years, and I've lived here over 30. And she has seen, as I, the diminishing foundation of downtown's business district.
 Most vibrant cities progress because of a beneficial downtown. Rockford, on the other hand, has been a divided city because of the river, which divides the east and west sides and its aligning prejudices of each side, resulting in a costly lawsuit for District 205.
 If the Amarc building is rehabbed into a downtown hotel, it can only increase job productivity and lessen crime in downtown Rockford. Building it will create 123 new jobs
 and 533 jobs, construction jobs, over two years. The cost of the hotel will be $78 million, mostly paid for by Gorman and Company, with a $13 million subsidy in municipal bonds to be carried by our city. Naturally, we have lots of needs in our city, but I think that's a pretty good deal, a no-brainer, to have that kind of four-star motel.
 Our citizens have told you that we want a more viable downtown with a year-long market, more entertainment at the Coronado and BMO Center, more diverse eateries, and plenty of new businesses. We also want our blighted downtown to be safe for visitors and all Rockfordians. Stop dividing our town by east-side, west-side interests and mindsets.
 Stop dividing our people with ingrained prejudices against the population of one side over another. And stop destroying old buildings by replacing them with new buildings.
 Our city needs to be removed from the top ten most dangerous list to a far more positive one, a top ten most productive and progressive city. Our city needs to make a difference by rejuvenating its downtown with this four-star motel. It all starts with you tonight.
 Please don't let the progress that has started in our city be deterred by a short-sighted vote tonight. Your vision is imperative for our future. Use your vote well. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Luke Miller. Good evening.
 Before I came to this meeting, I was able to drive around downtown and I was just amazed at how far we've come in such a short time. And a lot of that success is because of the people in this room. So to start this off, I wanted to say thank you. Thank you for jump-starting so many locally owned businesses and thank you for reinvesting in this community. I would not wear this shirt proudly and confidently if it weren't for your leadership. If younger me could see me wearing this shirt right now, he'd honestly laugh.
 I couldn't wait to leave Rockford when I was younger, because what Rockford was to me was a glorified pit stop off I-90. I didn't even know we really had a downtown, since everything I needed was out on Auburn, Spring Creek, or out past Alpine. But because of your investments, I now represent what Alderman Durkee actually said, rightfully calling intangible, a few weeks ago, and that's civic pride. But this project is more than civic pride. This project is the most accessible project for all Rockfordians in recent Rockford history.
 You don't even need a car to work here because the bus terminal is so close. It's only a few blocks away. It's also educationally accessible because not all of the jobs require four-year degrees or maybe even a high school diploma. We are the third largest city in the state of Illinois. We are the largest city outside of Chicagoland. We are more than a glorified pit stop off I-90. Let's act like it and support this project. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Sandy Cohn. Good evening. I'm Sandy Cohn. I own FiveTown Threads and Medicine Man, building across the street. I started my journey 25 years ago in downtown Rockford when I moved the design studio I was working for into the old post office. I literally watched the building of Davis Park out my window. Later, I started my own design business in the attic of that building, which the Park District eventually bought for its headquarters.
 My partner and I needed a new home for our growing business, and for us, there was no other place than downtown. We looked at 30-plus properties, most of which were abandoned, all of which are renovated today.
 It wasn't popular to buy or renovate downtown, but the dreamers came anyway. There was no UW sports complex, no major residential investments, no microbrewery or brick oven pizza. A brio, social, Carlisle, the standard, none of that was here. The Convention and Visitors Bureau wasn't putting together Stroll on State
 You could have dinner but not by the dock. That's when I moved to the center of Block 5, when the conversation about our city was its ranking at the bottom of a national list and how downtown revitalization could change that. Rockford developers instead were building strip malls and box stores. The city was incentivizing investors to build the State Street corridor. There was even talk of building City Hall on the east side instead of renovating this gorgeous building we are in right now.
 I never understood the call to toss our history away. I wanted downtown to thrive. It didn't take long to see that that was going to be a marathon and not a sprint.
 Bit by bit, mostly small businesses started to take a chance to build something, to transform something, something no one else seemed to care about. We built a community of extraordinary cuisine, amazing loft living, great live entertainment, and unique shopping. We didn't need chains and franchises. We needed tin ceilings, glass block, brick walls, and unique details built by the craftsmen that came before our time.
 Today our downtown is no longer a ghost town. It is a major asset with a multi-million dollar amateur sports complex. Tens of thousands visit City Market each year. Rock Valley College, the Trust Building, and dozens of other small and large projects have opened in the past few years, and more are coming. Growth is no longer a dream. It's actually happening, and we have,
 now have a chance to take a major step forward in becoming a top 25 city. I think we can all see that something special is happening here. It's inspiring to see the newest generation of young entrepreneurs setting up shop, developers like Urban Equity revitalizing retail and residential sectors. But we are not done. This new and exciting endeavor to add a grand hotel to our downtown is the opportunity to build on the foundation of these entrepreneurs
 to continue to reclaim our downtown and to revitalize our history. We are at a tipping point, an opportunity... Hold on. An opportunity to accelerate the future we've been waiting for. Every once in a while, a defining moment comes along. I think tonight we're here to seize that opportunity, because when a defining moment comes along, you can either define that moment or that moment will define you.
 Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications. Elvin Shrelly. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have five items tonight. The first and the second are the Zoni Board of Appeals agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda that will be held on March 21st, 2017 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Rights Committee meeting on March 27th, 2017. The third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding upcoming special events which include the Block Party, Kentucky Derby Celebration, the
 Craig Dyer Memorial Car Show, Rockford Fire 911, Family Fun Run, Swedish American State Street Mile, and the Rosecrans 5K Run for Recovery. The fourth item is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager regarding the sale of excess property and blight reduction program.
 The fifth item is a memorandum from the legal department regarding an honorary street name change at the intersection of Central and Ashland Avenue. All those items will be referred to the Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred to Codes and Regulations Committee. Alden Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties.
 The second is a memorandum from Matt Vintner, Director of Public Works and City Engineer, regarding intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Township for 2017 residential resurfacing projects. And the third is a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Finance Director, regarding maintenance agreement for Forest City Beautiful. These three items are referred to finance and personnel. Thank you, Madam Speaker, for the petitions and communications proclamations. We have several this evening.
 First proclamation is regarding the Sister City, Ferentino, Italy, 10th anniversary year. I invite members of the Greater Rockford Italian American Association to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you so much for joining us. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks.
 Whereas, Ferentino is an ancient walled hilltop town southeast of Rome, Italy, with three distinct important periods of architecture and pre-Roman ruins, including markets, theaters, and distinctive stone gates. And whereas, as a project of the Great Rockford Italian American Association, the Sisters City Committee was formed in 2005 to facilitate a formal partnership between Rockford and Ferentino.
 The committee, the Italian Sister Cities Alliance, has met regularly ever since and sponsors numerous educational and cultural programs and events. Whereas during a week of meetings and festivities, a Sister City agreement was signed by Mayor Morsi of Rockford and Mayor Fioletta of Tarantino, May 15, 2006.
 Whereas the Italian Sister City program activities have included multiple student and adult exchanges, pen pal programs, the establishment of an Italian Sister City garden and commemorative plaque at the Keeling Period Peace Plaza, educational programs and cultural displays at City Hall, Midway Village Museum and the Ethnic Heritage Museum, and peace poles in Rockford and Farentino.
 and whereas the Greater Rockford Italian American Association and RISA, the Italian Sister Cities Alliance, are proud to celebrate the 10-year anniversary of the Sister City Agreement with a year of activities planned to commemorate this milestone. Now therefore I, Lawrence Dean Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim 2017 to be Sister City-Ferentino Italy
 10th anniversary year. And we urge our citizens to celebrate this anniversary with the GRIA and RISA associations and to embrace our community's Italian heritage. Would you like to say a few words? Anybody else? Your Honor, on behalf on behalf of the Ferentino's committee and members of the council's
 I want to thank you, all of you. And from the Mayor of Fiorentino, Antonio Pompeo, and the president of the Prologo, Luigi Sonni, which they work really hard, we want to thank you from the bottom of our hearts. Thank you. Thank you. God bless you. Thank you so much. Great job. Great job. Thank you.
 Our next proclamation is regarding Week of the Young Child. Accepting will be Roman Salmon of the United Way. Whereas the Week of the Young Child Rockford Collaboration and other local organizations, in conjunction with National Association for the Education of Young Children, are celebrating the Week of the Young Child, April 24th through the 28th,
 and whereas these organizations are working to improve early learning opportunities, including early literacy programs that can provide a foundation of learning for the children of our community.
 Whereas teachers and others who make a difference in the lives of young children deserve thanks and recognition. Whereas public policies that support early learning for children are crucial to young children's futures. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence C. Morrissey, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 24th through the 28th as Week of the Young Child. And we encourage citizens to work to make a good and make a good investment in early childhood programs for our community.
 On behalf of the Week of the Young Child Rockford Collaboration, Heidi and I would like to thank you, Mayor Morrisey, and the City Council for this proclamation for this year and the previous years as well. And we'd like to invite everybody to our signature event which kicks off the week.
 April 22nd, it is the Family Fun Fair at Heartland Church on South Alpine. And so the fair will take place from 10 a.m. to 1.30 p.m. The cost is free. There are fun activities. Every year we do that. It's never a disappointment. And we've seen you and your family a number of times.
 And the event itself is sponsored by Rasmussen College, we want to thank them, and the Ryan Jury Center, Swedish American, and as well as put on by 11 of the local organizations that do help educators, families, and children in our area. So we want to say thank you, and we'd like to also present you, Mary, to add this to your wall of collection of other previous Week of the Young Child t-shirts. So thank you.
 Next, we have a proclamation for Child Abuse Prevention Month. We invite Elaine Gaither of Youth Services Bureau and any other members of the coalition that may be here to accept a proclamation and please come forward. Whereas preventing child abuse and neglect is a community challenge that depends on involvement among people throughout our community. Whereas child maltreatment occurs when people find themselves in stressful situations without resources and do not know how to cope.
 Whereas the majority of child abuse cases stem from situations and conditions that are preventable in an engaged and supportive community. Whereas child abuse and neglect can be reduced by making sure each family has the support needed to raise their children in a healthy environment. Whereas child abuse and neglect not only directly harms children but also increases the likelihood of criminal behavior, substance abuse, health problems such as heart disease and obesity, and risky behavior such as smoking.
 whereas effective child abuse prevention programs succeed because of partnerships created among social service agencies, schools, faith-based communities, civic organizations, law enforcement, and the business community. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2017 to be Child Abuse Prevention Month, and we encourage citizens to support Youth Services Bureau of the Illinois Valley and learn about the many programs and resources available in our community.
 Thank you, Mayor, for that honor. We really appreciate each year coming back to give a voice to children who are often voiceless. What Youth Service Bureau do is offer several programs, but our primary focus is on increasing intact families. Those children that often come into the DCFS system, in Illinois alone, there's at least 1,200 cases that come in per year.
 A high percentage of those is in the Winnebago County area. It is time that we stand up and we say no to abuse. We say no to domestic violence. We say no to victimizing and traumatizing these children.
 So in recognition of Child Abuse Prevention Month, which is April, we have these ribbons that we're going to pass out here. I don't have enough for the entire group, but we do want to give a voice to the voiceless. Please speak up for children. See something, please say something. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you for all of your work in this important area of working with our law enforcement agencies, our human services agencies, and many other partners. As you continue to pass out the ribbons, I would invite our next recipient to please come forward. Would Whitney Martin please come forward? Whereas Whitney Martin is a lifelong Rockford resident and East High School graduate,
 Whereas Whitney started with 23 News as an intern in 2005 and applied for a permanent employment three times, don't cry, before being hired, showing her tenacity and her determination. Whereas throughout her career at 23 News, Whitney has worked very hard to develop stories which help viewers understand the problems in our community and their potential solutions. Whereas Whitney has been devoted to helping local organizations like Gigi's Playhouse,
 American Heart Association, the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. In her time as well as main anchor, she has assisted in approximately 150 non-profit fundraisers. Whereas Whitney will soon be moving to a new anchor desk in Milwaukee, a position that is well earned
 and her love for her community and her passion to make Rockford a better place will be deeply missed by our community. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 20, 2017 as Whitney Martin Day, and we urge all citizens to applaud Whitney for her community service and wish her well in her new chapter in her career. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Because there's tissues coming. I'm so sorry. I've been trying so hard not to cry this entire time and they are very, very bittersweet tears. And I set this down. You know, this is where I started my career and not just in Rockford. I'm so sorry. But inside here in City Hall too. And sorry.
 So many of you guys, I know that you've, on the weekends when I've called you, you've stepped out of birthday parties, you've done so many things for me and I've grown so much in this city and in this room alone from when I first started covering city council. So I just want to say thank you to all of you personally because I know that I've stalked a lot of you on the weekends and I just appreciate you so much.
 I always said that if I ever took the position as a main anchor in Rockford, that I would do everything I possibly could to try to change our city and to try to improve our city and make things just good. And I tried as hard as I could to do that. And leaving here, I'm telling you, is the hardest decision of my entire life, and I
 And I just, again, thank you so much. This means so much to me. I didn't even know this was happening today. And my first thought was, wow, this is just really cool. Thank you. My second thought was, man, the guys at work are going to tease me so much for this. So I'll be going back to them right now. But if you need anything ever, my heart is always here. My family is always here. Thank you guys very much for everything. Thank you. Thank you.
 Whitney, it was an honor to put together the proclamation. And I just want to say, as somebody who's a fan of yours, who follows you on social media, you seem to be everywhere in this community. I know Mike Dahlke, who's worked with you in your dedicated time to Gigi's Playhouse and has a child who's benefited from your love. The cheerleading program, I get teared up just thinking about how much love you've given those children. At the end of the day, and this is, I think, appropriate, celebrating the moment
 the month and the year of the young child and thinking about all the children that have experienced things like child abuse in our community. I want to thank you for doing the right thing and supporting our kids and our community. And we again wish you the very best. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We're giving Whitney a moment to make the rounds. So I'm glad I was...
 Whitney delayed us a little bit. I almost missed something. It's Tim Dimke here from the Rockford Park District. Mr. Dimke, you want to come forward? One more presentation, special presentation this evening. Good to see you. Go ahead. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Mayor Morrissey, council members, great citizens of Rockford, staff, thank you.
 Matt, Todd, I want to first of all say leadership is tough. It gets a little messy sometimes. It's great to have so many citizens giving input on the direction of the city. I mean, that's what it's all about, the democratic process. And sometimes it's fun to not have anyone in the audience, but then again it's really fun to have so much input to help you guide your decision-making. So best of luck on future decisions.
 But I want to commend you on a past decision, and that was, oh, eight or ten short years ago when we started talking about creating a downtown destination venue
 And the leadership that Mayor Uttuk and Jim Ryan and the rest of your team members said, yeah, let's give this a go. The downtown sports factory is a huge endeavor, and it took extreme leadership on behalf of the council to make tough decisions. Money's hard to come by and to make decisions to partner with.
 literally nine other governments in our region, the private sector, other public sector agencies, to make the sports factory a reality for downtown Rockford was a huge leadership step. And you took it, and it's paying off now, and the dividends will pay off extremely more in the future. So thank all of you for your great work, Matt, Todd, in getting this place built. It's our job now to operate it,
 And I can tell you we are meeting weekly with the Convention Bureau. John Groh and I are going to California next week to promote that facility to literally the world and bringing tournaments here. So we are hard at work trying to fill that place up every weekend within the next three to four years.
 But the reason I'm here is that that step you took to help with the Reclaiming First project was a big one, to join our other agencies in putting together the kind of programs and facilities that can not only provide all of our local citizens with world-class facilities right here in their own backyard, but bring in many, many thousands of visitors and tourists who leave Rockford saying,
 I can't wait to go back. And that's really our goal is to have everybody who participates in our programs and comes from outside the city, outside the state, and in many cases outside the country, say I can't wait to go back to Rockford to participate because of the quality of the service, the quality of the amenities, and the quality of the facilities. And that's our overall goal, and you've helped make that happen.
 So without further ado, at our recent state conference, which is attended by about 5,000 professionals and commissioners around the state of Illinois, 453 park districts and 20 forest preserves, at a luncheon, which was about 3,000 people from all over the state of Illinois, including about 35 legislators,
 The Sports Corps II facility, as part of the entire Reclaiming First project, was awarded the Facility of the Year for the state of Illinois. And it's so closely tied to the downtown sports factory, I thought it very important that you receive a plaque which designates the Facility of the Year right here in our own community. Because without the downtown sports facility creating the venue for the hardcore sports, it wouldn't have allowed Sports Corps II to handle all the turf sports.
 So, again, congratulations on making great decisions in the past. Good luck on the deliberations you have and doing your due diligence in future decisions that will impact this community really forever. So, again, thank you very much on behalf of the Park District, all of our citizens, and particularly Rockford's name around the entire state of Illinois. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. And as Mr. Demke leaves, I just want to thank him for his outstanding career at the Park District, continuing to serve our citizens and our community. And thank you for the ongoing collaborations and leadership that supports all of our citizens. Thank you. Committee reports, Roman numeral 5, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5A1A,
 Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the Gorman & Company, Inc. proposed, amended, and restated development agreement for the development of the Amarok Embassy Suites Hotel, Rockford Conference Center, Davis Park, and associated parking improvements. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to make a motion to suspend rules. Second. Motion and second to suspend rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye.
 I 7 home Sarah in the discussion on Mac and thank you mayor and thank you and staff specifically Todd Cagnone and all the alderman for taking so much time over the last for taking all the time over the last 2 weeks 3 weeks to deliberate important projects such as the Amrock Hotel.
 What I'm about to read is not something that we're going to vote on this evening. It's amendments. It'll be laid over and asking for it to be laid over until next Monday so that everyone has an opportunity to review it, deliberate on it, have discussions over it, and then come prepared on next Monday.
 So I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business committee reports Roman numeral 5A item 1 amended and restated agreement for the development of the Amrock Embassy Suites Hotel, Rockford Conference Center, Davis Park and associated parking improvements to reflect the following changes.
 changes. Number one in Section B, project scope and funding, subsection 2, which is on page 4, modify the estimated total cost of the Rockford Conference Center from $13.1 to approximately $12.5 million. Number two in Section C, duties of the city, subsection 2I, Davis Park improvements, which is on page 5,
 modified to read as follows. The city has completed a Davis Park Master Plan with input from the community and Gorman, a copy of which is attached here to Exhibit B. In the event that a revised plan is created, Gorman shall have the opportunity to provide comment on such plan.
 Number three is in sub in section C duties of the city subsection to I Davis Park improvements on page five strike the following sentence such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld and
 Number four and section C duties of city subsection 2i Davis Park improvements on page 5 modified to read as follows In the event of the attached plan or a substitute plan is not constructed or likely to be constructed by the time of completion of the project Gorman at its own cost
 shall have the right to demolish the Lord and building and repair the area with appropriate landscaping perfect and preserve access to power connections and replace the existing public bathroom facilities currently located within the Lord and building or provide alternative acceptable a
 And that's alternative acceptable to the city which support Davis Park activities. Number five is in Section C, Duties of the City, subsection 2ii, Davis Park Operating Agreement, which is on page five. Amend the first sentence to read as follows.
 The city shall enter into an operating agreement with Rockford Area Venues and Entertainment Authority, or RAVE, and the Rockford Park District, the city's managing partners of Davis Park and RLDC, to provide Gorman with reasonable access to Davis Park, no charge, in order to erect temporary tents and related structures in connection with outdoor activities being hosted at the hotel and Rockford Conference Center developed by Gorman.
 Change 6, in Section C, Duties of the City, subsection 4I5, or I'm sorry, 4, room taxes, page 9. Change the rate at which the city shall refund the hotel operator's occupation tax from 5% to 4% of the gross rental received from such renting, leasing, or letting of rooms generated and collected by the city from the project to the developer.
 change number 7 in section 7 or in section C duties of the city subsection 4 room taxes pages 9 and 10 include the following the remaining 1% may be directed by the city to the
 to the Rockford Area Visitor and Convention Bureau under separate contract between the city and the RACVB consistent with terms of the existing city RACVB agreement and shall be used to provide coordinated marketing with the conference center, hotel, other downtown venues for the purpose of promoting tourism and conventions within the city or to otherwise attract non-resident overnight visitors to the city.
 Number eight, in Section D, Duties of Gorman, Subsection 2, Federal and State Historic Tax Credits, EB-5 funding, which is on page 10, including the following. Any financial savings gained from the project through the extension of the State Historic Tax Credit shall benefit both Gorman and the City, with the City directly benefiting at a rate of 50% of the savings from the extension of the State Historic Tax Credits on the project.
 to be applied by Gorman to the city or RLDC as directed by the city through lease payment or debt bond issuance reduction for the conference center. Change number nine in section D, duties of Gorman, subsection 8, Rockford Conference Center, which is on page 12.
 Change the fixed price from $13.1 million to $12.5 million. Change number 10 is in Section F, Miscellaneous Provisions, Subsection 1, New Market Tax Credits, which is on page 14, will be amended to read as follows.
 The City intends to finance the construction of the Rockford Conference Center and parking improvements through the utilization of federal new market tax credits as a public-private partnership with RLDC by a general obligation bond or direct bank financing, but reserves the option of funding by a general obligation bond or direct bank financing pursuing federal new market tax credits.
 In the event that the city decides to utilize new market tax credits, Gorman and the RLDC shall cooperate fully in the effort to utilize new market tax credits, including but not limited to the execution of additional agreements, assisting in obtaining access to the new market tax credits, timing of construction, and tax credit eligibility components.
 of the projects such as low-income job training, local retail store, local food connections, et cetera. Mayor, could you just read all those one more time? I will trust your reading. There's been a motion and second. I think there's also Alderman Beck, you want to make a comment? Yes, and then I would move to lay over until next week, give an Alderman a chance to, you
 absorb all of this and get an explanation from staff. Is there a second? Second. So there was a motion, second on the amendment. Pursuant to council rule, we have an automatic layover provision. Once a motion is made to lay a matter over and it's been seconded. I just wanted to say I've had discussions with several council members. These amendments are –
 the result of a lot of work. I want to thank Alderman Keg, Alderman, City, Interim City Administrator and our Community Development Director, Todd Cagnoni, for a lot of work on council. We will work to, with council, to try to schedule a follow-up council meeting to address, give time for this to be absorbed, to be discussed, including discussions with the developer to ensure that there's an opportunity for alignment and hopefully consensus. Questions, and Alderman Hervey.
 Yes, in preparation for next week, in particular, the new market tax credits. Exactly what is the status of the program? What is the probability? Have we applied? Do we have a, if I understand, I don't, I will say I don't understand exactly how they work. But from what I gleaned, there's typically a partner or a provider, someone who's holding the reins, if you will, on the tax credits.
 Do we have that person or that syndicate or that entity? I don't want to know now. I am full right now. Nothing else is going into my head today. What are the probabilities? What is the time frame? With regard to both the historic preservation tax credits that Mr. Gorman is seeking and the new market tax credits, which I believe he also is seeking, what are the...
 fallbacks if neither of those two come forward? How much of the project does Mr. Gorman have to have completed by the end of this year in the event that the historic preservation tax credits statewide, not federal, do not come forward? What is the result? One of the things that some of us have talked about is we're not sure about the what ifs. Second,
 One of the things that bothered me quite a bit when we were looking at the costs to date is that the initial estimate was $2.5 million. We spent $5.2 or $5.3. That was on the Illinois 2 extension. I understand IDOT is going to refund some portion of that. That was on Warshawski's, all of that work, almost double.
 there's some concern about the viability of the estimate for the conference center. We're saying it's 13 million. We know what happened with the sports center, you know, where we went from 8 to 14 to 21. There's a lot of concern there. So,
 If you really want to move this, somebody's got to start addressing those concerns. Not telling me not to be short-sighted or not to be bigoted or anything of that sort. Answer my questions. And those questions are still outstanding. I don't see how this project comes together if one piece falls out. Nobody's telling me
 you know, who's going to put their finger in the dam and how that's going to get filled. So those are the kinds of things I want to know before next week, not just we move the deck chairs around on the Titanic. Thank you. And I'll take you at your word you're not looking for an answer tonight. Those are the questions. Alderman Thompson-Kelley, you're next. I would like a copy of the, just wait a minute, I wrote it down.
 The Davis Park Master Plan. I do not have my hands on it. I would like a copy of that. Also, the dollars that are associated with that Master Plan. I also would like a copy of the contract on one of the amendments on Item 7 that was just read in that Rockford Area Conventions Bureau separate contract between the city. I would like to see a copy of that contract as well before I vote on it. Thank you. Thank you.
 And I just I want to thank Director kick knowing for getting the numbers together for for all of us because that is very helpful because as Alderman, Harvey said it was about 5.2 million that we already spent that was over budget But when you start to add it all up and in the tax for the hotel motel tax and the tip increments and
 That $13.1 million, if we even take it out of the picture, and we take that $5.1 million, and then even the lowest comes out to about $23.5 million that we'll spend at the very lowest, and $27.8 million of what we'll spend at the highest, minus not counting the $13.1 million.
 So with the 13.1, it would be about 37 million, and at the highest point, it would be about 41 million. But however, so we got numbers, so that's good. That was a huge step forward. But the question is, is just like what Ann just got done, excuse me, what Paul and then Thompson and Kelly just got done saying too, is we don't have all the numbers yet to even add on to this so that we actually have the full picture. I would really like to see...
 the rest of it that we have coming up so that we at least have a guesstimate of how much more is added on to this that comes out of the taxpayer's money. Thank you. So the motion is, again, I think we all know it's automatic layover, so we really aren't in a position to need to take all the...
 questions tonight. I'm happy to invite questions so we make sure staff knows what they are, but just everybody know that we won't be answering all of them, even though I know Mr. Cagnone has answers to a number of them. Thank you. Alderman Newberg was next. Thank you. Number six says that the hotel operators' occupation tax from 5% to 4%. In our talks in the last five or six days, I was under the impression it was 3%.
 that they were going to turn over 2%, not 1%. And then out of that 1%, they also will get the benefit of that 1%, correct? I'm not answering questions tonight. Thank you. I'd like to have that further explained then. Thank you. Alden Beach. Yes, if Todd is going to send by e-mail those two copies, it's coming to Alderman.
 And Dr. Kelly, I'd like to have them up to at least myself. If anyone else wants copies of it, we should say probably around the horn. Yes. The Davis Park Plan? Yes. Please, sir. Thank you. And the Davis Park Plan and the RACVB recent contract. Thank you, Congressman. Anything else? Any other items? Alderman Gatches. No, thank you. I just wanted to take a minute to thank the
 Starting off, staff and my colleagues. One, I know that all my colleagues here are putting in a lot of time making sure we understand all the details of what's a very big project for the city. And I think all the questions that we're asking are very good ones. And I appreciate staff for all the time that they're taking in doing that. I would also like to thank everybody who came out tonight as participating in our
 a civic process. What you're seeing us do is, you know, we're continuing to hone the details on this project before we're ready for a final vote. I, for one, am very excited. I think that putting a Hilton downtown Rockford is going to be very transformational. I think this is going to tie in very well with our city market and I think it's going to continue to spur the momentum that we've had going downtown. That's going to be good for the city as a whole.
 I do appreciate that we're going to continue following the process, make sure that we get it to a point that we're ready to take a final vote. And once again, just want to thank everybody in this room who's doing their piece, the public coming out, letting us know how they feel, my colleagues making sure we're doing our diligence and city staff answering our questions. So thank you to everybody. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Just one other thing. Would you instruct Todd to at least take this Sunday off? Just give us one day off.
 You want him or you to get the day off? Yeah. Okay. If he takes it off, we can get it off. I understand. Yeah. Thank you. Appreciate everyone's participation in the process as well as the community members that are participating in the process and we will work, again, automatically over.
 But there's really good efforts, I think, from all involved to try to move the project forward. So we will, based on Alderman Beck's suggestion, work to try to get this set for a special meeting and discussion and try to get everybody's questions answered this week. Next, Alderman Beck, Finance Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. Room 505C, Item 1, 2, and 3, I ask for suspension of roles. Thank you.
 Spend a motion, second to spend the rules on Roman numeral 5C, items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I did already. I say have it. Rose will be suspended. Matters are up for passage. Yes, I place them up for passage. Matters are up for passage as they have discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. She said aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1 and 2, 13 ayes. Item number 3, 12 ayes. Thank you. Matters pass.
 Further reports to committees, I think that was it. Just quickly in my office's report, I'll just do it for my chair. We have a scheduled closed, we're looking to a closed session later this evening. I think that will be referred in the end of tonight's meeting to discuss.
 potential litigation matters. I just want to thank everyone that was involved in the Madison Street corridor planning process. I was not able to get over there as much as I actually wasn't really able to get over there at all. I had dinner with some of the folks one evening that had been part of the team, but I want to thank all of that effort that was going forward there. Also, just wanted to give a heads up. We expect hopefully soon one of the orders of business that this council will have to try to resolve, hopefully get a chance to resolve.
 is the, an agreement with the library related to next steps with regard to rebuilding of the library because the ComEd project that's involved. Wanted to in particular mention Alderman Durkee who's likely to be coming through P&D and I know the library leadership had expressed an interest in trying to sit down with you Alderman Durkee and myself and staff prior to that being introduced which will probably be in the next couple weeks.
 So happy to follow up on that. Further officers' reports? Alderman Odom. Thank you. I sat here when I walked into City Hall and found the downstairs lobby jam-packed and standing room only in here. And what I've noticed that it bothers me over the last four years, that people only want to come to City Council when it's something that they think that is extremely important. We don't show up when there's...
 bad crime like we have, violent crime that's happening in each of our neighborhoods. When street lights are either going to be taken down or put back up. But we seem to get people that want to come in here for things that are a one-time thing. We have other issues going on and we can't fill a city chamber.
 Not one time have I seen this city chamber packed over issues that are very important. And I think it's a shame because everybody screams and cries over taxes, crime that we all know are high, but they don't fill a chamber for that. They're silent and they're not here. And they picked up and they walked out of these chambers because they were done. They didn't even want to sit here to listen to a city council evening.
 Because it doesn't matter except to the few. The few. Thank you. The few. But everybody else is gone. That's sad. I just ask our audience members to please refrain from speaking while the council is in session. Thank you. Alderman Otto, please continue. I just, I'm amazed and I'm disappointed. And if our city truly, truly cares about this, residents truly care about our city, they should be here every Monday night. They should get involved.
 Thank you. Alderman, who's next? Alderman Kyla? Being that Prophet Yusuf is not here, I have to take his place tonight. And to wish happy 29th birthday to Alderman Ann Thompson Kelly. It's tomorrow. I don't like you. I love you. Oh, I forgot that. Sorry.
 And we have another one? Alderman Getchis. Alderman Getchis. Happy birthday. Congratulations to both of you. Other officer's reports? Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to congratulate State Representative John Cabello for receiving the Legislator of the Year Award from the Illinois State Chiefs of Police Organization. Congratulations to him. Thank you. Thank you to him. Thank you.
 Further officer's reports? All right. Oh, we have one other item. I know Ms. Partridge wanted to make an announcement. Ms. Partridge. I do. Thank you, Your Honor. I wanted to introduce Matthew Flores. Matt, you want to stand up?
 Matt comes to us from the county. He's our newest assistant city attorney, and he's going to be assisting LaFleur Curie-Yvonne, who's going to be moving on and doing some development work. Matt will be prosecuting all of our ordinance violations and helping do our debt collections. So I'd like everybody to give him a warm welcome. You're going to become very popular very soon, very soon. Thank you. Any further officer reports on finished business? Paula Micharelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Room 7B1, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a parking restriction of no parking any time on the west side of Pierpont Avenue from 200 feet south of Auburn Street to 800 feet south of Auburn Street. Just so everyone knows, that was laid over last week and it's back up again this evening. I hope you had enough time to get to it.
 due diligence diligence done on that so I placed it up for passenger thank you from number 7 B one is up for passage discussion hearing sorry all the time so I want to thank staff and as well as traffic as well as the school district and the office I do appreciate thank you for the discussion hearing not all the favor please say aye aye opposed no I
 We have one appointment laid over. This is Roman numeral 8. All in back, do you want to read that? Yes, thank you. Item number 1 is appointment of Patrick H. Agnew to the Airport Authority Board of Commissioners for a term ending June 2020. Places up for passage. Matters up for passage is their discussion. There was a retirement from...
 Mr. Jeff Lee, who took a job out of state. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Motions and resolutions. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Senator. On Roman numeral B, 9B, 1 through 6, I place these items up for passage. Thank you. Roman numeral 9B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee. No, I'm four. Detches. McNamara. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. One, two, three. No.
 five, six, 13 ayes, item number four, there's nine ayes, four noes. That is all passed, thank you. Thank you. All in back. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 9C, items one through nine, I place that for passage. Thank you, Roman numeral 9C, items one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, and nine are all up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Newberg? Yes, I have one question. On the Westgate Coalition, the Zion West neighborhood,
 Are they the areas where they're mowing there? They just have one section or one area they're mowing. They're not citywide correct?
 So within the contract, they would have the ability to go citywide, but are predominantly located in the West Gateway Coalition area, understanding that's where the majority of the Winnebago County trustee lots are located. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please fill the roll. Turkey. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 13 ayes. Item number 8, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. That is passed. Thank you. New business. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 10B1. I move to suspend the rules.
 It's been a motion and second to spend the rules on rule minimum rule 10B1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rule should be suspended. Your Honor, I place that ordinance up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, please go to the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Oto. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott.
 Chair Raleigh. Aye. 13 ayes. The matter passes. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 10 C, item 1 and 2, as for suspension of rules. Motion and second to suspend the rules. Roman numeral 10 C, items 1 and 2. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rule will be suspended. Please come up for passage. Matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please fill the role. Gerke. Gets it. Aye.
 Hervey. No. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Item number one, 13 ayes. Item number two, 12 ayes, 1 no. That is passed. Thank you. Alden Shrelle. Aye.
 I move to go to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to go into closed session for the purposes of discussing pending and threatened litigation matters. Any discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Okay. Detchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Townall. Aye.
 Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Motion carries. We will recess for the purposes of discussing pending or threatened litigation matters and return afterwards. Thank you.