Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie, 11 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum. At this time, I'd ask Alderman Beach to lead us with an invocation. And we have a group that's going to be helping us say the pledge, so we don't need to transition right into that. Okay. Thank you. Let's pray together. Heavenly Father, we come to you tonight in this hour asking your blessing to help us
 As we gather tonight, we pray for your guidance in the matters in front of us. And Lord, we know that there's no set of circumstances that we can carve out in our lives that will bring a lasting peace and joy other than a right relationship with you. And Lord, we ask you to be with those that are being scattered around our world, one day intact, the next day immigrants. And Lord, we thank you for the homes that we have and the safety we have at this moment. Thank you for our
 Council, for our mayor, for our police and fire department, thank you for every alderman and woman sitting around this chamber. You bless us and guide us to do your work. We ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, at this time I'm going to call Service Unit 302 forward. Look at the little kids. You guys can come on this side. Thanks for being here.
 Yeah, if you want to take photos, video, whatever you want. So we're going to first do the pledge, right? All right. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. So...
 This is really exciting. We're going to roll right into the proclamation, and Fallon has a couple of comments that she would like to make for us. I'm going to hand that to you. That's your proclamation.
 Whereas March 12th, 2022 marked the 110th anniversary of Girl Scouts of the United States of America, founded by Juliet Daisy Gordon Lowe in 1912 in Savannah, Georgia. And whereas as one of the world's premier youth leadership development organization, Girl Scouts has emphasized public service, civic engagement and fostering a sense of community over.
 over a century. And whereas Girl Scouts works to champion ambitions, cultivate talents and develop skills to create leaders in the world. And whereas Girl Scouts offers 21st century programming in science, technology, engineering and math, the outdoors, entrepreneurship and beyond, developing invaluable life skills. And whereas,
 Introduced nearly a century ago, the Girl Scout cookie program remains the largest, most successful youth-led business in the world. Thank God. And whereas the Girl Scout Bronze, Silver, and Gold awards, the highest honors for Girl Scouts in grades four through 12, acknowledge each recipient's power and dedication to not only bettering themselves, but to making the world a better place for others through sustainable take action projects.
 And whereas Girl Scouts of Northern Illinois serves 9,000 young members and engages over 4,000 adults in 16 counties across Northern Illinois. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Magdmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim March 6th through March 12th of 2022 to be Girl Scout Week. Fallon, would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 Girl Scout Service Unit 302 is holding a community cleanup through April 22nd. My fellow Girl Scouts and I will be cleaning up around our community areas, such as our meeting locations, schools, churches, and community centers. We're asking that families, friends, and neighbors go outside around their own homes and pick up trash. Very little, it takes very little effort to make a big impact.
 What about the cookies? Are they still on cookies? Where are the cookies? Where are the cookies? Okay. City Council should start that way every week. Roll call. Invocation pledge. All right. Next. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 10, 2022?
 We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on January 18, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Item passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on February 7, 2022? Aye.
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. We've completed proclamations. Next, I'm going to turn it over to Alderman Rose for a public hearing.
 Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois Compiled Statutes 5-11-15.1-3 for the agreement to annex for the following properties, 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX, 4848, and 49XX South Main Street.
 Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on March 6, 2022.
 That notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, March 21, 2022 at 5.30 p.m. in council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois. For the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement for 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX, 48, 48, and 49XX South Main Street.
 Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the annexation? Are there any other questions or comments from the public? This hearing is now closed. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we're going to move to petitions and communications, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item A of Under Planning and Development Committee, Item Number 1, Memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction for the Workforce Development Initiative, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And Item 2, Memorandum from Ifeanyi Mogbana, City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, RACVB,
 quarterly reports for july through september 2021 and october through december 2021 referred to planning and development committee thank you next we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman rose item one is a memorandum from martin bloom project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events which include kentucky derby party churchill grove garage sale rockford pride month kickoff party and community hope fest
 The second item is a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 7233 Old Creek Road. Both referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Logeman. Thank you, Mayor. Five items. Item number one, memorandum from Carrie Hagerty, Finance Director, regarding a tax-exempt lease for two fire engines.
 Referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the request for authority to hire a grant compliance specialist. Referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number three, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a request to hire a new senior project manager position. Referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Item number four, memorandum from Jeremy Carter, traffic and development engineer, regarding an engineering agreement for bikeway implementation support. Refer to Finance and Personnel Committee. And finally, item number five, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Four Roaders Sanitation Authority for logistics parkway extension. Refer to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Alderman Logerman. Next, we're going to move to our public comment. And just going to remind all of our speakers, there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers. You have three minutes to address city council. Once you hear an obnoxious cell phone ring, I'd ask that you please close up your comments. Our first public speaker is Richard Porter. Thank you, Mayor. Good evening.
 Good evening, and thank you for hearing from me today. I am Rick Porter. I'm an attorney at Hinshaw and Culbertson that represents the Catholic Diocese of Rockford. I'm here today to talk about your landmark ordinances that I understand were up for potential amendment today, in particular doing away with the supermajority requirement,
 for landmarking. I understand that may go to a committee yet tonight, and if it does, I'm hoping that committee gives me an opportunity to talk to you guys further about some amendments that the diocese would propose to that same series of ordinances.
 In particular, you all should have received a copy of a proposed ordinance change that would exempt religious institutions from your landmark ordinances. And that ordinance is well-founded under Illinois law. As you may know, under the Illinois courts have found that there is a cause of action when a historic designation would require a religious entity to divest its funds.
 In our community, the Catholic Diocese of Rockford does many great works that an ordinance that would make it easier for the diocese buildings to be landmarked would divert funds from their good works. In particular, they have programs like supporting refugees for war-torn countries by funding housing, food, medical exams, English language courses, and assistance with finding employment. They support pregnant teenagers who have nowhere else to turn for emotional and financial support.
 They provide assistance to the unemployed with resumes, interview preparation, and professional attire for interviews and jobs, and provide child care for working families with young children. They literally have multitudes of programs similar to these. I couldn't possibly list them all in the time that I have. I just want you to know that if indeed your landmark ordinances are amended, particularly to allow for less than a supermajority,
 That would be an infringement of one's property rights that the diocese would object to. However, if they're exempted from those landmark ordinances, they would have no objections moving forward. And I'd remind you that there was a recent effort to designate the chance rebuilding. If that had passed, if that had occurred, it would have cost the diocese $5 million. It would have had to divest it.
 funds for those programs I just talked about and possibly shut them down in order to bring up to speed a building for merely aesthetic purposes that was no longer being used. So please, if you do send this back to committee, I hope you'll give us a chance to talk to you guys. Thank you very much for your time tonight. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. And to the angel at Philadelphia right, those things saith he that is holy, he that is true,
 He that hath the key of David, I know that works. Behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it. An open door? God promises that to those who have an ear to hear, thereby embracing self-determination and dignity. This is in accord with the American European dynamic, whose formula for acquiring and maintaining power, knowing who they are, where they are from, and where they're going.
 African Americans are compelled to do no less. Thus, our organization is embracing fully the American Competitive Act that's been passed by the House of Representatives and the similar bill in the Senate. It's inclusive vision for technology and manufacturing competitiveness. And our organization has also talked to some of the people in DC and said to them, black people who vote
 is often ignored, particularly this community. And if you people at the Biden-Harris administration, whose administration would not exist without that black vote, if you aren't willing to exact some punitive measures against a place like this city, this county, and this state, then something is amiss. We are not thinking that — we don't think that this is something that's tolerable, and we're going to fight
 as well as the other groups, therefore, who've come to this country and have amassed power, knowing who they are, where they're from, and where they're going. I conclude with these words from the Civil Rights theme song. We are on to victory. We are on to victory. We are on to victory someday. Oh, deep in my heart, I do believe we are on to victory someday. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley.
 good evening uh Mayor McNamara uh all the persons and our citizens of Rockville Illinois and mainly those that tune in every Monday to hear what we have to say I'm start off by saying Matthew say love for the enemy you have heard that it was said love your neighbor and hate your enemy but I tell you love your enemy and pray for those who prosecute you that you may be a
 a child, a children of the Father in heaven. He calls his son to rise from the evil and the good and so lying on the righteous and the unrighteous. My pastor this past Sunday talked about a spiritual warfare. Lately here I've been bringing up everything my pastor talked about and bringing them in layman terms, speaking at City Hall.
 Spiritual warfare and science, one of the greatest battles in the Bible, Moses and Pharaoh. I argue that science and religion are not only in conflict, even at war, for the past thousands and thousands of years, but they also represent an incomparable way of viewing the world. The past few years, I have lost.
 I've lost families, friends, loved ones who have passed away from the coronavirus-19 and from natural causes. We have learned who our friends and who our enemies are. This coronavirus-19 is the new cover for the new Jim Crow law. Back in August, I repeat again, August of 2020, Governor J.P. Pritchard stated that those who do not get vaccinated, you are my enemy. So I ask you here in City Hall,
 If the have and the have nots do not get passionate, I'll be your enemy. We would really like to know what Rockford is doing about systematic racism. Give you an important, this past Saturday, we was in the Irish parade. This is our fourth year being in the Irish parade. I can't say it, but again, we're only blacks here.
 I have to inform them that St. Patrick didn't just represent one ethnic group, he looked out for all the ethnic groups and then he went to either. Also, Jesus Christ didn't just die for one ethnic group, he died for all ethnic groups. The Romans used the Christians in the
 in the arena and fed the Christians to the lion. This is not nothing. We've been fighting racism for over thousands and thousands of years. I'm going to end my conversation by bringing it back up again, and I'm going to continue to bring it back up again. My company, Bob Marble, was killed in 2009. 2014, they came up with a 27-point plan dealing with
 dealing with police brutality and bringing the community together. Now here it is almost, what, 12 years or 13 years later, finally we got the council and the mayor to come up, bring up a citizen review board. Once again, we ask that the citizen review board, when they have the same powers as grand jury, when they also have subpoena power, and when they be separate from the mayor and from the arguments when they come up with a decision about...
 Thank you. Next we'll move to new committee reports and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Mayor. There are two items. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and J.C. Real Estate Holdings, LLC, for the redevelopment of 5494 East State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And item two, committee recommends approval of the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Andrews Holdings of Rockford, LLC, for the redevelopment of 4435 East State Street and the East State Street Alpine TIF District. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So, counsel, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderwoman McNeely.
 Thank you mayor. I would request that staff would give us some more detail regarding both items. Okay. Director Franzen? Certainly. Thank you. So for the first item, JC Real Estate Holdings,
 This is the Fuego Nuevo Grill on Spring Creek. Their lease is coming up here in a couple months, and so they have purchased the old tumbleweeds on East State and is looking to invest over $650,000 into that property. And so this proposal is to do a pay-as-you-go TIF for any increment that they generate, as well as...
 repave the public access easement to the west and just to the north of the property that connects East State Street to Newtown Road. The second one
 is for the new location of Guler Appliance on East State Street. In this case, they're investing a little over a million dollars into the rehab of that property, structural repairs, facade improvements, build-out for the location. It's unclear that...
 It will significantly increase the assessed value of the property, but it's unclear whether it will bring it above the base value that's established within the TIF. So a pay-as-you-go is probably not an appropriate way to go to support the project, but there is a gap, and that is why staff is recommending that this is a $25,000 upfront payment from the TIF Redevelopment Fund to fill that gap and support the project. Thank you.
 And this is, did you say an existing business? Both are existing businesses. And the one, 5494 East 8th Street, they're requesting that we pay partial for a street around Newtown? Yes.
 So the public access easement, so the access off of East State and off of Newtown that would access the actual site, the actual parcel, part of the agreement is resurfacing of that at an estimated cost of $60,000, which would come out of the TIF. A one-time resurf. That's correct, yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor. Any other discussion? No.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. No on both. Bonnie. Aye. Ten ayes, one no on one and two. Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to Alderman Rose for Code and Regulation Committee. Okay.
 thank you your honor item one under codes and regulation the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from winnebago county rmh
 NCC to City R3, a multifamily residential, and Item B, a special use permit for a mobile home park, and an R3 multifamily residential zoning district at 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX, 4848, and 49XX South Main Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 item two the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4650 4680 47 xx 48 xx 4848 and 49 xx south main street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and item three
 The committee recommends approval of an easement for Roger Stomball on the city-owned property along Harrison Road, a vacant parcel of land that is currently used as part of our dry dam and its future use as the outdoor range for the Rockford Police Department. The pin is 10-35-200-005.
 Mr. Stombaugh owns the property to the northeastern half of the city property. The easement is for Mr. Stombaugh to be able to repair broken or non-functioning drain tile that is on the city-owned property. Notice will be given to the City of Rockford before access is approved. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? 12 ayes. Excellent. We'll move forward to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Moglen. Thank you, Mayor. Three items. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $9,776,734.27 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on March 14th, 2022.
 Item number two, committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Four Rivers Sanitation Authority for the replacement of sanitary sewer services, sanitary manholes, water main and water services along 15th Avenue from Nelson Boulevard to Kishwaukee Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Finally, item number three, committee recommends approval of the first amendment to the purchase agreement with J. Jefferson Company, LLC, related to the city-owned Barbara Coleman Campus. The purchase agreement included a 180-day due diligence period, which is set to end on April 6, 2022. Staff is recommending an amendment to the purchase agreement to extend the due diligence period to December 1, 2022. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you. There's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I do have a question about item number three. First, I just want to say I fully support the extension. I just had a question for staff regarding when do we think negotiation for the development deal will begin? Has that started already? I would say that has started. Okay. That's what I need to know. Thank you. Any other discussion on those items?
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Alderman Bonney. Item number 1 and 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Next, we'll go to unfinished business committee reports laid over. There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to code and regulation committee. Alderman Rose. Aye. Second, Alderman Brown.
 thank you your honor item one the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals recommendation of a denial for a special use permit for a used car lot in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 601 east state street
 item two the committee recommends approval of the amendments to chapter 113 historic preservation of the city of rockford code of ordinances to strike section 113-35 c4 requiring a two-thirds majority vote to approve landmark designation of any building place or area when the owner of the said building place or area is opposed to designation the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Bonney and then Alderman Quinones. Thank you, Mayor. I would move that we refer item two not back to codes and regulations, but to the Historic Preservation Commission so that the Preservation Commission, which issued an opinion on this subject when it initially came through codes and regs,
 can now review and also weigh in on all of the various amendments that have been proposed on top of the original amendment since those are so varied and so radically different from what was originally reviewed and Recommended by preservation Commission. Okay, so we have a motion to refer that back to historic preservation. Is there a second? We have a motion we have a second Alderman Beach you have a question about this. Okay, if
 If this is going to be the request, when can we request then to have the commission to come before the codes and regulations committee so we can be discussing, all of us, to hear what they've got to say and the committee can hear what's going on? Because we're debating that right now. Yep. So I think what we could do, depending on the chair, is let the Historic Preservation Commission meet, discuss it.
 And then if the chair would like we can get it scheduled for historic preservation to come before City Council at the Code and Regulation Commission committee meeting So we have a motion we have a second to refer this back to historic preservation Is there any further discussion just on that simple item? Well, not simple item. Okay
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. So item will go back to committee or will go back to Historic Preservation Commission. We have one item before us, Alderman Quinones had your hand up. I got a question on B1. Yes. Is that, would that take 10 votes or it don't stay on here? Today at committee will take just a simple majority of those who are present.
 Then at our next council meeting, it'll be cribbed for ordinance and it would take 10 votes at that. Any further discussion on this one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. No. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Aye. I'm sorry. Is that a no? Quinones. What was your vote? Sorry. No. No. Thank you. Meeks. Aye.
 mcneely bonnie bonnie first and then yes no no that was seven four is that right it was seven to five seven five alderman no i'll vote on it i want to vote no yeah one second uh alderman beach are you asking what is each vote a yes is a denial on oh yeah no yes is a denial
 okay but i voted no on b2b1 you voted yes now you want to vote no on b1 right so please have alderman canyones's vote was a no as a no okay all right so we're just going to start really quick and just mention this again so if you voted yes you agreed with uh uh with the committees as a denial okay if you voted no you wanted the car lot to be on jefferson
 All right, so we have lots of hands raised. Alderman Hoffman. I didn't understand, and so I'm changing it to a no, which means we're overturning it, right? Yeah. Well, you're hoping to. I don't know if your vote does that, but yes. Alderman Meeks. I think that I'm voting yes and not no. Right. Yes. Then the vote would still be the same, seven ayes, five noes. Seven ayes, five noes. Okay. I'm changing my message.
 okay holy okay anyone else want to change your vote and medication all right so now the vote is six to six but alderman mcneely i think that would oh my god
 Folks, this is not a complicated one. No. This is not that complicated. Which way do you want to vote? Yes. Okay. So with Alderwoman McNeely's a yes vote, where are we at? Back to seven ayes, five noes. Okay. Thank you. Next, we'll move on to officers' reports. Does any member of the council have a report? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. We've been talking the last couple of weeks about...
 helping support our sister city. I just want to bring a brief update tonight. Before this week is over, 275,000 meals are going to flow out of Rockford, Illinois, through kids around the world and through the generous support of the people of Rockford, Illinois. And I think they're headed for Romania and going to be transported, Lord willing, down to Bravery, the hospital and the places where people need food and subsistence.
 I just can't believe it when we get letters when one day they have a home, and the next day the home is gone. There's no heat. There's no water. There's no electricity. And there are immigrants on the street. And so I want to say to you, Your Honor, thank you for helping spear the news head and making this thing go forward. Thank you to the people of Rockford for the generous gift. I think we're pretty close to $80,000 now that have been raised.
 and the food is on its way. It should be in Rockford tomorrow, and I'll tell you more about the transportation so we can honor those people that have helped us that way, but it's going to be flown over at no expense to this community or the people. And so thank you so much, and I'll tell you more later as we get more data, but it's just a wonderful start from this community. So thank you very much for letting me speak, sir. Absolutely, and just for clarity, I'm going to ask you to tell us a little bit about the food.
 Overall, there's over 100,000 for both organizations. Yes, excuse me. I'll just add that they're still accepting donations as the need just unfortunately gets greater and greater. Alderwoman Meeks, did you have your hand up? Yeah, I just wanted to give a special thank you to the Girl Scouts and their cleanup project, which is absolutely a week before our cleanup project. So I just want to thank them for getting us all prepared and everything before we –
 finish up some of their work on April 30th.
 thank you alderman bonnie thank you mayor i just wanted to take a moment to uh commend the rockford area arts council for the arts awards um that was held uh at the rockford women's club was a it was a great event a great crowd and it was a great reminder of all of the talented people that we have in the city and how the arts contribute to our community in in many ways and um
 In particular, I wanted to mention the two winners who are from the 14th Ward, which is Bob Rube and Mary Gubby Lee. And then I was also wondering if we might have a moment of silence for Takira McGee, who was the pedestrian who was killed on East State Street near Newtown on March 6th. Thank you, Alderman Bonney. And Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. On Saturday, AAUW, the American Association of University Women, held an event where we spoke to three relatively newly elected women, and I want to thank Alderman Gina Meeks. She did an excellent job, and we are so grateful that you participated. Alderwoman Wilkins.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to let everyone know that we are trying to do an Easter egg hunt April 16th at Andrews Park, and the right way is hopefully we'll be putting on this event, and they are looking for donations for eggs, candy, and food. And you can contact Lester Wright if you do want to donate to that event. Thank you. Thank you. Any other reports?
 Okay. Alderman Bonney mentioned a really tragic incident that took place at Newtown and East State Street. And I just would like to give our city engineer, Tim Hankins, an opportunity just to provide you all an update of what's taking place at that intersection because it's already been approved and in the works and just want to give you an opportunity. Thank you. Yeah, thank you. We are installing pedestrian signals at that intersection.
 We're also extending the sidewalk from Newtown through that intersection to get to that gas station. We're also filling in the gaps of sidewalk along the south side of East State Street from Newtown west to Alpine to connect those sidewalks. That's in conjunction with the state project that's going to be connecting sidewalks on the north side for a majority of that.
 The timing on the connection of those sidewalk gaps is likely going to go into either later this year or early next year for construction. The construction of those pedestrian signals was unfortunately a little too late for that unfortunate pedestrian, but is happening as early as this month. Thank you. Thank you. Any other officers' reports?
 No. We'll move on to motions and resolutions. Nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, the committee recommends approval of the annexation agreement for 4650, 4680, 47XX, 48XX, 4848, and 49XX South Main Street.
 street item 2 committee the committee recommends approval of the Miracle Mile flag retirement ceremony this event is scheduled for Monday April 11 2022 from 6 p.m to 8 p.m the event location will be 3915 East State Street which is the old Magna lot
 Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the Miracle Mile Cruise and Car Show. This event is scheduled for Saturday, May 28, 2022 from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event location is 3915 East State Street. Those signed up will drive independently to the Rockford Speedway and will be allowed to use the raceway, then cruise back for a static car show at the Don Carter lot.
 item four the committee recommends approval of the memorial day parade and idot resolution this event is scheduled for monday may 30th 2022 from 8 a.m to noon the parade steps off at 9 a.m the traditional parade route will be 7th street at 5th avenue ending at memorial hall on wyman street item 5 the committee recommends approval of the rockford fire department 911 3k run walk
 This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 4th, 2022 from 6.30 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. The race steps off at 8 a.m. The event location will be 391 North Traynor Road.
 Item 6, the committee recommends approval of the Lifescape 4th of July Classic. This event is scheduled for Monday, July 4th, 2022 from 6 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. And the run will begin at 7 a.m. The run will begin and end on North Madison at Lower Jefferson Street, utilizing the Rock River Recreational Path.
 item 7 the committee recommends approval of the 2022 alpine kiwanis brought days this event is scheduled for friday july 22nd 2022 and saturday july 23rd 2022 from 11 a.m to 8 p.m this event location will be at 5909 east state street and item 8 the committee recommends approval of the 2022 polish fest
 one of my favorites the event is scheduled for sunday august 14 2022 from 10 a.m to 9 p.m the event location will be 201 buckbee street i was just thinking the same thing alderman rose i think they should do that event like four times a year yeah they do a fantastic job all right council we have uh eight items before us uh is there any discussion on those eight items none all those in favor say aye aye those opposed same sign okay
 Those passed. Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Logerman. Four items. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the award of bid janitorial services for health and human services to Peterson Cleaning Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $36,972 for year one. The contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extensions. The funding source is Health and Human Services Operating Budget.
 item number two committee recommends approval of the award of professional services water loss control program 2022 through 2026 to m e simpson company incorporated of alprezzo indiana and the amount of sixty six thousand one hundred fifty dollars annually the contract duration is one year with four possible annual extension options annual price adjustment for cpi considered at contract renewal only funding sources water fund operating budget
 item number three committee recommends approval of the acceptance of illinois housing development authority strong communities program round 1.5 grant award in the amount of 75 000 the grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is 24 months approximately seven residential structures will be demolished with this grant item number four committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for municipal enforcement software to quickett solutions of chicago illinois for e-citation software in the amount of sixty eight thousand
 dollars annually training 3 900 and code enforcement case management software in the amount of 28 000 annually training 3 900 the contract duration is through december 31st 2022 with five possible one-year extension options until december 31st 2027. the funding sources various departmental operating budgets police fire and cd thank you mayor thank you so council we have four items before you is there any discussion on those four items
 Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Number two, I would like to get a report back for the council. If any of this water loss is coming from other municipalities and they'd be using our water supply, either without or with our knowledge, I'd like to know what that would be and if they're paying at all for it. I'd like to just have that as part of the report, please. Okay. Thank you. We can do that. Thank you. Any other discussion on those four items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Logoman. Aye. Thank you.
 Terina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes. Thank you. Next we're gonna go to a new business planning development committee Alderwoman meets Thank You Your Honor
 Item number one, an ordinance approving the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and J.C. Real Estate Holdings, LLC, for the redevelopment of 5494 East State Street. And item number two, an ordinance approving the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Andrews Holdings of Rockford, LLC, for the redevelopment of 4435 East State Street and the East State Street Alpine TIF District.
 Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Ninks. McNeely. Bonnie. 11 ayes, 1 no on items 1 and 2. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Aye.
 thank you your honor item one an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from winnebago county rmh and cc to city r3 multi-family residential and a special use permit for a mobile home park and an r3 multi-family residential zoning district at 4650 4680 47xx 48xx 48 48 and 49xx main street
 two in ordinance approving the annexation of 4650 4680 47xx 48xx 48 48 and 49xx south main street item 3 in ordinance approving the execution of an easement for roger stambaugh on the city-owned property along harrison road a vacant parcel land that is currently used as part of our dry dam and it and its future use as an outdoor range for the rockford police department the pin is 10-35-200-005
 uh the easement is for mr stomba and to be able to repair broken or non-functioning drain tile that is on the city-owned property notice will be given to the city of rockford before access is approved
 Item four, the ordinance approving the amendments to chapter one, oh that one is sent back. And then number five, an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to allow three video gaming terminals in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 505-507 East State Street. Thank you. We have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Four. Four. Four. I'm sorry, four items. My apologies. Four items before us.
 Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to clarify with staff for number five that that was the establishment that originally came forward just for the liquor license and stated they would not be applying for the gaming but then later on applied. Am I thinking about this one correctly? Director Fenton. That is accurate. Okay. Thank you. So we have four items before us. Any further discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Ayes.
 Logoman. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. Item number 1 and 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number 3, 12 ayes. Item number 5, 8 ayes, 4 noes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Logoman.
 thank you mayor two items uh item number one in ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with four rivers sanitation authority for the replacement of sanitary super sewer services sanitary manholes water main and water services along 15th avenue from nelson boulevard to kishwaukee street and finally item number two in ordinance approving the first amendment to the purchase agreement with j jeffers and company llc
 related to the city-owned barbara coleman campus the purchase agreement included a 180-day due diligence period which is set to end on april 6 2022 staff is recommending an amendment to the purchase agreement to extend the due diligence period to december 1st 2022. thank you mayor thank you so we have uh two items before you is there any discussion on those two items other woman mcneely thank you mr mayor on item number one and i didn't question this earlier
 But why does the Sanitation Authority want to replace from 15th Avenue to Nelson Boulevard to Kishwaukee? Mr. Hankins?
 As part of the 15th Avenue resurfacing project we have going on, we're also making water main improvements. And with that, right next to the water main is the sanitary sewer, so it works out for everybody that they do theirs at the same time under our contract. Thank you very much. Alderman Bronte.
 I just have a question regarding item number two. We're extending it to December 1st. I've heard that they're going to be working on it before that. After December 1st, if they needed another extension, would we be offering them another extension? I don't know if everyone heard you. I'm going to repeat what you said. You tell me if...
 I capture everything. She understands what she's voting on, that it goes to December 1st, 2022. But if they wanted another extension, would it be coming up or would we do it? That would be up to the city council to approve. Could they ask for another one? Yes, they could. I think right now our team feels pretty good with where we're at and we'll have an answer one way or another in that time period. Thank you. No problem. Any other questions?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Aye. Item number 1, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor say aye.
 Those opposed, have a great night.