Lord, we ask that you come into this chamber tonight and give guidance and direction to these that are going to be making decisions for the city of Rockford and for the citizens of Rockford. We pray, Lord, that you would give them the wisdom and knowledge that they need. And we pray, Lord, you'd also be with our fire and police departments, Lord, as they protect us here in the city. Help them, Lord, to be safe as they go about their duties for the day. Help them to be able to go home at the end of their shift, that they might be with their families.
 Now again, Lord, we ask that you make yourself present in this chamber, that we might know that you are here and directing things. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 McImmar Herbie Connell Thompson-Kelley Odo Newberg Beach Elie Beck McNeely Chiarelli 12 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much, we do have a quorum. Just wanted to give a little bit of guidance as we get started this evening on how I've talked with our committee chairs about handling the structure of tonight's meeting. So we have an item coming up under unfinished business on the special city council meeting
 Once that matter is resolved this evening, we would recess for committees, then come back to our council after the committee work. There's only two committees tonight, so that we could then do our closed session, which would be a matter of our full council for consideration. So the first order of business is unfinished business. Committee reports laid over. Alderman Gatches, did you want to?
 Yes, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 2, item 1, committee recommends approval of the Gorman & Company, Inc. proposed, amended, and restated development agreement for the development of the Amrock Embassy Suites Hotel, Rockford Conference Center, Davis Park, and associated parking improvements. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I move to lay this over until April 10th. There's been a motion and a second to lay the matter over until April 10th as a discussion.
 Mr. Your Honor, as a point of explanation, at the last meeting, Alderman McNamara had offered a series of amendments to Mr. Gorman. Those have been considered, and then there's obviously going to be some back and forth between Mr. Gorman and the City Council. I think this gives us enough time to get those amendments finalized and agreed upon by both parties, and I think that on April 10th we'll be ready to come to a decision. Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven.
 Now I want to do, actually I failed to mention, I also need to do the public speaking for this evening. So, I would do our public speaking now.
 Our first speaker this evening is Prophet Yusef. And again, as a reminder, our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. They have three minutes to make their comments. Ladies and gentlemen, in the book of Luke, the second chapter, the eighth verse, it says there were shepherds living out in the fields nearby, keeping watch over their flocks at night. And the angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them. And they were terrified. But the angel said to them, Fear not!
 Because I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all the people. I'm here tonight to bring good news for all the people in Rockford. What I want to speak about tonight, how to balance your budget by using your resources.
 I'm going to name 12 resources you have. Your first resource are your people. You are known as the inventors of the Midwest. 90% of the people in Rockwell are mechanical inclined. Only thing you have to do is market your skilled workforce. Your second resource, you specialize in manufacturing. I call it the king of all industry. It got us out of the Great Depression. Your third resource is the tourist industry.
 I call it the queen of all the tourist industry brought in Illinois, 37,576,325,415 dollars, 9 cents in 2016. Your fourth resource, the Rockford airport. Your fifth resource, Rockford Mass Transit.
 if you let the bus run 24 hours a day, seven days a week, fix and flex route, you could bring in $29,575,125.86 in one year. Your six resources, UPS Hub, your seven resources, Be A Mo Center, have diversified entertainment at the Be A Mo Center every week.
 is Memorial Hall. Have diversified entertainment every week. Your ninth resource, the Burkitt Center. Your tenth resource, the library. Have the library open from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. Have educational programs and entertainment programs. Your eleventh resource is the Coronado Theater. Have diversified entertainment every week. Your twelfth resource is a bingo parlor. Call it Bingo-rama. This would help generate revenue for Rockford.
 If you use these 12 ideas of mine, you could bring in Rock with $4,375,450,215.88 in one year. Enough money to keep your budget down. Enough money to eliminate homeless. Enough money to help reduce poverty. Enough money to reduce unemployment. Enough money to help reduce crime. Enough money to help send everyone in Rock that graduate from high school to
 people in China working. I'm tired of hearing about people in India working. I'm tired of hearing about people in Mexico. I'm tired of hearing about robots working. What I want to hear about is the people in Iraq working. I'm glad you're here, Osmond Ann Thompson. I'm glad you're here, Aubrey McNamara. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. Thank you for allowing me to speak.
 Thank you, with time to spare. Our next speaker this evening is Pablo Corona. Mr. Corona, so we'll move on. Our next speaker is Pastor K. Edward Copeland. Pastor Copeland here? All righty, our next speaker is Reverend Eric Shelby. Revelation 1, verse 18. And I am he that liveth and was dead. And behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen.
 and has the keys of death and hell. I am he that was, liveth, and was, and be, and am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and hell. Jesus has the keys of death and hell. My son caught a drug case. He's 35, and they're violating his rights. Never been in any trouble in his life. The 8th Amendment says, Excessive bail shall not be required, nor excessive.
 Fines imposed, no cruel and unusual punishment. The key word there is excessive. You wouldn't believe my son's bond, he's never been in no trouble in his life, is $400,000. You can't imagine, I told this lady a few minutes ago, the racism in this city. The black kids down there, they running them in that jail down there like they cattle. It amazes me how stupid some white men can be. As if they ain't got to meet the Lord Jesus. And I mean that.
 I have a lot of good white friends, male friends. They'll die for me and I'll die for them. The Lord loves all kinds of people. He don't give a damn about the color of your skin. He has the keys of death and hell. We live in an age of technology. Let me tell you something about technology. It's a great thing. But they ain't going to find no cure for aging and they ain't going to find no cure for death. One day you're going to die and meet the Lord Jesus. That's who you're going to meet. And all the trash and rotten stuff.
 Stuff you've done down here, you have to pay for it. And he has the keys of death and hell. I'm on my way to heaven, and I know it. Don't need nobody to understand that. Don't need nobody to agree with it. Because I love Jesus because of Jesus, not because I've been so perfect. They're raping our kids in this city. They're raping them. Over there in that school district, they have expelled more black males the last five years. Now, listen, I don't know if it's in their packet.
 Then all the other males combined, Mexicans, Arabs, white boys, they kicking our kids out of school in this city. That's a devil over there in the superintendent. He's a devil. They won't have a chance. Thank you, Jesus. They won't have a chance. You kick them out of school, I'm talking about expulsion. And the city just goes along like the Lord is not happy.
 Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Frankie Fabre. How are you doing? Mike, okay. How's it going? Today, I just ask that you guys put all bias aside and just kind of maybe take heed to my words from a young individual here in the city of Rockford. I put together a spoken word. Question. Yeah, a question for you.
 How do you expect us to grow when you hold back something new? Now, I'm not talking brick and mortar, but what that brick and mortar will do. See, you must be thinking instant gratification. But delayed gratification brings the biggest rewards. But patience is in what we choose. We've been taught that if it ain't easy, don't do it. What if Thomas Edison said, I give up, I can't go through it?
 Than the device you have when to be able to illuminate what's on your device's brain. Society puts our minds in locks and chains. Numbing our reality which numbs the pain. This may be too deep for you to obtain. We just want to maintain. I just want to make change. And when you do that, they put you over an open flame.
 But I ain't giving up. Rockford, it's time to look up. How many more memories will we add to the list of things we could have done? But instead, we were quick to run. Now we will never know what that opportunity could have done. We must take advantage of the opportunity in the time of the opportunity, or that opportunity would take advantage of its possibilities in another place. And if we deny this, well, there goes another case.
 Another one added to the list of things we've missed because we had no bliss. Just another closed-minded person balling up their fist, opposing something because it isn't for them. Well, you're right. It's not for you. It's for my future and for your kids' future. It's for the growth in the heart of a city. And if the entire body is to do well, its heart must be strong. And this is what the opportunity has brought along.
 It's not the answer to the puzzle, but a piece that will help complete it. I hope you see it. Don't lay this opportunity to rest. I ask that you look up, Rockford, and just say yes. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. We will now take a recess, and I will invite our other two committee chairs to...
 convene the finance and personnel and the code and regulation committee. I'll run back here going next to finance. Then we'll come back after this recess to resume the final elements of the council meeting. Thank you.