Aye. Toomer? Frost? Aye. Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beat? Keonis? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No? I'm sorry? It's a special city council. 12 ayes. Motion carries. Thank you. Thank you.
 Call to order the special city council meeting for Monday, March 22nd, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Here. Ogleman? Here. Toonberg? Here. Frost? Here. Purvey? Here. Irvin? Present. Thompson-Culley? Hoffman? Present. Rose? Beach? Keonis? Aye. Hanley? Here. McNeely? Aye.
 it's 12 further thank you clerk uh item number two new committee reports uh under uh block a planning and development committee alderman rose thank you your honor he recommends approval of the development agreement between the city of rockford and sci-fi networks rockford llc for the utilization of public way right away for the establishment of a city-wide fiber optic system believe the director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance
 Any questions on the floor? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I'd like to thank all of the aldermen for allowing this to be held out. I did do some research and talk with various companies. I do think this will be great for the city overall, but certainly it's going to help to improve the
 the viability of the 5th, 7th, and 13th Ward, allowing businesses the opportunity to come in with such increase in the fiber network there and throughout the city. So I am impressed with the company and the way this is going to be done. So thank you. And I hope we all support it. Governor McMillan, any other questions online or on the floor?
 I don't have a question. Just a quick comment. I initially had quite a few objections. This is Alderman Hervey. I was really concerned about the number of fiber optics that we have in our right-of-way, what the status of those is, and
 I took a nice long look at it and spent a lot of time talking with Director Saunders and some other folks about this entire fiber optic push and what it potentially brings. And I agree with Alderman McNeely. I think it has the potential.
 because this one specifically is looking at bringing, number one, competition to the Internet service providers that can all vie to get their link to this fiber optic network. There will remain some provisions, one that is federal, that gives that –
 benefit to low-income families. They still have to pay something. I think everybody should have some skin in the game for these kinds of services, but it will certainly make it affordable, especially if there's a piggyback with cable or cable,
 streaming or whatever else the services have. So given that I am going to flip flop and support this, hoping that staff and city leadership will continue to take a hard look and monitor this. I know,
 Director Saunders' department will on the hardware side, if you will. But I hope our IT department and our management staff, Mr. Rory, and our other folks who are watching these long-term projects,
 to make sure that this organization holds up to its promises and keeps it affordable, not just for the city and our business partners and residents, business residents, but also for our residential users. So thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Any other questions, comments from the floor or online? No.
 Seeing and hearing none clerk, would you please call the roll? Turkey welcome in. I can work. Hi. Hi, Irving. Irvin Hoffman Rose. Each county family. McNeely 12 eyes.
 thank you clerk uh moving to item number three we have two items up uh from appointments laid over item number one is appointment of roberta holdsworth to the rave board for a five-year term pursuant to rule 18 this appointment will be up for passage after april 15th 2021. go ahead items one and two second got a motion and a second clerk could you please call the roll to uh for the uh suspension of the rule
 Durkee? Lobeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Irvin? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? 11 ayes, 1 no.
 Motion passes. I'll just read in item number two. Item number two of the appointment of Dr. Rudy Valdez to the Rockford Fire and Police Board of Commissioners for a three-year term. Dr. Valdez will be replacing Maurice West Sr. pursuant to Rule 18. This appointment will be up for passage after April 15th. With the amended measure, we can place up for passage items number one and two. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Eric E.
 hi thank you clerk uh item 4 a 1 under the planning and development committee alderman rose
 Again, an ordinance approving the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Sci-Fi Networks LLC for the establishment of a citywide fiber optic network system. The measure before us, item 4A1, Planning and Development Committee. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Lohman? Aye. Tumbert? Aye. Roth? Aye. Irby? Aye. Irvin? Aye.
 Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Keonis. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Alderman McNeely. You said no? Oh, okay. 12 ayes. Thank you, clerk. Item number five, any officers' reports on the floor? Alderman Keonis. Yes, I want to thank the city council here tonight for...
 the fire and police commission recommending rudy valdez outstanding individual in the city of rockford and uh uh the first latino uh pointed to this here in the history of the city of rockford so i want to thank the mayor for making the fire and police commission uh more diversity like we are the city of rockford but thanks a lot city council
 Thank you, Alderman Quinones. Alderman Rose. Just real quick, I wanted to congratulate our Fire Chief, Derek Bergstedt, on his new position. And I'll probably, I don't speak for the City Council, but I will on this one. We are going to miss you and the work that you've done to build up our fire department. I know in the different times I've had the chance to go out into the community with your gentlemen and women who serve us.
 And in other communities, the Rockford Fire Department is one of the most respected, and part of that is due to the leadership that you've created in that department. So thank you very much for your service. Second that, Alderman Rose. Any other officers' reports on the floor? Any officers' reports online, seeing and hearing none?
 Last item is the adjournment. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Move to adjourn. Oops, sorry. There we go. Second. Even better. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Berkey? Aye. Lobeman? Aye. Zumbert? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Irvin? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Keonis? Hanley? Aye. McNeely? 11-0. Meeting adjourned. Have a good night.