Good evening, everyone. We will get to our city council. We'll call to order our city council meeting. It's our regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, March 20, 2023. We will begin with an invocation, and we are fortunate to have Chaplain and Pastor Norma Barrero with us. Thank you. Heavenly Father I pray that you will guide our council as we meet and discuss matters with regards to our city What I pray for the wisdom and knowledge and the creativity to continue to advance a rock for even into a greater place in your name We pray amen Thank you For could you please call the roll? loganman frost Terina Wilkins rose Beach, Meeks, Bonnie, and Prenti. Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on February 21st, 2023? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Thank you. Next, we have no proclamations, but we do have a special presentation from our stormwater manager, Brad Holcomb. Mayor McNamara, members of the City Council, I want to thank you for the opportunity to be here today to talk about an important accomplishment the city has achieved. My name is Eric Kukleski. I'm the Floating Management and Insurance Branch Chief from FEMA Region 5. In 1968, Congress created the National Flood Insurance Program, which encourages communities to adopt and enforce certain minimum floodplain management standards. In exchange for implementing those standards, the residents, businesses, renters of your community are able to purchase flood insurance, and we assure that flood insurance is available. Since its creation, over 22,000 communities have joined the NFIP and are implementing those minimum floodplain management standards. Floodplain management development standards. However, only a little over 5% of NFIP communities have chosen to take a more comprehensive approach to floodplain management. The NFIP recognizes those communities through the community rating system. I'm pleased to say that the City of Rockford is among those communities which are part of the community rating system. Whether it's preserving open space in the floodplains, participating in countywide mitigation planning efforts, or acquiring buildings in the floodplains, the City has demonstrated its commitment to addressing the flood risk in a comprehensive way. These would not be possible, or these things would not be possible, without obviously the efforts of the staff of the City. Whether it's the building and zoning staff assuring development meets certain requirements, the public works staff assuring community infrastructure and stormwater facilities are maintained, or the city's first responders assisting residents when flooding occurs. All have played a part in the city being more resilient to flooding and achieving a Class 7 in the community rating system. In addition to living in a more resilient city, the property owners, businesses, and renters will now be eligible for reductions in their flood insurance premiums of up to 15% as a result of achieving a Class 7. Therefore, it's my pleasure, on behalf of the National Flood Insurance Program and FEMA Region 5, to present this plaque to the City of Rockford on this important accomplishment. No pressure on you, Tim. We really appreciate it. Thank you, and thank you, Brad, and your entire team for all the hard work. Thank you. Thank you. Next, we will move to – we have no proclamations this evening, so we'll move to petitions and communications. And we have – we'll start with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Alderwoman Meeks Thank you, Your Honor. Under Planning and Development Committee, Alderwoman Meeks. Item number one is a memorandum from Ifeanyi Mokbana, city attorney, regarding a license between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of the residence located at 312 Irving Avenue as a stronghouse. This is referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Item number two is a memorandum from if I'm a Mokbana City Attorney regarding an extension of the agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1233 Revell Avenue for the resident officer program or a rock house referred to Planning and Development Committee item number three is a memorandum from me fine email Bonnie of Obana City Attorney regarding an extension of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of 1007 15th Street for the resident officer program or Rock House referred to Planning and Development Committee Item 4 is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer regarding a ground lease agreement with sci-fi for 3407 rural street this is referred to Planning and Development Committee and And item five is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding a ground lease agreement with Sci-5 for 2220 20th Street. Referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Alderwoman Meeks. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. item number one the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on march 21st 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on march 27 2023 referred to code and regulation committee item two liquor and tobacco advisory board's agenda for the meeting to be held on march 21st 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on march 27 2023 for the code and regulation committee item three a memorandum from jacob rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 3733 south main street referred to code and regulation committee item four memorandum from martin bloom Project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include Rockford Fire 911 Run, Mid-Summer 2023, Lifescape 4th of July Run, and 4th of July Celebration, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Item 5, a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a resolution initiating a proposed tax amendment to Section 80-009 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance regarding nonconforming gravel driveways and parking lots, referred to Code of Regulation Committee. Number six a memorandum from Scott capabilla planning and zoning manager with a flat of graa industrial subdivision referred to code regulation committee and item number seven a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer legal director regarding the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford hookah ordinance section 3 119 referred to code a regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and and alderman frost thank you all these matters will be referred to the finance and personnel committee number one is a memorandum from ann wilkerson central services manager regarding four tax exempt lease schedules for the 2023 fleet purchases number two is a memorandum from jennifer cachapaglia executive director of the mayor's office of domestic community violence prevention regarding a professional services agreement with region one planning council number three is a memorandum from owen carter community services regarding acceptance of the DCEO LIHEAP HHS Supplemental Grant Award. And lastly, number four is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a utility box artwork agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Area Arts Council. Thank you. Thank you. Next we have public speakers. I want to remind all of our public speakers that we have a microphone on the back right and the back left of council chambers and that you have three minutes to address the city council. At the conclusion of the three minutes you will hear a cell phone ring or buzzer and ask that you close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Larry Washington. I really don't like being down here, but I got to be down here. All right, this is for you, Mayor and the RMTD management. Okay. You, Executive Director Mike Stubbe, Dan Engelkiss, Dretzel McGalvin, the RMTD, or do the citizens of Rockford who ride the bus a huge favor and pack your bags and resign. Okay? One of the duties of a mayor is the welfare of the people. You and these others have not shown you care about how the passengers that ride that bus are treated. And to prove it, here are online reviews of them. Metro enforcement guards lie. Metro enforcement guards lie. They are also very disrespectful and rude. Number two, Metro guards treated us like garbage. Treated us like garbage. You've been there for five years, okay? Worst bus station ever that I've seen. Staff is rude. Four, the service is terrible. Five, drivers just do whatever they want. Stop at stores making people late. Six, drivers argue with me. I would not recommend RMTD. Seven, driver was rude. Eight, some drivers are rude and disrespectful. Nine, where do they get these drivers? I'm tired of their rude ghetto unprofessional drivers. You have done nothing in your tenure about this. Otherwise these complaints would stop. So it's clear that you don't care. Now, Carla, same for you. At the second Tom Hall meeting, There was no sign on those charts that there was a significant drop in the crime since you've been here. Since last year, your officers are pulling people over for stupid stuff, okay? While all this violent crime is going on, air freshener hanging off the mirror, license plate light out. How about showing a constant presence in the high crime areas? But it sounds like your officers are afraid to do that. Just like some of them in Chicago and New York. They don't want to even go into the high crime areas. License plate light out. Give me a break. You got... I saw an incident where five cop cars showed up for a guy just being a little disorderly. Five, Carla. What were the other four there for? Get their licks in, too, like the guys in Memphis. Thank you. I'll get to Nicholas O'Meara and his lies in this letter. Thank you. That he gave to Memphis. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 29th chapter, the 18th verse, it says, Where there is no vision, the people perish, but he that keep the law, happy is he. What I want to speak about tonight, the inequality of longevity. Pushing the retirement age. age to 70 would be harder on low-income workers. It sounds like a simple fix to the nation's immense problems of funding Social Security and Medicare for an aging country. Just get everyone to work to 70. But this idea, despite being embraced by a number of politicians, has a long way to go. It's being challenged by me. As a new form of inequality, it's been dubbed by me, longevity inequality. My studies, I made, it's not fair to people in the type of jobs that require brawn. Think of a 68-year-old climbing on top of a house to replace the roof. Then compare that person with a 68-year-old tapping a computer keyboard. In addition, people with college education and desk jobs tend to live longer than those with low income. Here's where the money inequality issue gets worse. If the professional lives a lot longer than the rooker after retiring at 70, the person who had the desk job could keep getting monthly Social Security checks for years longer than the rooker. I study more money will go to the fluent people than to those who met their demands at a much point in life. My studies have shown life expectation varies based on race, income, education, continent, state, city, county, where people live. There's a great difference in life expectation between income groups. Currently, the average person in the low income group who was making $20,000 when working would get $156,000 over a lifetime in Social Security benefits after retiring at age 62 and living to 83. A person who is working And the high income group who was making about $80,000 would get about $335,560.25 over a lifetime after retiring at 62 and living to 83. I also been wanting to tell all the women in Thompson, she's not here tonight. And my nephew Eric, who retired from the United States Marine Corps Sergeant Major, this was a long time and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, my good friends. Happy birthday to you. And like with this Social Security, I can balance their budget. One year, six months, 22 days, one hour, 10 minutes, and 15 seconds because my degree is in finance. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. Moses and Aaron went to Pharaoh and said... This says the Lord, the God of Israel, let my people go. But Pharaoh said, I will not let Israel go. But the Lord said to Moses, now you shall see what I shall do to Pharaoh. The Israelites, like so many present-day black citizens, want freedom, be it economic, political, or social, without struggle. Freedom costs. Yes, freedom from any type of oppression requires sacrifice and work. We can no longer make excuses for not being the best we can be. This means, in this struggle for survival, black citizens like the Israelites must understand that their value is not based on what oppressors like Pharaoh say about them, but on the fact that they are children of God. Some black citizens have become accustomed to being economically, morally, and socially enslaved and are unwilling to sacrifice for their freedom. They have been stripped of their sense of worth and value, looking to their oppressors for personal confirmation, dismissing the message of God for them. How sad. Being more concerned about the opinion of those around them rather than God's opinion and purpose for their lives. That is sad indeed. It brings to mind the situation our group is experiencing in resurrecting Westside Rockford. We have been having Zoom meetings with people in Springfield, Washington, New York, and Chicago. Because of our agitation and impatience, some oppressive folks became angry and started delaying tactics. Our group members got mad at me and some of our helpers in Washington and the other places who are working with us. This, our gang, our group members had to be told, these are people trying to help us. And that's sad. One young man, I love to call his name, LaShawn Ford, he said, Reverend Dotson, I want you guys to know that our white colleagues down here in Springfield are mad at us because we are demanding some of this money. And these Zoom meetings that we're working on to secure their freedom, they're more mad at us than at the oppressors. I often remind our group folks, listen, there's a gospel song that goes like this. Don't be so upset. Just remember to hold to God's unchanging hand. Because if those guys that we're talking to do two-thirds of what they're talking about, Rockford will never be the same. And you will see what God will have done to the Pharaohs. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNair, all the persons, our citizens of Rockville, Illinois. And basically I want to go back into Proverbs 28. God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. I'm going to drop down to Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do to help God supply someone's need? Last week, the Rockford Register started talking about, on the front page of the newspaper, talked about black voters demanding more action from Ben, and the polls cited gun violence, police safety, and economics. Well what about right here in Rockford? Today's history, back in 1854, the Republican Party of the United States was founded by by slavery opponents at a schoolhouse in Ripton, Wisconsin. This past Friday was St. Patrick's Day. I am beat when it comes to religious history, historic history. One day while watching History Channel and the news on TV how Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Kentucky, and other states are going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to the African presence in America before the Europeans explore. I knew right then and now that I had to do something instead of waiting on someone else to tell our story. Right here in Rockwood, some of our youth that cannot spell their name, basic background, do not want to learn their family or their black history. steps of working with on that problem. We had a meeting last week with the African-American females and pastors at the library. They wanted me to, they wanted to step up to the plate and work with the new turning point with reach one, teach one. They also asked me why I have not sat down with the mayor and talked about our difference in working with the have nots and how can we work together. They all stated that I have a very powerful voice in the community, well known, respected and the community have mad love for what I'm doing, which will be new attorney program youth and adult. They also stated that no matter what, Brother John is gonna do whatever it takes to help the have not. We finally got an RPS 205 to start transporting our kids in fairgrounds. I want to drop down by saying Northern Public Radio Station put out an article, one, two of them make it to school when half of the elementary schools have no buses. The community take action, which means Renewal Turning Point is one to take action. Just give greater non-profit gain Renewal Turning Point a check of $620.98. I want to thank the community and those that was on the radio station for giving us this fund, but I also want to recognize the Second Congregational Church, World Worship Center Church, Next Level Church, the mayor, and most of all the peoples in the community that helped sponsor to get my van fixed and to help me continue to do the work that I do in the community. And I give all grace and my bow to the Lord and Jesus Christ. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next we'll move to new committee reports and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one under planning and development the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the home our allocation 2021 annual action plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and item number two the committee recommends approval of the amendments to the inter creditor agreement for the Rockford Community Investment Fund Community Development Financial Institution and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Nine ayes, one no. Excellent. Next we'll move to, well, we have nothing under code and regulation, so we'll move to finance and personnel and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,769,211.40 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee held on March 13, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval to renew the intergovernmental agreement for the Crisis Co-Response Team Program between the City of Rockford, Lusk Park, County of Winnebago, and Rosecrans. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I believe that's it, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Bogeman. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. Ten ayes. Excellent. So those are passed. Next we'll go to officers' reports. Are there reports? Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple things. I wanted to acknowledge the Wabango Leadership Council that I've had the pleasure of serving on for the past, for the decade. On Friday, we received thirty five thousand dollars from the Fred Van Vliet Family Foundation, which was Extraordinary for our organization because it helps to fund a college tour that we have done This is our sixth tour. So we were able to take 30 students the bus left this morning our director Parham is on it she's one of the chaperones on the trip and and they're going to Alabama to visit various HBCUs in the area. So I just want to acknowledge that that trip is happening, keep everyone safe, hope everyone's having a great time. They're gonna be exposed to not only higher education, but other cultural opportunities and experiences in the area. They're gonna be able to go to NASA and they're also gonna take a walk in Selma, which I think is, It's pretty powerful. So I can't wait to just see pictures and and everything but also wanted to thank the van Vliet Family Foundation Susan Danforth Fred's mother for investing So generously into this cause it's it's gonna make a difference in a lot of people's lives. Oh, thank you Other reports seeing no other reports. I just want to say a thank you to the friends of the Coronado and who last week put forth their 20th annual Reach for the Stars, where they provide an opportunity for young people in our community to go to the Coronado Theater for free and see a world class performance. And again this year they provided a free performance for all Rockfordians in the evening to go down and see world class performance at the Coronado Theater. And I think this year was their largest year if I'm not mistaken with just over 4,000 students having the opportunity to be in the Coronado. And I would just say next year We'll make sure that it gets to all the council it crept up on me But to see those kids faces when they walk into the Coronado theater at the first time That's worth worth the price of admission for sure No other reports Seeing no other reports, we'll go to appointments laid over. There's four appointments there. There's only two that are up, the first and the fourth. So the first appointment is an appointment of Brett Owens to the Community Relations Commission to fill the seat vacated by Jeff Patera. His term will expire August 2025. uh next appointment is appointment of asidro barrios as 11th ward alderman to fill the vacancy left by alderman tuffy canones this term of this appointment will be up until the next election which is in 2025. both of these are up for passage is there a discussion on those two appointments seeing no discussion clerk could you please call the roll logeman frost terena printy wilkins Rose, Beach, Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. Item number one, nine ayes, one no. Item number four, ten ayes. Thank you. Both are approved. And I know that now Alderman Berrios is with us and his wife, Melanie. So I just want to say congratulations, and we look forward to serving you. Thank you. So as we've done in the past, we will have Mr. Berrios in next week to do the swearing-in more formally. Thank you. So next we'll go to motions and resolutions and go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of a resolution calling for a public hearing and convening a joint review board in connection with the new tax increment financing TIF district. Thank you. Excellent. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Rose. Beach. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Ten ayes. Excellent, there's nothing under code in regulation committee, so we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you number one the committee recommends approval award a bid for the lead service land replacement phase 5 to end track For an amount not to not to exceed four million dollars the contract duration is one year the funding sources the iep a state revolving loan Fund number two the committee recommends approval of what a bid for water distribution production supplies and materials to corn main power seal pipeline Ferguson waterworks domer and Company Jane L our supply for an estimated. I'm sorry based on unit pricing The contract duration is one year with two possible one-year extensions the funding sources the water operating fund number three They committee recommends approval of the award of an occupant of contract for a water division Transport van to Anderson Rock River for the amount of forty nine thousand five hundred and twelve dollars and fifty six cents the funding sources of the water fund operating budget number four the committee recommends approval of a change order for the salt storage structure to clear span buildings there was a change order of 86 532 for an amended amount of 396 thousand five hundred and thirty two dollars the funding sources the american rescue plan funds number five the committee recommends approval award of joint purchasing contract for the millennium Fountain splash pad equipment of Vortex structures, the amount of $107,306. The project is estimated to be completed in 2023. The funding source is the DCEO grant funds for 40% and redevelopment funds for 60%. Number six, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract. For Head Start minivans Anderson Dodge in the amount of $175,652.04. The purchase includes four Chrysler Pacifica vans. The funding source is the Head Start Early Head Start grant. Number seven, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the amended Illinois Department of Human Services Homeless Prevention Grant Award. The grant amendment will provide funds for approved clients' landlord, electric, and or heating bills. clients, budget, education, staff, training, payroll, and administration. The amendment is adding additional funds in the amount of $80,000. The grant term is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023. Number eight, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Amended Illinois Association of Community Action Agencies DHS Employment Barrier Reduction Pilot Grant Award. The additional grant award will provide funds for SNAP, TANF, Medicaid recipients for supportive service expenses, including but not limited to expenses for homelessness prevention, utilities, transportation, gas, uniforms, tools, equipment, and similar purposed expenses as designated by the IACAA. The amendment for additional funds is the amount of $33,750. I place these eight matters before you. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Alderman McNeely? Thank you. What was the increase needed for, the $33,000? On which item are you referring to? I'm sorry, number eight. Number eight. Oh, sorry. Mr. Carter? Thank you, Your Honor. Sorry, I see it. Did you see it? Okay. Alderman Bonney, did he have a question? No. Thank you, Mayor. I apologize for missing any discussion that may have been had last week on number five, but I was wondering if we could have, or at least I could have my memory refreshed on the difference between a splash pad and what the Millennium Fountain as it currently exists and the reason that we're undertaking this project. Well, I can give you at least a start on it. So the existing fountain, Just recycles the water. And so if you're hanging out in it, you're just getting recycled water right back on you. Splash pad is more designed for, that's just, it's a feature. It's existing fountain is just really an aesthetic feature, not to be used or interacted with. The splash pad is to interact with and attract more young people down there and have fun with it and also will filtrate that water. I also believe there's some financial partners that we have with it that I cannot recall off the top of my head. If Mr. Leatherby or Mr. Cagnoni would like to share some additional thoughts, I'd appreciate it. Thank you, Your Honor. Rock River Development Partnership was able to secure funding from the state of Illinois for much of this project and our Public Works Department had done a review of the existing system and gone through an evaluation to determine what's the most cost-effective process for upgrading the existing fountain. And frankly, much of the equipment within the existing fountain is into life. And as our public works department ran analysis in regards to what it was costing us on an annual basis to repair it, it was more cost effective to upgrade it at this point in time. As you're aware, this fountain, as it currently is designed, is accessible, right? So you can walk from the public sidewalk into the water features, currently both on the upper level and on the lower level. So as we were going through the evaluation in regards to what would be a more safe deployment in regards to upgrading the facility, It's a it's a direct way so it doesn't no longer will circulate and as part of that. There's an activation point Within the fountain so that the fountain can be activated rather than in a continuous run. Thank you So how how long and that they state contribution believes 40% versus is it 60% is city funds Yes, that is my understanding. And so, and obviously the changing the filtration system makes sense, but how substantially is the look of the fountain going to change since it was a commemorative project in 1999-2000? So that's an excellent question and I can't get too specific in regards to the overall design. I'm not certain if it's in the packet or not, although I have seen it. I wouldn't say that the I mean, there's changes, but not overly significant. I think we, you know, our team did a good job of trying to represent the original design in a modernization of the equipment. Sorry, I can't give you the exact changes. And what about the, there's a number of plaques recognizing former Mayor Box, the committee, major donors, paving stones for smaller donors, are those gonna be preserved? I'm not aware of any changes in those and we'll make sure that we continue to honor those that donated to the fountain. Will the name of the fountain remain the same? There's been no proposed changes in the fountain name. Thank you. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. In regards to that same question there, do we know the anticipated maintenance cost going forward? Other news flashback. I don't know that exact number. I know that we've ran an analysis compared to our most recent annual Maintenance costs and it was more cost effective to make the investment that's being made Versus the continual maintenance cost that was taking place I want to say it was around the historical was twenty thousand ten to twenty thousand dollars a year approximately. Does that sound right? I I'll be happy to have our team pull up the analysis and provide it to you. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you. So I know sometime last year, fall of last year, we approved engineering for this. Did that include, did we already approve a design? Or if not, will a design come back to the council? So there will be an additional approval that will be required by City Council when the fountain is actually awarded for construction. We sourced the material separate than the construction project because it was more cost-effective to do it this way, to directly purchase it as well as not have an upcharge from a contractor. So it will be coming back for Council for award a bit of the construction of the fountain. But will that be council approval of the design? I don't mean the mechanics, but the aesthetics. So in essence, if you don't award the bid to construct it, it won't advance forward. So yes, you will have control. Is it specifically a design approval? No, it's an award of bid, but we'll certainly be happy to share where we're at in the process and make sure that it's acceptable with the council. Thank you. Any other discussion on the eight items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Boogaman. Boogaman. frost Tarina printing Wilkins Rose Beach weeks McNeely fine hi tonight Excellent next we'll move to new business and we'll go to planning and Development Committee and all the woman meets. Thank you your honor. I Under new business, an ordinance approving the amendment to the Home ARP Allocation 2021 Annual Action Plan. And item number two is an ordinance approving the amendments to the Intercreditor Agreement for the Rockford Community Investment Fund, Community Development Financial Institution. Thank you. Excellent. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Bogeman. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty Wilkins Rose Beach Meeks McNeely Bonnie Nine eyes on each Excellent may pass next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and alderman frost. Thank you There's an ordinance approving the renewal of the intergovernmental agreement for the crisis Corresponds team program between the city of Rockford City of Luz Park County of Winnebago and Rosecrans. I Thank you. So there's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item clerk? Will you please call the roll? Ogamon frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Rose Beach Meeks McNeely, I'm sorry. Do you want to ask a question? Yes, ma'am. I'm sorry. Thank you Is this I think my question related to item earlier I Everyone pays into this crisis call response team. It is funded by the Winnebago County Mental Health Board Thank You, Bonnie 10 eyes excellent. Thank you That's approved next We're so fortunate to hear from alderman frost again And the last time at this time I would make a motion to convene into closed session to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. We'll recess to closed session. Okay. We are now back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logman. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Rose. Beach. Meeks. McNeely. Here. Fonny. Here. Ten present. Yes, I love you, and I just can't believe you just called Alderman Frost's which none of you caught, but it was amazing. It was amazing, and I just want to bring it back to that moment. Okay, is there a motion to adjourn? Is there a second? We have a motion, we have a second. Alderman Wilkins, any discussion? None? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.