Thompson Kelly. Ashley. Here. Rose. Rose. Deek. Here. Do you know that? Here. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Here. 11 present.
 Thank you. So we'll move on to new committee reports. We'll go to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. If you think it'd be easier for me just to read each one by myself, I'd be happy to do that as well. That's easier for you, Alderman Frost. So I can't hear Alderman Frost, so I'm going to move on with...
 New committee reports, finance and personnel underneath item 2C1. And it's a ratification and approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the Illinois Department of Health Care and Family Services and the City of Rockford in connection with supplemental ambulance rates. The legal director shall prepare the ordinance. Is there any discussion?
 I'm going to go through this. Is there any discussion from Alderman Durkee on this item? No discussion. Alderman Gasperini? No discussion. Alderman Toomberg? Alderman Toomberg, any discussion on this item? No. No questions. Thank you. Alderman Frost? I know your honor. Thank you. Alderman Hervey? I know your honor. Alderman Irvins? I have no questions. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No questions.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley? Alderman Hoffman? No. Alderman Rose? Alderman Rose? Alderman Beach? No comment. Alderman Quinonez? No comment. Alderman McNeely? No.
 Alderman Chiarelli? No, Your Honor. Okay, so we'll move on to item number two. We'll vote on all of them at the same time, okay? So item number two, or...
 Item number two is proposed $150,000 loan for the capitalization of the Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, the NICDC Small Business COVID-19 Emergency Loan Fund in partnership with Winnebago County and eight local financial institutions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Is there any discussion on that item?
 Hearing no discussion, we'll move forward to item number three.
 Approval of the modifications to Chapter 17, Article 5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances to declare violations of executive orders of the Governor of the State of Illinois issued pursuant to the Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution in Sections 7, 7-1, 7-2, 7-8, 7-10, and 7-12 of the Illinois Emergency Management Act.
 20 IFCS 3305 to the public nuisance. So legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Is there any discussion from Alderman Gerke? No, your honor. Alderman Gasparini? Alderman Gasparini, sorry.
 No. No. Thank you. Alderman Cooper? No discussion. Alderman Frost? No, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irving? Nothing. Alderman Thompson-Tellis? No. Alderman Hoffman? No, Your Honor. Alderman Rose? No. Alderman Beach? No, Your Honor. Alderman Quinonez? No. Alderman McNeely? No. Alderman Keeley?
 Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you. I know, Your Honor. Thank you. So we'll place those three items up for both. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Kerkey. Aye. Cafferney. Aye. Bloomberg. Aye. Roth. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Boone? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirely? Aye. 11-9. Excellent. I'm going to put officers' reports at the end so that we can allow staff to get back to their families if they need to go during officers' reports. So we'll give the motions to the rest of the group then.
 And can you please mute your phones again? We're proposing some resolutions under the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item C1, award of Park Avenue and Water Street water main replacement to Fisher Excavating of Freeport, Illinois, and the amount of...
 $1,315,075.50. Contract duration is as follows. Water Street Phase 1 completed by May 22nd of 2020, and Park Avenue Phase 2, 45 days after Phase 1.
 The funding source is going to be the water replacement and improvement account. I'm going to read in the second one and then I'll go to each alderman for all of your questions. The second one is approval to accept the violence prevention planning grant from the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, known as EJA, number 392060, in the amount of
 $129,845 and no change. So if there's any discussion on this one, Alderman Durkee?
 No discussion. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Gasbrini. No. Alderman Toomberg. No discussion. Alderman Frost. No, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey. No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins. No, thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. No, Your Honor. Oh, thank you. Alderman Hoffman. No, Your Honor. Alderman Rose. No.
 no we still don't have uh thank you so uh with no further questions can you please call the role hi
 Ruby? Aye. Urban? Aye. Captain Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rue? Beach? Aye. You know that? Aye. Big Willie? Aye.
 Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.
 Thank you. So we're all right. We'll go to a new business order. Item five C, number one. An order in for edifying approval. I'm sorry. An order in for edifying and approving a supplemental agreement between the Illinois Department of Health and Family Services and the City of Clark with supplemental ambulance rates. Alderman Dirk, did you have any discussion? Oh, thank you, Your Honor.
 Alderman Gas Green? No, Your Honor. Alderman Toomer? No, it is Gussin. Alderman Fox? No, Your Honor. Alderman Herbitt? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? No, Your Honor. Alderman Hoffman? No, Your Honor. Alderman Rose?
 Alderman Beach? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Quinones? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman McEwen? Yes, Your Honor. No, Your Honor. Vice President Schimeli? No, Your Honor. Okay, I'm going to move on to item number two, and we'll take a vote.
 Item number two is an ordinance approving a $250,000 loan for the capitalization of Northern Illinois Development Corporation, a small business, a corporate, and an emergency loan fund in partnership with Wentangle County and its local financial aid. Alderman Dirk, do you have any discussion? No, thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Gatsby, please.
 No, Your Honor. Alderman Toomberg? No discussion. Alderman Frost? No. Alderman Hervey? No, Your Honor. Alderman Urban? No, Your Honor. Alderman Thompson Kelly? No, Your Honor. Alderman Hawkins? No, Your Honor. Alderman Rose? Alderman Beach? No, Your Honor. Alderman Quinones? No, Your Honor.
 No. Alderman McMillan. No. Alderman Durelli. No, Your Honor. Thank you. We'll move on to the third item, the awarding of approving the modifications to Chapter 17, Article 5, the Center for the Protection of Awarding to the Court of Violations for Detection of Orders of the Justice of the State of Illinois, issued pursuant to the Governor's powers under Article 5 of the Illinois Constitution.
 In section 1, 7-2, 7-8, 7-10, and 7-12 of the Illinois Emergency Management Agency, 20-ILCS-3305-S-1.
 to be a public use. Is there any discussion Alderman Durkee? No, thank you Your Honor. Alderman Gasgrin? No, thank you Your Honor. Alderman Toomberg? No discussion. Alderman Frost? No. Alderman Hervey? No, Your Honor. Alderman Irvins? No discussion. Alderman Anton C. Kelly? No, Your Honor. Alderman Hoffman? No, Your Honor. Alderman Deitch? No.
 No, Your Honor.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 You know what it is? Hi. Neely? Hi. Hi. Absolutely. Hi. Bye-bye. Excellent. So we'll go back to our officers who were first aldermen here. Do you have any officers before you go, aldermen? Those aldermen who are not speaking, they're calling to get one of your aldermen.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to, I know some people would think that this ordinance and how we're
 enforcing the governor's order maybe to come and it's always difficult between balancing civil liberties against protection for citizenry but I think this makes a good statement I mean people have looked at Europe and maybe have thought well that's you know that's distant and that
 won't happen here, but my goodness, look at New York City. Some of the struggles that are going on there, and you know, the virus and locally, we would struggle. Nobody really knows all there is to know about this virus. I dare say that I think much more needs to be known rather than is known now. There's much work to be done, but
 You know, it's a tough vote to vote for proponion measures in the sense where we're really clamping down on our citizenry to be compliant. But I do think this is a good idea. I think it's a smart move, and I think it makes a statement. And I would agree with the observation by yourself.
 And Todd Cagnone and Mr. Myers said, fortunately for us, I think a lot of our businesses are good people. They're done well and they want to do the right thing. There's always a few outliers. But, you know, hopefully they weather the storm. And I hope we all as citizens, you know, as best we can, those that are open, continue to...
 you know, patronize these businesses and when we're back running, you know, that we come together a community and support these folks because I think, I don't know when this is all going to be over, but there's some real businesses that are hurting pretty badly over this virus and hopefully by these measures, such as we're taking, the governor's taking, that this hopefully will be over soon. So...
 Thank you for your leadership in this regard, Ms. Merritt.
 Thank you Alderman Durkee and appreciate all the helpful advice you've been providing to myself and our entire team. So thank you. Alderman Gasparini. I just want to say thank you very much for the daily updates. I think everybody in the city is glad to see you and it's a valuable source for information for us in the city. And I thank you very much. Thank you. Alderman Toonberg. Thank you.
 No, I just feel for the businesses going on right now, and I hope to be over this sooner than later. I know we're taking just four short weeks ago. In most cases, our economy was hitting on all cylinders, and then this comes along and throws everything upside down.
 Hopefully we'll get through this sooner than later and these businesses can get back to work. We know that high...
 when you mix employment and high unemployment and economic situations, that's a recipe for bad things to happen. So let's try to get over this as soon as possible and get going, get moving forward. Thanks. Thank you. Alderman Frost.
 I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR DOING A GREAT JOB OF KEEPING THE ENTIRE TEAM TOGETHER AND RUNNING SCRUTELY CITY HALL ON A VERY SKELETONY PERSONALITY. I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE RESIDENTS OF ROCKWOOD BECAUSE I'VE HAD AN OCCASION TO GO OUT, NOT TO MANY STORES, BUT TO GROCERY STORES AND HARDWARE STORE. I DO BELIEVE THAT PEOPLE ARE REALLY TAKING THE ORDERS SERIOUSLY.
 Grocery store on Saturday night and it was very empty and it was it's nice to see that people aren't out hoarding items and they are practicing social distancing. So, you know, hopefully we can return to a level of normalcy that we're used to living in throughout the city and the state. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Alderman Hervey? Yes, thank you, Your Honor. First, to all the city staff, businesses, support persons, and residents, thank you to everyone for their overall handling of the COVID-19 crisis. The one area where I think there was a bit of a snag in some neighborhoods, mine a lot, was with the bulk pickup.
 Um, I'm assuming that Rock River Disposal will not be doing bulk pickup for the duration of the shelter in place. And it looks like that will now be extended until, I'm asking, April 30th based on President Trump's remarks today. So, Alderman Hervey, this is Tom. One, we're not certain about the standoff.
 stay in place order, because I will say, I mean, my assumption is yes. I think you're going to see the governor go probably all the way to May 1st. But that's just my guess right now, because he's been more aggressive than Trump. And Trump saying our president Trump saying up to April 30th. So I would say that's a good assumption on our part.
 For bulk pickup, we were notified of this the evening before the contractor stopped picking up the bulk pickup. So I wouldn't say it's a shortcoming in your ward. It's a shortcoming across the city. And we tried to push out info as fast as we could, but we just did not have a lot of notice with that. I certainly understand why they chose to do it, but it was a little frustrating with how they went about it.
 But we are aware of it and if there's any major issues, please just reach out to me or Todd and we'll see what we can do to help on kind of spot checking a couple of those areas because it was very last minute. Yeah, it was last minute. I didn't call a lot of those in because it was kind of cold, it was rainy and I didn't want people to feel like they had to go drag it all the way back in. So given a little bit of leeway on that.
 the um the second part is they also change the way that garbage has to be packaged they don't want any more open garbage and i think we understand why so there's some confusion as to whether you now have to put your recycle inside of a plastic garbage bag i got one answer that was yes and one that was no you still have to keep
 recycled items loose. So if we could get some clarification and maybe post that or ask Rock River to send that out also. Yes so your recycling needs to fit inside the container it does not need to be bagged. We have posted it but we will do so again clarify that message. Good point. Okay thank you and again thanks to everybody and everybody be safe please. Thank you Alderman Irvins.
 I have nothing.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson, can I? Yes, Your Honor. I just have a couple of compliments for you and the staff and the team of the city of Rockford. From what I've heard from the response from the residents, that your leadership, as well as out frontness and keeping us educated in what's going on in this community is greatly appreciated. Thank you.
 Well, I appreciate that. We've got a pretty awesome team at the city doing a lot of good work. So thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to say the same thing. You're doing an awesome job. So is your team and so is all of our employees. I like watching you on television and getting those updates, and then I share them with as many people as possible. But one thing I would like to bring up is the weather is getting warmer, and it's very important for families to not let their kids go down to the parks.
 No basketball, no baseball. Please keep the kids at home. I've had some complaints about this, and we're starting to monitor it more. But unless the kids stay home, we're just not going to get past this. We need them to stay safe. Thank you. Thank you. And part of our wonderful team. So Alderman Burr, if you're there. Okay, Alderman B, come on up.
 uh thank you uh your honor um and it's to say the least we're grateful for what you're doing and the staff and this leadership but i can't i can't leave this time without again talking about those that have lost their jobs i certainly am grateful for those who have been furloughed with benefits that's wonderful it's only a limited time our businessmen we talk to them
 And some of them are near tears as we see their investments going down. And so what we can do to keep the spirit going to get this thing over with is a very important thing. Thank you, and thank you to our staff. Thank you. And, Ultimate Volunteer, are you on? I just need to tell you off that you are. Okay, we'll go on. Ultimate Volunteer, is there any officers reporting to the office?
 Yes, I want to commend the mayor and staff for doing a good job during this crisis and keeping the citizens of Iraq as safe as they can. Y'all are doing a real good job. Thank you.
 I chime in with everyone else. Kudos to you, to the staff, and to our residents. Certainly I've been out and I've seen that for the most part the residents are adhering to the requirements and I'm very proud of that. I'm sorry and saddened by those that have been affected by the virus and know that we're praying for you and your family.
 So thanks, Mayor. Keep up the good work. Thank you. Alderman Spivey. Yeah, thank you, Mayor. I just want to echo all the comments from our aldermen. I have gratitude for you and your staff. I want to thank all the first responders, our medical community for what they're doing. My prayers are with our city and our community, and hopefully everyone will continue praying
 that we will be lifted off of this horrible situation we're under. And, again, we'll do whatever we can to help our citizens and do whatever help we can utilize for our city. Thank you.
 Thank you Alderman Crowley. I know I haven't had the opportunity to see you since it took place. Congratulations on your election. You did a really wonderful campaign and stayed positive and certainly deserved a win. So congratulations on that. And if there's a motion to adjourn. Thank you. So moved, McNeely. Seconded by Moe Van Hoody. All right.
 all those in favor say aye have a wonderful night