Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, April 1st, 2024. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman, Toomber, Tarina, Wilkins, Rose, Veach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Bonnie, Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum for this evening. This evening, our invocation will be given by Ann Rundle of the Baha'i Center of Rockford. O my God, O my God, unite the hearts of thy servants and reveal to them thy great purpose. May they follow thy commandments and abide in thy law. Help them, O God, in their endeavor and grant them strength to serve thee. O God, leave them not to themselves, but guide their steps by the light of thy knowledge, and cheer their hearts by thy love. Verily, thou art their helper and their Lord. Baha'u'llah. So, City Council, I'm asking that we, if you provide me a little grace, we'll go a little bit out of order this evening. This has obviously been an incredibly difficult week for all of us. We have experienced unthinkable tragedies. Our community is mourning and our community is grieving. I think this week has made us all pause. It's made us hold our kids a little bit tighter and tell those that we love that we love them every second that we can. I hope that we can continue to lift up each other and honor those that were taken away from us as a community and from their families far too soon. And I want to begin by just speaking about what took place last Sunday evening. A man came from outside of the city of Rockford and walked into Walmart, the place that young Jason Jenkins worked and took his life. So I'd ask that we honor Jason Jenkins with a moment of silence. Jason's presence illuminated our community, radiated warmth and kindness and a spirit that touched all the lives of every single person he came into contact with. In talking to his family and to his pastor, he was a churchgoer, he was He was a student, he was a dreamer, he was a doer. And so I'd ask that we stand for a moment of silence for Jason Jenkins. You can remain standing if you don't mind, if you're able. Just four days later, as we were still reeling from the loss of Jason, we lost another four residents from another senseless act of violence taking place in our communities. So at this time, I'd like us to honor Ramona Mona Shepak. Mona loved being a mother and a grandmother. She enjoyed skiing, snowmobiling, and motorcycle riding. Mona loved her life as a homemaker and perfected her skills of cooking, baking, gardening, canning, and scrapbooking. And those that I've had the opportunity to speak with said that she was a real-life saint that walked among us. So a moment of silence for Ramona Schubach. Then we move to her son, who was also taken from us, Jacob Schubach. Jake was a passionate, kind, fun-loving kid who loved Jesus with all of his heart and would do anything and everything for his family and friends. Jake attended East High School. He loved spending time with his family and friends, doing many outdoor activities, including hunting, fishing, and airsoft events, along with playing games, watching movies, and just hanging around the campfire. A moment of silence for Jacob Shuba. We move to honor the life of Jay Larson. Delivering mail was not just a job for Jay. It was a means by which he cared for his fellow citizens through providing caring smiles, thoughtful conversations, kind gestures, and even at times giving all the furry friends along his route a treat. He had not taken a sick day in his 25-year career. He loved his job, and he loved his community. A moment of silence for Jay Larson. And finally, we honor the life of young Jenna Newcomb, who today, actually, April 1st, should be turning 16 years old. She attended Thompson Elementary School, Flynn Middle School, and East High School. She was a sophomore and enjoyed being on the dance and softball teams. Her teammates report that Jenna was always positive and helped to keep other spirits up with encouragement and her laughter. Jenna died saving her sister and her friend and protecting them from further harm. A moment of silence for Jenna Newcomb. Thank you. I have had the opportunity to have many gut-wrenching phone calls with family members of those whose lives were lost this past week. I can't imagine what they have went through and what they will continue to go through in the weeks and months and years to come. I hope that they'll continue to reach out to folks like me and other city staff members or council members Should they need anything as they begin this to process all of this and begin slowly to heal? I was touched actually in several of the conversations I've had that each of their families have reached out and specifically about the professionalism, the compassion, and the love that our first responders showed up with on that Wednesday. I want to thank all of our first responders, from the dispatchers to the EMT professionals to hospital staff as well as the coroner staff. They all showed a tremendous amount of care and compassion during what is some of the toughest of situations. Also want to thank again Rockford public schools who quickly allowed us and opened up Flynn middle school Which then allowed another thank you to Rose grants for quickly jumping in to provide free counseling For the community on Thursday and Friday and just on Thursday and Friday. They saw more than a hundred community members walk through those doors, I think that act of compassion truly does help and those members of our community begin to heal. At this city council and in our community, we have had a lot of rigorous debates. However, I think as we move forward, we should think of those five victims that we lost far too soon. Each of them, I think, can teach us something. If it's to love life, to serve, to care for your family, to work hard, to have dreams, or even just to laugh. They also taught us that tomorrow is not promised. Let's, as a community, put aside many of our differences. As a community, I think we should stop pointing our fingers and instead caring for one another as we would want to be cared for ourselves. And let's start lifting up each other. And I think when we think about it, life is just too short to spend time speaking hate to others and that we should speak with more love. Kindness and compassion can lead us as a community, I believe, forward. I think all of us play a role in that, including myself, and that we can do some of the smallest acts of just being kind to our neighbors or being a little bit more thoughtful in the words that we choose to use in our conversations. More than ever, the people who were most impacted by this horrific event need to see our community linking arms, coming together, working together, with an aligned vision of healing and moving our great city forward. In closing, I do want to reiterate that this week has been terribly hard. It's invoked a lot of emotions, and all of those emotions, people should know, are very real and they're very raw. I want to again just encourage those who are experiencing those emotions to talk about them, to talk about them to someone that they love, talk about them to a professional, And I think as we talk about those emotions and lead with, as a city council and a community with compassion and love for our neighbors, I think we as a community will come together and we will heal and we will move forward. And I just want to say thank you for giving us the time as we honor these five lives that have been lost. Thank you. Alderman Bonney, would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mayor. I, too, want to, of course, extend my sympathy to the community. Friends and family of Jacob and Ramona Jay and Jenna who lived in the strong working-class proud working-class Neighborhood in the 14th Ward and I can't imagine either But the depth of their despair I keep coming back to a thought I shared at Thursday's vigil which is that we're all looking for answers to what could have possibly provoked an atrocity like this and A lot of atrocity like what occurred last week, and I'm afraid that an underlying part of our profound sadness is the knowledge that we may never know, and we may never understand. No neighborhood, and certainly no city, should have to endure a trauma like this. The shock of what happened remains numbing, and I know people I've talked to in the 14th Ward are Certainly experiencing a range of emotions as the mayor said But I want people to know that this is a great neighborhood where this rampage occurred and that the overwhelming response from this neighborhood from the people I've talked to has Been far more. How can I help then concern for their own? Safety which would be warranted but that is not come through to me is I the overriding concern. You know, and the desire for people to express their support has manifested itself in so many ways, large and small. And I expect more opportunities will be announced even in the coming days. One in particular occurred Saturday night. A woman who, named Angelica, who does not live in this immediate neighborhood but lives nearby and did not know any of the, victims pushed out on social media really what amounted to a pop-up candlelight vigil. She bought candles. She made coffee. She offered her own words of support. Several dozen people spontaneously, many of whom knew the victims, spontaneously gathered to share their stories. And I think it's just an example that any... Any way that anybody feels that they can reach out is a good way to reach out. And even if it's not into this neighborhood or to the families, even if it's, I think, as the mayor suggested, to each other. So on behalf of the people of the neighborhood, I want to thank everyone who has extended a hand or lent a shoulder. And, of course, again, commend our first responders for their extraordinary work. this crisis particularly to chief red and Who? was the epitome of calm cool and collected and Then you know in her official capacity and yet at the vigil spoke about how this is cut her in the police department to its core Finally, I want to thank you mayor McNamara for your steady and sympathetic leadership. I For representing Rockford so well to the outside world at this time when words are so difficult you found the words Thank you all the council. So you're aware we will I think it's actually already been done But you should be getting all of the details for the visitations and the funerals that are public Able to attend With that, I'm going to make a difficult transition to the acceptance of our journal from previous weeks. So we have a motion and a second for the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on March 4th, 2024. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, I think something that should lift our spirits, we have a couple of proclamations this evening. The first proclamation is for Week of the Young Child. Whereas the week of the young child Rockford region in conjunction with the National Association for the Education of Young Children are celebrating the week of the young child, April 6 through the 12th, 2024, with a free family fun fair on Saturday, April 13th from 9 a.m. to noon at the Northwest Community Center. And whereas the local organizations within the collaboration are working to promote and inspire high quality early childhood experiences for our community's youngest citizens to provide a foundation of learning and success. And whereas teachers and others who work with or on behalf of young children from birth through the age eight are making a difference in the lives of these young children and deserve our thanks and recognition. And whereas public policies that support early learning for all young children are crucial to young children's futures and to the prosperity of our society. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 6th through the 12th of 2024 to be the week of the young child. Would you like to share a few words, Lisa? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council members. My name is Lisa Cohen. I work with Birth to Five Illinois. Tonight I'm representing Week of the Young Child Committee. I've got some committee members here with me tonight and some of the youngest citizens in our community representing the children that we all adore and favor. And we would like to thank you for recognizing the Week of the Young Child and invite you to the Week of the Young Child free family fun fair on Saturday, April 13th. We've got a T-shirt for you. Awesome. And the T-shirt lists all of the organizations in Rockford that are collaborating together in the spirit of community for young children. That's for you. Appreciate it. The National Association of Education of Young Children was first established the week of the Young Child event in 1971. Since then, we've been pretty much having an annual free family fun fair, so we appreciate your recognition tonight. Thank you so much. That's how I feel most Mondays at Council, so I'm with them. So next up, we have Autism Awareness and Acceptance Month, and we're fortunate to have Lori Davies We're also fortunate to have a championship hockey player with us, and Emily, Emily, I just want to say congratulations again. Whereas autism spectrum disorder, ASD, is a developmental disability that can cause significant social communication and behavioral challenges, autism is the fastest growing developmental disorder. And whereas there is often nothing about how people with ASD look that sets them apart from other people, individuals with ASD may communicate, interact, behave, and learn in ways that are different from neurotypical people. Whereas, the learning, thinking, and problem-solving abilities of people with ASD can range from gifted to severely challenged. Some people with ASD need a lot of assistance in their daily lives, while others need much less. Whereas, about 1 in 36 children has been identified with ASD according to estimates, and ASD is about... is about 3.8 times more common in boys, that's 1 in 26, than it is with girls, which is 1 in 116. And whereas signs of ASD are present during early childhood and typically last throughout a person's life, research shows that early intervention treatment services can improve a child's development. And whereas during the month of April, we strive to promote autism awareness, acceptance, inclusion, and self-determination for all, and assure that each person with ASD is provided an opportunity to achieve the highest possible quality of life. life. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. MacMurray, as the mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2024 to be Autism and Acceptance Month. Lori, I just want to say first and foremost, thank you for the work that you do in our community and raising awareness every single day. So would you like to share a few words? My name is Lori Davey, and I'm with Easterseals, the autism program. I think it's awesome, the week of the young child. We partner, and it starts with our young children identifying if they have any kind of special need so that they can have, you know, reach their full potential. I've been with Easterseals for 21 years now. I became involved when my... photographer back there. My daughter Emily was diagnosed in 2002. At that time we were actually told that she would probably need to go into an institution. She wouldn't talk and and do all these things. So fast forward to early intervention and special education AND EASTER SEALS WE BENEFITED SERVICES FROM EASTER SEALS. SHE HAS HER DRIVER'S LICENSE. SHE WORKS. HER HOCKEY TEAM JUST WON THE CHAMPIONSHIP IN NOVEMBER. SO THEY WENT AROUND TO ALL HER FAVORITE PLACES WHICH SHE VISITED THE MAYOR AND THE ICEHOGS. So Emily's journey is very unique to Emily, and each person is very individualized. But I think with inclusion, acceptance, we've come a long way. We know more about it. Employers are giving opportunities. We still have a long way to go, mainly with inclusion and acceptance, that we're all unique and diverse and diverse. being inclusive and your comments earlier just really, really touched me because, um, you know, we just all need to be together. I'll be back in October for anti-bullying and the whole message is kindness. So, um, thank you to the council, our first responders. We also have, uh, several fun, uh, events for families. All of our services are free of charge. We really try to focus on the underserved. There's huge gaps in insurance and families just can't access the help they need. So all of our services are free. We have tons of trainings coming up, tons of family fun events. And believe it or not, that's the one, the top thing people ask us is, we wanna participate in our community as a family. So we're gonna do a lot of fun things. You guys are all invited. The mayor just got my newsletter today. He probably hasn't read it yet, but there will be a lot of fun things. And so please come enjoy the kids, the teenagers, the adults. Autism is a lifelong disability. And like I said, we've come a long way, and I'm talking too much. So I'll pass the microphone, and thank you again for all you do. And thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Okay, next we're going to move to petitions and communications. We'll start with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item tonight. Item number one is a memorandum from Timothy Hickens, Interim Public Works Director regarding an application and award acceptance for statewide planning and research grant. It refers to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, the Traffic Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on April 10, 2024, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 22, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two a memorandum from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events Regarding upcoming special events which include the Rockford City Market and National Night Out referred to code and regulation committee and Number three is a memorandum from Jacob Rubin Assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 4518 West State Street referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you. Thank you next We'll move to finance and personnel committee and alderman Logan mayor For the Finance and Personnel Committee item number one memorandum from assistant deputy police chief Eddie Torrance regarding an award of joint purchasing contract of police vehicle moving radar units and installation refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee and Item number two, memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding proposed lien releases on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels to facilitate sale, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number three, memorandum from John Pazzi, Police Business Manager, regarding the acceptance of a memorandum of understanding with Winnebago County for the 2021 through 2027 Edward Byrne Memorial Justice Assistance Grant, referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number four. Memorandum from Michelle Pankow, Fire Chief, regarding the acceptance of the UW Health Swedish American Hospital Grant Award, referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number five, memorandum from Tim Hinkins, Interim Public Works Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Four River Sanitation Authority for the East State Street widening project, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number six, memorandum from Jennifer Cacciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Fiscal Year 25 Greater Illinois Violence Prevention Council Coordinator Continuation Award, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number seven, memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director regarding a lien release for 2905 St. Erre Avenue, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. And that is it. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman Logerman. Next, we're going to move into public speakers. A reminder to all public speakers, there's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right. You can use either microphone. You have three minutes to address City Council. If my phone's working appropriately, you'll hear an alarm to ask you to close your comments. If it is not, I will ask you to close your comments instead. And our first public speaker this evening is Ada Rosemore. Ready for me to begin? Yes. Hello. My name is Ada Rosemore, she, her. I'm a resident of Rockford, an artist, an educator, and a farmer. i'm speaking to you in the hope that city council can see the suffering in palestine over the last few years i've seen the horrors of war thanks in large part to the bravery of palestinian journalists and their allies over the last few months i've seen the horrors of genocide through the eyes of children over the last few days i've watched the voices become few and quiet in the wake of a famine caused by the failures of the international community i thought over many methods of argument to convince you to stop supporting this I could talk to you about the long history of Palestine, but if you wanted to know that, you would have found it out by now. I could have discussed the atrocities that define the state of Israel from its bloody birth just a few decades ago. I could discuss the widespread condemnation of Israel from the Jewish people throughout the diaspora, as they and many others have said this is a war for expansion, not a religious conflict. I could talk about the absurdity of using the word conflict to describe this aggressive assault by one of the most well-funded militaries in the world against people without drinkable water. But all of these things would be distractions from the most crystal clear argument. Killing civilians is wrong. It has always been wrong, and it will always be wrong. You know this as surely as you take your next breath, as surely as so many have taken their last buried in rubble. We, whose taxes pay for these weapons, and whose tax breaks support the companies that make them, are responsible. rockford is heavily invested in and dependent on supporting ongoing violence throughout the world parts manufactured in the city go out to cause death a nearly unimaginable destruction in the supposed name of democracy people in the city have enabled the murder of innocent people for decades and we never needed to if we are to be a just city we must stop supporting these corporations both directly and indirectly indirectly This brings me to what I want from you today. I ask you to see the atrocities of the Israeli state as the cruel and unnecessary actions that they are. I demand that you call for a permanent ceasefire. I demand that you start seeing a path for our city that is not through pools of innocent blood. Please hold a moment of silence for Palestine. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Dan Boomer. Is Dan Boomer with us this evening? Next public speaker this evening is Stephanie Hicks. Thank you. I'm gonna start out with a little bit of a joke if I may Alderman Bonnie called me this morning and we had a very nice chat on the phone about Not reducing the dog limit which as you all know I've been been opposed to as have many I think many of you have heard from your constituents I hung up the phone and I thought I hope this is not an April Fool's joke and thankfully thank you it's not so I want to thank Alderman Bonnie for coming forth with an amendment that is not the restriction from four to three. I also want to thank the entire council for being receptive to myself, their constituents, and other concerned citizens and community members in regards to this. Since I have a moment, I want to describe our organization because I don't want to come off as an animal rights person. Our organization supports Winnebago County residents and pet owners. The majority of those are Rockford residents. So we offer supportive services and are partnered actually with several city governments. We're partnered with the Family Peace Center for support of domestic violence survivors that have pets. We're partnered with RAMP to help with pet issues with owners there. So we are, in a sense, social services for pet owners and we do a ton in the community that is a mix. with pets and pet owners. Again, we don't want euthanasia of healthy pets and we want to keep pets with people who need and love them. And that is our goal. Also, public safety is a huge concern, and I'm always talking about public safety. I don't think, I just have to say, I don't think every dog should live. I don't think there's a place for unsafe dogs in our community. It's something that I continue to talk about with the county at the county level, and I think there is room at the city and the county level to kind of tighten some things up around that area and should be. I'm gonna continue talking to the county about that. But should that ever come up at the county or the city level? I'm happy to discuss that so I didn't want to come across as just but everybody have 18 million dogs and Let that be I do support the second piece of this that is the welfare Piece and that's all I have to say. So thank you. Thank you our next public speaker This evening is Jennifer Arias. I I love looking at aldermen. This is so cool for me. I'm new to Illinois. This is like, I'm very grateful that the amendment was stricken from articles in the from article 44 dash 57. But since I did write something, I still wanted to say it because this is something that can and probably will be brought up again. And this is important to me. The proposed originally stemmed from a tragic incident where a dog was attacked by three-unders. While undeniably this is distressing, unfortunately, it's a blatant red herring fallacy. The amount of dogs did not directly correlate to this incident. Whether three or 30 dogs neglectful ownership remains the core issue of this. This incident underscores the urgent need for legislation enabling the removal of animals from negligent owners and implementing policies to remove aggressive animals when attacks happen, regardless if it is on their own property. Pet ownership limits are also intrusive to our rights. Punishing responsible pet owners due to the actions of a few is unjust. Instead of imposing blanket restrictions, our focus should be on hiring more animal control specialists to enforce existing and new laws to prevent irresponsible pet ownership. A pertinent example of this is the state of Pennsylvania, where pet limit laws were deemed unconstitutional. The court rightly affirmed what is not an infringement upon public safety and not a nuisance cannot be made one by legislative fiat and then prohibited. Further, even legitimate legislative goals cannot be pursued by means which stifle fundamental personal liberty when the goals can otherwise be more reasonably achieved. Furthermore, the number of dogs in a household should align with the owner's capacity to provide care. Drawing from personal experience volunteering in animal rescue, I've housed nearly 25 animals at once with no detriment to the property or disturbance to the neighbors. Nobody even knew I had them except for the people in the rescue because I'm a good owner. This exemplifies that responsible owners can accommodate only what they can manage while neglectful ones don't. Restricting responsible owners won't deter irresponsible ones, but instead it would jeopardize sheltered pets' chances of finding loving homes. Overpopulation unwanted animals is noted in the ordinance and need to be prevented, but this could be obtained by allocating funds towards spay and neuter programs, especially in underserved areas, low-income areas. To enforce regulations to remove animals from unsafe environments bolster the staff at the animal services. We can achieve the goals that this amendment proposes without limiting the number of dogs one can own in their home. So let's focus on holding negligent owners accountable while empowering responsible ones without impeding on their freedoms. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Jack Armstrong. Council members, I'm very glad to come and talk to you. I live on Cleveland Avenue. I still have some of the letters delivered by the postman just before he died and so forth. And so we are suffering through that episode and we want to continue on. I have a couple of other things. When my son brought, you know, came to our house and stayed at our house, he brought his dog. His dog was an Irish Setter. And after a year or so, they decided to get another younger dog and bring that dog also. They would bring the dog and put the younger dog in a little cage in one room. It worked out pretty good, except that along about 4 o'clock in the morning, the younger dog would start barking and raising a fuss. And we wondered why was that dog doing that? And we found out through a lot of experimenting and so forth that the Irish setter would go about 4 to 4 o'clock in the morning and then go and stand by the little dog's cage. And they'd get the little dog all riled up, and so he'd start barking. So we kind of discovered that and so forth and made some changes there. I would like to make some other general sense comments. I would walk those two dogs up and down the streets around my house, and walking two dogs, two leashes, and so forth, was plenty for me because many times you'd get a dog and it'd wrap around you, and then you'd have to figure out a way to get that dog unwrapped and so forth and continue walking. On television you see somebody walking four dogs and so forth and commercials and so forth. Doesn't happen. It's not happening in my neighborhood. I have people walk dogs by plenty of times but they don't bring four dogs at a time or five dogs or any more. So it's almost impossible to walk and care for more than two dogs I would say. Recently, My alderman said that there was a fella in our neighborhood that had four dogs in their yard. Three of those dogs attacked the fourth one, killed it, and started to eat it in their yard. This is not... Thank you, Mr. Thank you. I was going to tell you I wanted to cross the dog food, but... Thank you. Is Dan Boomer with us this evening? Is Dan Boomer with us this evening? No. I do not see Mr. Boomer with us. Mr. Brantley, would you like your three minutes? It's yours. Thank you. I'm going to let my kids sit back there for a minute. I'm going to detour from what I normally talk about. I wanted to bring up the fact that two weeks ago we was planning on going to Chicago, which we did go, and we took 30 youth and 12 adults to the Museum of Science and Industry. It was very interesting. And the fact that blew me away, I spent $138 for three pieces and six chicken wings. They just blew me. But I want to talk about one lady that blocked me from speaking today. They was talking about dogs. I'm a dog lover. So if you're living in a family that only have four dogs, what about the family that have a girl dog, and the girl dog have five, six, eight puppies, and how are you going to eliminate that dog that has eight or 12 puppies? I also want to thank Chief Reed, because I've seen they move quite quickly, and Chief of the Fire Department. When I brought up the fact of that pit bull that attacked that teacher at Lewis Leonard School and it took them over 10 minutes to respond, I'm glad to hear that y'all response time for the individuals that was killed and the individuals who was stabbed and killed in the war at 14, your response time was great. I admired the response time. I was always wondering how that was going to happen. To my Palestinians, the, Back when Moses freed the slaves out of Egypt, and he walked into the promised land for milk and honey, why did God choose Palestine as the home of milk and honey? On the day that Gaza's attack on his birthday, the President's Russian birthday was October the 7th. They went into Israel, killed, raped and murdered innocent people and took over 200 something captives. If you go into somebody's house or go into my house and shoot or kill any of my family members, we're going to respond. Why would you open up, wake up a sleeping giant and what have you, knowing that sleeping giant is going to respond? Yes. and murdering that's happening in Palestine is wrong, in Gaza is wrong, and what have you. But what did you not think about the consequences of your actions when you invaded Israel and think Israel wasn't going to strike back? Israel and the Arabs are both brothers under, if you look in the Bible in Genesis 28, you will see that Israel and the Arabs are both brothers. I can't think of their names right now. But I look for one day that the Jews and the Arabs could live under harmony, under the same roof together. But what's happening in God, yes, is wrong. But you should have thought about the consequences of your actions in the day of Israel. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, thanks to all of our public speakers this evening we'll move to new committee reports We have nothing under planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Torino To read in and I'm the one item number one I the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the following items a request to establish always stop control at the intersection of 23rd street and 19th avenue thus repealing the existing traffic control of 19th avenue yielding to 23rd street a request to establish traffic control at the intersection of ashwinton way and linden road and a request to establish traffic control the intersection of ashwinton way and green briarway Item number two, the committee recommends approval for the permission to place for sale the property located at 323 Soper Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends the standing of the Zoning Board of Appeals approval of a modification for a special use permit to expand passenger vehicle sales onto an adjacent property in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3430 South Alpine Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a restaurant with a drive through in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6445 East State Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a modification for an existing liquor license. for 66.6 stocks transfer in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 902 9th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink. In conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3303 North Perryville Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant with an outdoor seating area in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3801 and 3849 North Perryville Road subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance a Number eight the committee recommends to say new liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval For the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in our one single-family residential zoning district at 3307 Charles Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the plat of Southgate Plaza subdivision. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the plat of Kuko subdivision. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of section 2-407-2E4, local business adjustments to bid award. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 4, Article 2, Division 2, Dogs. Amendments to Section 457, limit on the number of dogs. And B, amendments to Section 458 through Section 464, the remainder of amendments. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. and lastly the ordinance number 13 an ordinance establishing a process for the licensing of cannabis consumption lounges the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you thank you alderwoman terena council we got 13 items before us is there any discussion on those 13 items alderman bonnie thank you mayor uh regarding item 12 i move to Strike proposed section 4-57A and B in their entirety and replace with the following. A, there shall be a maximum limitation per household within the city of four dogs over the age of four months, provided, however, that any newborn domestic dogs born from the same litter shall be allowed to remain in the household despite the limitation of this section for up to four months from the date of birth. The code enforcement officer or his or her designee police officer or animal services officer May impound immediately every dog exceeding the limit per household nothing in section 44-57 a shall increase the maximum threshold of four total animals per household under the City of Rockford Zoning Ordinance. The purpose of this amendment is to maintain the status quo of a maximum of four animals per household while making it easier for the public to understand and for Winnebago County Animal Services to enforce. I believe the modest decrease in the limit that was proposed originally proposed is in line with What other communities are doing and that the amendment that was passed by codes and regulation? last week to allow households to remain at four if the Fourth dog was an adoption was as actually an incentive to adopt and to to to ease any potential burden on Animal services, but the timing is wrong. This is an emotional issue as as it's been said grew out of a brutal incident Back in October that occurred in the very same neighborhood where we're now mourning the loss of four human lives and So I just don't feel that we need to have this debate tonight or in two weeks either if we were to lay it over. What happened in October, I still fear that that could easily have been a human life if those four dogs that have been left unattended had gotten out. But I don't think we need to have that conversation tonight or... Tomorrow or two weeks from now. Thank you. So we have a motion On the floor is there a second? If this motion in a second for alderman Bonnie's amendment Which is for everyone keeps all the other same language in there that was approved And discussed and the information and leaves that limit at four for the number of dogs. Is there any discussion clerk? Please call the roll Logoman timber Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's weeks Bailey Bonnie hi 12 eyes Okay, so now council we have 13 items before you with item number 12 being amended Is there any discussion on those 13 items alderman Logan? I'd make a motion to lay over item number 13 second If a motion and we have a second to lay over item 13, is that automatic? Automatically laid over. Okay now down to 12 items with 12 being amended. Is there any discussion alderman? Toomer Thank You mayor. I would like to thank Alderman body for for taking up my suggestion for the amendment previous amendment I had personally i i thought and and i've talked with some constituents uh some very well well uh versed constituents regarding the pet matter and what i stated to a few of them that were very insightful was that i don't i i try not to think i get caught off guard that often But in this case, I got caught off guard. I didn't think that this was going to be that big of an issue due to the fact of, I thought, you know, how many people in our community have three or four dogs that this is really going to affect? But, boy, it was. So most of the feedback I had gotten was, and primarily I would say, as I said to them, solely about, The feedback I had gotten was that the rescue issue and the adoption out of the The county Pound and such That it would affect those who are looking to rescue dogs and that so that with that is a The amendment previous was to prevent those increase in euthanasia or euthanizing these dogs. So I want to say thank you for, because that really was the sole feedback I was getting at the time. But as this conversation progressed, it became much more than that. And so I applaud everyone for listening to the constituents and for the Alderman considering some of these other issues that did come up into the conversation as it progressed. So thank you. And thank you to my constituents, Jim, Pat, and Carl, especially who provided much insight. Thank you. Thanks. Yeah, similar to Alderman Thunberg, I received probably more calls on this than really any issue in the past year or so. And one of the, actually a few concerns that came up was, you know, if my mom or dad gets incapacitated, you know, we have three dogs and they have a dog, now what, we're not able to take the family dog, right? Another example that came up was what happens when I go to the hospital I go off to the military and I need a family member to take care of my dog and now my parents wouldn't be able to take it because they have already three dogs. And so, Think it's important that when we're making policies a few things kind of moving forward as number one is really continuing to engage our community members on these types of issues especially those in advocacy Whether it's you know a dog issue reaching out to advocacy groups if it's something else reaching out to the advocacy groups to formulate sound policy, but I think the other one is I making sure that correlation is not causation. You know, the correlation of the fact that there were three or four dogs that attacked this one dog does not correlate to the amount of dogs that came into play there. It really had a, as mentioned before by a few of the speakers, just, you know, bad pet owners, right? And so making sure that when we're making policies that we're looking at that issue of correlation is not causation. And I think it's really important also, one thing that came up and I got numerous calls on as well is that people have rights, right? And one of the most frustrating components of being a citizen is when government makes oversteps. when they come into our homes and tell us how to live our lives. And I'm sure I'm probably preaching to the crowd with my Republican friends, but I think in any case, like, whether you're Democrat or Republican, like, what people do in their homes, as long as it's safe and safe, you know, they're doing it. I think government should probably stay out of that. And I think that's probably a great lesson for both sides of the aisle to take some note on because I think sometimes even my own party doesn't listen to that premise. But I just think it's important that we take those kind of considerations when we're formulating policy. Thank you. Any other discussion on the 12 items before us? Alderman Bonney. Thank you again the point of the second amendment to these proposed changes was to not have this debate tonight but I Want to the the conversation did remind me that I wanted to thank Jack Armstrong for coming tonight He is most of us. I'm sure all of us probably know member of a Park Park board former Park board president and a retired teacher and I was contacted by especially within the last week or so, by a number of people who encouraged me to stay the course and but were afraid to come forward and afraid to express their support on social media for fear of pushback and backlash from people on the other side of the issue. So I wanted to thank Jack Armstrong for coming here tonight, especially considering the, On circumstances. Thank you. Thank you any other discussion none clerk. Please call the roll jerky logeman tumor Serena Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey Bonnie aye 12 eyes next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman logeman and thank you mayor three items uh item number one committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of seven million six hundred thirty seven thousand nine hundred fifty nine dollars and thirteen cents as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on march 25th 2024. item number two committee recommends approval of an intergovernment Intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Township for emergency rental assistance funding in the amount of fifteen thousand dollars The grant does not require a cost cost match. The grant term is from April 1st 2024 to March 31st 2025 the purpose of the agreement is to determine eligibility for emergency rental payments for Township residents Displaced from their residence by condemnation proceedings the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item number three Finally, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance of the City of Rockford authorizing the city to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018 sixth modification agreement in the amount of $12 million with Associated Bank National Association. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the items before us? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Oreos weeks Bailey, Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll go to motions and resolutions and go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank your honor committee recommends approval of the findings from the Industrial Survey 1850 to 1930 for historic buildings in the city of Rockford, sir. I need discussion on one item before you I Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. A motion to reconsider the approval of the sale of tobacco products at 1344 East State Street. Thank you. So we need to have a vote on if we are going to reconsider 1344 East State Street. If you recall at our last meeting, Alderman Frost made a motion, and it was seconded, and then it was laid over. So right now is the vote to if we are going to reconsider and then later on this evening We will make the vote on actually if it is reconsidered. We'll make the vote actually on the action So is there any discussion on the motion to reconsider all the one weeks? I just wanted to know why this was up for reconsideration I Alderman frost last meeting made a motion to reconsider and then it was seconded and then it was laid over So he was able to bring that forward. I don't know if he spoke to it I believe he said that there was some new information that he was receiving or going to be getting Director Myers. Yeah, I believe my understanding is that um I spoke with Alderman Frost briefly when we came down to council and he had spoken with the attorney for the applicant shortly before council who requested a reconsideration. So Alderman Frost did that as a courtesy. I believe there are going to be additional conversations between the applicant and the Alderman of the ward or with Alderman Frost to get more information on this project itself. So that's where this came from. And do you recall, was it approved? It was denied at the... It was denied previously. Previously denied, yep. It was denied... Council, I believe. At council. Committee did not make a recommendation. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Mayor, given that this is on the agenda because of a motion by Alderman Frost and he's not present, can we lay it over again? Can we lay it over? Director Meyer, that can be laid over again. Yeah, we would need a motion, second, a vote to lay this over. Would make that motion that we have a motion to lay this over we have a Second to lay this over any discussion on the layover all those in favor say aye aye those opposed Items laid over okay next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman Logan item number one committee recommends approval of the award of bid West Jefferson Street water main replacement and lining to n track group of loves Park, Illinois in the amount of $1,000 four million three hundred sixty three thousand six hundred eighty four dollars and three cents the project is estimated to be completed by september 27th 2024 the funding sources water replacement improvement account item number two the committee recommends approval of the award of bid citywide pavement marking thermo 2024 to countrymen of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $218,184.80. The project is estimated to be completed by June 30th, 2024. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Item 3. Item 4. Committee recommends approval of the award of bid water division HVAC and plumbing services to GeoStar mechanical of Rockford, Illinois mechanical doing businesses Helm service of Freeport, Illinois and complete mechanical solutions of Mchesney Park Illinois for an estimated annual contract value of $100,000 annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contract renewal only The contract duration is one year with four annual extension options. The funding sources water and redevelopment fund operating budgets. I Item number four committee recommends approval of a resolution authorizing the appropriation of the motor fuel tax funds to be used for sandy hollow road reconstruction and railroad crossing improvements in the amount of 52,000 552.57 item number five committee recommends approval of the award of contract extension of parking management to ABM industry groups of Chicago, Illinois, for an estimated annual amount of $1,248,906.53, of which $48,336 is management fees, with the rest being direct expenses totaling $2,497,813.06 for the two remaining extension options. Extension approval is for the two remaining extension options valid through January 31, 2026. The funding source is the Parking Fund Operating Budget. Item number 7, committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for fire communication equipment to GenCom, Incorporated of Madison, Wisconsin, in the amount of $2,911,170.40. The funding source is ARPA funds and 2022 budget surplus funds. Item number seven, committee recommends approval of the acceptance of fiscal year 2024 Illinois law enforcement training and standards board recruitment and retention grant program in the amount of $499,320. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from November 15, 2023 to June 30, 2026. The funding will allow the police department to enhance the recruiting of new police officers to the department as well as retraining current members of the organization. Thank you. There are seven items before us. Is there any discussion on those seven items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On number five. Would you have someone explain to me the other expenses? We have here the estimated annual amount of $1.2 million, out of which 48,000 round figures is the fee, the management fee, and then for a total of $2,497,000. And the difference is other expenses. So I'm just curious as to what those other expenses are for about seven hundred thousand dollars director Haggerty. Yes, sir So the ABM contract is effectively a pass-through contract So all of their direct expenses that they incur in the day-to-day management of the operation are directly Pass-through to us plus the management fee. So that is all of their staff costs and office expenses, you know, printing, software, everything that they would need to operate the parking system effectively. And we do get detailed monthly invoices that list, as we would a city department, you know, what line item expenses they've incurred during the month. Thank you. Any other questions? Alderman Meeks? Doesn't answer my question. Oh, one second. Alderman Meeks says that that does not answer his question. If I'm  what I'm reading here, and I don't mean to be difficult here, Carrie. But what I'm reading is they're getting a million and two for something. And of that million and two, 48,000 is administrative fees. Okay. And then there's about 700,000 of other expenses. What are they spending the first million on? So the $48,000 is effectively their profit. The rest of it is payroll, benefits, it's... Office, you know, it's all of the operating costs. And I'd be happy to share with you what those invoices look like so you can see what those funds are going to. But it's effectively an operation of three office staff plus four parking control officers and all of the related expenses with that operation, including maintenance and daily upkeep of the parking decks. Okay. Thank you. Thank you and their alter one Meeks. Did you have your hand up? My question is for item number seven for the recruitment and retention grant my first question is How many just I guess an estimate how many does this cover to train new and? Current staff members chief red I So that grant does not pertain to any particular training It's above and beyond what we currently do as it pertains to being able to do more advertisement for recruitment There's also some retention items in there Officer well, there's an officer wellness piece in there as well where we are looking to bring in some professionals to help with officer wellness and Just a question then, since it's not for that. Could this grant be used for incentivizing bringing new officers in? So there was an incentive piece that we did right into the grant for current officers because hence the retention portion of it so we have not received the details in regards to because the amount that we Are being awarded is not the full amount that we requested So we're waiting for the line items to come in from the state in regards to what we're allowed to use the money for I So potential for that. Yes. Okay. Love it. Thank you so much. You're welcome other discussion. Okay, will you please call the roll? jerky locum in timber Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Meeks I Bailey 11 eyes Excellent next we'll go to unfinished business but since a code and regulation item was laid over there is no unfinished business and We'll move officers' reports to the end here and go to new business. There's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Tarina. Thank you. Item number one an ordinance approving the permission to place for sale the property located at 323 Soper Avenue number two an ordinance approving a modification for special use permit zero one six dash one six to expand passenger vehicle onto an adjacent property in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 3430 South Alpine Road and Number three, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a restaurant with a drive-thru in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 6445 East State Street. Number four, an ordinance approving a modification for an existing liquor license for 66.6% stock transfer in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 9029th Street. Number five, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating in a C2 commercial zoning district at 3303 North Perryville Road. Number six, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, an outdoor seating area in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3801 and 3849 North Perryville Road. Number seven, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in an R1 single family residential zoning district. and 3307 charles street number eight in ordinance approving the renewal of section 2-407-2e4 local business adjustment to bid award Number nine an ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of this chapter for article 2 division 2 dogs This was amended Amendments to section 457 limit on number of dogs and amendments to section four five eight 464 Remainder and that is all thank you. So council we have nine items before us number nine being amended Is there any discussion on those nine items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Meeks. Aye. Bailey. Bonney. 11 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Logerman. Aye. Two items. Item number one, an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Township for emergency rental assistance funding in the amount of $15,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from April 1st, 2024 to March 31st, 2025. The purpose of the agreement is to determine eligibility for emergency rental payments for township residents displaced from their residence by condemnation proceedings. Finally item number two an ordinance authorizing the city of Rockford, Illinois to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018 six modification agreement in the amount of 12 million dollars with Associated Bank National Association Thank you. Is there any discussion on the two items before us at this time clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? I Logan I to bird Torino Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach and Meeks Bailey Bonnie 11 X excellent thank you officers reports any aldermen have a report alderman Beach thank you sir I do want to especially thank several organizations for the Easter egg hunt we had on Saturday up at the Alpine Hills and 50,000 eggs were there and about that many kids. There wasn't that many kids, but there was lots of kids up there. But one thing I want to point out is that we did have a special time prior to the main event for those children with special needs that couldn't get around. And we had a special little area for them to come and have a good time. And we saw a lot of parents so grateful and even with tears that these kids were able to enjoy a little bit of that fun as well. But if you don't mind, Council, I know we only get out here. But I'm going to say these names. I'm so proud of them. Starting with the Park District with Jay and Amy McIntyre. And the Screw City Jeeps, the Miracle Mile. Don Carter Lane. Jeremy was a major push there. Fretz 24-hour towing. The Chamber of Commerce. And a mother's love. Those are the groups that came together. I forget the name of the radio station. Please forgive me, but they were a radio station out there doing some promotion, playing music. Just a wonderful time. So I wanted to just take time to say thank you for bringing a little enjoyment to some of these children. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm currently working with... Mr. Tim Hinkins from our public works to set up a neighborhood meeting for next Tuesday And so we'll be getting that information out here in the coming week around the Auburn Street Redo where public works will be sharing a little bit of that, but I also wanted to just real quickly Mention you may notice Alderman Hoffman and I are wearing purple today East was wear purple day. And even though I no longer work at East High School, I have a very close connection to that community. I worked there for approximately 10 years. And obviously losing a student like Jenna Newcomb, just the stories I've heard over the weekend and throughout the week are just overwhelming. Yeah. I also had Jacob as a student. He was one of my students in my world history course and was a wonderful young man, as you mentioned in the earlier section. But I would just encourage people in the city over maybe the next few days, few weeks, few months, maybe in your lifetime, maybe, if we could extend some goodwill to other people, the victims and their families have been impacted so to have that ripple effect on individuals whether it's mail carriers who are just going about their day or 911 and Operators and first responders who deal with this kind of stuff all the time for teachers and administrators and counselors at schools who have to be privy to these types of circumstances that happen quite often not just in our community, but all around the country but particularly just in Keep East High School and your thoughts and prayers and as that community really Is hurting right now and trying to get through this healing process? And but the many other communities that are impacted by this if you can do something of any type of goodwill towards Any of those groups it would go a long way. Thank you alderman timber. Thank you mayor. Yeah, I I I was out of town last week, I wasn't at the meeting here. For those with young kids, you'll realize when it comes spring break, If they choose to look at going into secondary higher education, that's time that you hit the road and start seeing some of these colleges and universities so It was tragic to Come back to what happened. I want to thank you mayor and and everyone else who sits here that is have put in their efforts into this, and it's tragic. Couple things, one is I did get, had a conversation with a proprietor on East State here downtown, and they did want to make me aware they are seeing a higher increase of individuals coming into their businesses that are not necessarily patrons, considered patrons. and they just wanted to Convey that they would like to see an increase in police presence for those businesses Along the East State corridor downtown If we could look into that in any way possible also Pablo Soler is and Steve Sumner, thank you for working on a matter with me on this CIP so Mr. Hinkins, I'd like to publicly thank them Pablo and Steve for working on an issue there also, I continue and I probably speak on behalf of Most of the if not all the aldermen here that we continue to get issues with the new garbage cans And the size of them and really it's the ones that concern me and I'm sure many others that sit here tonight is Not just it's yes, there's gonna be issues with size taking up too much space in your garage and things like that but really it's the elderly that are more reaching out to me and So it's the it's the elderly that you know, I've heard weight height Etc and yeah, it seems pretty cumbersome for a lot of these elderly individuals and I Heard from last week's meeting there is going to be discussion amongst between the city and Rock River disposal, so I hope those discussions Are fruitful in in what ends up in the outcome, so thank you I Of course, and we'll make sure Chief Burke of District 1 is aware of the concerns. Other comments? Seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn? Is there a second? Got a motion, got a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed?