a vital ingredient to successful public and private governance, and a foundation for a thriving Rockford community. And whereas, civility is needed in our political process, our business and educational systems, the private and public sector, our spiritual and faith-based communities, our families, our neighborhoods, and anywhere we come together. And whereas, 815 Choose Civility was created to engage the community in a conversation about civility.
 to remind our citizens and stakeholders to be respectful to one another in our daily affairs and to elevate the values of patience, kindness, and honesty in our communications. And whereas improving civil discourse and developing communication methods that support civility will help our community peacefully engage with each other as we address the most challenging issues of our time and support effective community problem-solving.
 As we deal with what we have been what have been at times divisive public issues in areas such as managing law enforcement use of force, reducing violence, improving public safety, managing the labor costs of government operations, improving public education.
 equity issues related to race and diversity, and supporting fair housing and affordable housing for all residents of our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of April 8th to be 815 Choose Civility Week. Would you like to share a few words, Patrick? Sure, great.
 Thank you, Marion. Thank you, council members, for having us here today. I'm representing a group of volunteers that are bringing civility to our community. You can follow us on Facebook. It's 815 Choose Civility. In these times, I think it's a very important thing to focus on, to try to bring that to our community, to have greater engagement, respect of one another, and bring each other to the table that have different opinions to have a better community and a better society. Thank you.
 Next up is the proclamation for Child Abuse Prevention and Awareness Month, and I believe we have retired Judge Rosemary Collins and members of the Family Violence Coordinating Council. How are you? Good to see you. Good to see you. I'll hand that to you. Thank you.
 Whereas throughout the month of April, the Family Violence Coordinating Council and other prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness to the issue of child abuse. And whereas over 100,000 victims of child abuse are reported each year in the state of Illinois, within Winnebago County making up at least 4% of all calls to the state central register.
 Whereas and whereas every child is entitled to be loved cared for nurtured feel secure and to be free from verbal sexual emotional and physical abuse and neglect and whereas the city of Rockford has dedicated individuals and organizations who work daily to counter the problem of child abuse and neglect and to help parents obtain assistance they need
 And whereas our communities are stronger when all citizens become aware of child abuse and neglect prevention and become involved in supporting parents to raise their children in a safe and nurturing environment.
 And whereas effective child abuse prevention programs succeed because of partnerships among families, social service agencies, schools, religious and civic organizations, law enforcement agencies, and the business community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2019 to be Child Abuse Prevention Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank all of you for having us here today. You know, in our country, there are nearly 3 million reports of suspected child abuse filed every year. In Illinois, there were 70,000 filed cases with the Department of Family Services, cases that were reported.
 That means over 100,000 children in the state of Illinois are alleged to be the victims of child abuse, and that's just too many. April is a month where we bring awareness about the issue of child abuse to the forefront. We want you to learn more about it, learn about the great agencies we have in our community who do a lot to protect and to serve families in our community and help keep children safe.
 I personally want to thank you and the mayor for your work towards establishing a Family Justice Center. We know that will have a significant impact on the health and welfare of our children and community. It's a huge undertaking, but we know that with your help we can do it. Don't let these numbers paralyze you. Let these numbers invigorate you to continue our fight to stop child abuse and to let our children have the opportunity to live a healthy, happy life.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for the Great American Cleanup Month, and we have a couple of folks here, Frank Manzulo, as well as the Keep Northern Illinois beautiful Executive Director, Pamela Osborne. You have to speak now that you're closest to me, all right? Okay. Where at? Where at?
 Whereas, a nationally organized anti-littering campaign, the Great American Cleanup, has grown to become a catalyst of real change for community beautification, becoming the nation's single largest community improvement program.
 And whereas Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful is a local nonprofit dedicated to preserving our local environment through education, community involvement, and public awareness. And whereas on April 27, 2019, hundreds of volunteers from neighborhood groups, the Adopt-A-Street and Adopt-A-Highway programs and service organizations will gather to clean up and green up our community.
 And whereas this year, keep Northern Illinois beautiful, the City of Rockford and Winnebago County announced the 31st annual Great American Cleanup event is scheduled for April 27th from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. And whereas the City of Rockford is proud of its natural resources and its neighborhoods and seeks to protect and improve our community through the action of citizens, government, and businesses all working together.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2019 to be the Great American Cleanup Month. Would you like to share some words, Frank? Thank you, Mayor, City Council, citizens of Rockford. As you all have seen this year, it's a mess out there. We've got litter hanging on trees and cars, I think, and on people.
 It's been a bad year. Rough winter, as you all know. We'll survive it. Anyway, we have a goal of getting 1,200 volunteers to go out and clean all the streets up of Rockford and the entire Winnebago County. We hope to pick up about 50 tons of litter in a period of time. Mr. Beck has been one of our loyal supporters and the first guy to sign up, usually.
 I take a proclamation very serious. A lot of people, it's a piece of paper. But when a city proclaims a certain day that it will improve itself, to me, that's great. We're all here for the same reason, to make our community a great place. So I thank all of you, and I'll introduce you to Pam Mossburn, our new executive director, and she will tell us more information about our great group.
 Thank you, Frank. Like Frank said, we need a lot of volunteers. And with Great American Cleanup to be successful, we want to be able to clean the whole area
 County and we need a lot of volunteers to do that. We're going to be moving into our recycle center on hydraulic Road real soon But we have a hundred or more cars come through every time we're open because the community is becoming aware of reducing
 recycling, it's becoming more important. We also are in the Illinois EPA CIRA program for electronics and people are becoming much more aware of how important it is to recycle electronics also. So Rockford is a beautiful city and we want to help keep it that way, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. I forgot one thing for the Mayor, he wants to know where he can sign up.
 K-N-I-B.org. You sign up online. It's really easy to do. Go there and do it. One thing also, too, I think Ross can be proud of, that our organization is the biggest volunteer group of its type in the state of Illinois. We've got anywhere from 2,700 people that belong to us, or 1,500 that go out and do the cleanup. That's from South Beloit to Milford to Pecatonica to Belvedere. So, Mayor, we're going to clean it up for you. Wonderful. Thank you.
 Next up, we have public speakers. I'll just remind all of our public speakers that you have three minutes to speak, and there's microphones on both the back right and back left of the chambers. And our first public speaker is Mr. John Tack Bramley. Is he in there?
 McEmery, all the Persians, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. With all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who deserve most attention, the faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard to help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your work, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most.
 The power of a party precinct committeeman cannot be underestimated. This here past week, I'm going freestyle. I was contacted by my frat brother that work in Springfield, and he let me know that Steve Stallerman,
 Maurice West had got in touch with him and they had passed a bill where they posed a higher 100 to 200 minorities in the past working construction on the highway they have been 90% of people that work construction on the highway do not live in Illinois and also that work in Rockford do not live in Rockford so they asked him who now he they asked him they asked him if he could come to Rockford
 He asked them who would be the contact person. And then when they gave him my name and where it happened, he said, oh, that's my frat brother. So I'm holding my frat accountable. So not only do I have a phone call straight to the governor's office, but now I got a phone call straight to the governor's office.
 Illinois toll road construction they're going to be doing the hiring. So they're going to be here this Saturday at 11 o'clock and also Maurice West is going to be here too and the job is going to start at 1850 an hour and we're teaming up with Rockford Housing Authority and what the city is going to come in at and because this is bigger than me, they want to have a satellite here in Rockford to continue to do the
 are higher even though I have over 300 people in my program is not about renewal turning point this is about all the Rockford getting hired. I'm glad he gave me a flyer because for the past six years we have been working with Great America Cleanup we started with 25 last year I had over 90 people that was out there cleaning up in the fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights housing area I also want to bring up last week we had less than six
 6 to 8% of the people that got out to vote. Every door I knocked on, the majority of the people didn't even know that there was an election. But what their biggest concern was, it was not Rockford Rock Valley College trustee board. Their concern was the safety and the potholes in Rockford.
 Illinois. They are very frustrated. They are ticked off and a lot of them say they filed claims. Their claims wasn't honored and they were like why is the city line saying they don't know about the potholes? You got to know about the potholes before you get paid. How you not know about the potholes? And you got potholes all over Rockford, Illinois. And now lately I haven't seen very few trucks that's going out to fill up these here potholes. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next up we have Brandi Gardner. Hello. May this house have peace. Dear Heavenly Father God, I pray that you go ahead of each and every one of us and make our crooked ways straight. Holy Spirit, I allow you into every area in Rockford. In Jesus' name, amen. May this house have peace. Send workers out into the harvest. The kingdom of God has come near.
 Back in November, I asked you guys to come out in a supporting event to bring awareness to the narcissistic behavior disorder. This is a very emotional moment for me because a kid came in my store and he was on the hamster wheel. He was being abused by someone with a narcissistic behavior disorder shortly after he lost his life in a hotel.
 His parents came into my shop because they found a card that I had given him to send him into one of the churches that have a home that could have helped him. I would like an entire month to bring awareness to the narcissistic behavior disorder. A lot of people are being released out of prison. That's not just one case. It's another guy that used to shop in my store every day. He is being abused by another guy with a narcissistic behavior disorder and
 He showed me, the guy who is abusing him, showed me that that's the type of behavior disorder that he has. And the guy now walks down the street with his pants down. He's smoking cigarettes. He's not in church. And he is suicidal. And that's what he told me.
 So at this point, so the narcissistic behavior disorder is a very serious disorder that needs awareness. I would like an entire month to bring awareness to it. I'm very well educated in that area and I am willing to do offer my services for free. Thank you for this opportunity. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Bren Langdon. Good evening, everyone. Excuse me.
 Mine is more of a personal issue. My husband used to work for the Rockford Board of Education. He had a medical procedure that left him paralyzed.
 not only has he been paralyzed but he's been trapped in our home and right now we're currently in the process of having the house modified I got the funds through the doors program but I need help from the city I did reach out to my my alderman he told me that I didn't get my request in in time I have a handicap placard in front of the house I need that curb cut so that we can get him in and out we
 We live off of 10th Avenue and 6th Street. That's a speed trap down there. It's just, I think people think that there is a NASCAR and they think we have nothing there. So when the fire department has to come to the house, they have to take the doors off.
 It takes six of them. They could be doing something else that they, you know, it takes about six to eight of them to help my husband. He's a big guy because of the illness, everything, he's gained the weight. So I'm asking, I know that the budget had already been submitted. If you could allocate some funds from a discretionary account, anything, please help me help my husband. He's been a prisoner since December 1st in our home of 2018. So please help me. I'm sorry, 17. So if you could help me out with that.
 I submitted the paperwork for the construction that they're doing. We need from the sidewalk to the curb to have it cut. And I thank you for your time. Thank you. And Mr. Stockman will talk to you. Our next public speaker is Mr. Pat Wynn.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor, members of the council. It's been my privilege to be part of the team that has been representing the Cathedral of St. Peter and the Rockford Diocese throughout the petition proceedings to name three buildings as historic. I would like to express the appreciation to the council not only for your attention but to echo what Patrick was saying earlier, also your civility. You've asked challenging questions and we appreciate that.
 But there are also some things that we feel is important to clear up at this juncture before the vote next week. And that is, first of all, the Catholic Church law leaves to the bishop of a diocese the decision to alter, change, repurpose, and yes, to demolish a former non-Church entity. We need to understand that the formal language of Church law
 and Pope Francis, who has been quoted several times with regard to former buildings, has made actually the process stronger by delineating what should happen when going from a church, not an administrative building, not a convent, not a rectory, not a school, but when going from a church to another usage. Rome doesn't make that decision, and it doesn't make it for any diocese and parish or diocese.
 So those decisions are left to the local diocese after consultation with local bodies who are so designated to give advice. And that's exactly what has happened here.
 Designating those three buildings as landmarks will send an unfortunate but powerfully ominous message to other faith-based organizations and communities. And that message is that the carrying out of their ministries can be superseded by an ill-advised petition such as we have been facing. Whether intentional or not,
 The involuntary imposition of landmark status will run contrary to our mission of service, service to the poor, the marginalized that we are to provide across an 11-county area, requiring a diversion of funds from our charitable and social justice works.
 The role of the Historic Commission is advisory, it's not a decision-making body. And in the hearing conducted on February 14th, which led to its decision and its vote on February 28th, there were several things that occurred. One is that those who spoke in favor of the petitions presented absolutely no evidence.
 The only expert opinion and qualified evidence that occurred at that hearing came from an architect, Dan Roszkowski, who is known well to this community. And that was clear, unequivocal, uncontradicted, that the former Chancery building did not retain, does not retain, the integrity of its original purpose nor of its construction. Thank you. Thank you. We ask for your support. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Amos, the 15th chapter, the 5th verse, it says, Hate evil, love good, maintain justice in the court. What I want to speak about tonight, bankruptcy laws discriminate against disabled veterans.
 Two sentences have introduced a bill designed to shield veterans' disability benefits from debt collectors. When a disabled veteran declared bankruptcy, currently the law allows debtors to count that veteran's disability benefit as disposable income, allowing them to seize the benefit. Yet, Social Security disability benefits are exempt by law from being lumped into a person's disposable income in bankruptcy following. And disability benefits in any form aren't taxable and therefore generally not considered disposable income.
 American Veterans of Extreme Need Act seeks to create the same protection in bankruptcy cases for benefits provided by the VA and Department of Defense to disabled veterans and their surviving spouse. Senator Tammy Baldwin, a Democrat of Wisconsin, Senator John Corn, a Republican who texted and introduced a bill which has already been endorsed by ten Republicans and ten Democrats,
 It has also earned the support of organizations like the American Legion, Disabled Veterans of America, and American Bankruptcy, among others. Right now, veterans and their families are forced to dip into their disability-related business to pay off bankruptcy credits, said Bowen during an unveiling event for Haven in her Senate office. And that's not right. This reform would
 protect veterans disability benefit when they fall on hard time. Supporters of the legislation say it's unfair that veterans may be forced to give up their disability benefit when declaring banks while the general population receives similar benefits through Social Security does not. The fact is to shove veterans out of the protection that every other disabled American gets, said Holly Petras, a Haven supporter and former Assistant Director of Consumer Financial Protection. This bill could
 also help veterans' mental health issues by easing their financial burdens. I study suicide of veterans, and one of the main causes is financial, and this bill will take the load off of them. Everybody for freedom, justice, equality, and for veterans who have fought and died for the United States should stand up and speak up about this government and say, we're not going to put up with it the way you are treating us. I also have been wanting to tell Alderman Beach this for a long time.
 And I'm gonna get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more, and God bless you and yourself. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Oldman Beach. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. I do not know if that rivals Jody Beach, but it is appreciated.
 So next up, we have appointments laid over. I just want to call attention, Alderman, that one appointment item, Roman numeral 4-1, does come up next Monday. So if you have any questions or comments for the appointee, please feel free to reach out to her. Next up, we have motions and resolutions, and we have planning and development, Alderman Bill Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one resolution approving the Library Board of Trustees RFP Review Committee's recommendation for one, approved RFP from Bush Development, and two, the backup proposal from Gorman & Company for the property located at 227 North Wyman Street. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Beach? Alderman Beach?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I had occasion to look at the proposals, especially the one with Bush. It looks wonderful. But I would like to ask the council to consider amending this report to take out number two, not the name of the street, 227 Wyman, but the backup proposal. Not name specific here, but I guess my concern is that if for some reason,
 The bush falls through for whatever reason that would be New RFP needs to go out need to come back to the city and that's that's really all all I want to do and I know exactly how you want me to amend it, but that would be my Amendment to this particular report. So it looks like we have an amendment to remove The backup proposal on the item before you yes, sir. Is there a second? I
 We have a motion and we have a second to remove the backup is there any discussion on an amendment before you alderman? Thompson Kelly can we have the correct wording that's going to be removed? Let's see here. I would say the correct would would be back up proposal from Gorman and company Yes, that would be the wording Amended
 thank you i'd be happy to read the proposed um new language as amended it would be that the committee recommends approval of the library board of trustees rfp review committee's recommendation for one approved rfp from bush development for the property located at 227 north wyman street as amended thank you we have a motion in second with that language any further discussion
 Alderman to thank you mayor as someone that sat on that committee I would I just want to mention what we talked about last week and that was really to clarify that I
 We do not have to take that second proposal if the first one falls through. We were just required by the terms of the agreement that the committee had to come up with two proposals, number one and number two, and by chance we only had two proposals at the time. So this is to clarify by doing this that we will not have to take that number two. Perfect. Thank you.
 alderman herbert um i don't remember much with the committee but i haven't seen a lot of these but i was wondering why are they required to come up with two and my concern kind of runs along the same thing if we're not required to take it then why is it in there i think that raises maybe not legal strictly legal questions but if if someone's in there as a number two but you're not required to take them
 Does that mean that if number one bowed out, it wouldn't obviously with the amendment, it would that it would come back to council? Or what if we don't like number two? Do we have to vote down the entire proposal?
 Mr. Franzen? Alderwoman, no, there's no requirement that two were chosen. The Library Review Committee was directed to provide an approved and a backup, provided that they met the basic parameters of the RFP. In this case, we felt both did at the base, but supported the Bush proposal above the Gorman. But nothing would require this body to approve both. The amendment would be appropriate.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Your Honor, I just want to point out that we have members of the board and the executive committee, a director here in the house, if further explanation is needed. So we have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on the motion and a second before you? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 Item or the amendment amended amendment. Sorry passes next up. We have the amended Resolution before you is there any further discussion on that amended resolution alderman? Herbie my question goes to the bush proposal Reading through it. I know there was a schematic that was there that kind of showed what it would look like There were some probable parameters for the project overall and
 i wonder to what extent if it's modified it comes back to city council i mean with the space that's there i don't imagine they're going to do too many um it sounds like there are limitations as to the height of the building okay and that was one of my concerns if they modify the project parameters i guess the type of building um the look of it the height of it
 Are there any restrictions, especially because this is on the river and it's going to block part of the view? Director Franzen. So, you know, we will be working at the staff level with the library as they work on the design and certainly any of those considerations that you factor in would go into a redevelopment agreement as it relates to some of our programs.
 So we'll vote again on the redevelopment agreement, but correct so, you know in all likelihood the Bush proposal has a initial TIF proposal within their funding and So that and any other variants that would go into the zoning or the development of this project will come back before this body Okay, that was my concern. It seemed very preliminary
 It is. The exciting part is we get to talk about it all again soon. Any other further discussion on the item before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. No. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 Ten ayes, one no. Excellent. The item passes. Before I ask for a motion to adjourn, I just want to call your attention to the committee assignment preferences sheet that was handed out last week and just remind aldermen to make sure that you get that back into Deb Powell by next Monday if you could. With that, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.