Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church. Chaplain. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Father, we come asking that your blessing will be upon this chamber this evening as the aldermen make the decision that concern the entire city.
 And, Lord, that that decision will be right for everyone. And, Lord, we just pray that everything will be done in order and decently. But most of all, Lord, we just pray that you'd keep your hand upon our city, on the leadership, upon the first responders, the police department, the fire department, those who take care of us through the night and through the day to try and keep us safe from any harm or danger.
 Be with us now, Lord, through the rest of this meeting and all that is said and done, for we ask it in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Gatches. McNamara. Herbie.
 Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Ellier, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Twelve present, Your Honor. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal March 21st? There's been a motion and a second to accept that journal. Is there any discussion, amendments, or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of approving that journal, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it.
 We have several speakers sign up for public participation. I don't know if they're signing autographs, but there was a nice series on some of them in the newspaper over the weekend. Just as a reminder, our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. And if they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker is Roland Pasta. Oh, thank you. What would you do with a $100,000 interest-free loan?
 What would you do with a $100,000 interest-free loan? It amazes me to see how many people still don't know about the vast money supply that Abraham Lincoln discovered. He discovered a vast money supply. He paid off the Civil War with greenbacks, not backed by banker's gold. It's still there. Let's make it happen. July 4th.
 July 4th. Let's make it happen. Thank you. Our next speaker is Flossie Horton. Good evening to the Honorable Mayor Larry Morrissey and the dignitaries and all who make up this congregation. I am happy to see that you start this meeting off with prayer. Let me know that most of us believe in the power of God. We believe there is a God.
 And if we believe there is a God, we believe that there is justice will prevail eventually. Mayor Morrissey, I want to commend you for the transformation of this city. You're doing a good work. Downtown is beautiful. It reminds me of Tabby Island in Savannah, Georgia. I want to recall some memorable events that have taken place in Rockford. Number one, it was the People Who Care lawsuit.
 back in the late 80s and the early 90s, 89 through 94. During the People Who Care lawsuit, Judge Rakowski and Judge Mahoney presided over that hearing. It was determined that the Rockford Public School District had taken discrimination to our art form. And we know that art takes time. You just don't take a pen and paper and just scramble to get art. You have to work at it.
 Then there was the event that the Barmo shooting. I'm talking about memorable events that affected all of us in one way or the other. Then we had the Rockford Housing Authority the past couple of months, the new town, the transformation of Rockford Housing Authority. But I want to go back in 2006, and I don't make no apology for this, when the gospel of Jesus Christ to be preached to all the world.
 that in 2006 I came to this very location downtown. Sydney Hall was over the department. I don't know if she was the executive director or whatever, but she's the person I spoke to. I shared with her that the Lord had given me a vision that to call the attention to the churches first, the church leaders, and not just the black,
 not just the Asian, not just the Hispanic or the Caucasian, to go to every church that would listen and tell them that it was time for Rockford to repent, to repent, to change their ways or else we would reap the repercussion of our behaviors. Now we talk about crime. Altamira Harvey said that 10 shootings, last week I was informed there was 14 shootings. Tomorrow
 A mother will bury her 17-year-old son. Most of these young people being killed are African American males. It's been said that when I come down and address the city council, I complain. I don't have any solutions. I've asked for them to put African American mentors in school, African American history, to put an internship within this city,
 that will address the need of all these young people that don't have positive role models. Educate them. Prepare them for jobs. And I end by saying this, Mayor Morrissey, I have a lot of respect for you because I know it's not easy being a leader. And no matter what you do, you're not going to please all of us. But according to the scripture, Mayor Morrissey, it's one thing you're liking, and that's the compassion for all men. I attended one of your State of the City Address where you said, excellent everywhere.
 When I cross from Preston Street here to South on Central, and when I get to Cunningham, just before the railroad tracks, it's nothing but garbage and debris. And I think about what you said, we want excellence everywhere. Mayor Morrison will never have it until we address the need of the young people in this city who actually have a hopelessness in their hearts,
 And by any means necessary, they're going to survive. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy. I'm Alderman Alderman and the Rockford citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 28 verses 25 say, Fear of peoples can hammer everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word. What is fear? Let's look back in history at some of the most famous historical dates. Let's start with Joseph.
 the son of Jacob, who was sold into slavery by his brothers. They feared him and they lied to Jacob about what happened to him. Now let's have, let's look at Jesus, who was betrayed by Jews and feared by some of the Jewish aristocrats. Now during the 60s we have Dr. Martin Luther King, who was feared by the FBI, betrayed by some of our own peoples and lied upon. Next we have Malcolm X, who was feared by the FBI and killed by our own people.
 Just to name a few, we have the Black Panther Party who was feared by the FBI and lied on by our own people. So where am I going with this? Every day and everywhere I go someone come up to me thanking me, talking to me about what's going on in the community, telling me to keep up the good work and want to be a part of transforming Rockford with us and want to be a part of our program. I get mad respect and power from the people from the west side and the east side of the river.
 I also hear and see a lot of people just worried about something might happen to me one day, but I'm not worried about that now. I'm not here to just talk about the city. I'm here to speak up about the truth. If you look at the newspaper and the TV, they'll tell you they see John Tech all over Rockford. They see me at meetings. I'm at meetings that you only see one or two blacks yet. And we also made with the conference thing. So one, let's look at the news.
 That's to name a few other things in the past. Let's look at them trying to close down the fire station. We stood up against that. Let's look at them trying to close down the driver's license place on the west side of Rockford. We stood up against that. We let the people know what was going on. Let's look at what they were talking about Mercy Hospital. They're going to spend $465.
 $25 million for Mercy Hospital on the east side. They're going to degrade the hospital on Rockton Street. They talked about the money. They weren't worried about the money when they were at the board meeting, but all of a sudden they're worried about the money. Let's look at our arguments on the east side that represent Newtown, that represent the Mercy Hospital. It's okay for them to represent their constituents, but when our arguments
 and tell about our complaints, about our concerns. They want to go to name calling. They did wrong for doing that. Let's look at the fact that not only is they degrading the Rockford Memorial Hospital, they're in the process of moving the public
 aid office and the child support office to the east side of Rockford. They studied taken away from the west side, but they leaving very little on the east side. So I say this when I'm going to end it. The slave masters did not want us to learn how to read and write.
 Pharaoh did not want to free the slave. If there's anyone out there that wants to speak, let them come and speak now. And King Solomon, he said he wanted wisdom, so God gave him wisdom. So I go to Jesus Christ, which gives me strength, so in all ways I will be able to speak the truth and talk in God's name. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Several weeks ago, it was reported in the news that a man was convicted of stealing beer at a Walmart and that he was to receive a 10-year sentence.
 He was getting the 10 years because he was a twice convicted felon. Joshua Ono Irvin, the convict who committed the home invasion on myself and my mother, also received a 10-year sentence. And ours was his second conviction for home invasion. In his first home invasion, he discharged a firearm. So tell me, is there something wrong with this picture? Either the first guy received too many years or...
 The home invader received too few, he'd tell me. Just days ago, while I was out walking my dog, I noticed a truck trolling the neighborhood. Down this road, up that. Around this corner, come back up and around. Round and round he went. Four blocks down that way, turn it the next block, and he completes his circle. He finally left the neighborhood after his task was complete. He picked up a prostitute.
 I won't tell you his license plate number. I have it. But I will tell you it had two little Fs down on the bottom right-hand side. And I'm sure we all know what specialty plate that was. Stay tuned. Film at 10.
 If you notice, I do not speak every week at council. Sometimes when I come to City Hall to sign up, it is on Thursday or Friday. I do this to give others a chance to speak their minds. They seldom take the opportunity to do so. Since the beginning of the year, Chicago has had 265 shootings. Rockford is trying to catch up. Stop the violence. End the silence. Call Crime Stoppers. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, it says how good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity. What I want to speak about tonight, you cannot police hopelessness and despair.
 There are those who are angered and surprised by the violence of urban flash mobs, quickly forming groups of young people using technology to organize these special crowds of young black men that sit in mostly white affluent downtown American cities. However, if we analyze this phenomenon, it is not so surprising.
 It is highly predictable. While there's no justification for a young black man to rob and beat people of any race, the activities of flash mobs are easily understandable in the context of recent social history and current economic conditions. Most of these young men are poor.
 desperate and hopeless. They come from broken families and broken communities. They have been failed by their schools and by social and church organizations in their community. They don't have jobs and many of them will never have a job. They live at the bottom rung of society.
 The kind of havoc they wreck among us through flash mob is the kind of havoc they have lived with their entire young lives. For them, there's a perverse kind of justice and sense of fairness in their ability to create flash mob that breathes terror into the hearts of other Americans. The power and strength of a flash mob and its large number of members and its ability to assimilate quickly and to disband equally as fast. The word flash is an allusion to social media
 Texting, Smartphone, Twitter and Facebook. Flash media effective tool for organizing a social cause is the same media that brought down the government of Egypt. Now inner city youth are using the same media.
 But instead of toppling governments, they topple Macy and Old Navy and they steal iPads and iPhones from defenseless citizens. The message from the flash mob to us is even more threatened than the mob itself. That message is you can't control us. You don't scare us. Your judges, your courts, your police, your prison don't scare us. We are mightier than you. We will take what you have because you have given us.
 few other options in life for earning anything. And most importantly, we will take your peace of mind. That's what we and our communities cannot ever feel secure now, neither can you. We are more afraid to continue to live our lives like this than we are you locking us up. What do we have to lose?
 For once, we are more powerful than you. Flash mobs are not new. In black communities across America for the past 60 years, large groups of black males have attacked other blacks. Welcome to the year 2016, where ethics, sociology, economics, criminology, politics, and technology, false. The mobs are trying to tell us, you can't stop us. But with your help, we can stop ourselves. I've been wanting to tell Auburn Beach this for a long time.
 And I'm glad you're here tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And God bless you and your family. If you give me 30 minutes of women, I could reduce this crime and rock for the 90 days. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you to each of our speakers. And just as a reminder, I know our speakers know this and have referenced it. Anybody in the community can sign up for public speaking. It's on a first-come, first-served basis. And if you have any questions or details about how that works, read that article in the paper over the weekend or talk to Mr. Hayes, our legal director. We have several proclamations. I'll be introducing the individuals who will be receiving those proclamations here in just a moment. Thank you.
 The agenda indicates that there will be a 9-1-1 proclamation this week. That's actually, I believe, been rescheduled for next week. We have three proclamations this evening, all having to do with...
 raising awareness around the plight of young children in our community, dealing with child abuse, child neglect, and some of the issues involving our young people in the community. So I'm pleased that there are so many organizations who are trying to help us respond to these challenges in our community. Our first proclamation is for a week of the young child. Accepting will be co-chairs.
 For the effort, Heidi Stocking and Christina Anderson, I invite them to please come forward, as well as others who may be with them for this work. Whereas the Week of the Young Child Rockford Collaboration, along with other local organizations, in conjunction with National Association for Education of Young Children, are celebrating the Week of the Young Child, April 10th through the 16th, 2016.
 And whereas these organizations are working to improve early learning opportunities, including early literacy programs that can provide a foundation of learning for children in Rockford, and whereas teachers and others who make a difference in the lives of our young children deserve thanks and recognition for their work.
 Whereas public policies that support early learning for all young children are crucial to young children's futures. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 10th through the 16th, 2016, to be Week of the Young Child. And we encourage citizens to work to make a good investment in early childhood in our community. Would you like to share a little bit more? Thank you.
 Thank you. On behalf of the Week of the Young Child Community Fun Fair Committee, we would like to thank the mayor and the city of Rockford for the proclamation of the week, which is next week. This Saturday at Heartland Community Church is going to be a fun fair for the families and young children in our community. It's a free event for our families to come out, have some fun, learn about some different things.
 different events happening in the community, and to most of all just raise awareness for the needs of young children, their families, and then to look at the services in our community that offer help for these young children. They're a little shy, but we have two young people that are a great blessing to have you guys here tonight, and thank you for all your work. Thank you. Congratulations.
 Our next proclamation is for Child Abuse Prevention Month, and I believe there are some additional folks who are here from this, and I don't have all of the names, but I invite everyone to come forward and feel free to introduce yourselves if I missed. Elaine Gaither and Pastor Ricky Bates for Child Abuse Prevention Month. As them and any others that are here on behalf of this initiative, please come forward. Thank you.
 Whereas preventing child abuse and neglect is a community problem that depends on involvement among people throughout our city. Whereas child maltreatment occurs when people find themselves in stressful situations without community support and they do not know how to cope. Whereas the majority of child abuse cases stem from situations and conditions that are preventable in an engaged and supportive community.
 Whereas child abuse and neglect can be reduced by making sure each family has the support they need to raise their children in a healthy environment. Whereas child abuse and neglect not only directly harms children, but also increases the likelihood of criminal behavior, substance abuse, health problems such as heart disease and obesity, and risky behavior such as smoking.
 And whereas effective child abuse prevention programs succeed because of partnerships created amongst social service agencies, schools, faith-based communities, civic organizations, law enforcement, and the business community. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2016 to be Child Abuse Prevention Month. And we encourage all citizens to support Youth Services Bureau of the Illinois Valley and learn about the many programs they and others provide supporting our young people in our community.
 Judge Sherry. Judge Sherry Moore. Thank you, Mayor Marcy, and on behalf of YSB, we appreciate you. Just to give a little heads up, YSB is a youth service bureau of Illinois Valley. We're in about 20 counties. Winnebago County is probably one of the last counties.
 We're continually making a difference in families and I heard all the speakers. And all I can say is that people are working the issue. We're trying to work the issue from the ground up. There are parenting programs, there are fostering programs, there are intact programs trying to make a difference and hold families together and make a difference in that. One of the things that we have to hold dear in this month is remember
 that child abuse is never acceptable and it comes in all kinds of forms. Sometimes it's physical, sometimes it is not physical. It is never acceptable. And one of the things, a way for us to commemorate that or remember that are little pins. Do you have pins?
 And we'll let Elaine talk about that. But YSB, I believe, doesn't have the traction or the name recognition, I believe, in Winnebago County that it really deserves. There are at least 14 programs that are operated over 20 counties. We're one of the largest groups working with young people and holding families together, trying to make a difference in people's lives.
 In this county right now, there are at least 200 families that have been affected by foster care, and we're looking for you all to continue to look out and support us in any way you can. Just to piggyback off of what Pastor Bates was saying, it's 200 additional cases that are coming into Youth Service Bureau at this time. There's over 2,000 cases here in Rockford and in Winnebago County that are affected by child abuse and neglect.
 I think if I'm not mistaken we are the largest agency outside of DCFS providing foster care right now in the city of Rockford. We have these blue pendants that we pass out each year and it's in remembrance of child abuse prevention. And where this blue pendant came from was that there was a grandmother, her name was Bonnie Finley, and in 1983 her children were victims of abuse and neglect by their parents.
 And at that time, Bonnie noticed that the bruises was real dark in color. However, several weeks later, she noticed her grandson's bruises were real dark blue. And so even though she knew that bruises turned blue after a period of time, she couldn't imagine several weeks later how dark and deep and rich those bruises were.
 bruises was. She did lose her grandson. However, what she wanted to do to commemorate that and bring awareness to others is that she tied a blue ribbon on her van and she would drive around town and when they would ask her, why do you have this ribbon on your antenna on your van? And she would say, not to forget my grandchildren. But then she stood up and she made aware, the community aware
 of child abuse prevention. So that's where that started at. And so we have these little blue ribbons that we would like to honor you with tonight to have you help spread that word. Child abuse is not acceptable under any form. Thank you.
 Thank you. If I'm not mistaken, Winnebago County per capita leads the state in this unenviable position of more child abuse neglect cases as well as children in foster care. I just want to thank, we have a relative who began fostering a child over the last year, and I know what kind of commitment and work and heartbreak that is at times. I just want to thank all the parents that are fostering children.
 to try to support the lives of our young people in our community. Our final proclamation this evening is for Club Blue Month. I'd invite all those members that are here from Club Blue to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas the Club Blue grant program was established to raise funds to supply the basic goods and services that promote safety, health, and well-being for children in need in our community.
 Whereas in early 2015, Illinois Kids Count reported that 27.1% of children in Winnebago County were living in poverty. Whereas also in 2015, the Rockford Public Schools District 205 Superintendent, Erin Jarrett, shared that more than half of Rockford's student center and kindergarten weren't prepared academically. And whereas incidents of child abuse and children displaced by domestic violence continue to flood agencies working to provide care. And whereas in just five years, Club Blue events have raised over $1 million.
 to help many local organizations provide services for the neediest of our community's children. Whereas because Club Blue, and blue is the color of child abuse awareness,
 City Hall, the Morgan Street Bridge area businesses, and Club Blue sponsors will illuminate with blue lights in the month of April to show support for the work being done to serve the children in our community. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2016 to be Club Blue Month, and we encourage all of our citizens to acknowledge the work of Club Blue and support all the local agencies dedicated to serving our community's children.
 Thank you. Thank you so much. On behalf of the Club Blue Committee, we'd like to thank you, Mayor Morrissey, and the entire City of Rockford for helping us recognize this month. I think the previous community members who spoke really said it best when talking about the needs of the children in our community. I think we can all agree that they're our hope, they're our future, they're the future of this community, they're why you all are sitting around this room meeting tonight.
 And so we're excited to partner with the city to light the town blue for the month of April and raise awareness for children in need. Not everyone has time, like the Club Blue committee, to plan a big fundraiser. But I think we can all do something, whether it's dropping off a bag of clothes to a local shelter,
 or even just going to a website and learning more about the charities and individuals who are doing things in our community for children in need. So we encourage you to check out our website, www.clubbluerockford.org, to learn more. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thank you very much.
 Again, thank you to all of our organizations. And as just a preview, this week I'll be giving my 11th, I believe, annual State of the City Address. This issue of community violence and the issue of child abuse and neglect, unfortunately, go hand in hand and will definitely be one of my topics I'll be discussing on Wednesday night at the State of the City Address. Just want to make sure, is the presentation tonight for the UW Health Sports Factory, is that tonight or is that? All right.
 I would invite those that are here on behalf of the American Council of Engineering Companies, Fair Graham and others that might be here, to present an award on behalf of the W Health Sports Factory. My apologies. Good evening, everyone. My name is Joel Zirkle. I'm branch manager with Fair Graham here in Rockford. Thank you, Mayor Morrisey, city administration, city council, for allowing us a few minutes to share with you something that we are excited about.
 On February 11, 2016, the American Council of Engineering Companies of Illinois held an award ceremony for its annual engineering excellence competition. You, Mayor, and your administration were gracious enough to allow us to submit the former Ingersoll project, now known as the UW Sports Factory, into the statewide competition. I am pleased to share that on that same day, the project received a merit award in the environmental category.
 This would have been for environmental assessment and remediation work that was completed for the project. Mayor, you and your administration and the City Council had the foresight to see that the potential of this property and the understanding of brownfield programs to address environmental concerns early in the process was important. This was a big hurdle to cross, and thankfully it started well in advance of the reclaiming first idea that is now a reality.
 Mayor, we are sure there will be many other awards and much more recognition to come in the coming months and years for this great project. We're thankful to have had the opportunity to contribute, and we want to give you a commemorative plaque in recognition of the award. Thank you.
 Joel, on behalf of the City Council, I accept this award along with Rockford Park District and all of our partners and organizations like the Convention of Visitors Bureau, all the funding partners that are part of Reclaiming First, our local partners like the Park District, like Winnebago County and the other municipalities that contributed to the overall regional initiative.
 And then most importantly, the big funding came from many programs, not just the environmental remediation programs, but the dollars that we were able to direct from the federal government and state governments, our river edge redevelopment funds, capital funds, other hazard mitigation funds,
 This project, I think, and I appreciate your stewardship over this project and many others that your firm has helped us with, really demonstrates what I think we can do well when we have worked effectively in partnerships, and we have a strong commitment to a vision of excellence and strong commitment to community partnerships. So thank you for all that your firm does and that you do individually throughout the year, and it's an honor to accept the award on behalf of our council. Congratulations. Thank you to you.
 Thank you. We'll get back to the rest of our agenda. Next on our agenda, petitions and communications, codes and regulations.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First item is a memorandum from Marcy Leach, the Engineering Operations Manager, regarding the mutual aid agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rock River Water Reclamation District. The second item is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on April 13th. I will refer both those committees, both those items to committee. Mayors will be referred. Thank you. Thank you. I'll run back.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Doug Pan, Assistant Deputy Chief of Police, regarding air support mutual agreement.
 I have a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, city attorney, regarding 2016 development agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement for residential demolitions. And I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis regarding Head Start request, approval of bus purchases, carryover of funds, and auction of outdated buses. And all three of these items will be referred to finance and personnel. That is referred. Thank you. New committee reports.
 I'm sorry, I forgot to ask my apologies. Other petitions and communications, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you. All of you Aldermen have received a memorandum from myself regarding the Legislative and Lobbying Committee.
 There has been a lot of questions on our lobbyist and what he's working on. So I would like to hear from all of you, get your opinions. There's a start list on the memorandum of items. Add your own, subtract your own, do what you want.
 Please give me your input on what you would like to see our lobbyists working on so I can refer to I like to refer this to the legislative and lobbying committee so we may discuss this contract as well as the Items to be working on for the next session Thank you for the petitions and communications new committee reports Planning and development all the manderki. Thank you. There are two items that
 The first is the committee recommends approval of the Homeowners' Property Tax Refund Program, implementation of the program, and authorization of payment of refunds to eligible participants. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Homeowners' Property Tax Refund Program, intergovernmental agreement with the Board of Education of Rockford, School District number 205, Winnebago and Boone Counties, Illinois State,
 I'm not sure what this means, Illinois parentheses school district, the city council of Rockford, the city of Rockford, Winnebago and Ogle counties, Illinois, and the board of commissioners of Rockford Park District, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Place those up for passage. Who would like to suspend rules? Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on room number 5A, items 1 and 2. These are the Planning and Development Committee, new committee reports. There's been a motion, second. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. That would place these two items up for passage. Thank you. The matters are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Explanation, please.
 Alderman McNamara, do you want to give some background on this? Sorry to cut you. So I appreciate the question. The program is kind of a genesis from some of the issues that we've been facing in our community, from increasing property tax rate to the housing crisis to the foreclosure crisis that hit our community and still is lingering on. In a nutshell, the program is pretty simple.
 If you buy a home inside the city of Rockford, you will receive, that is,
 that is a foreclosed home or one in a short cell setting you will receive a three-year tax rebate the school district has passed this program the park district has passed this program and other taxing bodies are working through their process as well so just with the three of us it's roughly about 80 percent uh that you would receive a refund of your property tax in addition to that uh
 We've had Habitat for Humanity as our largest home developer over the last three to five years. We have tried to spur that home construction by providing the same incentive but on existing plats. So we won't have the sprawl, we'll use our existing plats, that if you build a new construction anywhere in the new construction single-family owner-occupied home in the city of Rockford, you would receive a rebate. And that's what we're trying to do.
 For those distressed properties, that's probably more applicable to my ward and your ward. Over in McNeely, I didn't mention this, but they have to be single-family, owner-occupied residences. So our goal is to help fill in those teeth, boost property values, help reduce the blight that's in all of our neighborhoods with these vacant homes, and increase home ownership, which is a good thing for all of our neighborhoods. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any follow-up or further questions from the council?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Odo? Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elia? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Congratulations. It passes.
 Further Reports Committees, Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5B, the first thing is item number one. I would like to refer that back to the Codes and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. And the remaining items two through nine,
 I would like to suspend the rules on those items. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second. The first state item, Roman Rule 5B1, will be referred back to committee per the chair's request. Roman Rule 5B, Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9. There's been a motion and a second. Spend the rules.
 All in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no? No. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place items two through nine up for passage. Thank you. The matters for which the rules have been suspended are up for passage as their discussion.
 on the top of hell. In regards to item to the taxi cabs. I read the ordinance and I did speak with a few taxicab drivers is going to you're talking putting roadblocks.
 in a business that's been established in this community that does hire ex-offenders and does work with community individuals in pulling themselves back up into society. And it is going to be a challenge
 as we've always had for taxicabs in this community. Yes, I do believe that we need an ordinance. But yes, I do believe that we need to be more friendly with the small businesses in this community. And as far as the record rotation...
 I've had numerous complaints in regards to, and Chief, I want to thank the Chief of Police and the Chief of Fire for sending me the additional information. I greatly do appreciate it. But we're not adhering to the call list and the availability of all the records in this community. And I appreciate you bringing that to the attention of the supervisors and the individuals that is on that call list.
 We need to be very aware of what we're doing and how we can assist small businesses in this community because they are the backbone of this community. And if we continue to put robots in their paths, that is not comfortable or they can achieve those things in hiring individuals from the community.
 I will support the ordinance, but I want to make you aware that we need to start working on being more user friendly when it comes to businesses. For the discussion, Helen Mincharelli. Thank you, Your Honor. On item number five, that item was discussed at the committee level concerning 621 and 625 West State Street. I could get Director Cagnoni to make some comments on the condition. Mr. Cagnoni? Thank you, Your Honor.
 This is the special use permit to allow a drive-through at the rescue mission facility on West 8th Street, the rescue cafe. And there was a condition of approval of the original staff report that required the adjacent alleys to be repaved as part of the parking lot improvement and drive-through improvement. That condition was removed
 at the codes and regulations committee so it becomes comes before city council without any requirements to improve the adjacent alleys there's some direction given by the committee members to follow up with the rescue mission does to see what they may be willing to do or what could work out our staff had had conversations with their represent representatives
 and we understand that they would not object to a condition of approval that had them repave the portion of the alley exiting the drive-through west to Rockton Avenue. Very good. Thank you. Any further discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 I had the opportunity and I wanted to thank Todd and Scott, his staff, for having a lengthy conversation with me in regards to this. And I do appreciate the staff extending their hand and working with the organization to come up with a comfortable compromise. It is my understanding that the staff does agree to the compromise, but all the details, have they been worked out?
 Mr. Cagnone? You know, this is at the direction of City Council on how they want to approve and move forward with the request on whether they want a condition of approval, do not want a condition of approval, or want amended condition of approval.
 You know, our staff prepared a recommendation through a review, as we typically would do for any development related to the impact of public infrastructure adjacent to such a use, and that's where our recommendation of approval came forward from. If it is the desire of the council as a whole to not have a condition of approval as approved by the committee, that would be your desire. If you feel that,
 The discussion that we had with the rescue mission is reasonable, you could amend and include a condition requiring the portion of the alley west of the drive-through exit to Rockton Avenue to be paved. As the item, just as a follow-up, Mr. Cagnone, as it currently exists on the council's agenda,
 This is different than the original staff recommendations, my understanding? Correct. When it was recommended by the Code and Regulation Committee last week, they removed the condition to require the payment of the I think what Alderman Thompson-Kelly is asking, correct me if I'm wrong, Alderman, but as it appears right now on the agenda,
 Is it something that staff said the discussion or maybe you could re-ask it if necessary? I guess my concern is the amendment was made on committee level, and it's my understanding that one of the recommendations I made was that staff speak with the agency representatives to come up with some type of an agreement between the two of them. My question is, has an agreement been agreed upon that both parties can live with?
 In other words, since... Yes, it's my understanding if you put a condition of approval, if you amended the item and included a condition of approval requiring a pavement of the alley exiting the drive-through west to Rockton, that would be acceptable with the rescue mission. Alderman McNeely and Alderman Beach, did you have your hand up as well?
 All right, I'll make Naley first. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I did talk with the applicant before the – it came before the Colson Rex. I do believe, given that area there and the fact that the organization has the property to the west of their cafe,
 nearly that complete block I don't think it would be onerous of them for the city to ask them to pave that part of the alley I my real concern is having the drive-through there with the number of pedestrians within that area but if the council would like to move forward and approve this I
 I would ask that they include that that organization paid for the paving of that. So I'm offering amendment to include for part of the conditions, one of the conditions be to improve that part of the alley. Second. There's been a motion and second to amend item 5 under Roman numeral 5B.
 to require the payment of the alley adjacent to the site. Is that accurate? By the applicant. By the applicant.
 Mr. Cagnone, is that captured what the staff discussion had been? Just to clarify, that portion of the north alley that runs east-west, it'd be paving the portion west of the exit from the drive-through leading to Rockton Avenue. So it's the, include the pavement of the north alley, which is an east-west? West of the exit for the drive-through to Rockton Avenue. West of the drive-through exit.
 Is that right? Correct. It's been moved and seconded. Is there a discussion? Alderman Beach, then Alderman Shirely, then Alderman Newberg. Thank you, Your Honor. And right now, again, just to be clear, this proposed amendment is on the floor? Yes. Yes, go ahead. Well, then maybe we should wait until we vote on that. I wanted to just share that one of the reasons why, even in committee, I suggested that we can help them pave the whole alley. I just want to make the comment that...
 And the estimated price is somewhere around $20,000. And we are always, in terms of economic development growth, helping subsidize one way or the other, even what we passed this evening with the remitment of personal property taxes on homes for a good reason. And we supported that. And the Rockford Risk Commission, as stated here, has pretty well done that whole block.
 And they spent thousands of dollars trying to make, improve and give people work and so forth. And I didn't think it would be a problem for this community to spend $20,000 to help that project as they help us along with the job training programs and other things that are behind the scenes that most people in Rockford don't know about and they don't see. I thought it would be a kind gesture.
 If they if they've met with the rescue mission and the rescue mission is okay with paying half of that Then that's fine I can I can support that but I need you to say out for the council why I felt like we should probably Pay pay for that all in terms of that whole economic development that whole block that whole site. Thank you, sir Thank you all the men's reliance. That's my question was just to clarify the amendment which I
 in conjunction with Alderman Beaches, that would pretty much be half of the alley? Is that a question to me? Mr. Cagnoni, could you clarify that? So there's two alleys adjacent to this property. One runs north-south, one runs east-west. So the quote that's referenced by Alderman Beach may be for both of those. So this would be approximately half of the alley to the north, which runs east-west.
 Very good. Thank you. Thank you. When you, the alley exits, excuse me, the drive-in exits on an alley that goes west and dumps out on Rockton Avenue or goes to the east and then comes back out to a State Street on Sherman Drive. So the alley that's in question is that east-west alley that dumps out into Rockton Avenue.
 From yes, not Sherman Drive. Just all the other one. Alderman Newberg, I believe you were next. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Yes, I want to commend the city. There were a lot of potholes. I think restoration is very happy that the potholes are filled. I think some of them were down to rebar. Again, I want to note that if you don't tell, call the city and let them know that you got holes in your alley, they don't get fixed because we don't go out and check them.
 But I think to the satisfaction of both restoration and the city, this is a good compromise. But for further clarification, please, Todd,
 It would actually be one half of that north alley then. Are they going to do up to the north-south alley, or are they just going to do from the end of their current building west? Mr. Cagone? In short, the end of their current building west, because that's approximately where the drive-through exits. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Thank you, Alderman McNeely, for acknowledging the fact that there is a lot of foot traffic in that area. And that was one of the concerns that I had as well. You know, we can pave the alley, but if we make a terrible condition for them to do business at their shop as well as the pedestrians that are walking in that area, we have to also
 very mindful of what we're doing. And that is the reason why I took the conditions off in the first place, hoping that the staff and the individuals could come up with a compromise on what would suit their business and their operations best. And it's my understanding, that was the question I asked. Have city staff,
 And the owners and operators of this establishment came up with the agreement that they both can live with, whether it's pay the half of an alley, the east or west alley, the north or south alley, but an agreement that they both can live with and then yet operate their business as well. Thank you, and I believe, Mr. Cagnoni, the answer to that would be yes.
 Thank you, Your Honor. That's somewhat of a policy question that's being asked, but I do believe that the proposal that's forward is reasonable, taking into consideration the comments and concerns that are raised by the aldermen. In other words, I'm sure they would like us to do, not require any of it, but you had the discussions with them about this as a compromise, and it's ultimately up to the council to weigh in on which direction the council wants to go.
 Thank you. Can he repeat what the agreement was? Yes, and let me state it and you tell me if this is right or wrong. It would add a condition including the requirement that the applicant pave the north alley, which is an east-west direction, west of the drive-through exit. And how long are we giving them to pave that considering their financial condition? Mr. Degnalli? It's a part of the conditions of approval, so it would take place during construction.
 of the parking lot. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, we'll take just a voice vote on the amendment that's on the floor. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Thank you.
 Your Honor, place that item up as amended. That item along with the other items? Yeah, place the other items up. I'll place them all up for passage again. Right. So all those items are up for passage on Roman numeral 5B, items 2 through 9. Up for passage, is there any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No on one, two, three, and five. Aye on the remaining. Chiarelli? Aye. Item one, five, 11 ayes, one no. Number four, six, nine, 12 ayes. Thank you, and just as a reminder, item one, those matters that were all up past, item one was referred back to committee.
 Thank you. Further reports? Hold on, Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Rule No. 5C, I place items 1 through 6 up for passage and ask for suspension of rules. Thank you. There's been a motion. Second. Under Rule No. 5C, items 1 through 6. All those in favor of spending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Place them up for passage. Matters are...
 For passage Mr.. Hayes do we need to add a? Committee report or all the Rebecca you want to do I apologize my short-term memories could kick off for a minute
 So at the committee we did approve another committee report which was the recommending approval of the authority to issue $7,400,000 in general obligation bonds. 17. 17, I'm sorry. Which less issuance cost will provide $17,400,000 for police district stations 1 and 3. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 right and he's a special role in that item correct emotion and second to offer an additional finance and personnel a new committee report this would be the recommendation
 to issue $17,400,000 in general obligation bonds, alternative revenue source, less issuance costs, providing $17,400,000 for police district stations one and three with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance. It's been moved and seconded as a suspension of the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Aye. Ayes have it. Along with the other items, I would place that up for passage as well. Yeah.
 It takes 10 votes. Yeah, we have 12. I did the math. We're fine. Thank you, Mr. Hayes, for checking my sanity. But you know, we're fine. There was 10, we needed 10 to approve, we had 10. So that, along with the other items, is now, the rules have been suspended. They're up for consideration, if the council so desires. Alderman Newberg has the first question. Would that bond issue be number seven?
 We didn't you'd like yeah, I'm naming it number seven we were for that for one week second so the matter is subject to automatic layover with the two Alderman rule since it is up for Passage the first time matter will lay over so items one through six that are for passage. Mr. Hayes delayed over one week Will be to the next council meeting. Thank you. I
 So to lay over per council rule and per state per state law to the next Regularly scheduled council meeting which will be two weeks. Thank you One through six after passage is their discussion on those items hearing the clerk please call the roll Thompson Kelly
 Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Tova? Aye. Matters all passed, thank you. Officers, reports? Just have a couple items to report on this evening. There is a handout, I don't know if everyone's gotten it, I had gotten a copy of it this evening, for tomorrow.
 There will be a ribbon-cutting for the Mobile Lab joint partnership with the Center for Nonviolence and Conflict Transformation. This will be at 11 a.m., Chief Hoey, I believe, tomorrow. This was a partnership which helped convert one of the City Rockford Police Department's vans
 a mobile command unit into a mobile learning lab. And we'll look forward to that discussion tomorrow and get more details on it from our police staff. As I mentioned earlier tonight, on Wednesday, 6 p.m., doors open at 5. I will be giving the State of the City address.
 There will be comment, I believe question cards that will be handed out. I will reserve some time at the end of the formal speech. If you happened to make it last year, you know I went to a different format, which I'm going to continue this year. It's more of a conversational discussion as opposed to me just sitting and reading a prepared speech. So hopefully that gives
 format which will be more conducive to some Q&A afterwards and a good general discussion. I just want to thank the City Council. I've not had a chance to give an officer's report, I don't believe, since I was doing some traveling, since the successful passage of our 1% sales tax for the third time. That's going to be one of the themes I'll be hitting on during my speech, but I just want to commend the Council.
 If there was ever anything that would be a direction coming from our city about the direction we've been taking the community, it's the investment that our taxpayers give us when they voluntarily agree to maintaining a tax, a sales tax at a level which costs them money. So in this day and age when we know there's so many challenges to people's financial pocket
 books. To get the endorsement from our community is an endorsement in the direction that the Council has been laying. And one of the Council members tonight, Ms. Hoard, made the comment about in her opening remarks about this vision of excellence everywhere. I'll talk about that per usual. I do it every year. It's a hard commitment. It's a hard vision. But it's one that only happens when the citizens give us their support. So I appreciate that passage.
 of the 1% sales tax, again, almost 70% of the electorate, and we had a huge turnout in this last election, this primary, which was great to see. So I appreciate that, and I know we have a lot of tough debates and different things that we consider on this council floor, but congratulations to all of you and to us as a council for earning that support, which would not come if we didn't deserve it and earn it. And I thank you for all your work that you do as a council and us together that we do.
 Maybe just a final point, just to emphasize once more, a big portion of our challenge that we deal with, I've not had a chance to talk to the council in this room since we, the Fire and Police Commission appointed a new chief, O'Shea, that will be joining us later this month.
 I congratulate him. I believe he'll be in attendance on Wednesday evening. We have a chance to meet, for me formally to give some remarks about him coming into the department. But as I said in some of my comments to the media, the good news is we have a new chief joining us that is very familiar with a lot of the work that we're doing and have been doing around community policing. He'll bring some fresh ideas and perspectives
 and some experiences that he's had working collaboratively. I had a long discussion with him about some of the challenges that we've had in our community. He's well aware and he's a quick student of the challenges. I appreciate Chief Hoey and all the work he's done as an excellent interim chief and will continue to serve us. I'm very proud to be able to have you here, Chief Hoey, and you will be a great asset along with the rest of the command staff to support our new chief coming in.
 But again, it's a, I guess, commendation of the department, the work that we've done, that we had a strong applicant and strong applicants like Chief O'Shea that has accepted the position. We look forward to working with him on a little bit more detail about some of the work that we'll have ahead of us at the speech on Wednesday night. For the officers' reports, I'm O'Connor.
 Yes, it's a community event opportunity for our neighborhood groups to get together and clean up their neighborhoods for the Great American Cleanup through Keep Illinois Beautiful. You can go to knib.org.
 and get your group together, and they supply you with the bags, the little clippy things to pick up the garbage, and vests. So all you need to do, once again, is go on to knib.org. This will be for Saturday, April 30th from 9 a.m. to noon, and it's a great way to clean up our community. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I want to give a personal thank you to Deputy Chief Hoy for the service he's given to this community. And I also want to publicly thank, I'm glad Deloitte made this mistake so you can stay here with us. It's not very often that you have administration that you can look at and they care about the residents of this community.
 not only from the policies and procedures that they do, but the day-to-day contact and the contact of our officers of this police department. And that goes a lot to say for the administration that we have in this community. And I do appreciate the services that they have given us in this community. I do appreciate, hopefully, the services that we will continue to have once we get the three stations and the improvement in. Thank you.
 activities that happen in this community. So I wanted to personally thank you and all of the command staff for all the work that you do, especially with the incident on Auburn and Central yesterday, you guys running through the woods chasing people. I greatly appreciate that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNamara.
 Thank you, Mayor. I have an announcement on behalf of the Visitor and Convention Bureau. They are asking for business owners to join them as they discuss opportunities to capitalize on the increased business from the opening of the UW Sports Factory. With the opening set for June 1st, they will begin to see more visitors in Rockford and downtown in particular.
 uh... in the seminar will help explore the impact of these visitors can have and how that more traffic means more opportunity to the business owners there are uh... two different uh...
 times for this meeting. It's this Thursday, April 7th. The time is 9 a.m. to 10.30, or they can go to a 2 p.m. to 3.30 p.m. meeting over at the Carlisle Brewing Company, which is 2015 East State Street. I think that has to be wrong. Isn't it 215 East State Street?
 For Carlyle? Yes. I would think it's 215 East State Street. And they just, to RSVP, seating is limited, so reach out to Jenny at the RACVB, and that phone number is 815-489-1672.
 Thank you. One other announcement I forgot to make. This Friday at 2 p.m. there will be a press conference hosted by the Rockford Area Conventional Visitors Bureau at their offices regarding some of the work we're coordinating with them to help celebrate our local favorites, Chief Trick, and their induction into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. There will be a series of
 honors and recognitions that we'll try to do over the course of this month and we'll be discussing that more this Friday at 2 o'clock.
 I'll maneuver. Thank you. I want to, we had a lot of rain last week. There was this one day that it didn't start out sprinkles, it just sort of downpoured. And I want to give a special thank you to Mark Stockman. There was an area in my ward that for years has flooded.
 and they get their own little pond. And Jesse Washington, who's my community service officer, when we did a friendly visit down there about six weeks ago, we found an area that floods very naturally. And this week, this last week with the rain, the area flooded again, so I called Mr. Stockman and he went down and found out that, lo and behold,
 there were two drains that were plugged up. So the city unplugged the drains and showed the residents that, you know, if you keep these clear, they don't flood up. You don't get ponds. So I wanted to, one, thank Mark Stockman and his staff.
 and the public works, and two, remind people that, you know, it's spring. The street sweepers are out, but we have gutters and we have drainage that needs to be kept clear because if we don't keep it clear, the water ain't going away. So that's my public service announcement. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Yesterday afternoon, my wife asked me to take her out to the garden home show
 And while I was walking around the area, I happened to talk to one of these water vendors that sell bottled water and so forth. And I said, well, tell me, this is your local area. Where do you buy your water that you process and sell? And he said, from Love's Park.
 So I just make that comment by saying that we're talking about the abundance of water that we have. You've heard me talk in the chambers about how do we figure out ways how to market it, bring it through wholesalers, retailers, and sell it. Here's a practical example about five and a half miles the other way where a professional business for hire is selling water that he purchased in the city of Loves Park.
 I haven't had time between then to call out there and find out, you know, what the arrangement is. But I just think that I make that not to embarrass us, but to say there are opportunities that we want to search for them that, with their costless money, can put money into our Treasury. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Mr. Hayes, do we want to do our request for the closed session now? Or are we going to wait until the end of the meeting? All right, we'll wait until the end. Motions and resolutions?
 Paul M. Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a referral from Planning and Development Committee for the Illinois Housing and Development Authority Blight Reduction Program Resolution and Certificate of Incumbency. And place that up for passage. Thank you. For passage is the Illinois Housing and Development Authority Blight Reduction Program Resolution and Certificate of Incumbency. Is there discussion? Hearing none, Mr. Hayes, that requires, let's take a roll call vote. Go ahead, clerk.
 Durkee aye Gatches aye Knight-Camara aye Cronall Thompson-Kelley Odo Newberg Beach aye Elliott Beck McNeely Chiarelli 11 ayes, 1 no The matter passes, thank you Alderman Chiarelli Thank you your honor, Roman numeral 8 B1 has been withdrawn by the applicant So we'll move on to B2 is the Memorial Day Parade scheduled for May 30th
 Number three is the Rockford Fire Department 911 Run Walk, scheduled for Saturday, June 4th. The fourth is the Bowtie March and 5K Run, scheduled for Saturday, June 11th. The fifth is Rockford Public Library Summer Reading Kickoff, scheduled for Saturday, June 4th. The sixth is Rockford Starfire's Peach Orchard Classic, scheduled for Saturday, September 3rd. The seventh is the Labor Day Parade, scheduled for Monday, September 5th.
 And the eighth is the MELD run scheduled for Monday, July 4th. I place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Up for passage on roll number 8B, items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. Item 1 was withdrawn by the applicant, but B, 2 through 8 are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, 7. Thank you. Thank you.
 Hold them back. Thank you, Hunter. Roman numeral 8C, items 1 through 13. I place up for passage. Thank you. Hunter, under Roman numeral 8, motions and resolutions C, items 1 through 13, are up for passage. Finance and Personnel Committee items up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. Metcambier. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 12 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes, 2 noes. That is all passed. Thank you. Your Honor, I also have the additional resolution that came out of committee.
 It's expressing official intent regarding certain capital expenditures to be reimbursed from proceeds of an obligation to be issued by the City of Rockford, Winnebago and Oval Counties, Illinois. And I place that up for passage. Mr. Hayes, just as a point of procedure, is there any problem moving forward with the resolution at this point in time? I'm anticipating there'd be the same motion to lay that over as there was for the committee report. Well, I just want to know the procedure. There's no problem with the official intent.
 is an independent resolution to the bonding authority ordinance. So they can move independently. Okay, that was my question. So the matter is appropriately procedurally before the Council for consideration. Do we need a motion to suspend the rules, Mr. Hayes?
 Resolutions can be considered, although this one, I would be more comfortable since it's on the agenda based on that reference, if we could suspend the rules. I would move to suspension of rules. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on this item with the, I guess, caution that it was only introduced this evening. So let's take that matter first. All those in favor, suspend the rules on this resolution, please.
 So that, again, I'll read it again. I'll let me back read it in. This was part of the work on the police stations. It's the resolution expressing official intent regarding certain capital expenditures to be reimbursed from proceeds of an obligation to be issued by the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, Illinois. And I asked from a procedural standpoint whether that could be run separately from the committee report. The committee report was laid over.
 But Mr. Hayes indicates that this can move separately from the committee report. And so, Alderman Beck moved for suspension of the rules. That was seconded. And that is not a debatable motion. I just want to call the vote on that motion. All those in favor of supporting that suspension of the rules on that resolution, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules should be suspended. Place it up for passage. That is up for passage. Alderman Newberg.
 Can I make a motion to lay this over two weeks? You can. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded to lay over for two weeks. Is there any discussion on that motion? Clerk, please call the roll on the motion to lay the matter over. There's no. Your Honor, you've been. Automatic. You've been respecting the two aldermen rule on resolutions. So there's a couple of procedural questions. Alderman Getsch was first. Go ahead. I understand that Attorney Hayes is interpreting.
 I have probably based upon our past interpretations of the rules because the rules state that it's ordinances and committee reports this is neither. So I think it would be appropriate to do it by a majority vote of the city council. I would agree. I've never done it any other way that I could recall. But I'm happy to take further input on this. This is, since it's not a committee report or an ordinance, I don't believe it is appropriate to just have an automatic...
 layover we have to do a roll call or could be voiced. We have to have a vote on the motion to lay the matter over two weeks. So the motion is appropriate before the council. Is there any other advice to the chair on procedurally how it should be handled? So the chair is ruling that we have to take a vote on this motion to lay the matter over. If there's no further discussion on that, clerk please call the roll. I'm sorry, other question? Alderman Newberg? Okay, on a resolution we can't lay that over.
 No, you can. If it's the first time up? Automatically? It's not subject to an automatic layover. That's what I'm asking. Correct. Okay. It could. If the majority of the council votes to lay the matter over, it will lay over pursuant to your request for two weeks. But if it doesn't, then it doesn't. But it's not a report of a committee. Therefore, it's been my interpretation and it's my ruling tonight that we need to take an actual vote on it.
 Alderman Thompson-Keller. Your Honor, can I request that the Alderman that made the motion give me an understanding of why she's laying it over and possibly I could support it. You can make that request, certainly. Do you want to answer Alderman Newberg? I have questions.
 That were not sufficiently answered. I would like to meet I still think there are ways that we can cut down on the Expense and the size of the buildings and still work very very nicely Even if I'm told one more time that I've only been an alderman for three years And this has been in the works for five or six well. I'm the one voting on it I
 The alderman that previously was here is not the alderman voting on it. We have seven new aldermen, and we're all good at our jobs. Everybody, I give you a hand. Everyone is interested in the city of Rockford, and I have made a statement for the last three years. If I don't have all my questions answered, my answer is no. So rather than vote no for something I feel is good for the city, I laid it over.
 Any further discussion on the motion to lay the matter, lay this resolution over. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. No. Getschis. No. McNamara. No. Thompson-Kelly. No. Odo. No. Hubert. Yes. Beach. I don't care if it's a perfection. Elliott. No. Beck. No. McNeely. No. Chiarelli. No. 1-I and 11-no. Motion to lay over fails. So the matter is up before the council for...
 consideration and a vote. Is there any further discussion on the resolution? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shear-Runley. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. And it passes. Thank you.
 Alvin McNeely. Thank you. I'm sorry. On the vote previous to this last vote, item number nine, I wanted to vote no. I'd like to change my vote to no. Is that on the Taser International? Yes. Mr. Hayes, any problem with that? That's fine. Thank you. Thank you. New business, Alderman Durkee. Alderman. Mr. Chair. I'm sorry, Alderman McNamara. I'm sorry, Chairman. Can we go back to officer's report? I forgot an important announcement for the colleagues. Sure.
 In case tonight's not enough for you with all this excitement, we'll be back here live at 515 tomorrow for our housing committee. We had our meeting last week on Tuesday as well, and it was a lively discussion, as you can imagine, that we've had over the last 12 months.
 a lot of information was thrown at staff and council and would urge people at home to attend the meeting. It's public, it's here in the council chambers. We were lucky enough, I believe, to have it televised last week and would urge other colleagues, if you would like to come to the meeting, it is open for everyone to come and share their input.
 And so it'll be tomorrow at 515, same location, and we will get an email if you have not already received it. You'll have an email with all the dates and times for the next several meetings that are already scheduled. Thank you. Now back to new business. Olamide Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items under Roman numeral 9A.
 First is the Homeowners Property Tax Relief Program implementation of the program and authorization of payment of refunds to eligible participants. The second is the Homeowners Property Tax Refund Program, the intergovernmental agreement with the Board of Education of Rockford School District No. 205, Winnebago and Boone Counties, Illinois, the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties, and the Board of Commissioners of Rockford's Park District.
 But first I would like to suspend rules. Motion to suspend the rules. Thank you. There's been a motion to suspend the rules of Roman numeral 9A, items 1 and 2. All those in favor of suspending the rules please signify by saying aye. Opposed no. Ayes have. The rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place those two items up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you. I didn't ask under the committee, but is there a time limit on this? Alderman McNeely, you want to take that too?
 Yes. Another good question. Time limit for purchasing distressed homes would be by the end of 2016. Time limit for occupancy permit is the end of 2017 for new construction. Is that accurate? I'm looking at legal just for verification.
 So for new construction, the building permits have to be issued this calendar year. Thank you. For distressed properties, the properties have to be under contract this calendar year. For new construction, they can complete the construction during 2017 and occupy within a reasonable time after completion of construction. One point of clarity, the counties that appear in the ordinance heading, which is what Alderman Durkee read in, refer to those governing boards of the
 school district and the city of Rockford those counties are not participants. I just wanted to clarify that's just identifying Winnebago Winnebago and Ogle County are the counties that include the city of Rockford were in both counties now The school district on the other hand is in Winnebago and Boone So that's why those saw appear in the title. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion hearing none clerk, please call the roll
 Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes, Your Honor. Matter passes. Matters passed. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 9B1, as you recall, was referred back to committee. So I move to suspend the rules on items 2 through 8 under
 So the motion the second spend the rules on Roman rule 9b and 2 through 8 All those in favor suspend rules on those items please signify by saying aye aye Those no eyes have it through to be suspended. Thank your honor. I place up for passage items 2 through 8 Roman rule 9b items 2 through 8 are for passages their discussion. I
 And item 5 as it was amended in the committee report? That's correct. Thank you. Any further discussion on those items? I'm sorry, did we already vote on the motion to suspend the rules? Yes. So items are up for passage. Rules have been suspended. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. McConnell. Thompson-Kelley.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? No on 2, 3 on 5, aye on the remaining. Chiarelli? Aye.
 Items 2, 3, 5, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 4, 6, 7, 8, 12 ayes. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. I'll be back. Thank you, Your Honor. I move for suspension of rules on Roman numeral 9C, items 1 through 4. Thank you. There's been a motion and second to suspend rules on Roman numeral 9C, items 1 through 4.
 4. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules be suspended. I place them up for passage. Matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Item number 3. Each year we request a waiver for a Head Start. What are we going to do this year that we have done in the past that to try to have that sweat equity for that over $1 million?
 Ms. Lewis, do you want to take that? Sure. Well, basically, we're looking at additional partnerships. We've had discussions with several different providers in the community and looking at the possibility of increasing our partnerships, and that will bring us in kind through that process.
 Because i'm afraid that after a period of time continuing to ask for a waiver it's going to be questioned And i'm happy to see that we're including more partners and Thank you any further discussion hearing none clerk, please call the roll on those items turkey getches mcnamara thompson kelly. Hi odo newberg beach lea back hi mcneil
 Chair Raleigh. Go, Vice, Your Honor. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Alderman Shirelli. I'm sorry. Alderman Shirelli wanted to make a motion. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. Thank you. There's been a motion. Is there a second? Motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending litigation matters. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Gitches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. McConnell. Thompson. Thompson. Thompson. Thompson. Thompson.
 Oro? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Govise? Better. Passes. We will recess for the purposes of going to closed session to discuss pending litigation matters.