first church. I pray from the Christian tradition, please join me as you so desire. Let us pray. Let us take three deep breaths before we begin, breathing in God's peace and breathing out all that doesn't serve us, breathing in God's hope and breathing out all that is hatred and malice, breathing in God's joy and letting go of all of the rest.
 Gracious and loving God, I thank you for every servant in this room. I pray that you would give them courage and wisdom and discernment to make good decisions. Rain down your Holy Spirit into this place, that we might share your peace and your love and your hope and your joy. In your name we pray. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Here.
 Thank you. So we have a quorum this evening. Before we begin, the state of Illinois has had a really difficult week if you look back at some really horrific incidents that has taken place. We've lost two state troopers, one from San Diego.
 an officer in Stevenson County, which is Trooper Brooke Jones-Storey, and an officer in Libertyville, which is Trooper Gerald Ellis. So before I ask for a moment of silence, I just want to say a couple of things. One is Trooper Brooke Jones-Storey was lost, obviously, far too soon at the age of 34 years old. She leaves behind a husband who was a retired Master Sergeant in Robert Storey.
 She also leaves behind two stepchildren and a step grandchild. Trooper Gerald Ellis, obviously again, was lost far too soon at the age of 36, was a military veteran, was married, and also had two children. I just want to implore anyone in the city of Rockford that is listening.
 to please slow down, change lanes, get off the phone, stop driving impaired, and start focusing on what matters, and that's the road in front of you and those people who are protecting all of us. To think that two officers just in one week lost their lives to really senseless incidents that 100% could have been avoided.
 It's just a true shame. And to see that their lives obviously forever have changed, but so is their families' lives, forever has been changed. And now young kids in their communities and in their homes will grow up without a mother and a father, which to me is just tragic and makes my heart hurt as a father of two young kids. So with that, I would ask if we could stand for a moment of silence. Thank you.
 Next up, we have an acceptance of the journal. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 18th, 2019? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Next up, we have one proclamation for the week of the young child. And we have Geneva Davis coming forward and others. Awesome.
 How are you? You doing well? Oh, I'll take a hug. I'll take a hug all day. Oh, I'll take a hug. Oh, I'll take a high five, too.
 So this just may, we're starting every city council meeting with hugs. So this is awesome. Whereas the Week of the Young Child Rockford Collaboration and other local organizations in conjunction with the National Association for the Education of Young Children and celebrating the Week of the Young Child April 1st through the 8th, 2019.
 And whereas these organizations are working to improve early learning opportunities, including early literacy programs that can provide a foundation of learning for children in Rockford, Illinois. And whereas teachers and others who make a difference in the lives of young children in Rockford, Illinois deserve thanks and recognition. And whereas public policies that support early learning for all young children are crucial to young children's futures.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of April 1st, 2019 to be the week of the young child. Would you like to share a few words?
 We want to invite everyone out to our annual family fun fair, which is at Heartland Community Church. It'll be Saturday, April 6th from 9 to noon. We'll have child-centered activities, bounce house, face painting, a magician, some character appearances. So it's a fun day. It's a free event. So we welcome all children and families to come and celebrate. The event is sponsored by Rasmussen College, but we have a wonderful collaborative of 12 families
 13 organizations from around Rockford that all really value early childhood education. Awesome. Thank you so much. Great to see you. Great. Oh, sweet. Thank you. See ya. Thanks for being here. It pains me to go from that experience to this experience, but Alderman Shirelli, do you have any information for us? I can sit right back down. Thank you, Your Honor. I move it's convenient to close session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters.
 Do you have a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. Loggeman? Aye. Toonberg? Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Beck? Aye. McMilley? Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes. All right. Toonberg? Herbie? Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones?
 Beck? Here. McNeely? Shirely? 12 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum. Next up, we have Petitions and Communications Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor.
 We have one item, a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a proposed community development block grant with Estwing Manufacturing Company, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items this evening. The first is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, the Project Manager Permits and Special Events, regarding upcoming special events requests, which include...
 RPS 205 2.5 run Memorial Day parade and ceremony Polish fest possible Mercado and beauty and the barber showdown and paint the town Party all those would be referred to the codes committee and the second is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held April 10th 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regs committee meeting on April 22nd 2019 place those
 for codes and rights committe you alderman trelley. Nex and personnel committee wi
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Fire Chief Derek Birdston regarding an agreement with Rosecrans regarding the transport of patients experiencing a mental health crisis to the Rosecrans Crisis Center. I have a memo from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding the early Head Start child care grant application. And I have a memorandum from Carrie Hagerty, Finance Director, regarding bond-paying agent services. All three of these items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next up, we have legislative and lobbying item with Alderman Frost. I know you just got in. If you want me to move. Thank you, Your Honor. Your Honor, there's one item on the agenda, and it is the memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director, regarding the renewal of a professional service contract with McGuire Woods for lobbying services. This will be referred to the Legislative and Lobbying Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Next up, we have public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's microphones on both the back and the right of the chamber, and also remind you that you have three minutes to speak, and also just remind the crowd that not a lot of noises and things will be condoned in council chambers, so just a heads up on that. So our very first public speaker is former Mayor Larry Morrissey.
 Good evening council members. Let me start by just thanking you for all of your continued public service and thank you for the opportunity to address you this evening. Tonight I'm asking you to support the historic landmark application for the Chancery and the other related buildings on the St. Peter's Cathedral campus and I'd like to cover just a few of the critical issues that might help you during your deliberations. First, I strongly believe that granting landmark status is not only the right thing to do,
 I think it's a legal thing to do. And I know that the diocese has threatened litigation against the city of Rockford because they are a religious institution and they feel like this would infringe their rights. But it also asks you to consider the risk of litigation on the other side of the issue.
 since the establishment clause of the United States Constitution forbids a public body from treating a church, an organization, a religious organization like the diocese different when it comes to basic land use regulations, and that would include the historic preservation ordinance at issue in this matter. I'd also say, you know, speak to this in other words,
 If you would grant landmark status if the buildings were owned by a secular property owner, then I believe our Constitution requires that it be granted in this case. Moreover, the city's ordinance in no way inhibits the diocese or any Catholic from exercising their faith. And I'm telling you that personally as a lifelong Catholic who lives right by the property. And the concept of the prayer garden that's been brought up,
 is strictly something that was brought up after the historic landmark application was filed. Second, despite what you've heard, the diocese would not have to spend $5 million if landmark status is granted. Now I know the diocese has continuously argued that landmark status would require them to spend that type of money, but it's simply not the case.
 The only thing the diocese would have to do is the same thing that they've been required to do all along, which is maintain their property. And at a basic level, that means keeping it secure, keeping it boarded up. Moreover, there are numerous individuals and organizations who have offered to help the diocese financially to maintain the building and or to redevelop the building. I've personally spoken to two very experienced developers who are interested in partnering with the diocese
 But the fact is the bishop, he may not want to accept that help, but that's not the city council's problem. And frankly, if landmark status is granted, my hope and my prayer is that Bishop Malloy and the Rockford Diocese will finally, even if reluctantly, be willing to collaborate and accept the help that's being offered.
 I'd also state very strongly and I'm convinced that Bishop Molloy and the Rockford Diocese are out of step with current Catholic and Vatican teaching as it relates to church properties. I reference a letter that I sent last week to Pope Francis asking him to interview me because of the Pope's guidance on a specific issue. And again, I thank you for your consideration of these issues. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. Bill Morrissey.
 Thank you, Alderman and Mayor McNamara for allowing us to speak tonight. As my brother just said, the Catholic Church is not being cooperative with us. Last week, Alderman Beach and Alderman Hervey spoke and said that this ought to be settled within the church. However, if you look at the Gospel of Matthew, Chapter 18, Verse 15,
 you will see that we went to Pat Wynn, we went to other people in the diocese. We tried to settle this with the church, but they went and started demolition without a permit.
 And you know about that. So that's why the friends of the ZIAC went and asked for landmark status, because they were doing something illegally, the church was. And if you know that they're hired Hinshaw and Culbertson, supposed to be an excellent law firm, how could they not know to file a permit? I mean, it doesn't make any sense to me.
 So, it's, furthermore, the church says that they notified everybody, but they didn't. They had a meeting, it's been in the paper, where they only said, they went to the people of St. Peter's Cathedral. That's one parish. The church has also talked about having 11 counties in the diocese, but they didn't notify me. All they notified were the people of St. Peter's Parish.
 So they're inconsistent. But mostly what I want to tell you about is, last night I had the opportunity to drive down Argus Drive. I was on the east side. I came back all the way through the west side. The city, it's up to you. You're why we're here tonight. The east side has tons of development.
 But here on the west side, and I've walked many of the wards here, here on the west side, our opportunities are places like the Chancery, historic buildings that can be redeveloped, in Alderman Hervey. You said you didn't even realize the convent was there last week. So that's why we're here to explain to you.
 You might not know about some of these gems, the convent, the chancery, but they're helpful to the west side. We don't have the towway, but we do have buildings like the chancery. And we ask, you can pray anywhere, but please allow us to develop this chancery.
 Let somebody be allowed to develop it because it will lose our gem. Mayor McNamara, John McNamara, back in the 80s, he took out the mall. That was the start of redevelopment downtown. Before that, it was a ghost town. Do not let that happen again. Do not let us lose our cherished buildings because it's a detriment to us all. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Kathy Tall.
 Good evening. I'm here to encourage you to vote in favor of landmark status for the Chancery, former convent, and St. Peter's School. I've only been in Rockford a short time, but even in that period, I've noticed a trend in this city. The east side gets things that are new and flashy and that draw people in, and the west side gets things torn down.
 I'm standing up today to say no more to this new versus old dichotomy. With respect to the Chancery, Convent and school, we're not asking for new and fancy. We're just trying to hold on to what we have. In the Signal Hill neighborhood, we have already shown that a historic building can have new life. And we don't need to tear down old to make way for new. The Garrison School and additional buildings have had new life as residences.
 The buildings in question can certainly have a similar second chapter. When we tear down old buildings under the guise of progress, we lose history that is simply impossible to replace. During the urban renewal period, as it was called, so many important parts of our country's history were lost forever. I thought the 1970s taught us that this was a huge mistake.
 But maybe the church never got that memo, so let me deliver that now. You don't know what you've got till it's gone, so don't pave paradise for a parking lot. The reason people make architectural pilgrimages to Europe is because they didn't confuse demolition with progress, nor should we. Alderwoman Thompson-Kelly, these buildings are in the Third Ward, but they're across the street from our ward, and many of the voices you hear speaking up to save them are your constituents.
 I live four and a half blocks away, and the first time I drove through the neighborhood, I saw the Chancery and was stunned that such architecture could be found around the corner from me. I ask all of the council members to listen to the people most directly affected by this vote. Signal Hill would welcome with open arms new residents or businesses to the neighborhood.
 There's no silver bullet that will improve everything and turn around portions of the city that have long been forgotten and neglected. It will take many smaller changes and work from the residents to create the neighborhood we hope to see. But I do know this, a parking lot will not be positive evolution in the neighborhood. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Gary Carlson. It has been 53 years since President Lyndon Johnson signed into law the US Historic Preservation Act.
 And it has been almost 40 years since Rockford enacted our own historic preservation ordinance to locally enforce the act, which is an inner city revitalization program that has proven to be the most successful such program ever written. I am here urging every alderman to follow the direction of previous city councils and vote to approve the applications granting landmark status to the historic structures on the campus of St. Peter's Cathedral.
 Every city has old structures with historic or architectural significance called built landmarks. They are important because they are second only to natural landmarks, creating a city's identity. The Preservation Act treats them as irreplaceable assets because when they are rehabbed and reused, they bring renewed vitality to their inner city neighborhoods.
 As cities aged and urban blight advanced, disinterested property owners destroyed old buildings at an alarming rate, regardless of their significance. The primary function of the Preservation Act is to identify landmark structures and prevent their thoughtless destruction by slowing down the demolition process of them. This function is achieved using an additional type of zoning regulation.
 Cities have used them for decades, along with building and safety codes, to restrict owner rights for the public good. They work perfectly for preservation ordinances because they do not require owner consent and religious organizations are not excluded from their restrictions.
 So the only question aldermen should be considering is whether these buildings have historic or architectural importance. Nothing else. All the experts, including our preservation commission, Landmark Illinois, and the State of Illinois Historic Preservation Agency, have voiced their resounding and knowledgeable endorsements of these applications.
 But some aldermen are claiming they are struggling with the concept of landmark status. They seem to want to relitigate the entire preservation process. They seem to be siding with the property owners that want no restrictions placed on their property. They are focusing on the half-truth and smoke uttered by the expensive lawyers hired by the diocese to confuse the issue.
 It is never easy disagreeing with Catholic Church. The good they do in communities is undeniable, but in this case, they are being selfish. Their only concern is that they keep control of their property. They do not care that the Signal Hill neighborhood would benefit greatly if these beautiful buildings were sympathetically redeveloped, and they do not care that this city would gain much-needed property tax revenue.
 The church falsely claims they are the victims in this process. The actual victims will be the citizens of Rockford if our aldermen do not represent us and do not approve the application to grant landmark status on these very important buildings. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Angela Fellers.
 Good evening, Council. Thank you for welcoming us this evening to give you our opinions and to ask for your assistance in saving this building. One of the risks of going last is that people often say what you had planned to say, so I'm going to go a little off the cuff here.
 I'm especially appreciative of the thoughtfulness and the precision with which the Council has approached this decision of landmark status. I'm especially aware of some of the concerns about First Amendment rights or the rights of property owners, establishment clause, you spoke to that Alderman Thompson-Kelley, which I appreciated and we talked about.
 There are facts in this case, and facts are inherently neutral, right? A lot of people have gotten up and spoken about their feelings. They love the building or they've talked about how the neighborhood could benefit. And we've heard a lot of feelings, but we make decisions based on facts in a government council, right?
 And the facts are that we have a set of ordinances which gives us a checklist for whether or not something is supposed to be historically preserved. And this building, this campus, meets those check marks. There isn't really anything else to consider, I don't think. There isn't any kind of legal question. The ordinances are established. And the neutrality of facts, again, is inherent even when they might not be convenient.
 And so I urge the entire council to please follow the ordinance that is established and give us the tools and the empowerment to use this preservation status to redevelop the Piety Hill in our neighborhood. We know that it works through your guidance and leadership. Historical preservation has allowed us to redevelop the vitality to the west side and to the downtown area. So we know that this tool works.
 And so we're just asking you to please give us the tools that we need to at least have a chance. We're not asking for taxpayer money. We're not asking for the diocese to spend any money. We're not asking for any of our neighbors to do any additional buy-ins. We're just asking for this simple designation that will give us a chance to save something in our neighborhood, which is beloved. Thank you.
 Moving on we have new committee reports. We have planning and development committee alderman rose Thank you your honor. We have nine items The first item is the committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford community partners budget and work plan for keeping Or keep Northern Illinois beautiful item to committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford community partners budget and work plan for the Rockford area Arts Council and
 Number three, committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan for Midtown. Item number four, committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan for Miracle Mile. Item five, committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan for the River District Association. Item six, committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan for Swift.
 Item 7 committee recommends approval of the 2019 Rockford community partners budget work plan for funding to other community organizations item a committee recommends approval of the library board of trustees RFP review of committees recommendations for item 1 approved RFP from Bush development and item 2 backup proposal from the Gorman company located on or located at 227 North Wyman Street and
 And then item number nine, committee recommends approval of the proposed $200,000 loan for the recapitalization of the Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation in partnership with Winnebago County and local financial institutions. I put those items up. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So, Alderman, you have nine items before you. Is there any questions or discussion on those nine items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Can you adjust your microphone just so? Thank you.
 You can't hear me? I can hear you, but all the people at home really want to hear you. I doubt it. My wife doesn't even watch. I probably, I could see that. She doesn't want to fall asleep too early. I don't know.
 I'd like to make a motion to amend Roman numeral 6A1. Move to amend the committee report to reflect that the 2019 Rockford Community Partners Budget and Work Plan for Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful shall include an additional $15,000 for a total budget of $50,000. I place that amendment up for...
 so we have an amendment and we have a second for item 6a1 uh keep northern illinois beautiful is there any discussion on that amendment alderman hervey i thought it started at 50 000 last week and it was reduced it was out of coming out of committee yes okay i thought i had it wrong so the request is just to restore it the original amount
 Yes, Alderman. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. The reason being is I was enlightened by city staff. Apparently, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful is under contract with the city to collect TVs and electronics.
 They entered into an agreement and overall giving them this Budget of fifty thousand dollars actually saves the city quite a bit of money in recycling and gathering electronics Understand I Learned that same thing too, but I'm still confused over how this manufacturer or retailers and
 Fund that they had to put together after the electronics free electronics pickup fell through So are is that fund covering the cost of rockford's electronic disposal? Or not if it doesn't who is it? I don't even know about this fund. So who are they paying for? And and what are the circumstances because I just like to know if is rockford getting fair coverage understood
 Mr. Kagan. Thank you honor. So in in short the the new legislation that went into effect this year has the manufacturers paying for the cost of disposal of the the electronics and
 If you may recall, we originally started our electronic waste collection when there was legislation that paid for at least a portion of the electronic waste that over time went away. Once it went away, we relocated the electronic site from the two locations down to keep Northern Illinois beautiful so that we could monitor the electronics that were coming in to the benefit of the Rockford residents.
 Since then, which I did not fully explain last week at committee, that there was additional legislation that was passed in 2018, took effect in 2019, which allowed for counties to opt in.
 to the program. Municipalities could not opt in directly, so we worked with Winnebago County. They opted in. Critical to that overall program is we need to have a site in which the electronics can be dropped off. There's a couple of ways of identifying a site that manufacturers directly could identify a site, which they did not.
 As a result, because of the existing agreement with Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, we're able to get their site certified. So we are providing overall funding to Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful in regards to their overall operations. And part of that, they are operating the electronics site, so they collect them.
 But we are no longer paying for the disposal, which was approximately $130,000 to $180,000 annually as an expense. So that expense will go away as a result of opting in to the program and having Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful be the collection site.
 Is there further discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I want to thank staff for listening to some of my complaints and expanding up on Item 7, which other organizations in this community would have the opportunity to receive funds. I will not be supporting this. I haven't the last several years because I think it's a bias and racist.
 partners program because it does not open the door for other opportunities and other organizations in this community and it does not expand upon the need of the community but I do appreciate you making the attempt to acknowledge the fact that there's more organizations in this community than the seven that we're looking at every year thank you
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey. If anybody had anything else on that one, I wanted to move to item 8. So we right now have a motion and a second. Oh, I'm sorry. I forgot about that. And I should have halted. My apologies. We right now have a motion and a second to restore the funding that was initially proposed at last week's committee meeting for Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful. Is there any discussion, just so we can clear that item, any discussion further on that item?
 Seeing no discussion all those in favor of the amendment say aye those opposed to them now motion passes so the item one will move forward as Amended so and I'm sorry alderman Hervey you had further discussion on item eight. I
 admittedly i i looked through the two rfps um and i maybe i should have gone back and read the the cover memo again i'm not understanding the approval of the rfp from bush development are we also approving that if bush falls through gorman steps in as the developer this is a case of first impression for me i've never seen it director franzen so
 No, not necessarily. So the first position, second position were the recommendations of the review committee. The ultimate decision is the library board of trustees. So basically by approving the recommendations, the council is saying that they would order them in the same position. However, it's not saying that if Bush fell through that Gorman would step up. It now goes to the library board of trustees, which will select the developer within the next 15 days.
 And that's where I guess my confusion still comes in with what our role is. I've been told we don't have any liability with regard to this project. We certainly had some input, which is nice, but I'm not understanding our partnership.
 and and how that dovetails well i guess my first concern was that the library was doing this at all initially this started as a project to rebuild the library and that's where i kind of joined alderman der key with regard to our riverfront and and what we should be doing with it but i'm not understanding how this development project even ties to the new library i i can't i
 find the the synergy between the two um is the library going to have any management authority are they going to make any money from it is it just bringing somebody in to fill the additional space that's what I don't understand I don't see that by the way as being the library strength
 and that's nothing personal to their board it's just not what they do thank you director franzen so the library went off rfps as it is the property owner having purchased it a couple years ago and understanding that it is going to be neighboring to the library they had they felt they had a vested interest in making sure that it that it meshed well with the new library design this process in terms of a
 approving the recommendations of the review committee is just an informational and an input aspect. Any liability regarding any programs or development agreement will be done in negotiation with the developer and come to this body for approval.
 Alderman Thunberg I'd like to point out that the they are bushes offering Alderman can you bring that mic a little bit closer? Do you really want to hear me? I'll tell you but so I said on this committee the and
 bush is offering the same amount that the library did purchase that property for which i believe is 300 000 that is an amount that gorman was in their proposal was not going to pay so i thought that would be an fyi as well so the library will be recouping its costs for the purpose of the property
 My understanding is, yes, what Director Franzen mentioned on that. So I just wanted to mention, though, that that dollar amount is something Bush has offered. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I understand I have not met with the library board, and I understand a number of my colleagues have not met with them as well regarding this.
 so i'd like to make a motion to lay this over second okay uh it'll be automatically laid over with the two alderman rule thank you item eight i believe is the item is that correct alderman mcneely yes thank you okay so now you have eight items before you is there any discussion on those eight items seeing no discussion on those eight items clerk will you please call the roll turkey logeman toomber frost hervey
 Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona's back McNeely Shirley item 1 12 eyes 1 no item 2 13 eyes item 3 4 5 6 7 and 9 12 eyes 1 no
 Thank you. All items passed except for item eight. It's laid over. I'll make mention, you may have missed it. I know Deb Powell in my office sent out a note. We're trying to organize those meetings for aldermen with library staff. So you may have to go back and old emails to find it, but we're trying to organize them so that you don't violate the Open Meetings Act. So we're more than happy to help coordinate those meetings for you.
 Moving right along, Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. The first item is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Skyline Drive and Medford Drive. Number two, there was a request.
 just recently your honor to have the chair hold that item out for this evening is that correct all right so the chair will hold that item out for two weeks that's item number two item number three the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time parking restriction on the east side of Rome Avenue from Crosby Street to rural street
 Number four the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking any time restriction on the north side of Lund Avenue from 950 feet west of Hampton Ridge Drive to 900 feet east of Hampton Ridge Drive number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for the sale of retail merchandise and short-term loans upon shop at 36 27 North Main Street a
 Number six the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a beer building mural at 203 North Church Street and
 Number seven the committee recommends denial of a proposed landmark designation for one one two four five Which is 1245 North Court Street the Chancery building number eight the committee recommends denial of a proposed landmark designation of 1231 and 1229 North Court Street st Peter's School and combat and number nine committee recommends approval of the annexation of 630 South Pierpont Avenue connection to city water and nurse request a
 Legal director should prepare the appropriate ordinances your honor place those up for passage Thank You alderman Trelli so you have eight items before you as item number two will be held out. That's correct so far Thank you. Is there a discussion? Alderman Rose, yeah, I'd like to make a motion to lay over item seven and eight We have a motion in a second and it'll be automatically laid over with all to rule to alderman rule. I
 So now you have six items before you. One, three, four, five, six, and nine. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I mentioned something last week about these no parking on one side of the street, specifically for bike routes. Do we have...
 from the studies a plan of all streets that we're going to be bringing in I seem like we're coming in two or three at a time I guess I'd like this to know if we've really got a plan of what streets all over Rockford we're going to do the same thing director Stockman
 thank you mayor alderman beach we're coming to the end of our first 10-year bike plan and we're in process of setting up meetings to establish the second 10-year bike bike plan at which time moving forward we will have an established list of routes that we're considering for bike routes and then we can further our conversations along that line okay thank you here yeah thank you thank you
 Other discussion on those items that are before you? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm sorry, on item number 6, 203 North Church Street for the mural, is that a church? No, it is not. No, it is not. Do we know what it is? Director Fronson, do you have what building that is or what wall that will be? It's a commercial building that faces a parking lot on the...
 north side of Mulberry and Church. You're going to have to give me one second. All right, can you repeat that? It's a commercial building with a wall facing a parking lot on the northeast side of Mulberry and Church. Thank you. Is there other discussion on the six items in front of you this evening? No discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Milgeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No one.
 Irby, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirelli. Items 1, 3, 4, 6, and 9, 13 ayes. Item number 5, 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Alderman Beck and Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just have three items tonight. The first is the approval of the vouchers in the amount of $4,609,187.52. Next is the approval of the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Tanwee doing business as Happy Walk for the property located at 211 Elm Street, Section C. The new rental rate will be $1,300 per month with 3% annual increases. The term is five years. Thank you.
 The next is the committee recommends approval of the amendment for lead service line replacement and IEP a Revolving loan fund application and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances excellent So we have three ordinance or three items before you is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky? logan Toomber Herbie frost Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose and
 Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. Those items are passed. Next up, we have officers' reports. Just want to call your attention to a couple of items. One is there's a document on your desk for...
 new committee assignments. So I'd ask as we do every year that you place your preference on this list and I'll work to make sure that I do my best to make sure that you get your preferred committee. Also then want to provide you an update that there's a number of
 Board appointments that are up three out of the four are renewals one is not and that is Mrs. Jessica Colts will no longer be a resident of the city of Rockford. So we will be recommending Rick Zumwalt as her replacement to the library board.
 with that and those will obviously will all be laid over and I promise I got to get a little bit more information to alderman Thompson Kelly and I'll share that out with some addresses of these members but there's also contact information here so if you would if you have any questions of them as they serve on these boards and commissions please feel free to reach out to them I would open up to Alderman
 alderman thompson kelly thank you your honor uh first of all i want to thank public works for the work that our crew has been doing for the pothole patching
 and their response time for complaints and patching the potholes, so greatly do appreciate that. I also want to remind the residents of the community that yard waste pick up started today, April the first, that's not April Fools, we are picking your yard waste up today. And the second thing, I wanted to remind the residents of this community to make sure they go and vote tomorrow. Thank you.
 alderman hervey speaking of of potholes um i think we need to probably take an assessment there are some streets that we had that were already in bad shape this is probably going to be a budget issue or one of those surprises to prepare for i mean they just took a beating i've not seen it like this
 I some of you can't even dodge and I have a feeling if if if the heat kicks up some of those roads will buckle or just Disintegrate I think we're gonna get a lot of We're gonna have a need for a lot of Roadwork and that the second piece is I don't know if we changed our mix We've talked about this sometimes for years. The streets do not hold up as
 and I'm no engineer, but they just don't seem to hold up. I know there's one I have that's breaking down because there was some bad asphalt, so I'm hoping they're going to mill that down and redo it. But streets that we just did a couple of years ago have these cracks already starting, and they started before winter, so now they just got bigger.
 it just seems like we're going to be chasing our tail with these streets and with this freeze thaw and the really bad weather that we had this year some of the newer streets are tearing down so i would just ask that we maybe get out there and do a full assessment of all our streets including the neighborhood streets because we're not it's not that we just won't be able to keep up in the next two to three years they're going to be terrible if we don't get something more for neighborhood streets
 Thank you. Alderman Rose and then Alderman McNeely. I just wanted to make a comment on April 27th is the Great American Cleanup. And I know various neighborhood organizations are getting together to go around and clean up.
 Live in an area that has a neighborhood organization. Please look into it. I know keeping Northern Illinois beautiful is helping out at various sites and I know in my area the Northend Square Neighborhood Association ESNA is holding is holding a cleanup in Williams Park and
 It starts at 9 a.m. and goes until, I think, around lunchtime. But I wanted to get it out there early because I know people plan things for the weekend or have different things. If you're really looking to get involved early on in the spring and really want to clean up our city, April 27th, mark it on your calendar if you can make it.
 Thank You alderman McNeely One thing I wanted to to share with you is regarding a record Housing Authority the board I would like to talk with you regarding that I think that We prepare for this year for new committees and new boards, I hope that you look at and
 the Rockford Housing Authority and having an African-American on that board who currently does not have one. I certainly would be willing to sit on that board. Secondly, I would like to follow up with what Alderman Herby was saying about the streets. I had gone through the streets, I believe in January, and I just recently went through my streets again.
 And I thought I was in fairly good shape until I went through those streets again recently. Streets that I thought was okay for a few more years are looking pretty bad. And now, even though I have my list, now I'm revising my list because streets that seem to be okay are now desperate. And I want to be able to at least have
 the main streets within my ward passable and thereby leaving neighborhood streets in a condition that's not acceptable. So I am not sure how we're going to address it, but because of this winter, I believe that we need to reconsider how we're going to address the streets and allocate more funding because of the conditions of the streets. Thank you.
 So a couple of mentioned that just a reminder, we did pass the second largest capital improvement plan that will start hitting the grounds actually this week. I believe it did so that 1% public road tax that is out there.
 gives us about $16 million in with the fine work of the Public Works Department. They were able to leverage those monies with state and federal dollars to bring in about $42 or $43 million worth of road work that will happen this summer. So I think we're all excited for that to occur.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you for allowing me to speak again your honor. I did forget To thank the chief District one in our community service officers for the movie night that they had for the children last week and a special thank to Ed Hornbeck for Donating the pizzas for the children and if the chief can share with us how many children we had at movie night and
 last week cheap brass how many kids do you have last night i heard 75 75 kids right mostly bad that's a fantastic so thank you didn't know you were going to be put on the spot like that um alderman thunberg thanks mayor just wanted to elaborate on the pothole situation and that brings up the uh the city's website city of rockford go under city council you can see all our mugs on there
 and by our mug shots there you will see something called service request I know maybe we've talked about this before but you can go on there and fill out pothole requests tall grass all the stuff that you'd normally like to call your aldermen about but those are we set that up for a reason and it is efficient and it goes directly to the departments that
 it should go to so it takes that guesswork out of there i'd also like to uh wish a continued speedy recovery to one of my constituents rob mccarthy and your continued your continued life thank you thank you one uh
 Add-on to what alderman toonberg was saying for those Who are aware if you do go on the site if you actually create an account you can actually track the city's progress in completing your Request which is a pretty neat feature other comments
 alderman just a request we used to get um and we may be getting it soon um a pictorial every year that showed the arterials collectors and residential streets that would be done um i know they used to be in different colors i don't know if that was to match the pci to show what condition they were in but i hope that's coming because that that's very helpful to see all the projects that are going to get completed this year yeah so
 the pci for all of our viewers at home is a pavement condition index and we do send out uh maps that designate the different colors and director stockman can you make sure that all aldermen get that updated map if they have not already
 Certainly our arterial streets are major streets are pretty much established for this year And we will have those posted on our CIP map very shortly We're holding off a little bit on the residential streets until the alderman have finalized their ward plans. Thank you any last comments All right, we'll move right along
 Appointments laid over this item is still laid over until April 10th. So I'd urge you to please contact Marticia Brown if you have any questions about her service to the RAVE board. Next up, we have motions and resolutions, Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Rose. We just have one item. It's the resolution endorsing the Metropolitan Mayor's Caucus Greenness Region Compact.
 Thank you alderman rose. Is there any discussion alderman frost? Thank you your honor Your are we currently a member of the metropolitan mayor's caucus? We are okay. Thank you. Is there any other uh discussion alderman durkee? Thank you your honor as I said, uh last week a lot of these things bother me a little bit because sometimes they are full of buzzwords and you know amounts of sometimes Nothing more than a plaque on a wall for a city I'm going to support this
 And I'm going to point out a section to my colleagues under land use where it says, conserve, restore, and enhance natural features and ecosystems. Support networks of accessible, well-used, and enjoyable parks. Sustain a robust urban forest canopy. Sustain beautiful landscapes that provide ecosystem services. My quest, again, I'm going to go back to the river use. It is an underutilized resource.
 We can't make more riverfront space, and I think we're giving it away in some. We really believe this stuff, and we vote on that. We need to take a look at some of these projects like the library and what goes on in our river and our downtown parkscape in a harder, more serious fashion.
 You know, people, I've heard this argument, we'll get another Beatty Park, but I'll guarantee if you've been to the lakefront of Chicago, nobody's complaining that there's too much green space there. We look at these things not from the here and now, but from the there and then. So when we look at, when we look at new urbanism, urban development, we are, I'm telling you when we look at this library project and projects like it, we're running counter.
 To what this document says, but also we're running counter to what good urban development does on water. So I'm going to support this. Excellent. Then we'll see what happens in a couple of weeks. Excellent. All right. Any further discussion? Seeing no further discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logoman. Toomer. Frost. Herbie. Thompson. Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones.
 Beck? Neely? Chiarelli? 12 ayes, 1 no. Item passes. Next up, we have Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. We have a resolution approving the proposed sale of a city-owned vacant lot located at 16 XX Lyford Road. It says I need to suspend the Rule 15 on that. Second.
 One second. Director Myers? Sure. That was not, it was considered a committee last week, but had not been read in the week before. So we need to suspend the rule. Move to suspend the rules on that item, rule 15. Second. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor of suspending the rule, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Thank you, Your Honor.
 And number two, the Kentucky Derby Party, the event is scheduled for Friday, May 3rd and Saturday, May 4th in the parking lot of Don Carter's Lanes. I place those two resolutions up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. You have two items before you. Any questions or concerns? Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. With respect to the property, 1600 Leica Road, approximately how big an acreage is that parcel? I believe it's 15 acres. Director Myers? That's correct. 15 acres? Thank you.
 Is there any further questions? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hilgeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. 13 ayes. Those items pass. Next up, we have finance and personnel, Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Two items. First is the award of RFP for the five-year consolidated plan, 2020 annual action plan analysis of impediments and neighborhood stabilization strategy area. Two, urban design ventures in the amount of $72,200.00.
 The contract duration is two years with three one-year renewal options. And item number two is a change order for Hartman and Center Street reconstruction to Sennstrom excavation for an additional amount of $30,617.50 and an amended total of $818,096.98. I place these two items over passage. Thank you. You have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 Seeing no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelling. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirely. 13 ayes. Next up under new businesses, under new business, our ordinance is planning and development committee Alderman Rose. All right.
 Nine items. I'll go through them quickly. Item 1, the 2019 RCP Budget and Work Plan for Keeping Northern Illinois Beautiful. Item 2, the RCP Budget and Work Plan for Rockford Area Arts Council. Number 3, an ordinance approving the RCP Budget and Work Plan for Midtown. Number 4, the RCP...
 Budget and work plan for Miracle Mile number five and ordinance approving the 2019 RCP for the River District Association item six and ordinance approving the RCP for Swift number seven and ordinance approving the 2019 RCP for funding for other community organizations and
 Item 8, an ordinance approving the Library Board of Trustees RFP review with number one, Bush development and backup proposal for Gorman at 227 North Wyman. And item number nine, an ordinance approving the $200,000 loan for Gorman
 Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation. I put those items up. Thank you and a reminder to all that item number eight has been laid over Oh, sorry, so you have eight items in front of you one through seven and number nine Is there any discussion on those items seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? turkey Logoman to bird frost Herbie Thompson Kelly I
 Item 7, yes. Yes. I'm just excited you said yes to some of them. Hoffman. Yes. Rose. Yes. Beach. Canones. Beck. McNeely. Shirely. Item 1, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item 2, 13 ayes. Item 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9, 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you.
 Excellent. Next up we have Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. On the first ordinance, two weeks ago I moved to amend the committee report, and now I'm going to amend the ordinance. So just bear with me here. I move to amend the ordinance under ordinances Roman Numero 10b, Item 1, approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming
 At 915 South Alpine Road, that's the Villa de Roma restaurant to reflect the following amended conditions. I'll read the three that are being amended, which is number five, liquor sales are limited to 10.30 AM to 2 AM Monday through Friday. Number six, liquor sales are limited to 3 PM to 2 AM on Saturday.
 And number seven, liquor sales are limited to 3 p.m. to midnight on Sunday. The remaining conditions were not changed or amended in any way, Your Honor. So I place that amendment up for passage. Thank you. So we have a, you're going to start with this one first and do the amendment. We have a motion and a second to amend item number one. All those in favor of, well, we have a motion and a second for item one. Is there any discussion on that amendment?
 Alderman Trello. Yeah, thanks. I just want to remind the council that the applicant had approached me on this They had made a mistake on their application for their liquor license They had put business hours under the conditions which actually they want meant liquor sales hours instead of business hours and
 The reason they're doing this is they do stay open past 2 AM. There was a question, I believe, by Alderman Hervey about the bar. They do not have a bar in this restaurant. They serve liquor from their kitchen, okay? So there is not a seedy bar in that restaurant. So if somebody orders a drink, they have to bring it out from the kitchen there. So that's how that works for that restaurant. So appreciate that, your honor.
 Thank you. Any discussion on the amendment before you? So I'd ask that you vote on this amendment, and then we'll move forward to the next six items. All those in favor of this amendment that Alderman Chiarelli put forward, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? All right. Item 1, we'll move forward as amended. All right. Thank you. Item 2 was laid over. Item 3 is an ordinance establishing no parking anytime parking restriction on the east side of Rome Avenue from Crosby Street to Rural Street.
 Item number four is an ordinance established no parking anytime parking restriction on the north side of Lund Avenue Stopped from Hampton Ridge Drive to 900 feet of Hampton Ridge Drive thus establishing a no parking anytime parking restriction on the north side of Lund Avenue from 950 feet west off the Hampton Ridge Drive to 900 feet of Hampton Ridge Drive and
 Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for the sale of retail merchandise and short term loans, pawn shop at 986 West Riverside Boulevard and 3627 North Main Street. Number seven is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a building mural at 203 North Church Street. And number seven is an ordinance approving the annexation of 630 South Pierpont Avenue. Place those items up for passage, your honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. So, Alderman, you have six items before you. Item two was laid over. Any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinonez. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. Most items.
 Pass. Next up we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. First is an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Tanwee doing business as Happy Walk for the property located at 211 Elm Street, Section C. New rental rate will be $1,300 per month with 3% annual increases. Term is five years.
 Second is an ordinance approving the amendment for lead service line replacement and IEPA revolving loan fund application. I place these up for passage. Chair Jerry Cook Excellent. So we have two items before you. Is there any discussion on the two items before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Trustee Angeliina Lawson Gerke Aye Chair Jerry Cook Luegmann Chair Jerry Cook Thunberg Chair Jerry Cook Frost Chair Jerry Cook Hervey Chair Jerry Cook Thompson-Kelley Chair Jerry Cook Hoffman
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Excellent. And the item passes. Is there a motion? Motion adjourned. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.