First of all, I'd like to thank you all for including us and representatives from all different faiths in your invocations. Let us pray. Dear God of all faiths, creator of all, helper of all,
 We ask for your blessings on our city, our country, and our world. Help us to make decisions that are just and fair for all of our citizens, new arrivals and long-established immigrants, and all who live in Rockford. Please, God, we pray for your divine assistance as we work for the transformation of our city
 into a place where all residents can pursue the rights guaranteed in our constitution of life, liberty, and happiness. Help our city council make decisions that are pleasing to thee, decisions that will assure us to be safe and to have a safe and sustainable future. To close, I will share a prayer of unity from the words of Baha'u'llah, founder of the Baha'i Faith.
 O my God, O my God, unite the hearts of thy servants and reveal to them thy great purpose. May they follow thy commandments and abide in thy laws. Help them, O God, in their endeavors and grant them strength to serve thee. Leave them not to themselves, but guide their steps by the light of thy knowledge and cheer their hearts by thy love. Verily, thou art their helper
 their Lord. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman? Here. Thunberg? Here. Frost? Here. Irvins? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here.
 Shirely 10 present excellent. We have a quorum this evening Could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings? Alright, so we have a motion in a second for the journal proceedings for a City Council meeting held on March 19 2018 Is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed say aye. All right item passes Need a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on March 26 2018. I
 We have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Item passes. We have one proclamation this evening. If Chief Bergson and Lee Sternberg and other members of the fire department would like to come up. Good to see you, Chief. I didn't pick the red mic for the fire department. Just wanted you to know. Went through my whole thought process.
 Okay, whereas National Public Safety Telecommunications Week, the week of April 8th, 2018, is set aside to honor all persons who serve in the field of public safety telecommunications.
 And whereas thousands of dedicated public safety telecommunications personnel daily serve the citizens of the United States by answering their telephone calls for police, fire, and emergency medical services and dispatching the appropriate assistance as quickly as possible. And whereas professional public safety telecommunications personnel work hard to improve emergency response.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 8th through the April 14th of 2018 to be National Public Safety Telecommunications Week. Before I hand it over to Chief Berkson, thank you.
 and the others. I'll just say for Alderman, if you have not had an opportunity to visit our 911 center, I'd encourage you to do so. And to all citizens, rest assured that we have the best staff staffing our 911 services
 They go above and beyond, and the number of tasks that they can do at the same time is really overwhelming, especially when you add in the tremendous pressure situations that they find themselves in literally every several seconds. So a big thank you from me to all of you for the work that you do, and on behalf of all of our citizens. Chief, would you like to share a few words? Sure. Sure.
 Thank you very much for the kind words. I just want to take this opportunity. We want to recognize the members of the 911 Center every day in this opportunity we get to this week special that they're the most unrecognized component of the emergency response system. They're the ones that first answer the phone call that are there dealing trying to calm down a frantic person just had something terrible happen to them. In addition, they're making sure that police, firefighters and paramedics are safe while they're responding to their call.
 Approximately 780 calls answered in 24 hour time period that work 12 hour shifts. They're very dedicated There's one thing that they don't have the luxury of that the police and firefighters do is as soon as they deal with a very Strenuous call they hang up their phones ringing again Unlike the fire and police we can kind of like decompress a little but they're put on the put to the point every single time That that calls ringing and they know it's an emergency to answer it I just want to take this opportunity to recognize
 The members that we have here today and those who are watching over the 901 Center that worked a tremendous job providing that level of protection to citizens. We have Jennifer Altenbrand, Justin Anderson, who's our training, Craig Belk, who's our shift supervisor, and Lee Sternberg, who's the director.
 But again, these men are doing an incredible job day in and day out. I want to take this opportunity. Next week, we'll be recognizing them all week long at the center. Like I said, anybody's welcome to come by, give you a tour. And I didn't know, Lee, if you wanted to say something. Thank you. Next up, we have petitions and communications. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 several items this evening communication so the first is the traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on april 11 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regs committee meeting on april 23rd 2018 second is a memorandum from scott capovilla the zoning and land use administrator street administrator regarding the plat number one of kishwaukee school subdivision
 I have a memorandum from Scott Capovilla again regarding the Platte No. 2 of Guilford Crossing Subdivision. I have another memorandum from Scott Capovilla regarding the Platte No. 1 of the Peary School Subdivision. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, the Deputy Operations Manager, regarding the upcoming special events, which include the YMCA Heritage Run, Kentucky Derby Party, RPS 205 Fun Run, Miracle Mile Cruise Night, and St. Stephen's.
 Stanislaus Church Polis Fest. I also have a referral from Nick Meyers our legal director for the April 9th meeting 2018 for the approval of the amendments to the City of Rockford's Liquid Ordinance. Let's refer all those items to Code and Regs, Your Honor. Thank you Alderman Shirelli. For Finance and Personnel Committee we have Alderman Frost.
 Number one is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic Engineer, regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the City of Belvedere for citywide pavement markings. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic Engineer, regarding the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the City of Cherry Valley for citywide pavement markings. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Number three is a memorandum from Andrea Henrichs, housing rehabilitation specialist regarding the transfer of 224 Foster Avenue to Anna Rivera and Savannah Pabon eligible home buyers for $25,000. This matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number four is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney regarding an agreement with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for an air monitoring station. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Number five is a memorandum from George Davis, Executive Director of Human Services, regarding the review and approval of the Office of Head Start's finding or funding. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And number six is a memorandum from Jennifer Jager, Community Services Director, regarding a memorandum of understanding with resource innovations for weatherization work. This matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next up, we have five public speakers tonight. We'll just remind them. Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Rose. Hi. We also have a referral for Planning and Development Committee. There's only one item, a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Economic Development Coordinator, regarding Rockford Community Partners 2018 budget request referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Sorry about that.
 Next up, we have public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. I would remind every public speaker that you will have three minutes. And our first public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 1 John, the second chapter, the tenth verse, it says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is no occasion of stumbling him. What I want to speak about tonight, economic education segregation, is killing Rockwell.
 Rockford. Often when you ask someone their opinion of Rockford, the answer depends upon where they live. The northeast side of town contains large, newer homes near the Eris High education offerings and growing retail sector. Crime is low and income is high. Banks and grocery stores are within a couple of minutes. On the southwest side of town, streets have gaps in the roads.
 of the rows of homes vacant locks where houses used to stand the closest large grocery store full of service bank is more than a few minutes away but you can find a payday lender every couple blocks nights are often are disturbed by gunshots a look at census statistics show just how different the makeup are in particular areas of the city in 6 1102 zip code which is southwest rockford 48.6 percent of the population is black just 10.6 percent of the population age 25 and above
 have a bachelor's degree and a medium income is $32,441.15. The 611-04 zip code, which is much of downtown Rockwood, has a medium age of 30.3 years. Just 7% of the population age 25 and above have a college degree. The percentage of retail workers is highest.
 at 13.3% and the median income is $23,088.50. Contrast those figures to the 61114 zip code, which is Rockless Frye, Northeastern. That zip code has a median age of 49.4% according to census estimates.
 The population is 86% white and 43.4% of the residents aged 25 and above have a bachelor's degree. The percentage of healthcare and educational workers is nearly twice that of men. In fact, 32% to 16.8%. And the median income is $66,603.12. Residents in 611-14 have no real sense of what it's like to live in 611-04, 611-
 That kind of economic education segregation is becoming increasingly common across the United States. People are segregating themselves by income, education, and our researchers have found that it's not just that the economic and educational divide in America has grown wider, it's that rich and poor occupy different worlds even when they live in the same city. This is a disgrace.
 Because we're all children of God. We all pay taxes and rocks. We live in the United States, the richest place in the world. And this shouldn't be happening. All people who are followers of Jesus Christ should stand up and speak up and protest about this garbage and say we are not going to put up with this anymore. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor Tom McNamara, all the men, all the women, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs 27, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who deserve attention. Faithful employees, volunteers, those who work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard and help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your worries, planning, and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most. By the way, I was elected precinct committment by 142 yeses.
 and 42 NAVOS, where we just got over the city of Rockford general primary election on March the 20th. We had more Republicans than Democrats that got out to vote. The big — the biggest thing talked about in Rockford was home rule. I still say this day that home rule should not have been put on the primary election. The best place for home rule would have been on the general election. That way people would have had more time to talk about home rule, and it would have — it
 and it would have killed all the lies that was out about home rule. Out of the 83 wards in Rockford, 56 wards voted no, 26 wards voted yes. One ward was a tie. Most of the people that voted for Tom McNamara voted against home rule, plus most of the minority wards voted no. I worked the streets for two and a half weeks, knocking on 146 to 230 doors a day.
 talking with 80 to 170 people today. There are a few other things that was on their minds. Safety, they do not trust the government. They talked about the police and RHA. The people on the streets stated that the system say one thing and do another. They do not keep their promise. You only see them during election time and after the election is over with,
 You do not see them anymore. I will talk about Roxette House and authority next week. One of the sponsors that was going to come through and ask about taking us to see the Black Panther movie back in February, that they would pay for the bus and the rental of the theater. Well, Monday, March 26th, I got a text message saying that they was not gonna be able to come through as we had already signed up over 60 people.
 Get what? God is good. I called down to show place 16, explained to them what was up. They took, and I told them my name. She stated, I know you. I see you on TV, the newspaper, and you always doing a lot in the community with the kids. Thus, they told me that it take two to three weeks before they can be approved. We was approved in less than three days.
 We'll be going to see the Black Panther movie on April the 7th at 10.30. Our group rate will be $5 per child, $7 per adult. Plus the youth will be able to get popcorn, drink, and a foodie for less than $5. God is good all the time. We have to stop waiting on someone else to help us and start helping ourselves. It's not too late. We are still taking donations. We'll be meeting at Fairgrounds Community Room at 9.30 a.m. We have a continental breakfast. You can reach me.
 by email or texting me. And I want to thank you, and we do support our human resources, child care, and the fairgrounds, Black Hawk, and Ordon Keys. The parents are very concerned about the child care. Thank you. Next public speaker we have this evening is Michael O'Toole.
 Mayor McNamara, city council members, members of the general public, thank you for allowing me to briefly address your city council. Mayor McNamara, first off...
 I don't always agree with you, you don't always agree with me, but I've always tried to respect you and I've always felt respected in your communications with me, so I want to thank you in regards to that. To all city council members that have had interactions with me, except for one, I've always felt respected by each of you, even though we've not always agreed on issues, including the Home Rule issue. I do want to apologize, although he's not here, to Alderman Durkee, who is a member of my church,
 I didn't follow my oath of the 815 civility pledge when I did tit for tat behavior with you Alderman Durkee by mentioning you as Timmy after you first made fun of my first name Michael or Mike by calling me Mikey. So I want to extend my apologies to you even though you've not yet apologized to me. In regards to the city budget of a bachelor's degree, business administration.
 I understood from the Home Rule forms from Mayor McNamara and others, for 15 years straight, the City Council has operated the city budget in the red. To me, that shows that the City Council, both past members as well as current, should take ownership and partial responsibility for a dysfunctional 15 years of City Council budgets.
 and stop doing the blame game simply on our dysfunctional Illinois General Assembly. I've lived in Rockford 10 1⁄2 years since May of 2007. Alderman Durkee had challenged the general public to offer advice in regards to how to get the city budget back in the black. First off, implement the same as County Chairman Frank Haney, the ACT initiative which he borrowed from DuPage County.
 I see that you are trying to do that, and I commend in regards to the collaboration. I'm seeing progress in regards to transparency, but I'm still seeing weaknesses in regards to accountability. In regards to the C budget, when revenue is down, spending should go down also. When revenue goes back up, spending can go back up. When 76% of police and fire for...
 The city council's entire budget are those two departments. You know that those two departments should be implementing the ACT initiative also and maybe explain to city council and justify to city council their submitted budgets to you. Thank you for allowing me my time. Thank you. Next public speaker we have this evening is Mr. Simon Davis. Is Mr. Davis here? I don't see him. I think Mr. Davis is. Yeah. Yeah.
 We'll come back to him. Next public speaker we have is Jacqueline Bolster-Banks. Good evening. Good evening.
 My name is Jacqueline Banks and I'm a teacher for the City of Rockford's Head Start program. The National Head Start Association's website states, the premise of Head Start is simple. Every child, regardless of circumstances at birth, has the ability to reach their full potential. And this is how we do it. We focus on the whole child. Rather than just asking, do they know numbers and letters? We ask, how are their coping skills? Can they regulate their own behavior? Could they follow expectations?
 These things can't be measured in any statistic. These are life skills. This is what sets us apart from a typical preschool classroom. In Head Start classrooms, our target demographic is different, and the way we are teaching these children needs to be as well. At just age three, most of the children in our classrooms have been through many traumatic events and experiences.
 These experiences teach their brains what to expect and how to respond. So in order for them to succeed anywhere, we must emphasize social-emotional development in our classrooms.
 At last week's meeting, I was a little surprised to hear some of you talking as though you're expectant of every parent in Rockford to be their child's main teacher. Ideally, that is the goal. But the reality is, some of our parents are incarcerated. Some might be suffering mental illnesses. Some might be single moms working two jobs trying to get their degree. It's our job to make sure these children don't get left behind because of the circumstances that they're facing, because it's not their fault.
 There was also a lot of talk last week about expanding, expanding EHS, expanding collaborations for pre-K. All are good ideas as I work in a collaboration classroom and I see the many benefits to it. However, there was no talk of the 45 people that are going to get laid off from the city with this proposed expansion. Some of them have invested 10, 20, almost 30 years here.
 None of us are doing this job to get rich. I haven't had a raise in my seven years here. None of us have, but we all stay because we love our jobs and we love this program and the children that we are given the privilege to serve.
 What makes our program special are the people behind me who work with our parents and children every single day. And it's because of our experience and the years we have invested into this city that I would ask you not to outsource us all, but to please continue to allow us to be City of Rockford employees as we will continue to provide outstanding service for the children and families of Rockford. Together, we have the ability to make sure that no child, regardless of their circumstance, gets left behind.
 And with 6,000 children living in poverty in our city, we still have a lot of work to do. Thank you. Thank you. Is Simon Davis here? Not seeing Mr. Davis. We'll move forward. Alderman Shirelli. Yes, Your Honor. I move to convene and to close session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. Is there a second? Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Bogeyman.
 Toomer frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona Shirely. Hi ten eyes We will convene into session you please provide us with the roll call tumor frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Beach Kenona's Shirely Rose nine present
 Okay, so we have a quorum Logum in Ten present we still have a quorum. Excellent moving forward under new committee reports. I
 I do not believe we have a plan the development committee report so we will move to Alderman Shirely for coats and regulations. Thank you your honor under Roman numeral five new committee reports be one the committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's approval to establish traffic control with Brookfield Road yielding to Ebertsford
 the second committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking any time on both sides of jackson jackson street from prospect street to 830 feet east of prospect street the third committee recommends approval of the annexation of 3506 20th street the fourth committee recommends approval of plat number eight of quail run subdivision
 Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the wholesale tobacco store at 4350 and 4302-4358 Sandy Hollow Road, subject to conditions. The sixth committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant in an outdoor seating area at...
 6470 East State Street, subject to conditions. The seventh, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store. And B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2542 Stow Market Avenue, subject to conditions. Place all those items up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. Alderman Charlie. So we have 7 items before us. Is there any discussion on the items before us? Seeing no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Tumor Ross. Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose. Each known as Shirley.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 ayes. Items 6 and 7, 9 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. The items pass. Thank you. For finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1, the committee recommends the approval of vouchers in the amount of $4,632,406.64 as approved by the Finance and Personnel Committee at the meeting on March 26, 2018.
 number two the committee recommends approval of the 2018-2019 intergovernmental agreement for city police services between the city of rockford police department and the rockford public school district number 205 the pub the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance i place those matters on the council ground thank you so we have uh two items before us is there any discussion on the two items before us seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll logan man i am one of the state number two toomber all right
 Aye. Ervins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. I have one abstain, I do. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Chiarelli?
 Excellent both items move forward Next up we have officers reports. I just want to remind everyone that you've received an email From staff regarding choosing your committee assignments. So you also should have a document on your Desk this evening about choosing your committee assignments and just make sure that they're due back to Haley Galarza by April 16th other two
 comments are more of a somber note. One is,
 Just last week we lost sued the wit who was a 30 plus year employee at the city of Rockford and had recently retired And just a really tragic loss for her and her family and the second sober note is Mayor Morrissey's father Joe Morrissey passed away this morning. So please also keep listening
 Larry Morrissey his wife Stacy isn't as brothers and sisters and also his mother Josephine in your thoughts and prayers Joe Morrissey was a really wonderful man Made a significant impact on our community and I know many of you Know Joe as well. So please keep him in your thoughts and his entire family with that happy news I'll offer any other officers reports Alderman Beach
 Thank you, Yanni. Joe was a friend, a great citizen here. I got a call a few minutes ago from my daughter. And she said, Dad, would you please make an impassioned appeal tonight for funding the Forest City Queen? The money came in for the trolley that will be operating. And it's just because people just went to the Internet, GoFundMe under Forest Queen and pushed the button.
 So I don't know how impassioned this is, but you know what? Truthfully, it's kind of neat to see the people of Rockford come together with nickels and dimes and dollars and tens and 500s to keep the trolley running. It's a great attraction for Rockford. And now the four city queen has had the same fate if funds are not raised. So I'm not sure exactly what that amount is. I know some has been raised. The last time I think I heard was
 for roughly 4,000. Maybe more has come in, but anyway, thank you so much for those who have already participated in the project and encourage those who have not to make that contribution. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like to say thank you to all the well-wishers and the prayers and things in my absence. I will be returning phone calls starting tomorrow for those that have called, and I have not returned those yet.
 And I do appreciate all the cards and the phone calls and the thank yous that everyone has had It's nice to know you leave footprints and it definitely shows when you're in need of support. Thank you Still hold firm to the belief. You're the most active of all aldermen when you're absent We get more emails from you and requests. So we're excited to see you back Thank you, sir. Other officers reports seen No takers will move forward. I
 Next up under unfinished business. We have finance and personnel alderman frost Before you is the approval of the application for the head start and early head start services grant for the period of 2018 to 2023 thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there a discussion on item before us seeing no discussion clerk? Will you please call the roll? Tuber hi frost. Hi. I
 Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Abstain. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Shirelli? Aye. Eight ayes, two abstains. Item passes. Next up, we have appointments laid over. This item still lays over until our next scheduled council board meeting. Next up, we have motions and resolutions, and we have code 10 regulations. Alderman Shirelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Two items this evening. The first is the Red Shoe Run. The event is scheduled for Saturday, April 14th, 2018 from 7.30 a.m. to 9.30 p.m.
 The event will be held at Northern Illinois University at 8500 East A Street. The second is Hooters 2018 Swimsuit Event. This event is scheduled for Thursday, April 12, 2018 at 5 p.m. till 10 p.m. The event will take place at Hooters parking lot at 6904 Argus Drive. I place these two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there a discussion on the two items before you? Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Just a question on the Hooters.
 Is this going to be strictly in the parking lot and not on the streets? Yes. Because some of those swimsuits got on the streets last time. Did they? Okay. Interesting. Parking lot only. Is there other discussion on the two items before? It did. Alderman Tumberg. I'd just like to reiterate these events are not happening in the third ward. Thank you, Mayor.
 Next okay and seeing notice further discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll logan? tumor frost Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Shirely item number 110 eyes item number two nine eyes one note Restant items pass next up. We have new business alderman Shirely the codes and regulations All right. Thank you, Your Honor
 the first item is an ordinance establishing traffic control with brookfield road yielding to abbotsford road second is an ordinance establishing no parking any time on both sides of jackson street from prospect street to 830 feet east of prospect street third is an ordinance approving the annexation of 3506 20th street
 Fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the wholesale tobacco store at 4350 and 4302-4358 Sandy Hollow Road. The fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and outdoor seating area.
 At 6470 East State Street, the sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor, packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 2542 Stow Market Avenue. The seventh is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at 2542 Stow Market Avenue. I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. With the seven items before us, is there a discussion? Alderman Frost. I just had a question regarding number four on the sale of tobacco in conjunction with a wholesale tobacco store on Sandy Hollow. I just didn't know how that one is different with having what's called a wholesale tobacco store. Mr. Cagnone.
 Could you repeat the question, Alderman Frost? I'm not certain I understand the question. The question, I think, was a difference between a wholesale tobacco store and a regular retail tobacco store. Is that accurate? Yeah, it just says in conjunction with a wholesale tobacco store. I just didn't know what this business was. Predominantly, this business sells to other retailers direct, so it doesn't have a number of retailers.
 retail customers coming in and purchasing tobacco, but he sells to other stores that have tobacco licenses within the city of Rockford for direct sale to customers. So does he sell or he or she sell the retail as well at that location or just wholesale? Predominantly just wholesale. I'm not aware of any retail sales taking place there. Alderman Shrill. Yeah, I could attest that they do not sell retail there. That is a wholesale tobacco.
 Business excellent. Is there other questions or concerns with the seven items before seeing no questions? Clerk will you please call the roll logoman tumor? frost urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Shirely I'm one two three four seven ten eyes items five and six nine eyes one no and
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Frost. The first is an ordinance approving the 2018-2019 Intergovernmental Agreement for the City Police Services between the City of Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Public School District, number 205. Number two is an ordinance approving an application for the Head Start and Early Head Start Services Grant for a period from 2018 to 2023. Thank you.
 Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logaman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Abstain on all. Beach. Quinones. Cirelli. Items 1 and 2, 8 ayes, 2 abstains. Abstain.
 So we can all say a big thank you to those who were absent tonight, because this may be the fastest council meeting we've had together. So is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor, say aye. Excellent. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.