Alderman Durkee, are you here? Hi, I'm here. Jeff Berini? Here. Here. Thank you. Schubert? Here. Ross? Here. Herbie? Herbie, are you here? Herbie, here. Captain Kelly? Here. Here.
 Here. Hoffman. Here. Bill. Oh, I'm here. Alderman Rose is here. Thank you. Alderman B. Here. Thank you. You're welcome. Alderman Quinonez. Here. Alderman Chiarelli. Here. 11 present. We have Alderman McNeil with us.
 Here. I'm here. Can you hear me? I can hear you. Alderman, can you just speak again so that we can find you on our screen here? Linda McNally here. Thank you. And is Alderman Irvins with us? Alderman Irvins? Okay. Wow, that was fun. So we're going to finish the roll. I'm going to mute everyone, and I'd ask that you unmute yourself when we need you.
 so everyone's muted is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on march 16 2020. so we have alderman hervey yeah frank approving it and alderman healy or uh alderman pervy seconding it all those and all those in favor say aye aye
 Okay. Aye. Remember that you're all on mute, so I need you to unmute when you want to speak. So I'm going to read these. If the chairs do not mind, just for time and speed. So we'll go to, we have no proclamations this evening. Okay.
 We will read petitions and communications. There's nothing under planning and development, so I'll go to code and regulations. There's a memorandum from La Ficaria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed amendments to Section 117-5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, posting handbills or other advertising to allow advertising on RMTB bus shelters. This item's been referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Then underneath finance and personnel committee, a memorandum from fire chief Derek Bergson regarding the intergovernmental agreement dispatching emergency services between Rock Valley Community College, District 511 and the city of Rockford E911. Referred to finance and personnel committee, a memorandum. Item two is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, city attorney, regarding the intergovernmental agreement of the police services with Rockford Housing Authority. Referred to finance and personnel committee,
 And finally, number three, a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, finance director regarding a 2020 bond sale referred to finance and personnel committee. At this time, it is our real wonderful pleasure that we are going to ask Nick, director Nicholas Myers to unmute his phone so he can read us a public statement from Mr. John Tagg-Brent. Okay, this is Leo. Randy, is this?
 Hello? Mr. Meyer, are you going to give Mr. Bramley's name? I was speaking, I can hear you. I'm going to unmute everyone again, so please don't unmute your phones. Only Director Meyer's unmute your phone. Good evening, ma'am. Matt Merrow, Alderman of Women and Citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, 27, Dad, Martha, identify with the needy, that is more than.
 The second part of the proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to poor people will be blessed. They can help others when they are in trouble, and they can do whatever they can to do them a favor. Paul promises that God will supply all our needs. He usually judges through other people. What can we do today to help God supply someone's needs? The power of the party's preaching community cannot be underestimated.
 he received 10 breakfasts a month from Gilbert High School Maryway blessed uh friendly with 70 breakfasts and lunches and then a third program for over 26 colleges and passed out food with ATVs started at fairgrounds black hot boys and then the surrounding area in addition he's family uh uh got a 40 star off from United Way um they were also also getting a pizza we want to thank all of the supporters for helping us uh
 During the darkest hour, DJ's quiet storm will always be on the front lines of these streets. That's what he was born and bred to do. And DJ the Warrior will always be on the front lines when it comes to providing protection and looking out for our village community. There's a large number of single families who do not have rights to get to the different school sites to pick up lunches. Also, what about the families that have more than four kids? They only give out lunches to families with four children.
 uh that is not the real size of my single fans today they have five or more kids in the real world are you going to tell me another that i can only see four over five kids if they have five people more uh this time during our drug sales we really need to work work together uh during three of my delivery and paperwork with the new turning point and we're 128 families and we're four and fifty five years and have been working uh we've been working in years
 um we all want to come together to help discover he's turned in 20 families names united which is going to be on the top on wednesday thank you for the 10 families because god bless us today during his difficult days he's 65 years old
 You can call in, be out there and speak to a couple of people out. That's the user help is one to add. Make sure you can take another item to the family to use. If anybody wants to help, they might check out the UNSAFE One program.
 Mr. Meyer, I just want you to know that that's incredibly impressive that you got through that with two seconds remaining. I was really, really hoping I could get you off.
 All right. So a reminder that everyone's phones and iPads have been muted. We're going to begin with code and regulation, and I will have Alderman Torelli unmuted so that he can read his item. We'll
 We'll read them all in, and then remember to raise your hand if you have a question, and only when you're called on, unmute yourself, and I'll make sure that I'm following this and making sure I get everyone who has their hand raised. So, Alderman Shirelli, I'm going to turn it over to you. Thank you, Your Honor. So, under new committee reports,
 Under B1 and 2, I've been requested to hold those out this evening. So B1 and 2 will be held out. So move on to number 3 is Kilburn Avenue and Parkside Avenue. The Traffic Commission recommends approval to establish no parking anytime on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 125 feet south of Parkside Avenue.
 to 350 feet south of Parkside Avenue, thus repealing the existing restriction, no parking anytime on the east side of Kilburn Avenue for 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue. Number four is Linden Road and Alpine Road. Traffic Commission recommends approval to establish a 45 mile an hour speed limit on Linden Road from North Alpine Road to east to city limits.
 Number five is Warren Boulevard and Ridgeland Road. Traffic Commission recommends approval that traffic on Warren Boulevard be required to yield to traffic on Ridgeland Road. Number six is a no action item. Traffic Commission recommends that no action be taken for the request to establish traffic control at the intersection of Warren Boulevard and Raysmore Road. And I place those items up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So, Alderman, you have six items before you, but really the first two have been held out. So you have items, you just have four before you. That's items three, four, five, and six. Is there any discussion on those items? We have Alderman Durkee has his hand raised off Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just had a question on the Linden Road speed limit. Is that an increase or decrease, or we're just marking the speed limit? So for that, I'm going to go to Kyle Saunders. Give me one second. Kyle, can you answer that question about number four, Linden Road? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Alderman Jerky, that's just basically posting the speed limit to be consistent with the overall limit of speed of that road. Thank you, sir.
 I believe there was another hand raised. Alderman McNeely. Thank you. On number three, Kilburn Avenue. I'd like to hold that one out. I'm not sure that what how staff came to that determination and would like to discuss that prior to voting on this. So are you making a motion to lay that item over? And I am not a member of that committee.
 So we're at full city council. So you can make a motion to lay it over, but you can't just hold it out. Only the chair of that committee could. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I forgot we're in council. So I am making a motion to hold that out. I will second that your honor. We have a motion and a second. So item number three has been automatically laid over for the next council meeting. So now we have items four, five, and six before you.
 uh is there any other questions we have alderman hoffman who has a question i kind of lost it on my agenda but there was uh the traffic commission was agreeing that um there should be yields in the traffic at warren and ridgeland that's in my ward but then it goes on to say um
 no action taken for traffic control. So I'm a little confused. They're saying it needs to yield, but how are they going to let people know that they need to yield if there's no traffic control there? Do they, when they say traffic control, is that meaning street light, I mean a traffic light, or does it mean that they want to put up a sign?
 I'm going to ask Director Saunders to answer that question. Kyle, are you there?
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. All of the properties, those are actually two separate items, both on Warren Boulevard. So the first that the Traffic Commission recommended establishing traffic control at was the intersection of Warren Boulevard and Vigeland Road. The second in which the Traffic Commission recommended taking no action is actually the intersection to the east.
 at Warren Boulevard and Raysmore Road. And in that situation, there's good sight lines, low traffic volume, very low incident of accidents. So that's why they made the recommendation. Okay, I see it now. I thought they were both for Ridgeland, but one's Ridgeland and one's Raysmore. So Ridgeland is approved and Raysmore is not, correct? Correct. Thank you. Okay, thank you. So we have three items before you.
 Alderman Durkee, do you have another question? No. Okay, sorry, I see your hands raised. I have no other hands raised, so, Kurt, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. I'm going to ask you guys to unmute yourselves when you hear your name. Dan Spirini. Aye. Coonburn. Aye. Ross. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman? Hoffman? Aye. Can you hear me? Yep. Okay. Rose? Aye. Alderman Rose. Thank you. Alderman Beach? Aye. Pinone? Toppy, you there? Aye. Okay. Alderman McNeely? Alderman McNeely? Aye. Okay. Alderman Shirelli?
 Aye. 12 ayes. Aye. 12 ayes. Those items passed. We are moving right along to finance and personnel. I'll read these. Actually, I can hand this over to Alderman Frost. Alderman Frost.
 Okay, we'll start with the number one vouchers in the amount of $10,353,320.70. Number two is approval of the tax exempt lease for 30 police vehicles and outfitting to P&C Equipment Finance of Columbus, Ohio for a lease. With a lease rate of 2.74%, the annual payments will be $205,680 for a term of seven years. The total amount financed is $1,439,762.80.
 The funding source is Police Department Operating Budget for 2020, the Legal Director of Self-Repair of the Appropriate Ordinance. Number three is the approval of the Emergency Triage, Treat and Transport Model Orientation Program, the Legal Director of Self-Repair of the Appropriate Ordinance. Number four is the approval of the 2019 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance, the Legal Director of Self-Repair of the Appropriate Ordinance.
 And number five is an approval of an ordinance for the city of Rockford authorizing the city to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018 second modification agreement in the amount of $12 million to the Associated Bank National Association. The legal director again shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And I place these items before you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Please raise your hand. Okay, any discussion? I don't see any, which is fine. So there's no discussion. Again, I'll have the clerk call your name if you could just unmute yourself and state your vote. Fergie? Aye. Caccarini? Aye. Toomber? Aye. Toomber? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Herbie? Aye. Jackson-Kelly? Aye. Kaufman? Aye. Rose? Alderman Roses, an aye. Alderman Beetz? Aye. Alderman Quinonez? Aye. Alderman Quinonez, aye. Alderman McNeely? Aye. Alderman McNeely? Aye. Alderman Chiarelli? Aye. Bob I. Alderman McNeely? Aye.
 Excellent. We'll hold officers' reports to the end and we'll go to Alderman Chiarelli for code and regulation. Thank you, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions, the first item is the Kentucky Derby.
 which will be held Friday, September 4th, Saturday, September 5th, and Sunday, September 6th. The second is the Miracle Mile Rockford Cruise and Car Show. It should be held on Saturday, May 23rd. Third is Memorial Day Parade, which should be held Monday, May 25th. The fourth is the 2020 Rockford Pride Kickoff Party. It should be held Saturday, June 6th.
 The fifth is Rupert Bike Night at City Market Pavilion to be held Saturday, June 27th. The sixth is Swedish American State Street Mile, should be held Saturday, August 1st. And the seventh is the Head of the Rock Regatta, should be held on Sunday, October 11th. I placed those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trolley. So we have seven items. Is there any discussion on those seven items?
 Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Goss. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Thompson-Kelly. Anne, you there? Yeah, I said aye. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. Are you a yes vote or a no vote? Yes vote. Thank you. Hoffman. Rose. Alderman Rose is an aye. Deese. Aye.
 Kenona. Kenona. Hi. McNeely. Monday, you there? Hi. Torelli. Hi. Lowe. Okay, thank you. We'll move to financing personnel. Scrutia and Alderman Frost. Number one is the award of bid for the Charles Street and 10th Street Traffic Signals 2020 to Anglo Electric.
 AUSTRALIA, ILLINOIS, THE AMOUNT OF $329,964.87. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY OCTOBER 16, 2020. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALE STACKS. NUMBER TWO IS AN AWARD BID FOR THE CITYWIDE SIDEWALK AND AD REPAIR BRIDGE. NUMBER ONE TO MIRANDA CONCRETE OF ROCKFORD, ILLINOIS, THE AMOUNT OF $28,295. THE PROJECT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY MAY 15, 2020. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALE STACKS.
 Number three was held out.
 Number four, it is the word of bid for concrete material to print, to point ready mix in McHenry, Illinois. Estimated amount of $130,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the water and street division operating budgets. Number five is the word of bid for the junction road over drainage way bridge repairs to Martin & Company excavating of Oregon, Illinois.
 $49,288 last bid. Completion date is June 30, 2020. The funding source is sales tax. Number six is a joint purchasing contract purchase of
 Ford police interceptor SUV vehicles to Curry Motor Street of Forest Park, Illinois in the amount of $34,018. The funding source is the Capital Lease Fund. And number seven is a road of sole source contract police portable radios and accessories to Motorola Inc. of Schaumburg in the amount of $106,162.09. The funding source is a 2019 bag brand. And that's it.
 Okay, so those items are up for passage. And so we have a total of six items. Before you, Alderman, is there any discussion on those six items? I'm giving you a second to see if anyone raises their hands. None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Aye. Jeff Greening. Aye. Schoenberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Jackson-Kelley. Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rowland? Bowerman-Rowland is a aye. Beech? Aye. Quinones? Huffey, you there? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Torelli? Aye. All right. Excellent. I'm going to see is, I've been told that Alderman Irving may be here.
 Hello, can you hear me? I can hear you now. Can you speak? I've been here from the beginning since the committee meeting that I'm not even a part of. So make sure that you continue to unmute yourself when you're called on. And I'll try to unmute you from here.
 All righty. Thank you. Yep. So we're moving to new business audiences and...
 alderman shirely thank you honor under new business under ordinances b1 was held out this evening so we will not be voting on that b2 is an ordinance establishing no parking any time restriction on the east side of kilburn avenue from 125 feet south of parkside avenue to 350 feet south of parkside avenue thus repealing the existing restrictions
 No parking any time on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue. Number three is an ordinance establishing 45 mile an hour speed limit on Linden Road from North Alpine Road to the east city limits. Excuse me.
 Yes. I will address Alderman McNeely. Item number two, Alderman Chiarelli is held out. All right. Thank you. Item number two is held out. So back to number four, an ordinance approving the traffic on Warren Boulevard to be required to yield traffic on Ridgeland Avenue, Ridgeland Road.
 So I placed those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have two items, items number three and four. Before there's any discussion, Alderman McNeely, your hand raised. OK, that's now gone. Any other discussion? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Kirby. Aye. Yes, Greeny. Aye. Schoenberg. Aye. Brach. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Jackson-Telly.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beat? Aye. Quinones? Puffy? Puffy, are you there? Puffy? Yes, aye. Thank you. McNeely? Aye. Torelli? Aye. Robyce? Thank you. Those items pass.
 We're now going to finance and committee Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance of putting the tax exempt for 10 police, I'm sorry, for 30 police vehicles and outfitting the PNC equipment finance of Columbus, Ohio for a lease rate of 2.7%. The annual payments will be approximately $205,000 per term of seven years. The total amount of finance is $1,439,760 in APR.
 In 80 cents, the funding source is the police department operating budget for 2020. Number two is an ordinance approving the emergency triage, treat, and transport model orientation program. Number three is an ordinance approving the 2019 supplemental appropriation ordinance. And lastly, number four is an ordinance approving and authorizing the CPSU.
 the city of Rockwood to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note series 2018 second modification agreement in the amount of 12 million dollars with associated bank national association thank you thank you alderman frost we have uh four items that for you is there any discussion on those four items any discussion on those four items uh alderman mcneely
 thank you and item number three would someone please explain that to me thank you uh director agri would you mind explaining uh item number three to all yes sir um i'm sorry i'm just trying to get right spot on my computer give me just one second take your time no worries
 item three was the supplemental appropriation ordinance so alderman mcneely this is our annual budget amendment that we go through um by state law excuse me yes alderman mcneely if
 the triage it's not the supplemental okay so that's not item three item uh item two chief bergstein could you uh provide another update on item number two which is the triage emergency transport sure can
 This is an item that we were awarded by the federal government to participate in a new program to try and defer and divert patients from going to the emergency room. In doing so, also reimburse fire departments.
 for transporting them to an alternative destination, which is not allowed with CMS guidelines now, and also get revenue for treating them at home, whether it's a diabetic or wound bandaging or asthma or some other type of treatment we can do at home now.
 And then if they decide not to go, we don't receive any reimbursement for the services we provided. So we're one of 23 departments in the state to get this award. And this just signs the agreement that we're going to partner with them. There's no out-of-pocket expenses just to give us the opportunity to do this trial program and get revenue for calls that we're not able to get now. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any additional questions on the final four items?
 I see no other hands raised. So, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Jeff Marini. Aye. Timber. Aye. Ross. Aye. Murphy. Aye. Jackson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Deet. Aye. Inonis. Inonis.
 Taffy? Aye. Thank you. McNeely? Aye. Charest? Aye. Bobak? Thank you. So now we can go back to officers reports. We'll just go through Alderman one at a time and keep everyone else muted. Alderman Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. Just one comment on officers report.
 um so i'll bloviate a little bit um the um i think some aldermen were around when we got initially one of the forbes listing us as the worst third city in the united states and i demonstrably uh threw the paper in the garbage can uh denouncing the study well you know we have another study
 that's come our way that's been reported by both the health department and a news outlet by Unicast, which is a little bit disparaging on our community as far as social distancing. They use cell tower data from phones that basically saying more or less are implying that our community is not in compliance with, you know, staying mobile.
 I really can't stress enough that there's this quote that I can't quote it all the way because my mother will slap me, but there's a quote that says, there's lies, darn lies, and statistics. When we have people reporting some of the stuff that casts a pall upon our community, I'm annoyed by it.
 No one really knows. These guys just use phone mobility. There's no other demographic that's really assigned. For instance,
 In the city of Rockford, we have anywhere somewhere around 3,500, 3,700 health care workers. We're all still mobile. We're all going to the hospital. We're all taking care of patients. We also have a very mobile trucking industry like Landstar Inway. Well, those folks are moving around. We have first responders that are moving about our community with their cell phones on. We have any number of industries in manufacturing industry.
 where our folks are in essential industries that are moving about. We have an airport that we have to maintain. And so I would encourage folks that when you hear people drawing up some statistic,
 you know really check the meaning of it i actually believe this whatever this company is quat unicast i'm sorry i don't think they're being malevolent i don't think anybody's being malevolent but i think it's an overreach and i think it's the citizenry uh it needs to be aware of it as i drive around
 i know there's some knuckleheads uh always there are there are not uh in compliance but you know my goodness i i drove from around swedish american hospital back home across spring creek river and i think there were two cars we i think our citizens are really complying i think it shows by some of the numbers um in covet cases and in just looking around so
 to the citizens of Rockford I don't give you a D or an F I think you're doing a great job I think some of our business are paying a consequence for it and maybe unicast should come out here and talk to some of our small business owners and really understand that yeah we are in compliance and um we're suffering a little bit for it so thank you your honor for indulging me yeah thank you uh next uh Alderman Gasparini any comments
 sometimes the button works sometimes it doesn't um no just try to hear here alderman turkey thank you yeah thank you uh alderman tombird yeah thanks mayor hi everyone uh just hang in there and we're uh we're all in it together and doing what we can and i'm seeing uh great things by people out there that are flying and uh hopefully we can again just get over this and get back to business and support the businesses in our community
 Thanks everyone and good job. Thank you. You may win the City Council Best Shirt contest with your drink shirt. Oh, Dr. Pepper, I don't know if anyone would have guessed that's what it said if we didn't see that. That's awesome. Alright, so Alderman Frost. Just social distance and hopefully we'll get to be back in the wild very soon. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, any comments?
 Just one comment. I did not know Alicia Neubauer very well. Just met her a couple times at a couple of events, but I knew her name very well from the many, many civic and human events.
 efforts that she was involved in. And she passed away on Friday. Really caught me by surprise. She was a huge downtown supporter and advocate, had her business down there. The movie that was made, the short documentary in Rockford, Minding the Gap, about skateboarders, kind of highlighted that her and her husband shopped
 Was sort of a gathering place, which doesn't surprise me that they would have been attracted to her and her personality as someone who would listen to them and care about them. And that's her absence is going to be a huge loss for the community. So I know Mayor McNamara, you knew the family better and and.
 Knew her better, but I just wanted to send out prayers to her family and let them know that she will be very, very missed and thought of very often. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Herbie. She certainly was a beautiful person who had one of those unique abilities to speak.
 really connect on a personal level with people and really actually love who they are and appreciate who they are, but also had a unique ability to connect with an entire community. Most people don't have both of those aspects to them that they connect individually and with large groups. It was pretty remarkable. So thank you. Alderman Irvin? Yes, I'm here. Can you hear me? Yes. Yes.
 Yes, I actually have two things. First, I want to share, I guess, a word of encouragement. You know, I just want to say this, that the scriptures tell us to counter our joy when we encounter various trials and tribulations. And now the entire world is facing trials and tribulations and are being put in a position to endure it.
 And I know that the scriptures say that when we're enduring like this, this is the time to build and to grow our faith. And I know that every time we turn on the radio, all we hear about is the coronavirus. But I really want to just highlight some of the things that we can take away from this. There's always treasure. God can always be given glory in all of this.
 And so, you know, I think of it as a great opportunity for families to be able to focus on their homes, their kids, you know, relationship building opportunities, you know, with people that...
 you know, live with that. You don't like what you love and you got to deal with. Now you're not in the guidance to put us in position to face those things. And so I think it's a tremendous thing, uh, that we can take advantage of in this moment is building on those relationships. And, uh, and yeah, and just ourselves again as, as a people, you know, and, and learning how to value say, they say that, uh, you don't know what you bought until it's gone. And, uh,
 let us not take this moment for granted. So, with that, and then I also wanted to ask, because I've been on the line since roll call, I'll shout my name and no one, I don't think you guys were hearing me, but as far as the votes are concerned, I don't know how that will work. I've been trying to cast my vote, but I was being passed over. Thank you, we'll connect with you. I think it's because you had your phone on mute. We'll connect with you before next council meeting.
 I would urge you to connect with Glenn Trommels. I know we've had to reach out a couple times to connect with him. I know you're busy, but we'd love to connect with you and walk you through the process. Yeah, my tablet, it's requiring a password I don't have in on us.
 Yeah, I haven't gotten a phone call, but I'll definitely reach out to Glenn because I need that. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Taylor? Yes. Do you have any officers' reports at all? No, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman? Nope, I don't have anything this evening. I'm sorry. No, thank you. Alderman Beach? Yes, Your Honor. Yes.
 i knew alicia well too as well as my family and i wanted to just thank you for the kind words that you uh gave on behalf of alicia and what she meant in this community so i wanted to say that to you and also to say that uh this quarantine or whatever you want to call it that's locked in the house
 has produced a lot of creative things, a lot of things have happened. And I agree that families are getting together and things are being very creative in the way they do things, even in the worship service on Sundays, just to see what's happening all over this community, even though we cannot actually gather together. Thanks again and be safe. Thank you. Alderman Quinonez, any officers' reports?
 Yes, I want to let the community know the follow-up advice of our mayor and our health department and first responders and we'll get through this together. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, any officers reports? I just want to remind everyone to fill out the census form.
 If you can go online, you can do it. They mail you something in the mail. There's a number on there. So when you go online, you enter that number, and you're able to do your census online. So don't forget the census. And everyone stay safe and well. Thanks.
 alderman mcneely i really appreciate that message uh and i urge all aldermen this is we really need to help uh much of our campaign for i know westra has been updating you very regularly on this and one of our campaigns has really had to change because of uh us not being able to have enumerators going door-to-door and things that so i'd urge all of you uh
 On your social media, on your phone trees, on your email list, whatever you can do to help us get that word out. I mean, I think if nothing else brings us home to folks, the idea that much of these dollars, the $2.2 trillion that was passed in the spring,
 STIRS stimulus package, much of that will be designated based on data from that census. We really need our citizens to fill it out, and I know it's going to be more time-consuming, but even if you simply share the City of Rockford posts or the ones I'm posting, I'm trying to post every two or three days about it and would urge you and ask you all to do the same. Lester, did I miss anything on that that you think should be added? No.
 No, I think, you know, we have, can you all hear me? Yep. Okay. Yeah. So what we're, what we're doing right now, just really quick, I think I might've touched on this in the last update to all, but I'll get to another one soon. We.
 we are going to be shifting some of our, of our dollars that we had set aside for more community forums and in-person town halls. We're going to be increasing our media buys. So you'll see more, um, TV, radio, uh, and, uh, some direct mail. Um, and we're going to be launching print advertising soon. And that's including, uh, you know, a wide range of radio stations, including the Bomba radio, one Oh six, three, um, just trying to shift more dollars into the electronic, um, uh,
 space right now because we know more people are home, they're watching TV, they're watching cable, they're streaming things. So yeah, definitely be looking for that and the census has extended some deadlines as well. You know, depending on how we get through all this, there may still be, hopefully there will still be enumerators that will be in the field eventually. That process will just take a little longer to launch.
 certainly thank you western alderman for the next uh council meeting or committee meeting that we have we'll have wester give you just a three-man update on how uh our community has already been responding there's some neat dashboards and data that he can provide to you uh when we have more time to go over it our community's been doing a pretty decent job overall but again would love some of your help pushing that information out
 So last but certainly not least, I'll go to Alderman Shirelli for any officers' reports. But before you speak, Alderman Shirelli, I just want to say thank you to you. I don't know if all the aldermen are aware, but you have literally made hundreds of handmade masks. And I know it's really appreciated by so many seniors and essential workers. I just want to say thank you on behalf of all of us for the work that you're doing.
 well thank you your honor i it's a it's been an honor to do that for our community and if anybody has any elastic or put the word out very low supplies on elastic quarter inch three eight inch elastic we need a lot of it because we have a lot of orders to fulfill for a lot of different people in the organizations nursing homes hospitals and so it's much needed so thank you for saying that
 Just a couple of things, my condolences to Alicia Neubauer's family and her service on the Zoning Board of Appeals for many years. She was a friend and she'll be greatly missed and hopefully the best come out of this for her family in this time of hurting that they're going through and hopefully they heal soon.
 um secondly i've been receiving a lot of phone calls your honor about the garbage the bulk garbage that's been put out on the curbs that the rock river disposal is not picking up and it's being left at the curb a lot of washing machines dryers mattresses and so the residents are concerned about that what should we do what's the best um
 Road to take to inform the landowner, the residents that they need to get those off the curb so we can. Start getting back to regular pickup and not the bulk pickup. Yeah, certainly. I know it's been a discussion we have had about every other day here at city hall just because as you drive through us specifically right after garbage day.
 folks are still putting out that bulk uh item so we have been looking at uh potentially cost to having a contractor go back through and pick up some of this that's been left out uh so do you mind and i hate to say this but we'll get an email out to you guys all tomorrow with a better answer than that because we'll spend some time uh seeing what we should uh
 make the decision to do and how much it's actually going to cost us to have a contract out. So I apologize for the weak answer, Alderman Boe. It's certainly a top concern for us, and we'll get an answer out to you tomorrow. Well, thank you. Everybody stay safe and healthy. Have a good night. Thank you. And I fail to call on Alderman Boe. My sincere apologies, Alderman Boe.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just wanted a second word said about Alicia Neubauer. She was a major player in the women's movement here in Rockford. I know her and her husband's skateboard business has been key to a lot of young people, especially those young skateboarders downtown and youth.
 Just it's going to be a huge loss for our city and. Are my condolences go out to the family? I also wanted to recognize. There was another woman who had recently passed away about a week ago. Her name is Juanita. She was the organ, not 1 of the organizers of the gathering at the mountain. At BD park.
 they've been doing that for 24 years and so Rockford's lost some two significant women more recently in the past two weeks I wanted to recognize her as well but I also just wanted to say thank you to all of the first responders here in the city our firemen police and nine
 911 and our doctors and nurses and all essential workers, whether they're working in retail or building parts for something. I'm really thankful for the level of work that Rockford residents are doing, like Dr. Durkee had mentioned. Most people are following the stay-at-home order, but those that are working,
 you know, that have to go to work and fulfill that need. Just wanted to say thank you to those Rockford residents.
 thank you alderman rose i just want to say to all of you i know you're all getting animated with uh questions and concerns during this time and just want to say thank you uh for the work that you're doing and also uh thank you for the patience uh you're showing to us here at city hall as we work to develop new policies and react to this kind of very fluid situation so just want to say thank you to you all for all the work that you do and with that is there a motion to a
 So moved, Alderman Hervey. You're a second. Second. Please be a second. I thought we were going to be here all night. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, I hope you have a wonderful night, guys. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.