The date is April 6, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Calvin Malone from Jerusalem Missionary Baptist Church. Let us pray. Holy God, we humble ourselves in your presence, acknowledging you. We ask your continued grace and favor upon this city. We pray that you would give wisdom to those who have gathered here this evening to tend to the affairs of this city. And we pray again your grace and your mercy in all things. In Christ Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen.
 Clerk, will you please follow up? Durkee, Getschus, McNamara, Hervey, Hill, Thompson-Kelley, Otto, Newberg, Beach, Ellier, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, 12 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? Second. We've got a motion and a second to amend the journal. Are there going to be amendments or changes to the journal?
 If there are none, all those in favor of accepting the journalist, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. There's no public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have several speakers signed up for public participation. Again, I'll remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, they will hear the buzzer. And I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Jacqueline Primer.
 Good evening, City Council and Mayor. My topic is homelessness people in the city of Rockford. Here at the Rockford Rescue Mission.
 There are women's crisis centers. They are overcrowded now. Women with disability, mothers and children, are there, physical and mental handicapped, veterans, drug addicts, women and men who have fallen on hard times. There's no place for them to go. Some don't even have family here in the area. And the police department used for our warming center is only for the winter.
 homeless people living under the bridges, sleeping, some sleeping in the churches that are being used for warming centers. The ones who are disabled are placed on the waiting list to receive assistance from the government and those who are people who are very upset and not getting the help that they need. It's kind of liturgic for me. Instead of tearing down the vacant homes
 why not rehab them and place people in them? Because there was a past mayor that we had to where you can buy a home for a dollar. And I think something like that would be very helpful, you know, because some of the families are still in these homes that they purchased for a dollar from years ago, Mayor. Sometimes, you know, something needs to be done right now in order, before it gets worse.
 I want to thank the Rock for Rescue Mission for housing ones that are in need and the organizations that's helping them and the churches that bring food to feed the people that are living in these facilities. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Ron Frese. I wanted to say I feel for all these people that you've mentioned earlier and I'm one of them, I guess.
 And I've told you before about the taxes on the house that I have. The taxes are twice what my neighbors pay, twice. You think about that. And then I wanted to say something about this, too, which I talked to Mr. Beach earlier about it. And the state of Illinois sent me some stuff here, and then they sent it to me the same day.
 I went out to my post office or the mailbox and I got these two letters from them. It says I have to go down and have my eyes examined at Baldwin High School. I shouldn't have parked my seeing-eye dog here, I guess.
 And that's the way I feel anymore about this stuff. It's terrible what's going on. It really is. Thank you much. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Ladies and gentlemen, in the book of Hosea, the fourth chapter, the sixth verse, the Prophet Hosea says, My people are distraught from lack of knowledge, because you have rejected knowledge. What I want to speak about tonight is how to reduce the violence and killing in the black communities.
 To this day, 2015 is sickening sadness. Some of us are so mentally disturbed with a plantation mentality where we have to wait for a signal from somebody in Washington, Springfield, or downtown City Hall to determine what's in our own best interest. This is the reason why there's trouble in the black community. Our young people want exemptions. Look that they will give them strength and counseling guidance, but our young people do not find that the elders of guidance, the counseled example that they would like to follow. So they are given to the streets.
 because we have not given them what they need. The schools have failed in their stewardship of the minds of our young people and the teachers have failed in their responsibility to the children because the teachers are not grown therefore they cannot grow their students. We are part of a system that is a plantation educational system, a plantation political system, a plantation social system and unfortunately a plantation religious system. Our children have been taken from the teacher, taken from the preacher, taken from the politician and
 And sad to say, their parents, because all together parents, teachers, preachers, and politicians are dead static and stagnant in the pursuit of knowledge. While the minds that we have produced are demanding more than we have the capability to give. As a result of this, they are looking for guidance. Not in the home, not in the church, that's why they don't go. Not in school, that's why they drop out. Not from the politicians, that's why they don't vote. They are looking for guidance somewhere else, which are the streets. And therefore, we have lost touch with them.
 and they have lost touch with us. And violence pervades the black community. Violence is born of hopelessness and despair. Where there's hope, there's life. And where there's life, there's love. And where there's love, there's harmony. There's peace, there's forgiveness. But when there's despair and hopeless, violence is bred. Hopeless is the mother of violence. So our children have no hope in that
 parents, they see no hope in their churches, and they see no hope in their present crops of leaders, so they turn inward in a destructive way because we have dropped the ball of leadership of our own children. Solution to the problem? Give our children hope. A job that pays a good wage with benefits. Affordable education, affordable home and rental properties, affordable public transportation,
 bus service that runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week, fix and flex routes so people can get to jobs and back, free daycare service for mothers who want to go to school or go to work, mental treatment by open backup, single mental hospital, drug treatment, alcoholic treatment for some, and people who have felonies, give them a second chance like God gave us with his grace and mercy. This will reduce the violence and killing of black people. I've been wanting to say this to Auburn Beach for a long time.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you, you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday and I wish you many more. God bless you and your family. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Roscoe. Thank you. I have been working very hard to get every high school graduate an interest-free $100,000 loan to be repaid at death. Unless we start solving some of the root causes of crime and violence,
 You have no idea how bad the worst of times will become. We can avoid the worst of times. Can we make the future time better? We do need to throw money at the problem, but it need not be tax money. How much is our civilization worth? How much value have all those great people who preceded us built, that are still collecting user fees, pyramids, great walls of China, et cetera,
 Why do people with money not want people without money to get money? Most reasons I hear is they wouldn't know what to do with it. Or the favorite one is it would cause inflation. The amount of money does not cause inflation. Billionaires don't necessarily cause inflation. How the money is used can cause inflation.
 If we use it to diminish product supply, it will cause inflation. If we do the opposite, we can have the best of times. The question is, how much collateral do we have to borrow against? How much gold would it take to buy some pieces of paper called the Constitution of the United States of America? I think we have enough collateral that can cover any loan we deem worthy to make.
 Yes, we can have the best of times for all. I am Fishy Whale Roland Pascoe. I hope some of you think that you might have heard this before because it was my July 14, 2014 speech. The money is there and once the smart elephants realize that it costs them nothing to save Social Security by giving a loan at the beginning.
 It will be done. It will be done. It will be done. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is John Bradley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the women, all the women, and citizens of Rockville,
 This is part four from last week. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, Fear of peoples can hamper everything you try to do. In a strange form, it can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others to good.
 for those who trust in his word. We're going to hit it up with black on black crime and domestic violence. Black on black crime just don't consist of physical harm, but it also consists of educational, mental, and psychological abuse.
 with black-on-black crime and domestic violence. Eighty-five homicides were reported in Chicago in the first three months of this year, up 23 percent according to the Red Eye analysis. January through March, in the past five years, according to Red Eye data, in 2012, 122 homicides were reported from January through March for an annual total of 523 killings that year.
 For this year, here in Rockford, we had seven killings. I got an email from a resident that informed me she got home and seen some teenage girls standing in the driveway crying because a young man had just been shot and killed. So why do you think that I bring this up? We are losing too many of our young people to drugs, gangs, prison, violence, and killing. So what are we trying to do something about it? We have young mothers and babies raising babies.
 We have young youth that have no respect for adults or their parents. We have lots of young parents that do not want you to say anything to their child, and they know that their child is dead wrong. And we are going to transform Rockford. We are going to have to stop facing the truth. As the interrupter,
 I spent a lot of time trying to find positive programs and events to get our youth involved in. I got to go back to Monday at that nightmare that we picked up some kids, we was picking up some kids to take them on a tour at the Cook County Courthouse. And when we got to Blaze there and looked around the corner, there was over 30 or 40 people in the house fighting, on the sidewalk fighting, in the streets fighting.
 And what bothered me the most was seeing this old man about my age slamming a 12 to a 14-year-old girl head up against the side of the concrete. I'm down to 911. My son's son is standing behind me. I'm making him get back. He gets mad at me because I make all of them get back in the van. And when we get to the courthouse, he said, I thought you were interrupted. Why didn't you stop the fight? I had to explain to him, my first priority is the safety of the 38 kids and four adults.
 that was with me. That's my top priority. My second thing is that I am not the police. It's up to the police to handle their job. And at that particular time, I did not know who was to fight or what the fight was about. So I had to step back and stay in my lane. So I'm going to finish up with going here. I am not going to go into detail because I only have three minutes and I'm just hearing the birds are getting ready to go off.
 I just want to finish by saying we need our churches and community centers to step up to the plate. We need for the other folks not to just see me out here with the 48 kids. I went from 15 last year to 60 kids. Now I have over 100 kids. Any given time, I'm averaging 40 to 50 kids. I want to thank John Beck.
 for the PIE District blessing me this weekend where they paid for me to bring 44 kids and they gave me 16 tickets apiece to participate in the Easter egg hunt. And I also got to thank the YMCA for providing us with the transportation and Rockwood Housing Authority for providing us with the transportation. But really, I need some more transportation and we need help. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to our speakers this evening, politicians and communications.
 all of their feet thank you ron i have four items tonight the first is a memorandum from mark williams economic development manager regarding the east state mulford tiff redevelopment agreement with lions consulting group llc and 4940 east state street which is also a spring development group spring creek development group that is for building renovations and leasing
 This will be referred to Planning and Development. I have a memorandum from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator regarding an application for HUD Section 108, Loan Guarantee Authority. This will be referred to Planning and Development.
 Another memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, Community and Economic Development Department of the City of Rockford. It's a resolution to consider the purchase of properties one or all at 514 South Church Street, 325 South Madison Street, and 123 South Main Street with France Community Investors. And the last is a memorandum from Wayne Dust,
 A planning administrator for the City of Rockford, a proposal, a proposed resolution requesting assistance from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency to perform environmental assessment work at sites recommended by the City. These will all be referred to planning and development. Thank you, matters referred. Further positions and communications on the trail? I have a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, zoning and land use administrator regarding the tentative plaque of the Zioc building.
 of a memorandum from Scott Capobilla zoning and land use administrator regarding the South Corp Street right of way dedication plat. I have the April traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held April 8, 2015. Special liquor and tobacco advisory board meeting agenda for the meeting to be held on April 13, 2015.
 I have a memorandum from Mark Rose Land Acquisition Office regarding police substation number one, land acquisition via litigation, 1034 Mulberry Street. I have a memorandum from Marcy Leach, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding stormwater revisions, code of ordinances, chapter 109.
 a memorandum from left the carrier of Vaughn assistant city attorney regarding amendments to chapter twenty nine article three of the city of Rockford code of ordinances taxicabs in adoption of rare right share ordinance I'll have a memorandum from Kelly notes assistant operation managers for upcoming special events number one Chico de Mayo festival May 3rd
 Memorial Day Parade, May 25th, 2015. Air Fest 2015, June 5th through June 7th, 2015. Rockford Fire 911 run, June 6th, 2015. And the Bowtie March and 5K run, June 6th, 2015. All those items, Your Honor, will be referred to the Coats and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Madam Speaker.
 I'm not going to support now I'm sorry I just have to I like to refer I would love for our traffic
 and also at 26th Street Young, and also a request from the Public Works Department to give me a price on resources in the street that's to 12th and Black Road. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, City Engineer, regarding a city-state memo understanding for South Main Street reconstruction. I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, Legal Director, regarding a master lease extension between the City of Rockford and 303 North Main Street, LLC. IGA between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the lease of office space at the gas and electric building.
 I have a memorandum from Patrick Hayes, legal director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the county of Winnebago and the city of Rockford for the lease, demolition, and transfer of the public safety building. And then I have a memorandum from Matt Vittner, city engineer, regarding the private railroad crossing agreement with the Union Pacific Railroad and the city of Rockford. And these items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Madam Chair. Further petitions and communications? Please. Proclamations? Yes.
 We have several proclamations this evening. As I invite our recipients receiving the proclamation to come forward, they can please come forward just to the side of me. Our first proclamation is for the Week of the Young Child, and Heidi Stocking is here on behalf of the Rockford Week of the Young Child. I invite her to come forward as well as any other representatives here to receive the proclamation.
 Whereas the Week of the Young Child Rockford collaboration and other local organizations in conjunction with the National Association for the Education of Young Children are celebrating Week of the Young Child April 12th through the 18th, 2015. Whereas these organizations are working to improve early learning opportunities including early literacy programs that can provide a foundation for learning for children in our community. Whereas teachers and others who make a difference in the lives of young children in our community deserve thanks and recognition.
 And whereas public policies that support early learning for all young children are crucial to a young child's future. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 12th through the 18th of 2015 to be Week of the Young Child Week. And we encourage all of our citizens to work towards a good investment in early childhood for our community.
 We'd like to thank yourself and the rest of the community to have the continued support for this event. We have our Family Fun Fair at Heartland Church on April 11th from 10 to 2.30. And this is a free event for the community to help promote the child development for our earliest learners birth to age eight and their families. It's something that supplies a lot of family entertainment and some activities.
 for those children that attend. So we appreciate it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you for your work you do throughout the year. Our next proclamation is for Junior League of Rockford Week, and we invite Elizabeth Heiser, President, and Andrea Kuzner, President-Elect, to please come forward along with any other members of their delegation here to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas the Junior League of Rockford is proudly celebrating its 85th anniversary as an organization of women committed to promoting volunteerism, developing the potential of women and improving the community through effective action and leadership of trained volunteers. And whereas the Junior League of Rockford members have researched, developed and implemented programs in our area that have impacted more than 10 million lives. Whereas the Junior League of Rockford continues to benefit the Rockford community through projects such
 such as Kids in the Kitchen and Backpack Buddies, as well as an annual scholarship program. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of April 6th, 2015 to be Junior League of Rockford Week in Rockford, and we recognize these exceptional volunteer leaders who have researched, developed, and implemented these programs that have helped our community for many years. Congratulations. Thank you, Mayor Morrisey.
 Since 1930, the Junior League of Rockford has been true to its mission of promoting volunteerism, developing the potential of women, and improving the community. And we do this all through the effective action of trained volunteers. Through past projects such as the Kenrock Community Center, Discovery Center Museum and Park, Maya's House, Washington Park Community Center,
 Stepping Stones, Brightside Adult Day Center, CASA, RAISE, Girls on Their Way, and our current project Backpack Buddies, we continue to improve the lives of women, children, and families in our community. I would like to thank the City of Rockford, all of our current and past community partners, as well as our current and past junior league partners.
 members and sustaining members, it is only with your help and support that we can impact change and continue to make a difference. We are proud of our 85-year history and look forward to the next 85 years. Thank you. Our next proclamation is regarding Child Abuse Prevention Month, and I invite members of the delegation receiving the proclamation.
 Elaine Gaither and Pastor Ricky Bates from Youth Services Bureau of Illinois to please come forward. And any other members that I may have missed that are here to accept the proclamation to come forward. Whereas preventing child abuse and neglect is a community problem that depends on involvement among people throughout our community. And whereas child maltreatment occurs when people find themselves in stressful situations without community resources and don't know how to cope.
 Whereas the majority of child abuse cases stem from situations and conditions that are preventable in an engaged and supportive community. Whereas child abuse and neglect can be reduced by making sure each family has the support they need to raise their children in a healthy environment. Whereas child abuse and neglect not only directly harms children, but also increases the likelihood of criminal behavior, substance abuse, health problems such as heart disease and obesity, and risky behaviors such as smoking. Whereas effective child abuse prevention programs
 can be successful because of partnerships created among social service agencies, schools, faith-based communities, civic organizations and law enforcement agencies, as well as our business communities. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morse, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2015 to be Child Abuse Prevention Month, and we encourage our citizens to support the Youth Services Bureau and to learn about the many programs and resources in our community.
 I'm Elaine Gaither with the Youth Service Bureau and I'm one of the supervisors there. And I just want to take a moment to bring to your attention that April is Child Abuse Awareness Month.
 And it was actually in 1983 that the first opportunity where child abuse prevention was recognized. It wasn't until 1989 that it got the blue symbol. And that's because a grandmother who was caring for her grandchildren, children got returned back before they received adequate services. And unfortunately, those children died at the hands of those parents.
 And so in 1989, what this grandmother did is she tied a blue ribbon around the antenna on her van. And when she was asked why she chose the color blue, she said because the kids, when they get bruises, they're initially black.
 and over time they turned blue. And so she never wanted to forget the children that are represented here that we want to prevent child abuse. And so in representation of that, we brought these ribbons in that we would like to pass out to each of you to spread the news and the awareness to prevent child abuse. Thank you. I am one of the board members of this program, of this group,
 I was with some people a little while ago and one of the CEOs of a company within Rockford, he looked around and he said this is one of the best kept secrets in Rockford because they're gaining in market share, their dividends were up every month, they were just doing fantastic. As I thought about that term, this is probably one of the best kept secrets in the city of Rockford also. That YSB is a company that is a very good company.
 is a group that serves like 20 counties in Northern Illinois. They have 13 locations and all of it is directed toward children and abuse, bringing families back together, helping those processes to be mitigated and going forward. So when we receive this proclamation, I want to ask everybody just for one month if you would be able to just
 uh... displayed proudly your blue ribbon and to maybe just look at the little book on the internet and look at why it's being
 It seems like it has been resurrected, if you will, in the city of Rockford, but 20 counties, 13 locations, we're doing fantastic work. We just need to get a little bit more traction, a little bit more visibility here in the city of Rockford. So I challenge all of you all to look into it, see what's going on, find ways to support
 Because as we support the weakest of us, we become stronger together. Thank you very much for your continued great work in our community. And our final proclamation is on behalf of Money Smart Week. And I invite Chris King, Money Smart Week co-chairman, and any other members that might be here to accept the proclamation to please come forward.
 Whereas the financial well-being of individual American citizens is linked to the nation's economic progress and improved financial literacy results in a higher standard of living and more stable communities. Whereas becoming financially literate is a long-term process that for many requires the assistance of institutions outside the home and in times of rapidly changing technologies and developments, consumers have many choices on how to manage their financial affairs.
 whereas educational and financial institutions, government entities, and community-based organizations
 can work together to help consumers make informed choices about their financial finances, personal finances and programs that may be available. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 18th through the 25th to be Money Smart Week. And we encourage citizens to make themselves aware of the importance of financial literacy and take advantage of many programs and activities geared toward financial management and prosperity this week and throughout the year.
 Thank you. I graciously accept this proclamation on behalf of the over 100 partners that we have for Money Smart Week 2015.
 We have nine counties included in Money Smart Week Northern Illinois this year, and we have over 230 events planned. All events are free of charge. We've brought some calendars with us, so I encourage you to take a calendar and share it with your friends, your family, your constituents, and encourage them to attend a Money Smart Week event. Thank you. Thank you for all of our proclamation recipients this evening. Reports to committees.
 Three reports, two of which I'm going to read in now for approval and then a third to amend. The first one is a committee report recommending approval for the proposed development agreement with Oliver Emerson, LLC for the redevelopment of a commercial strip center at the southwest corner of Auburn and Central, also known as 3814, 3820 and 3824 Auburn Streets.
 Next, I have a proposed development agreement with Sugar Jones, Inc. for the establishment of a central commissary and associated uses at 3600 East State Street, Suite A1. I'd like to suspend rules and place this up for passage as well. Thank you. We've got a motion to second the suspend rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I just have it.
 Thank you, Your Honor, and I place those two items up for passage. Items 1 and 3 under Provenable 5A are up for passage as their discussion.
 just a question with regard to mr emerson's development at auburn and central i noticed we had a list of restrictions for some of the building sites one of which was a smoke shop and i thought i saw something on television that there was one or one was planned so i wondered if we were grandfathering or did i get that wrong
 thank you your honor there's a list of prohibited uses within the development agreement but retail tobacco sales was not included in that list thank you for the discussion moment beach thank you i had uh discussion before the meeting um with paul mctowns and kelly and my concern was uh about the ownership of the land and i just thought i'd have some clarification of who's going to own that property out there ultimately mr kate no
 I believe you're referencing dollar ever said yes I am also the properties under contract to purchase by Mr ever said I'm sure this development agreement proceed forward as well as agreement with one of the county and his financing the security will pursue the acquisition of the property redevelopment under Oliver Emerson LLC okay so then you
 everything is kinda like a domino effect here the financing doesn't go through this thing is a point is that what this is right very similar to our extent our other development agreements thank you financing thank you thank you all of it
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like to thank Stan for working with Oliver, a developer that is part of our community that has worked hard in giving back to this community.
 I am supporting this as I spoke with a lot of you and I think it's a good development and I think it's a win-win for the city with the new strip mall on Auburn Street. We've got to maintain employment and small business owners. That's the important thing that's going to happen. Also, the improvement in the quarter and knowing Oliver the way that I do, he's not just going to have a business there, he's going to be involved in the community.
 So I fully support this and I hope that my colleagues will also. Thank you. Thank you all for that. Thank you. I want to ditto part of that. I've known Oliver for a long time and seen some of his developments. One thing I do want to know, and it may not be appropriate here, but I want staff to look for this.
 What is the long-term ownership of the Strip Center? And I'll tell you why. And Oliver and I have talked about this. It's not so much a criticism as it is a concern. When he built the dollar store and what's now Rent the Center onto the South Main grocery store with Chiquita, all that was very great, beautiful landscaping.
 Chiquita has redone their parking lot. They've kept up their landscaping. And that cannot be said for the other half. It's like night and day. And one of the things I desperately want for South Main and for Southwest Rockford is for people to maintain the standards that we start with. It does no good to have these developments and landscaping requirements if they look like junk.
 within two years. I can't figure out who the actual ownership is or who's accountable for it.
 And I worry about that, not just with Mr. Emerson's, but with all of these strip centers and these developments. Where is the long-term accountability for maintaining signs, landscape buffers, parking lots, so they don't come to look like trash within a 15- or 20-year period? And that's a big question. I want to know where the ownership and the accountability for that is going to lie.
 in the future. And then the second piece, one of the comments in the CDBG funding was that $150,000 wasn't budgeted for. So the question becomes, and I will say I had to leave early last week, so what is the financing, the funding source for the CDBG funds? And
 since it wasn't budgeted for. Mr. Cagnotti, if you can comment, maybe take the, we'll take them in whatever order, the CDBG funding issue. I cannot take them in no order, Your Honor. But on the other question, I just want to add, and see the all-in-herpes question, because this isn't the first time it's come up.
 whether our current ordinances require maintenance after an initial investment occurs in landscaping. Because I don't think this is the first time we've had, you know, we have a lot of requirements on new development on landscaping. I don't know that we have enough teeth on the back end for the maintain landscape. We don't. If you could just comment on those issues. Sure, Your Honor. Thank you. I will follow up as it relates to the ownership of the property you referenced on South Main Street.
 we do have a general requirement within our ordinances that requires the ongoing maintenance of landscaping so I can make sure that we're down there reviewing the existing conditions in regards to what was originally required and that it's being maintained and we can follow that up in the particular instance related to this development agreement we have
 It is the intention of Oliver Emerson LLC to own the property. There is an assignment clause. So should Mr. Emerson decide to pursue the sale of the property, it would need to come back to the city for approval to assign the benefits of the tip. And then the last question, the overall...
 effectiveness as you may have already answered our ability to manage and ensure that landscaping is maintained over time is that typically done you know through a tiff agreement agreement we certainly can't but do our basic ordinances allow for us to enforce that someone maintain the original landscaping
 are basically zoning ordinance would require the ongoing maintenance of landscape so we can force it under that measure and if there's an existing development it's very likely the provisions of those agreements as well. The other piece was the $150,000 that's the forgivable amount. I know there was some money that was coming back from FSA.
 or whatever, but I'm not sure what the progeny of that is. Thank you. An important issue that I shouldn't overlook. You know, last year we did have the return of $200,000 of CDBG funds that came from an agreement that we had with the FMS. So that came in as program income in the 2014 year in case of a
 and carried over into the 2015 year. So yes, this was an item that was not originally budgeted for, but by utilizing some of those funds that were carried over as well as program income for 2015, we're able to accommodate this request. The reason why we wanted to point it out within the development agreement is there had been some discussion in regards to taking any additional revenues that came in focusing them towards demolition.
 of blighted properties and although this is a property that's starting to deteriorate and is blinding the movie we wanted to make sure that that was pointed out should also be noted that our community development block grant funds from the original budget we are estimating what our allocation would be this year because those funds aren't announced by hunt until
 spring of 2015, at the time we were doing our budget, in the fall of 2014, we had to go off some estimates. We did receive less dollars in 2015 for background funds, as well as home funds, so that has a slight reduction in our overall programming. We've attempted to focus all the dollars that we could towards demolition, understanding that we had carried over program income as well as
 program income for 2015. We're right about $550,000 still allocated for demolition of the residential program with the utilization of the community development law grant. And then my only other comment I had with regard to it, and again, it's, I noticed that his reimbursement is 70% and some of our TIF reimbursements in
 I mean this area is definitely what I would call a TIF eligible area and he's getting a 70% reimbursement. I really find it objectionable that people in some of our highest real estate areas are demanding a 100% reimbursement and he's not getting 100%. He's got some huge risk.
 I actually think our area is less risky than people believe sometimes because I think we have good commerce there with the right kind of surroundings. But from a staffing standpoint, I know we have to negotiate and sometimes we say, well, the other people were just better negotiators. I don't buy. And I think we should start taking a hard look at how we're giving out the percentage of TIF reimbursement.
 based on risk and ability and probable return on those projects thank you. I have the same concern and Todd and I had a very lengthy conversation in regards to
 I guess I would have to refer everyone to Todd because I certainly cannot repeat the formula that he explained to me that made sense in the percentage that he would be getting back at the other funding source that we're giving him. Because I was ready to make an amendment to go 100 percent and after the explanation that I received from Community Development, it's best that we leave it like it is.
 for the formula and as far as the ownership according to the bank it would be all of the animals in the LLC. Mr. Cagnone if you want to comment on that formula, ultimate upscale. Sure, the honor. You know as a team, our finance department, our economic development department,
 We evaluate these projects and provide gap financing and it's provided in a number of different ways. In this particular agreement, we identified a financial gap of $690,000 and we were able
 three different ways one is the $150,000 that's provided during the construction of the building so it's not completely up front but it's up front enough that allows the developer to secure some financing in addition with the city's community development block grant funds the county of Winnebago would be providing $150,000
 during the course of the demolition. Again, not immediately up front, but up front enough to secure financing. So you have $300,000 that's provided at the initial stages of the redevelopment, and then the remainder, $390,000, is provided through tax increment financing on the days you go. So I think you have to look at all the layers of financing that we're bringing to the project to determine whether the projects are created
 are treated fairly or equivalent to one another understanding that the time of money in this situation is $300,000 that's being injected into the project earlier on and actually exceeds some of the other projects that are being under consideration. Thank you. Thank you. Any other questions? Thank you. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Those are on the roll number 5 of May, items 1 and 3.
 Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Beck? McNeely? Shirely? Aye. 13 A's runner. That is carried. Thank you.
 The remaining item, Your Honor, I'd like to amend. This would be under Roman numeral 5A2. I'd like to move to amend the committee report on the development agreement with Dine-Capron, LLC. The item required three favorable votes and received two. I'd like to move to amend the report to reflect a recommendation from the committee to approve. Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and second to amend the committee report. Second.
 Roman roll 5 a 2 on the development agreement with Dine Capron LLC item required three favorable votes only received two amendment would reflect a positive recommendation to move to second it is their discussion
 Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Seven. Your Honor, I'd like to offer another amendment to this development agreement. This would be under, in the development agreement with Dian Capron, LLC, under Section 2,
 subset sub paragraph eat and it reads as follows in recognition of the contribution of tax increment to the project Developer will not protest the assessed value of the property or the project During the initial term of the state and Mulford tax increment financing district Which the final levy date of 12 31? 2034 without the consent of the city provided however the
 that this provision will not prohibit a tenant occupying all or any portion of this subject property from challenging the assessed value. And a reduction in the, I'm sorry, any reduction in increment during the term of this agreement due to a protest by a tenant of the developer shall be reimbursed by the developer to the city.
 to the amount of payments received by the developer pursuant to section three of this agreement. I'd like to offer that amendment to the development agreement. There's been a motion and a second that would, is the new language only the underlined language? I believe so, Your Honor. So the amendment to items roll number five, A2, is contained in paragraph E of the agreement.
 and would limit the amount of payments received by the developer pursuant to Section 3 of this agreement. Let me just read it again so everybody's on the same page.
 In recognition of the contribution of taxing to the project, developers will not protest the assessed value of the property or the project during the initial term of the state law for taxing the rent financing district. Final levy date 12-3134 without the consent of the city provided however that the provision will not prohibit a tenant occupying all or any portion of the subject property from challenging the assessed value.
 Any reduction in increment during the term of the agreement due to protest by a tenant or developer shall be reimbursed by the developer to the city, limited to the amount of payments received by the developer pursuant to Section 3 of this agreement. That's been moved and seconded. Is there discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Point of clarification, Your Honor. You made the comment that the only changes is what's underlying.
 is that this entire paragraph that the chairman read in the change is raised so this is why this is on all the alderman's task the only language that's subject to the amendment that alderman Durkee is making is to add the underlying language at the end of the paragraph the other language was in the material that was presented to council at the committee and was what was under consideration so
 We had some discussion at committee about what would move and what wouldn't. So what the two members of committee voted for included the language that's in there. And staff has suggested to address some concerns that were raised about that protection and where the money should start and stop was to add that additional language so that you understand
 The developer says that their tenant may want to prosecute an action to reduce their taxes. The city has agreed with the developer's request that the tenant be, if that's the lease they sign, that the tenant may do that, but put in a provision that the developer would make the city whole on any lost increment. The amendment merely limits that protection to the amount of benefit that the developer gets out of this agreement.
 And that is the increment that we're putting into the deal. And so we feel that that's enforceable as a matter of law and also measures what the city's, you know, effort is here. The city's making a grant to the developer of certain funds, and the developer has to protect us up to that level if the tax increment reduces. And a follow-up question, Your Honor. Sure. Aren't we setting a precedent?
 Mr. Hayes. So the precedent here is that when developers come to us we do what's called an inducement letter or an inducement resolution and we did so in this case. In that inducement resolution we told the developer that we would not tolerate any tax protest by the developer or the owner of this property.
 After all that was done, the developer approached staff and said, we've got a tenant who may want to be able to protest this, and we insist that this is in the agreement. And staff felt like we could grant the developer that opportunity as long as the developer would make the city whole on any losses. Folks then pointed out that maybe we should limit that to the amount of incentive that the city's putting into the deal in total. That leaves the developer on equal footing.
 Meaning that we'll be made whole for every dollar we put in this agreement. And if the tax issue gets beyond that, we're in no different position than if we didn't incentivize this project at all. And so we felt that that clarifies and resolves the issue in that if there is any losses due to a tax protest, we'll recover them up to the amount of incentive we're putting in this deal in total. Alderman Hervey. Thank you. We recover them up to the amount of the incentive.
 but we're giving out huge incentive here, significant incentive here. And a tenant can still come back and mount a significant protest, especially if it was an anchor tenant.
 A little 2,000 square foot store is not what I'm worried about. It's a potential 100 or 150,000 square foot store that could come in and gain millions. So we're no worse off in this setting if that happened than if we didn't incentivize this project at all.
 Well, we are worse off because we could normally say you can't protest and neither can the people in your building. So we wouldn't face any loss of property taxes. We can certainly amend the item that way and the developer has stressed to us that they feel it's necessary to allow the tenant to do this in order to maintain lease with them. So then in all our TIF projects we're going to be running around giving tenants the right to protest. No, tenants do not.
 have the right to protest if the developer says you can't. You're right. Hold on a second. The motion's not yet in order. Alderman Hervey was still speaking. Alderman Hervey? Pardon? I just said that his motion wasn't in order. You were still speaking. So I wanted to give you the courtesy of finishing yours. Well, my finish was that
 It's incorrect because right now one of the clauses that we had put in our TIF-funded agreements was that they could not protest
 their property taxes for the life of the TIF. Now we're going to turn around and give that right to a tenant. I don't care if the developer makes me whole up to the amount of the TIF money that I'm putting in. One of our other protections is that we were building high property value for that area for a longer period of time. Now we're going to give that away. You know, I would just ask as a point of information, a question for staff to comment on.
 just my own recollection I don't know if in most TIF agreements we've addressed the distinction between the developer protesting versus a tenant protesting I just don't know if it's in there I asked Mr. Hayes to comment on it whether or not it's typical self-defense Mr. Hayes? This is a I would say that we did not anticipate that this tenant issue would be put into the
 What staff thought would occur is that we'd put the simple clause in that Alderman Hervey has suggested would be appropriate, which is there shall be no tax protest on the property. We put that in the incentive letter to this developer. There will be no tax protest by the developer or the owner of the property.
 So when the developer pushed this issue back at us as a tenant, we tried to repair it as best we could. And we'll put it in future incentive letters and in our dogma going forward that we'll close this loophole, which is what this is. And the aldermen certainly have within their purview the ability to amend this agreement any way they see fit.
 What staff is presenting to you is our best effort to accommodate the developers' insistence about the clauses they need to maintain this tenant and reacting in a way where we're trying to protect the investment that the city is making in this property as much as we can.
 So, as I mentioned, if it did come to pass that there was a protest that harvested this type of increment, we would be able to recover from the developer every penny that we ever put in this deal. And we would be no worse off than if they just did this without any city incentive at all. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost first, then we'll come back and get Alderman Oro, then Alderman Thompson-Kent.
 It's my understanding that this development and the developer brought Portillo's to town and that Portillo's is not a tenant, but Portillo's actually is going to be the owner of the building but not the land. Am I misconstrued on that? Because we keep talking about landlord, developer, and tenant, and I really don't think that's really what's going on here. So it's my understanding, and correct me if I'm wrong if staff can be helped, this is just what's...
 A representative told me that it was actually the reason why they wanted to be able to have the really do protest is because they're not a tenant and because they're actually going to be the owner of the building. I don't think the developer, they're going to leave because they're just, they're building the building right now. I don't think so. If the developer said, well, we're afraid of losing them, I don't think that's really, I think that's a misnomer because they're not even here yet. So I don't know if we have these answers tonight. I don't know if we need to really.
 Mr. Kegnoni or Ms. Hayes, do you answer the question over the ownership of the building
 deal is done. I can answer that Your Honor. Thank you. So understand that there's two buildings proposed underneath this development agreement. One would be for the Portillo's Restaurant. The other one is for a retail center that'll be under construction to the west of the property. So this agreement would accommodate both
 First Midwest Group will own the retail building to the west of the Portillos and they'll lease it out to tenants. For the Portillos project, I understand they have a land lease with Portillos and Portillos is constructing the building. And then the land lease is for a term of a number of years under the clause. In both situations, it would allow the tenant, because Portillos is a tenant, of the land lease to protest the
 the taxes under the terms that Director Hayes stated. Thank you for the, there was two other comments. Haldeman Odo, I think was next. Thank you, Your Honor. And can we, is there any way we can lay this over? I don't think it's going to hurt to lay it over. Is that a motion? Yes, second. So I do apologize. I was allowing Haldeman Herb to finish her comment, and I didn't come back. Haldeman Beach had made a motion first to lay the matter over, and it was seconded by, I don't remember who.
 but it sounds like there was a request to do that again mr hayes what's our rule on the is this uh subject to an automatic layover at the council i believe it is to uh yes your honor so with a motion and a second to lay the matter over the matter will lay over committee reports uh all over charlotte thank you your honor the woman numeral 5b
 The committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval of the variation to increase the number of allowable business identification wall signs from two to four and a variation to allow nine interchangeable wall mounted light pole style signs for the purposes of on premise special event advertising and sponsor brand name recognition.
 in the C4 urban mix used about zoning district at 305 South Madison Street and 301 South Water Street number two is a committee report recommending this is excuse me I've had a request from all the McNeely to hold out the number two separate do I need to if you want to hold it out as a charity pull it out share holds our item number two your honor and I
 Number three is a committee recommends sustaining the LTAP approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 44XX and 4402 Linden Road subject to conditions.
 Number four is a committee report recommending and sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a retail drug store with Sundry's and a C2 Limited commercial zoning district at 3325 North Main Street
 subject to conditions number five is a committee report recommending the sustaining of the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore with sundries and a c3 general commercial zoning district that twenty five twenty five south alpine road subject to conditions
 Number six is a committee report sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore with sundries in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1201 East State Street, subject to conditions.
 7. Number 7 is a committee report sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drug store with sundries in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 5690 East State Street, subject to conditions. 8. Number 8 is a committee report.
 sustaining the liquor tobacco advisory board approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore and sundries and our one single family residential zoning district at 3336 11th Street subject to conditions number 9 10 and 11 your honor or committee reports that are traffic related
 Number 12 is a settlement of RBC versus City of Rockford in the amount of $30,000, case number 3.13-CV-5004 with the release to be obtained. I move to suspend the rules on all those items, Your Honor. Second. I make sure to suspend the motion, second to suspend the rules on the following code regulation. New Committee Reports, is for open room 5B, items 1,
 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and then motion, and was there a second? Second. On those items, all in favor please say aye. Aye. So the motion to suspend carries on the wall at the end. So we need ten votes. There was only one, I think, that the chair finds it. Does anybody else want to vote against that? The rules require a roll call vote. Request a meeting ultimately.
 third list overall thing turkey's I get to only take a roll call items that all of her be I'm sorry I'll tell Kelly has taken get with three I have three great all beach which was yours so take it but this is a three three overall get just I McNamara is the first across
 Kirby? Aye. Hill? No. We're just doing... Okay, good. Thompson, Kelly? This is just a motion to suspend the rules. Poto? Newberg? Aye. Bec? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirely? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Your Honor. Manners? Pass for all members. So we have the suspended rules. Your Honor, I place those items up for passage.
 I don't know one to sell it's it's a discussion which one thank you so we'll take up or five six seven eight right now all right I'm telling you so take those first about it or five six seven eight are quickly spelled turkey
 Getschus? Aye. McNamara? No. Frost? No. Hervey? Hill? No. Thompson-Kelly? No. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? No. Elliott? Back? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirelli? Aye. Item 4, 5, 6, and 7, 6I's, or excuse me, 8I6NL, Roman numeral 8 is 7I7L.
 so much for me sure you're going to do it here it was 7 to 7 and that was 6 to 8 8 I 6 no that was so I had to meet with 7 of 7 although I I'm not a page okay that would be 8 I 7 no house and the others were eating it so the medical test thank you thank you
 Last week we had the issue on the sign on East State Street for proposed Arby's restaurant and a concern of when the alderman would lay it over. And I was understanding that we back on the issue tonight to vote on it.
 And there's probably some reason it's not, but I'd like to know why it's not on, because the developer would like to get the building and moving forward if we could get some approvals here. So if someone could help me understand why it's not on the agenda, and if not, how it could get on the agenda tonight, I'd appreciate that. Mr. Chase? So, Your Honor, it's not on the agenda at my air, apparently. I took Alderman Frost's motion.
 to be delayed over until the underlying agreement with the other property owners for the smaller, for the State Street frontage sign was struck and I apologize. In speaking with the Community Development Director,
 He indicated to me that he didn't feel that was the nature of the motion. And so I directed my staff that once that agreement was struck, we'd put it back up. And I apologize, I misapprehended the discussion last week. It did not appear on the agenda due apparently to my error of interpretation of what the motion was. And I apologize, it will be on the agenda for our next city council meeting.
 can't take item on action item that's not on the written published agenda that has been out for quite a while on this meeting so I apologize for the error and I'll make sure I extend my apologies to the developer thank you that your honor okay then may I request that we call a special meeting next week to address that issue and vote on it
 so what I said today special counsel to occur like we did a couple weeks ago simultaneously which is before the start of our meeting just like tonight yes thank you very much I would certainly object to that but I would ask that the chairman of the committee
 general practice chairman of the committee without the sign and ask that that be done that's what we did for work with all of them would make their request this right now under codes regulations so fall which really would be but objected to that problem but saying that to the same have no objection or like good so since our meeting the only sort of five thirty as long as there's no objection we run that
 special counsel just to address the issue of 530 and then begin our regular committee report thereafter if there's no objection to that that's what I would ask staff to do thank you thank you very much so we still have a few items to finish so code regulation committee we took care of 4 through 18 so we have items 1, 8, 9, 10 and 11 so
 Very no discussion of those items. Durkee? Aye. Gensches? No, 111, 12, aye, and the rest. McNamara? No, 111, I am. Frost? No, 111. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Scherle? Aye. Roman numeral V, B, 11, and 12.
 12 eyes to know the remainder portion is your honor. Thank you. Thank you. Yes. What's the base? Thank you, your honor. I have the committee approval for the stipulated agreement with Illinois Commerce Commission, Illinois Railway, and the Illinois Department of Transportation for improvements to the airport and drive, railroad crossing for a total cost of $293,158.
 Recommendation to approve the intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Mass Transit District for exchange of services, lease of space and include the donation of a police canine by RMTD. I have a committee of approval for the Head Start, early Head Start non-federal share waiver request for a reduction in the required amount of the city's non-federal share for the grant period April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015. Item 4, I'm going to ask to lay over.
 Item five, approval of the Head Start, I'm sorry, the Early Head Start and the Child Care Partnership Contracts with Rockford Day Nursery Early Learning Center that will provide 24 new enrollment opportunities and Trinity Daycare that will provide 16 new enrollment opportunities
 And the approval of the pre-kindergarten grant application to apply for funding through the Illinois State Board of Education to support the conversion of 40 part-day preschool enrollment opportunities for 4-year-old Head Start children to full school day and full school year enrollment opportunities. Next, item 7 is the approval of an ordinance of the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, authorizing and providing for a fourth allowance to the taxable promissory note
 series 2009 with PNC Bank for the purpose of paying ordinary and necessary expenses of the city, authorizing a related Fourth Amendment, amended and restated line of credit agreement, prescribing the details of the Fourth amended and restated line of credit agreement and note, and providing for the security for a means of payment of the note.
 Item 8 is approval of the retention of outside legal consulting services with Clark Baird Smith of Rosemont, Illinois, for arbitration of a labor contract with PB and PA Unit 6. And Item 9 is approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,045,826.88. And I place these items up for passage. I think we need a motion to suspend. I'm sorry. Yes, we do.
 I have a motion to suspend. Motion to any sections to suspend the rule. Rule 5C, item 1 through 9, except for the GSTEL. Yes. Hold out item 4, so it's 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 that have been moved and 7, 9 for suspension. All those in favor suspend the rules on those items. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I just have the rules be suspended. Is there discussion? You're an effect of it? I'm sorry. Mr. Hayes? I'm sorry.
 I meant to go after the ultimate, I apologize. Thank you. On number two, the Rockford Mass Transit District, for exchange of services, lease of space, and to include the donation of a police canine by Rockford Mass Transit, is that dog going to be for Rockford Mass Transit or is that for the police department?
 Chief, could you go through the detail of that? Yes, Mayor. The Rockford Mass Transit District took proceeds from a golf outing fund to pay for a dog that will be in the Rockford Police Department that will be used for police services.
 to respond for tracking, et cetera, for other services that we need with the city. Also, if the mass transit district needs the assistance of the dog at their headquarters or any of their buses, et cetera, we're certainly willing to provide that. We appreciate them funding the canine dog for a very hefty expense, but that was not on their operating fund. So it explains specifically that they're,
 If they need any searches or assistance with the use of our dog, certainly they can request that and we will help them out at any point. Mr. Chase, do you want to add something? Just that RMTD asked us to clarify and make certain that they knew this was another operating fund, this was from charitable contributions they received and the chief covered that.
 Under what circumstances would they be bringing the dog onto the bus and who would decide those circumstances? Mr. Hayes or Chief? Yes, sir.
 I can't predict. I can just give a hypothetical. If there were to be some assistance that they would need for a drug sniff, whether it's suspected drugs on the bus, this particular dog does not have the background of any bombs or any ammunition, so it's strictly a drug dog. Obviously, if there are
 riders on the bus. We certainly take the precaution like we do with other incidents. We would clear the people that are on the bus and not put anybody in harm's way. So I'm just predicting that that could be potentially an example also if there were any assistance that they needed at their building just like we do at any other location, we have a dog available. I would just say generally for what you described, these are the types of services that we very
 and their request even without disagreement. That's correct. And again, what you described is a
 a dog would be looking for items that may have been stashed as opposed to, depending on the bus itself as opposed to people. That's correct. So we're not taking, just to make it really clear, there's not going to be an aggressiveness with the dog by putting a dog on the bus looking for any what we think potentially might be people with drugs. We don't, the department doesn't operate that way. We're complaint driven. And obviously first and foremost would be the safety of the people that are riding the bus.
 Just like it would be in any vehicles that we stop and use the drug to look for drugs. It's paramount that the officer's safety and the public is safe when we conduct those searches.
 for the discussions on what's up. I definitely support this. In the past we've usually had four canines on staff and I think one is retired and we have three now. And you gotta think these are highly, our dogs
 overseas and they're very expensive dogs. They're very expensive and if Rock and Mass Transit partnered with us to raise dollars to of course to purchase another dog, I think it's a wonderful partnership. These dogs recover millions of dollars worth of drugs and they assist in all areas of our police protection. So I definitely and I'm very proud of them
 We have an officer that goes around and does a canine demonstration on our dogs. And you'll be really amazed at all the things that we do. Thank you. Further discussion? If you're not clear, please call the roll. This is finance personnel. We are covering every item. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, all that stuff.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'm sorry. Under item 9, there was a, we don't need to share it now, but could a staff member email me a breakdown of the settlement claims? It was just a larger amount than I was looking at. I don't even need the answer now. By the vouchers? Yes. Mr. Hastings? Item? Are you concerned that there's a settlement embedded in the voucher payment? I thought, the way I thought it was, Mr. Black, one week later than you.
 Yeah, thank you, Mayor. That was the payment for one settlement. I want to make sure it's your item. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Mayor Gunther, please go ahead. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Newberg? Four. Was laid over. Beach? Elliott? Okay. Did she say something?
 Oh, can't hear you, sorry. Back. McNeely. Shirelli. 14 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam. It's passed. Excuse me. I have six officers' reports. A couple of reports tonight. First, I have a memorandum filling out the remaining two slots on the Housing Review Board. Pursuant to, with the Council's approval, I will submit to you tonight two individuals, Ms. Kathy McClure...
 and Ms. Liz Galacio. Ms. McClure will fill out the position for tenant representative on a two-year term, and Ms. Galacio will fill the position of citizen at large. The one-year term, this will lay over pursuant to council rule. And I would just ask if there's any questions from council members, please feel free to contact me. I also didn't have this evening, I apologize, the resume bio for,
 Ms. McClure, but that will be forthcoming. You should expect to get it from my staff through email later this week. And again, please feel free to follow up with questions. You can call the individuals directly to let them know as well.
 And also just wanted to note that this week on Thursday we'll have our monthly ROCSTAT meeting. We'll begin, I believe, this week to start tracking and monitoring our progress on our goal of ending veterans' homelessness by the end of this year. So I appreciate all of the volunteers and all of the staff that have been working on that particular initiative as well as all of the other community partners.
 who are going to be helping us out. And I just wanted to remind everyone that local elections are tomorrow. We only have one position up on the council for Ward 6, but we know there's a number of other positions that are up in the community tomorrow, so we wish all of the folks running the very best and look forward to a great turnout tomorrow, hopefully. Thank you. Further officer's reports? All of them. Thompson-Keller. Thank you, Your Honor.
 In reference to the housing board appointment, I also want to announce that the housing board, the rental register board committee, I should say that, met for quite a bit of time putting this together. I received quite a few calls.
 quite a few after our meeting the other day. And I have agreed to a meeting with the realtors as well as the apartment association members on.
 April the 28th at 10 a.m. at 200 Henrietta at Henrietta School. I lost my co-chair, so our kindly Alderman Hutchison is going to co-chair that with me for this meeting. So if you would like to attend, please do. But it's going to be a commitment that was made
 to the committee members over a year ago that we would get back together and we would discuss things.
 and I'm just fulfilling that commitment that we made to them. Please, anyone, staff, definitely need staff support in this meeting. But I went ahead and took the liberty of scheduling it and getting, let them vent air and express their concerns or their likes or their dislikes. That's the fair thing to do. That's the open thing to do.
 So I appreciate it if any staff could attend and give their point of view on it as well as the aldermen. I would just ask, number one, I definitely will ask staff to be present, but just would ask if you want to coordinate with legal to determine whether or not we have to put any notices out for certain buildings that will do it certainly if we need to. But I just think it would depend on how many aldermen are showing up.
 Yeah. So I just, I don't know that we need to, but I just asked if you can coordinate with legal on it. Well, by today being the 6th and the announcement, we've got plenty of time to abide by legally with the notice. They all didn't show up to a meeting. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate that. Oh, I'm sorry. It's going to be April the 28th at 10 a.m., 200 Henrietta, Henrietta School, the old Head Start building, Georgia's old building.
 I'd like to also give a really long thank you to our community service.
 officers as well as their lieutenant. Over the past couple weeks that I have not been 100% in community activities, I want to thank Officer Sims, Jones, Presley and Peterson for going the extra mile and doing the extra thing with residents of the community and solving problems.
 That is the most important thing. And I want to thank Chief for adding more officers to the community service.
 guys, they're doing, in my opinion, in my ward and in the city, they're doing a great job. So I want to say a special thank you to them and I hope that you will pass it on to them that I do appreciate all the work that they've done. I also want to say a thank you to both chiefs, the chief of police and the chief of fire, for their extra recruiting
 Never before have I seen such an extensive recruiting efforts to recruit minorities, women, and Rockford residents to the fire and the police department. And I do greatly appreciate that. I appreciate all of your extra efforts because I know it took a lot out of them to do it.
 I also want to request from our legislative and lobbying committee that April 29th is the day in Springfield and I would appreciate it very much if we have an agenda on what we're going to be lobbying for and what we're going to be doing because at this point I don't know. Thank you. Is that the IML lobby day? Yes. I'm not sure if I'm, anyways I just asked Mr. Hayes if he wants to schedule another
 council schedule other legislative lobbying meeting for that data that would be very helpful to have that I have someone to think the public works staff for the meetings that I had with
 from June 24th to the 27th. This is a project that has grown tremendously. We have over 250 volunteers a day. 150 properties will be cleaned up on the Blaisdell area. So I want to thank staff and Public Works for their support in doing that. And I also want to say to a happy birthday to a very special, special young man, Paul Kelly, which is my husband. Thank you.
 Congratulations. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Kamau? Can we try? Thank you, Your Honor. I have a couple things. First of all, there is a new storefront that opened up in my ward. However, they're not going to be open for a while. They're going to be doing online. And it's called PieCoffeeRoasters.com. Pie Coffee is an online store where you can purchase gourmet coffee.
 Luke is a Rockford firefighter and he is now owns this and donations are going to be made from the sales to Camp I&Me and this is a camp for young burn survivors so please if you could visit this piecoffeeroasters.com place an order so that Luke can donate the money to Camp I&Me.
 We have a problem with trash in the city of Rockford all over But what I'd like to do is have Joe and Cassie stand up Because they are residents in my ward These two young people took it upon themselves To start a Facebook page called clean the rock Rockford. They filled 53 bags
 30 gallon trash bags of garbage from Wesleyan to under the train tracks on 20th. 53 bags. They cleaned from Colorado to Road Ranger and they filled a ton of bags there. They are organizing events through their Facebook page to do more cleanups. And what I'd like to do is thank them.
 because they are the only two who are doing this in my ward. Not just in my ward, but any part of Rockford. So I would suggest that every young person bring their kids, get out there, and go with them and help clean. That's the way we make Rockford beautiful. So I'd like to give them a hand, please. Next, not so good, and this is for Chief.
 There was a shooting in my ward. I'm not happy about it. Residents are not happy about it. But I have a very, very competent District 3 lieutenant and detective and some very good police officers, and I know that this will get taken care of. They were on it the minute it happened, and we've been talking all weekend and all today. But what I need from Chief Everson is...
 I'm not sure if he's going to know the answers to these questions, but it's due to the recent violent crime, particularly the use of illegal firearms. I would like a written response from the chief on the following. How many gun arrests people have the Rockford PD made in the past three years? Do you know the outcome of the arrests?
 were those arrested prosecuted and if so how much time prison time did they receive I also need to know is do you know the average time one receives with a gun conviction and do you know any if anyone has been arrested more than one time in the past three years for a crime involving a firearm
 Also, if one receives probation for a gun offense, are any individuals arrested for another gun charge while on probation? And also, how do our crime arrests, prosecutions, and sentencings compare to other similar Illinois cities?
 It's a big problem. It's an ongoing problem, not just in my ward, but the whole city. And I could say it's not lack of our police officers for doing their job, because they are. They're arresting and they're bringing them to the jail. I want to know what happens between there and the prosecutors and court. What's going on because there seems to be a disconnect.
 And so I think we need to figure that out because it's not our police. They're doing their job. And if I better stop before I get myself in trouble. Thank you. We'll follow up with the chief on questions for the Office of Board Solvement. Thank you, Mayor. I was wondering if I could get a breakdown of...
 expenditures that we've laid out in regards to the Amtrak station and then what expenses are do we foresee in the next 120, 150 days. I don't need the answer today but if a staff member could email. And then also I certainly have been really enjoying the format of having our committees. I didn't support it initially and I have really enjoyed it.
 I guess one suggestion for our fifth Mondays would be that we have those meetings here or see if we can Televise them because I've had now several people call and say well, why wasn't the housing discussion televised? And I think we had a really important discussion and a really tough discussion and probably one of the more
 difficult issues that we've had since I've been on council. And I think we miss an opportunity to do what our new structure was meant to do, which was be as transparent as possible. So I would just have a suggestion that we either hold them here or have those capabilities at whatever location we'll be at. Thank you. Thank you. I will just echo that I received a few complaints myself about what I was in the council meeting on last week.
 Monday one of them was my mother, so if you're watching, work on it. So that's what I got to hear over Easter dinner. Hopefully the ham I made mom helped me make up for it, but otherwise, yeah, you weren't alone, mom. It sounds like other people complained about it too. But if for nothing else, I've got to make sure I try to satisfy my mother and make sure she doesn't miss another meeting. That's it.
 We're into it. We're into it. Well, thank you very much. We will work on that. And I agree. We're to see if we have options technologically to get the television over there or in the case if we can, we'll have it here. But it seems like we should be able to come up with a solution with a little more time and have options for the council. By the way, I will defer and just...
 to council overall and where it makes the most sense to host an offsite if we do something like that again. And certainly we support doing it at a location where we have a television camera capacity. Paul Herg will be next.
 I guess I could have been if no one else was here. I saw your hand and I didn't know what else to say. Just sort of piggybacking on Alderman Odo's comments and the two wonderful young folks who took the initiative to do some cleanup, the Great American Cleanup is coming up and I'm sure one of our friends, Mr. Mance, Frank Manzulo, will be here to tell us about that.
 I believe is it the 24th or 25th I can't remember that Saturday April
 25th, I'm sorry. And it's from 9 till noon. If any of our neighborhood groups or groups of people, churches, carve out an area, we're going to be doing several within the fifth ward, piggybacking with some of the churches. We decided not to do an overall ward, but it's just great. They provide the bags, the vests, the pickup tongs, and everything. And
 I'm hoping this year one thing we're going to try in the fifth ward is to ask people to keep it going and sort of adopt a block so each week or every two weeks whatever it takes find a block and pick up the paper that blows through and gets stuck in the bushes that kind of thing so 25th of April great American cleanup knib.org I believe is the
 keep northern Illinois beautiful the website has all the information sign up forms so thank you thank you very much and we'll also remember where just to mention that other data that you want to certainly work with staff to be able to get that on the Amtrak station as well Mr. Reine will take responsibility for that thank you who was that all right hello yes the first thing I want to do is thank all my teammates also the city staff I'm
 This has been a learning process and it's been good. I can say that. I've had a lot of support. So tomorrow, I would like all the citizens to go out and vote because I think the things that I've learned in this last year, the things that we've done as far as a city, need to continue. So tomorrow I will be sending out another thank you to individuals. I won't do it today.
 but tomorrow i will so thank you guys thank you all the minute tubs of kelly um going back to the fifth sunday of each monday um how are we and and i don't know this amount this is a question that i'm concerned that i have how are we setting the agendas on what's going to be discussed um special settings special settings or the retreat my
 What I believe we were going to be doing is a retreat where if there was issues, we could discuss them, we could go over different items. But how is that agenda formed? Who forms that agenda? Generally speaking, we could on those days, because we don't have them scheduled for regular council or committee work, we discuss whatever the council wants to discuss. I think the agenda that was set was run by the committee chairs and staff.
 I frankly didn't get too involved in it, but for this first one, those were some of the pressing issues that I was made aware of and ended up putting together. But certainly it's at the pleasure of the council. If there's topics that the council wants to vet, have discussions individually, and we can set whatever kind of agenda that the councils want to do. But just to keep things organized, I would ask that we try to work through our committee
 on ultimately making, bringing the conversation to staff and myself, then we can put the agenda out in advance and run it by everybody before the next one. What's the next one? Mr. Hayes, do you recall? So we have a little bit of time.
 But if there's issues that you want to start looking at discussing between now and then, please feel free to let them know. And by the way, we will have a new committee chair process starting out. You should get a memo from me probably, probably get it out next week. I'm just inviting folks to start getting, what are we at, April, May? May. May is normally when we get them. May. May. So we will get that process started shortly as well.
 But one of my concerns can't wait to June, which is the capital improvement plan. So then I will talk to the committee chair, and maybe he can put it on his agenda. Sure. Thank you. All in back. Yes, and 
 And Audubon Thompson Kelly and I did talk about that before this last retreat. And she's very legitimately concerned that we take a look at our CIP and what's the impact of the governor freezing funds and how are we responding to that. At the last finance and personnel committee meeting, I had mentioned,
 mentioned that I would be happy to put that item on the agenda of our committee. So I just want to remind staff that that needs to be on the next week's committee agenda. Certainly. And I would ask Mr. Hayes as well as Mr. Hanson to work to begin that discussion.
 Again, the nice thing about our committee structure now that we can start picking up these things and they don't have, we could have an ongoing discussion, start picking off different parts of it that we wanna look at in addition to any options, setting special meetings or capitalizing on that open Monday coming up in June. But certainly we could start that in advance. I think that's a hot topic. I know a lot of folks have asked me about it. And obviously with issues going on in Springfield
 right now and into the next budget cycle, which will begin starting in June. Theoretically, if they get a budget passed, those will be hot topics for all of us. Thank you. All right, Charlotte. Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to let everybody know that this Wednesday, April 8th at 11 o'clock, is the groundbreaking ceremony for the New Remedies Renewing Lives.
 building as you all know we voted on that I believe last year for their new building and it's going to be in the 14th ward it is located at 220 Easton Parkway the groundbreaking ceremony is 11 o'clock.
 this Wednesday so I'm very excited about that remedies as you know is the largest women's shelter at the only women shelter for domestic violence in Winnebago and Boone County so very proud that they will be in that location they're at and hope everybody can attend thank you thank you this is just a reminder to the people in the
 7th ward and the 9th ward with the Great American coming up the 25th. We are having our nun meeting, which is the neighborhood, the combined 7th and 9th ward neighborhood meeting, and we're going to be asking for help with the cleanup. And I think every alderman here would be glad to have all kinds of groups contact them that they have the opportunity to contact
 kids and people that want to help clean up Rockford. I think this is a great time to get a little bit of community service done and I want to thank ahead of time Tim Hanson and his staff that are going to be helping us with the culvert. Thank you. Thank you. Are there officers reports? Unfinished business? I'm sorry, motions or resolutions? All in favor? Thank you, Your Honor. I have... I'm sorry, Alderman McNeely, did you have an officer's report still you want to cover?
 thank you Mr. Mayor actually I was going to ask if you would mind sending under new committee reports item number two the chairman had asked that that be held out and I wanted to send it back to committee page number three yes so that's not in let me see that was held out because it was held out it was not on the floor right so you can emotions in that
 So it would have to be on the floor for discussion before you can send it back to the committee. But since it was held out, it is not a rule that is not in order. So if Alderman Beckley wanted to put it back on the table for that motion, I would entertain that. But barring that, it's been set out in our general rule. Can we address it under, oh no, it was held out so it won't be under new business. I'm more than happy to do whatever we need to do to bring it back up. But since the chairman of COADS held it out,
 I'm sorry I got a little into the wrong ball of it so it was all of the Shirellys item that was held out all of the Shirelly is under 5B2 I'm not going to rule out the motions and orders since it was held out as long as you want to keep it held out until the next meeting if you want to make the motion then you can but otherwise it's been held out I'd like to make the motion that we refer that item back to the codes and regulations committee for the
 So I think that you do. So again, just to set back a minute. If you're asking all the that we consider instead of having it be held out, would you be willing to entertain that even though it's slightly out of order in our normal procedure? If that's your desire to do so, first, so we'll take going back to committee reports. From number five to committee reports B to matters on
 discussion. This would first need a motion to suspend rules to take up the matter. But if there's a motion to send back to committee. Yes. So there's a motion to send that back to committee. Second. So as we enter into discussion, I would just ask staff to comment on any timing issues we might have following our normal CBA rules. One that would have to be heard before we get in trouble and it gets to your
 We no longer have a timing issue in our zoning ordinance related to the council meeting. Okay, so we're fine. So there's been a motion and a second to send it back to committee. Is there any discussion on that? Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Proposed no. So I say aye. And I'll go back to committee for further discussion which we'll put up on the committee agenda for next Monday. Thank you. So we'll go back to motions and resolutions. All in favor?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number two to Rock Road Companies of Jamesville, Wisconsin for $1,157,299.94. Item two is a citywide award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group three to Northwest Construction of South Beloit, Illinois for their bid of $275,858.64.
 Next is award of bid for fire station masonry repairs to Mike Harris Mason, contractor of Rockford, Illinois, for a total bid of $69,940, which includes station two for $23,620, station five for $16,920, station six for $24,950, and station eight for $3,250 plus alternate of $1,200.
 Item 4 is award a bid for demolition of 330 Cedar Street to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $34,700. Item 5 is a rejection of bid for Buckbee Creek and Harmon Park repairs. Recommends rejecting the bid received and taking new bids later in the spring.
 Item 6 is an engineering agreement for North Main Street Construction and Inspection Services from Yonge Street to Willoughby Avenue with HR Green, Inc. of McHenry, Illinois in the amount of $134,859.38.
 Item 7 is an engineering agreement for 2015 pavement condition index inspection to Transmap Corporation of Upper Arlington, Ohio in an amount not to exceed $150,331.25. Item 8 is a resolution for improvement of the Illinois Highway Code for general maintenance for citywide street light electric 2014 authorizing the use of motor fuel tax funds and the use
 in the amount of $1,150,000. Item nine is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for Rockton Avenue and Custer Avenue Highway Safety Improvement Program authorizing the use of motor field tax funds in the amount of $40,000. Item 10 is a city-state agreement for Rockton Avenue and Custer Avenue with the Illinois Department of Transportation for improvements to the intersection for a total estimated cost of $423,319.
 of which $135,319 is the city's share.
 And item 11 is a city-state agreement for South Alpine Box Culvert, South Branch of Keith Creek Reconstruction with the Illinois Department of Transportation. The total cost of the project is estimated to be $1,320,000 with the city's estimated portion of $330,000. And item 12 is to amend the normal retirement age provision of the City of Rockford 457 Deferred Compensation Plan. I place these 12 items over passage.
 thank you for passing gender role in the world's seven motions and resolutions eight one two three four five six seven eight nine ten eleven and twelve that is up for passage it's their discussion all the frost with respect to number 10 how do we how do we get the um state of Illinois to participate in rock and avenue cost cost per hour let's take a minute
 So the question was, how did the, why is the state contributing to the Brock Mammoth and Custer Mammoth work? Item 10, under Rule 37A. Mr. Ryan. This intersection really over the last 10 years has been highlighted as a high accident location. So even though the state, the agreement is with the state, the funding is actual federal highway enhancement safety or hazard elimination safety funds for this intersection.
 that's the funding source. Thank you for the discussion. Item number seven, this pavement condition and depth inspection. I was checking and looking at the streets that's been repaired and the choices that the augmenter made
 I have found, and maybe I'm wrong, or anyone can correct me here, that they don't look at the pavement condition index inspection. They look at what their constituents, at least what their constituents tell them and what they feel needs to be done. So we didn't utilize...
 We did get a report from our staff on the pavement condition, but it didn't matter when
 and not the condition that is recommended. So why did we spend $150,000 and spend another $150,000 if we didn't adhere to the first street pavement and deck condition? And I know we have to have a couple of them in order to know where we're going. Go ahead, my name is Ashley. And if it's for future data, then say that. But it isn't for press sentences.
 So I'll ask staff to comment at some point, but I know there's a couple all over the stands, but I'll let Getchis, then all of them back to those. Yeah, and then just, Your Honor, because when we were discussing it, I did say that. This is a predictive engineering tool in addition to a tool for us. And what I tell a lot of my constituents, and correct me if I'm wrong on this, for years we were unable to keep
 the normal maintenance that we would do. I've got constituents call me saying, hey, look, I've lived in Rockford for 50 years. My alley's never been repaved. And the reason is we didn't have our 1% CIP sales tax to actually go out there and do the maintenance that we're now doing. We're playing a lot of catch-up right now, in my opinion, because we're no longer limited to having to bond for our road repairs. We're able to repair more. If we have a neighborhood fund, we can actually go out there and get them.
 What this will end up doing for us if we get a couple years' worth of data is the streets that you drive, maybe you chose to fix a red street instead of a black street or an orange street instead of a red street. Right now that street turns green because you just fixed it. Now they keep doing this like, wow, that street went.
 from green right back to red or orange in eight years or ten years and now they can kind of know hey look you know when they're talking to our successors you're you know looking at these funds you'll be able to say look you may want to start thinking about preparing this street now or that street now we can actually formulate more of a plan because now i've done i
 I live in an engineering world, but it kind of drives me nuts how I do my work plan because there's so much that I want to do. It would be nice to have a very laid out plan. I just don't think we have the history and the data on that. I think that this is a tool to help us get there. Hi. Yeah, my comments are really brief. All right, so everybody will get their turn. So, Collin just finished his. We'll go back to Collin.
 I just wanted to say that I certainly do use that data in determining what streets I repair. I do take citizens input and that helps me if I have five streets that are all rated 30 and I'm getting calls from people, then yeah, that will raise that to the top of the list. But I value that information and it's very helpful for me in making sure that I'm not just making decisions on a motion but I'm making them on what are the greatest needs in my ward.
 I'm sorry. I would agree with that and staff is very knowledgeable and they do guide you on what is the best solution. And here's where I'm coming from. We don't know the financial state of our dollars that we're going to be getting from the state. We don't know what we're going to have to be making up.
 Would it be such a problem if we push this back a year and do it, but push it back a year not knowing what dollars we're going to be getting from the state or what we're going to be able to do and what we're not going to be able to do?
 It's just a concern that I have. So I'll let the other council members ask questions that will be asked of our staff to come in. So who is, I apologize to all the city heads, Alderman Hervey, and Alderman Hill will go back around this way.
 I used the PCI. It was one of the first things I used to help me with my streets. The issue that I had is when we did the last iteration of the PCI a few years back, one of the things that we asked was that we start looking and mapping our arterials and our collectors across the city.
 and our secondary collectors so that we know and we can talk to our constituents about what's coming up and when, and we can get a better idea of how we're using our CIP monies and where we need to make decisions about some of those projects.
 I've talked to Matt about it. Matt and I have very good conversations about these things. But one of my beefs is that I don't think we got nearly the value out of the PCI that we could have gotten as counsel.
 So, if we do this next iteration, I want to see it discussed at a special meeting along with the CPI or before the CPI comes out with discussion about what's going to be put in. What did I say, CPI? Consumer Price Index, that figures in too. But with our CIP.
 as a group so we can see how we're mapping out our projects. You know, we're having discussions now. We're spending more and more money out of our CIP on some of our major development projects. That's not such a bad thing, but I want to see it in relation to the PAN-CIP
 pavement condition index too many acronyms here to see what kinds of decisions were making if we're going to spend a hundred and fifty thousand on it I want to see it put to use and publicize for us so that we can be part of that decision making thank you very much
 has made for the state of Illinois, who came from Chicago, a CMAP, Randy Blankenhorn has made it an issue that all within our area, District 2, that the state start looking at
 economic impact in addition to payment index, quality index. So the issue you're just talking about, whatever we're investing our infrastructure dollars on, I think our council members want to have as much information as we can. It's just interesting to see the state is now starting to reflect on that it's got to be more than just payment and condition index is one of many factors that you need to take into consideration, which I think is part of what we're discussing right now. Alderman Hill, do you want to go next? Yes, sir.
 When I look at the number, I know that this is probably a valuable tool, but for me, when I drive down all of my streets, I'm thinking 150 grand, and I was just in a conversation with Tyler today in regards to trying to repair a street that is way, way overdue. I get a lot of, and I also get a lot of calls from the constituents talking about things that we would promise them, what the city promises, the city promised that. And when I go down and I visit these constituents,
 It's almost unreal when I look at some of these streets because a lot of them were annexed into the city. So 150 grand for me is four or five more citizens that the city will fulfill that promise. So I could use that money. Just to remind everybody, I think the conversation that Parliament, Thompson-Kelley wants to
 it's not just the money it's where we allocate the money and are we going to put more money into areas of the city that because they may have been annexed and have historically a different quality than the rest of the city had and if we just go off the money in the same way we've always done it's going to be hard to catch up so those are some issues I think we need to address as well other comments saw another couple of hands I thought I'd
 For several years I've tried to work with staff. I've talked to the director, Tim Hanson, about it, to try to build individual ward CIPs. You have a CIP program to go inside of each ward and look out four or five years. It certainly helps when you're dealing with a constituent as to when I'm next and what project is next. And I'm not sure that it can be done. I know Tim has said he thought it might not be a bad idea.
 Excuse me. Talk to someone else, please. I'll come back. All right. We'll call Nellie. While we're on the subject, I really do try to utilize the CIP, but often it's inaccurate.
 I would be in favor of spending this money if it would come out that a lot of the inaccuracies would be fixed. I have streets that are red, that they're marked green on there. I've gone over this with staff, and I think that they've put in for the changes. Yeah.
 But it would be nice to have someone actually, I guess, drive each street and see for themselves is that what would happen with this $150,000 is someone's eyes would be on every street
 If you can help, Mr. Hanson, answer that. Here's the whole thing on this PCI. We went through the first round in 2012. We had to get a base on what we had on our pavement condition. And it did what it was supposed to do. It was the first one we went through. And we also, what lagged behind was we had to also do the signage at the same time in 2012. And this is something that my engineers use every single day.
 I mean they use it to make those determinations. This is their life blood here to go through on a PCI rating and actually see what these roads are all about. And the data that you come in and you see and when they go through your ward and your streets, they can give you that data to make sure that you make the best decisions possible when you're going through this. And it has to be something that's ongoing or otherwise if we disrupt it for
 It sets us back another year on making sure that the data that we have as we go forward is something that we have historical. And we don't have that right now. We have the first round in 2012. It's three years ago. We have to do another cycle of it. We should probably continue through that. And it is budgeted for this year.
 and if you're looking to see I P it is there it's in the sales tax but you know it's already budgeted to go through and and we need to go through it I mean it's about as clear as I can make it all of it not thank you very much my question is on item number eight
 I'd like to know if the dollar amount that stated if it's for just maintenance of the city streetlights or does it include purchase of any of the streetlights sorry I looked at thank you this is the electric bill for the streetlights that we have so this is not putting up streetlights or doing maintenance is paying the bill for the electricity okay thank you thank you any other questions on that issue
 the payment condition. Your Honor, can I just put my mic on? We are discussing CIP next week too, so just to remind everybody. And also remind everybody that the basketball game starts in 10 minutes. Basketball game? Yeah, just a little one. Wisconsin, it's no big deal. So if the staff want to comment, Ryan or anybody else on the payment condition, please do.
 I would just state that in the old days we would have a pavement condition index as well and the technology wasn't near as what it is today where you have the infrared technology where you can drive the streets but I think it's very important in terms of a best practice
 In a capital development program, you have a benchmark and assessment data so that when a constituent's asking you why did you pick this street, it looks like it could last another 10, 20 years. Well, many times when you're doing a street and just milling an overlay, you're preserving and enhancing and extending the life cycle of that roadway.
 this type of information, this objective criteria, even though there's qualitative criteria that goes into the selection process of the streets as well, it's critically important that we have that as an assessment tool.
 Ultimately though, I would just remind us all about all of Thompson County's opening point is accurate that after all the data comes in to the world it's the majority vote of the council that ultimately decides on our overall CIP and the individual projects that we do. Obviously that's something we don't know but just as a reminder for someone maybe watching at home or if there's some disagreement on what the objective data pulls out
 There's certainly, you know, we can always get a team out to take a look at it and get their council members to take a look at it. I just wanted to also add, last year we did that tour, I can't remember what month it was, trying to get constituents and some of our stakeholder organizations out to see some of the project areas that we're working on. We specifically tried to point out, for example, that in the 6th ward and some of the other
 the city that have had a lot of annexations or have a lot of industrial properties, they're in a different position than sometimes the residential streets and neighborhoods. That's something I think we need to continue to reinforce. But I just want to mention something. If you follow Twitter, see we got some accolades from a company, Gunite.
 I think the bull that's operating, continuously operating, will found during indignation. Gunite's now owned by a company called Accuride, and they were commenting, thanking the city for our investment in the logistics industry.
 the access areas around Gunning. They were recently written out before the turnaround that they've made in their company. But those types of infrastructure investments, we went out after some economic development funds in particular with regard to that project, are something that there's not always as many voters around the neighborhood, but they're really critical to our long-term investment.
 overall operations the other question that came up I can't remember who asked it now I'd be interested in getting making sure we do have that data on arterials and the collectors and secondary streets so that it becomes part of our calculus as well and look forward to having that discussion on the committee side that next week getting started with all of it back all of it Charlie could they include the sidewalks in that engineering agreement
 or is that ever possible because that's another big thing that we get information from citizens about that we have to go take a look at if they're going to be doing this agreement just on pavement condition that is a pavement yeah we'll check into that I'll I have staff meeting tomorrow we'll discuss that I'll get back to you tomorrow thanks
 discussion I first like to refer all of the beach was cut short and had to drink some water he didn't finish his comment I apologize I'll meet you another follow-up that's that's fine I was just talking about thank you so much I've been talking about a way in which we can develop individual CIP plans for our home wards that are fit inside the larger
 and to help us organize ourselves with our constituents going forward. And that would include most of the projects. So we are the city. We represent it here. And I didn't know whether that would be helpful. In the conversations I had with Tim, he certainly thought that had a lot of merit.
 I'm not sure it does I think it does because I work that way the former engineer Brad Wilford when he was here we laid that out for the 10th work for several years it just works like when it comes time to choose it's kind of already done unless there's some emergency so that's all I have I would just just
 I think it's something that's definitely worth exploring more fully. Let's maybe pick it up next week. And I would just add, as we get to that, if we can include, sometimes, like I mentioned, this gunite project, we will bring in additional special funds through some state grants because of the specific attributes of the neighborhood rights and industrial economic development zone. So if we were to develop a plan like that, I would ask that we also include some of the economic development calculation to identify what other funds we might be able to pull into a special board.
 plan like that again that seems to be some of the direction I think the state may be going when it's still not MFT dollars right so there may be more of us requirement coming down the pipe that's the way I read it and some of the report that I got from that district 2 meeting and it also would be consistent with what were the five economic development zones that we developed as part of our plan
 our insolidated plan of work that all of Dirkie and LP&D worked on for a couple years. So I think that's something I'd love to see us pick up that conversation next week. Thank you. And for the discussion on these items, if not, I'd ask the clerk to call the roll again. We're looking at F&P Committee motions and resolutions. Roll call 7A, 1 through 12. Gatches? Abstain on 8. Okay. Come on, Jamie. Mayor Camara? Frost? Aye.
 Herbie Hill Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg Beach no one seven either major le a McNeely Charlie Roman numeral seven a Seven nine eyes five no from numeral seven a seven
 6 12 eyes to know from 07 8 13 eyes when abstain from 07 8 10 13 eyes when no remainder 14 I 0 no better than the past thank you for the motions I'm sorry additional motions and resolutions the additional motions and resolutions in business thank your honor I have I think 2 items I want to ask a clarification from the parliamentarian
 I believe under Roman numeral 8, A2 is passed with the original language, the amendment failed, correct? And then we put the approved development agreement back to the council floor for final vote. Your Honor, may I address that question? I'm sorry. Chairman Durkee, the item was moved to amend
 2 to 1 vote to no approval recommended approval of the original development agreement right those item that was presented a committee right so bad to the so agreement is passed that development agreement the committee report for that is before the city council to alderman and moved to lay the item over so it lays over to the next city council meeting
 you should ignore that it's on your crib or on the agenda for ordinance purposes tonight. No, I just want to be clear on the vote that the first motion was to approve the development agreement, the original development agreement. So that has been approved. The final vote is being held open.
 No, the amendment was rejected. No, the first amendment was approved. No, there were two amendments. So the first one passed. Right. So that first, what passed was the original development agreement and that is being held over. What failed was the amendment. The second amendment. It never was voted on. Okay.
 all this occurred is that the committee report that you read it was amended by the council to reflect its recommended for approval the council didn't have done that committee report only the committee report now as a recommendation for approval will be before the council next week for the final vote on that item right unless it's amended then or some so I just
 Yeah, I actually know what happened, but I just want to be clear that everybody knows what happened. What we have before the council is the original, which is laid over, the original development agreement. So that's with the straight agreement with no amendments. Correct. Okay, good. I just want to be clear on that. Excellent. So we have two more items under Roman numeral A, two, one and, Roman numeral A.
 8A1 and 3. The development agreement between the city and Oliver Emerson Development LLC for the redevelopment of the Commercial Strip Center at the southwest corner of Auburn and Central, which is 3814, 3820, and 3824 Auburn Streets. And the other item is the development agreement with Sugar Jones Incorporated for the establishment of a central commissary and associated uses at 3600 East State Street Suite 1.
 a one place these first to suspend rules there's been a motion second spent rules items broken around eight a one three all those in favor of suspending the rules please signify by saying aye aye opposed no I just have the rules be suspended thank you your honor then I place those two items up for passage thank you those two items up for passage is their discussion
 With number one, I'm just curious if that developer has had any other development agreements with the City of Rockford before and how they worked out. It's my understanding, yes, that the developer has had other development agreements with the City of Rockford. I wouldn't be able to fully advise on the final outcome without going back and reviewing
 information related to the investments. Mr. Ryan? Yes, we have had prior experience with this developer and different development agreements and we've had good experience with them in terms of developing, particularly in developing in tougher areas. He's done a good job. Thank you for the discussion. We are done again with the Noro Moro 8.8.1.
 As matters are for passage, if there's no further discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Cirelli? Aye. 13-9, sir. Thank you, Madam Chair.
 thank you your honor roman numeral eight b one is an ordinance for the approval for a variation to increase the number of allowable business identification wall signs from two to four in a variation to allow nine interchangeable wall mounted light pole style signs for the purpose of an on-premise special event advertising and sponsor brand name and recognition and
 at 305 South Madison Street and 301 South Water Street.
 Number two has been referred back to committee or under number three the liquor and tobacco advisory board recommends approval of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store at 4402 Linden Road subject to conditions number four is an approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with retail drugstore with
 at 3325 North Main Street subject to conditions number five is an approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with retail drugstore with sundries at 2525 South Alpine Road subject to conditions number six is an approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore with sundries at 1201 East State Street subject
 subject to conditions number seven is approval of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore with sundries at 5690 East State Street subject to conditions number eight is the approval of sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the retail drugstore with sundries at 3336 11th Street subject to conditions number nine is a traffic related ordinance your honor
 place those up for passage thank you I'm sorry the emotions just sorry around that that just this bad I should second spend rolls for a problem or eight be that one
 2 is except 2 I'm sorry except for which one 2 Number 2 Except for 2 sorry So 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 It's been moved and seconded First suspension of the rules All those in favor please say aye Aye Opposed no Ayes 7 Opposed we suspended I place those ordinances are for passage Ordinances are for passage any discussion We're adjourned Durkee Aye Getschus Aye McNamara Aye
 Frost? No. Hervey? Thompson-Kelley? Odo? Newberg? Beach? No. Elliott? No. Nguyen-Witt? No. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Roman numeral 8B, number 4, 5, 6, and 7. 8 ayes, 5 no. Roman numeral 8B, 8. No. Kemp? No.
 7 I 6 no Roman numeral 8 B 3 12 eyes 1 no the remainder 14 13 I 0 no so I can get a vote on it yes yes so it would be 8 to 6 all items passed thank you thank you business finance personnel
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1 is an agreement with the Illinois Commerce Commission, the Illinois Railway, and the Illinois Department of Transportation for improvements to the airport-drive railroad
 for $293,158. Next is the governmental agreement with Rockford Mass Transit District for exchange of services, lease of space, and to include the donation of a police canine by RMTE. Item three is an early Head Start non-federal wage share waiver request for a reduction in the required amount of the city's non-federal share for the grant period April 1, 2014 through March 31, 2015. Item four is a sub-grant agreement between Lutheran Social Services.
 I'm sorry, yeah, that item was, um, was all about, uh,
 Item five, Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Contracts with Rockford Day Nursery Early Learning Center will provide 24 new enrollment opportunities. Item six, Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Contracts with Trinity Day Care will provide 16 new enrollment opportunities. Item seven is Pre-Kindergarten Grant Application to apply for funding through the Illinois State Board of Education to support the conversion of 40 part-day preschool enrollment opportunities for four-year-old Head Start children.
 to a full school year enrollment opportunities. Item eight is an ordinance authorizing and providing for a fourth, a large,
 I'm sorry, Ordinance of the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, Illinois, authorizing and providing for a fourth launch to the taxable promissory note series 2009 with PNC Bank for the purpose of paying ordinary and necessary expenses to the city, authorizing a related fourth amended and related restated line of credit agreement prescribing the details of the fourth amended and restated line of credit agreement and note and providing for the security for and means of payment for the note. And item nine is retention outside legal counsel formed with Clark Baird Smith.
 for arbitration of a labor contract with PB and PA Unit 6. I place this item to pass. No, I move to switch this question to our rules. Mr. Spence, any comment again? Which was held out of Item 4? Item 4 is not up for consideration. So there's been a motion to second the rules. 8C, and there's 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8. There's been a motion to second this rule. So the rules are closed. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I just have it.
 That is up for the passage. Any discussion on those items? Hearing none, I'm clear to leave the meeting. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Allie. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirely. Aye. Kemp.
 Roman numeral 8C9, 12 I's, 1 no. The remainder, 13 I's, 0 no. And there's all S is there for their new business. Motion to adjourn. There are others. No, thank you. Motion and second to call the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, 7. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.