Okay, good evening. We will call to order the City of Brierford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, April 3rd, 2023. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee.
 Here.
 Logeman. Here. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Bonnie. Here. 12 present. Here. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is under acceptance of the journal, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 20th, 2023? We have a motion. Is there a second? We got a second. Is there any discussion on the meeting minutes? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next we'll go to that. We've already performed the proclamation for this evening Next we'll go to petitions and communications and we'll go to the planning and development committee and alderwoman meets. Thank you your honor. I Under petitions and communications, we have three items all refer to Planning and Development Committee. Item number one is a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding an agreement with Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity for the 2023 Critical Home Repair Program. Item number two is a memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding an amendment to the 2020 through 2024 Consolidated Plan. and 2022 Annual Action Plan. And item number three is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Boys and Girls Club of Rockford for capital improvements in partnership with Winnebago County. And all these items are referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Alderwoman. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. And Alderwoman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. Our committee has one item. It's a memorandum from Kelly notes the engineering operations manager regarding a request to vacate a right-of-way alley at 1515 9th Street referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you. And next we'll go to alderman frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. I Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is a memorandum from Michelle Pankow, Fire Chief, regarding the acceptance of the City of Rockford Congressional District Spending EOC Grant Award. Number two is a memorandum from Owen Carter, Deputy Director of Program Operations and Community Services. Regarding a case for community investment bill for zero from community service community solutions grant award Number three is a memorandum from Lisa Warren head start director regarding an application acceptance of a cost of living adjustment for head start Slash ask me see quality improvement funds and non-federal share waiver for Cola and number four is a memorandum from Anne Wilkerson central services manager regarding a resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for natural gas supply and all four of these managers will be Referred to the finance personnel committee. Thank you alderman frost Next we do have a special presentation by chief panko regarding this past weekend storm as The chief gets ready. I do want to just say a couple of items. Uh, Myself and Todd Cagnone had the opportunity on Friday evening to go over to the Emergency Operations Center and just from police fire public works standpoint the amount of pre planning and coordination I think all of you would have been proud to see the work taking place and then also just the work that they did from the constant communication between their teams and and all of the rest of the city of Rockford personnel who were needed into the early mornings of Saturday morning was really pretty remarkable. And then all day Saturday, you had just unbelievable teamwork again from fire, public works, we had our community development building department team there as well. all just working in just great unison. Again, I think all of you would have been really proud. They were constantly communicating with IEMA and constantly working to address some concerns with ComEd as well as just trying to get as much communication out to residents. But I'll turn it over to Chief Pankow and just say thank you, Chief, for the work that your team has done and I know will continue to do. You can't hear me without this, yeah. All right, super. So as the mayor said, we do quite a bit of pre-planning, especially when we get into this time of the year, and as it pertains to severe weather. We start monitoring weather anywhere from two days to a week out, and then we start to make decisions about how we're going to respond to that. So the significance of the Emergency Operations Center is... That it brings all the services that we need to respond to an incident under one roof, which is a little bit different than our daily operations, right? Our daily operations, we respond to fire EMS and law enforcement calls. If there are public works issues, that gets funneled somewhere else. So this brings everybody under one roof to coordinate your approach to responding to the incident. The other thing it does is it allows the folks in the Emergency Operations Center to locate and help support with resources for the folks that are responding to the incident. So that's what makes it a little bit different than what we do from day to day. So getting back to the storm, we were monitoring severe weather coming in, and we knew that we were going to have winds. At the very, very least, we were going to have some pretty significant winds. So moving off of that, we... Developed, we monitor and are in communication with the National Weather Service constantly. So they do phone briefings, and as storms get closer to this particular area, the Chicago National Weather Service branch will reach out, and then we'll do sometimes every two to three hours we're on the line with them, and they are providing us with updates on information and the trajectory of the storm and potential damage and hazards. So for this event, we were doing that as well as early as two days out. As we got a little bit closer on Thursday, made the decision that we were going to partially activate our EOC on Friday and then kind of watch as things came in and decide if we were going to go into a full activation for the storm, which we went into a full activation for the storm. Part of the planning process is we develop what's called an incident action plan. And that is what we operate under. So that incident action plan identifies who our public works director is going to have involved in the incident, who building department would have involved, who the fire department, who the police department, brings all those players together under one roof and one plan so that we can have a coordinated response. So monitoring the weather, as we got to Friday afternoon, we started to – blast information out on social media regarding tornado watches as they started to go up. And another component that I failed to mention is we also, all of our public information is also coordinated through the Emergency Operations Center as well, because we definitely want to have the same message going out from all agencies working together, because you don't want to have conflicting messaging. So we make sure that that's all done under one roof. So as we started to get the tornado watches, we were messaging out. We did a lot of pre-messaging to the community in the event of a storm. Here's what you should do. Another piece that we do as well is we reach out to some of our community partners that we know host events or have events, any type of special event. This time of year, we start to see more outside events. But one example of that is there was an Ice Hogs game going on Friday night. The BMO has a very robust emergency response plan, and they were able to get all of the occupants in the BMO to designated locations that were either the sub-level or within some of the corridors that they have on the lower level to get them out of what they call the bowl, which is the area with the roof, and to avoid any potential issues in that actual bowl area. They get them to other, they get them to their safe areas. And then we, again, we'll decide whether or not we open the EOC, and we did at 4 o'clock on Friday night. And we are also in constant communication with NAEMA throughout all of that. We report back to them, whether it's by email or by phone, making sure that they have what they call the bluff, which is the bottom line up front. We let them know just the very basics about what we're seeing and what's going on in our area. So these were our incident objectives, fairly basic. We want to make sure that we provide for the safety of residents as well as first responders. Then obviously we're going to respond to all of the calls for service that come in. In addition to that, identifying any damage and then coordinating with the appropriate resources to address the damage, whether it be utilities, whether it be public works. And then eventually we will do a comprehensive damage assessment, obviously not right in the middle of the storm, but eventually we get there, right? And then communications, again, constantly with AEMA, letting them know where we're at, what's going on. As you can see on the map here, so it was a very quick storm. It came through. And it was here and gone very, very quickly. But this is exactly what happened. This line shows the calls for service. So there are a lot more calls that came in, but that's how they started to pop up on our screen, was in that line. And when we went out and did our damage assessments on Saturday mornings, this is where the majority of the severe damage was at, followed along this line right here. Another part that, or another piece that the Emergency Operations Center also takes care of is incident recovery. So as we continue to identify damaged areas, then we start to plan for what the recovery is going to look like. So we have to get a picture of what very difficult to see. There are areas that can't be accessed because of downed lines, downed wires. So first light we sent out fire crews to do windshield surveys on Saturday morning so every fire truck went out to their area. They did a windshield survey meaning they identified downed lines, blocked roads, access issues, trees on homes, structural damage. They do a very quick you know look at their their area and then they report back to the emergency operations center. In addition to that, to support our windshield operation surveys, we had a drone up in the air sometime late morning, early afternoon, right in that time frame, to kind of get the big picture of what the damage looked like. So we had it from the ground, and now we got it from the air. In addition to that, we worked, once we had an idea, back up a second, once we had an idea of where the damage was concentrated and the kind of damage that we had and what resources were going to be needed, we partnered with Public Works and the building department to send teams out to survey the damage on foot. So now we've done it in the fire truck. As a windshield survey, we've done it with a drone from an aerial perspective, and now we've got boots on the ground going into the damaged areas and performing surveys. And why do we do that? Well, one is we need to obviously identify the severity of the damage. Two is we track all of that information. All of that information gets fed into IEMA so that they have all of the damages in our area, and they get it pretty quickly from us as well. In addition to the Public Works and Building Department teams, we also had GIS, Public Works GIS in the house in the Emergency Operations Center, so they were able to do some mapping for us, which was fantastic. information for us live in the EOC as the teams were out in the field so it really was fantastic same with the drone footage that was fed live into the EOC so we were able to take a look at the damages it was as the drone was getting the footage and then we also work with any of the utilities that we need to coordinate with for access and obviously restored power and such. So for the storm, and I'm not sure if I mentioned it on the previous slide, we had roughly 6,800 folks in the city of Rockford without power. The fire department or the 911 center had 444 calls for service come in from 730 p.m. to 12 p.m. that night. So within roughly four and a half hours, we had 444 calls into the 911 center. Roughly half of those were emergent calls, and the other half went to a non-emergency line. And of those emergent calls, the fire department responded to 87 calls CALLS FOR SERVICE THAT WERE DIRECTLY RELATED TO STORM OR STORM DAMAGE. IN ADDITION TO THAT, WE ALSO HAD ALL OF OUR 40-HOUR STAFF, THEY WERE RESPONDING TO THE NON-EMERGENCY CALLS AS WELL. SO WE HAD FOLKS GOING EVERYWHERE TO SEE WHAT WE COULD GET EYES ON. NUMBER ONE, POINTS OF ACCESS BECAUSE WE DID HAVE SOME STRUGGLES WITH ACCESS WITH ROADWAYS BEING BLOCKED AND SUCH. And then finally, constantly posting things on social media in order to get the most current information out and accurate information out for everyone. And I don't know if you can see on the slide here, but we have a couple homes that have some, I mean, this is just a couple. We had a number of homes that had fairly significant damage with trees either on them or through the roof or damaging their homes. So that did separate this a little bit from the last couple of pretty bad thunderstorms we had with wind. So am I moving here? Uh-oh, what did I do, Todd? Oh, I'm good. All right. And then finally, you know, we don't just stop, right? So Saturday we were there as the mayor said, we had the EOC open. We were in communication all day Sunday and then again today we're still working on different aspects of response and recovery. Now obviously we're shifting to that recovery piece. FEMA was in town today. We did not meet with FEMA or IEMA. They did what's called a windshield survey so they kind of drove through the affected areas. We expect that we'll have IEMA and FEMA teams back here at some point based on what they From the beginning, we document city expenses. That's all part of what gets fed to IEMA in the event that there's any potential for any type of reimbursement. And so we do that on the front end to make sure that we're capturing all costs as they're related to any type of event, whether it be a severe thunderstorm with high winds, a tornado, COVID, fill in the blank, flooding, all those types of events we track from the beginning. We're coordinating with Winnebago County and Rockford Township on the cleanup around Eisenhower in that particular area from Eisenhower all the way to Alpine and then back again towards North second and there and then our main drop-off site as you can see is that 3915 East 8 the old magnet parking lot there And we've got folks in Dropping off already dropping off. It's been amazing how the community has come together and gotten out and gotten their stuff Starting to clear their stuff and getting it bundled up and dropped off and then the tree restoration plan is yet to be determined and then I Do you have any questions? Well, actually, before that, can I just say one more thing? I want to say fantastic shout-out, big shout-out to all the folks that were in the EOC Friday and Saturday and all the work they did. Building department was in the house. We had public works. We had law enforcement. We had our public information officer. So everybody really, really did a fantastic job. Our fire crews were out there all night. Our 40-hour folks were out there, and they all did just a fantastic job. So thank you. all right questions other woman trina thank you thank you chief um i actually had to call the fire department when i got home friday night from an event there was a power line on fire across the street um and response was five minutes so that was really impressive and i just had a question just with i'm just noticing like 70 degrees like really warm weather this week do we anticipate storms this week again so So I was in communication with the National Weather Service today. So I have received a couple of updates, most recently about 15 minutes ago, regarding tomorrow's weather. So there's a little – it is the same makeup. Coming in that we had for Friday storm. There's a little more uncertainty as to the timing And there are a couple of additional things that need to happen in order for it to be something like this Where it's producing that type of weather the others the update I just received is that not sure if it's going to be On Tuesday afternoon or Tuesday evening and then there's a chance for a second piece that would be Wednesday morning. So that's I So I will you know provide updates and we're already preparing an IEP an incident action plan for that In the event that we do activate the EOC again tomorrow. Thank you Alderman Rose Thank you in regards to the storm and the incident at the Apollo what did Rockford fire actually respond to part of that or was that a a Did any of our departments help out with that incident? So we did respond through a Mavis request, Mutual Aid Box Alarm System. So that's that mutual aid, pre-existing mutual aid. And what we had respond was our technical rescue team. So they did respond as part of that incident. Yes. I just wanted to share a follow up. I received a few phone calls from people outside of my ward just saying some wonderful things about the fire department and public works and the response to the storm. It was interesting because I normally don't get those kind of calls. You know, I was driving my ward late at night just to get an idea of what it was going to be like in the morning. And we didn't, my area did not get hit much, but in driving around and seeing or hearing about what had happened along the road. The other areas that did get hit and getting calls from people saying, hey, I just want to say, you know, tell you that your crews were out there early in the morning. They were helping. They were assisting different people. It was just one of those moments where you're like, oh, this is great. Like our, our, our city is responding and I'm getting calls from people outside of our ward to say thank you. So for our public works team and for the fire department and all of the coordination, I wanted to share that feedback. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Chief. I just have a tangential question, and it sort of dovetails on Alderman Rose's remarks. I know in Winnebago County, when there's a mass casualty, there used to be text or phone calls that would come to the docs, nurses, et cetera, to respond to the site. We used to practice. I don't know if that goes on anymore. I haven't heard about it. My question is, And for the debrief maybe with with Boone there was there were calls Healthcare providers. I was in Wisconsin I only know this tangentially healthcare providers were showing up to Belvedere to assist by word-of-mouth and texting and so a number of people Did show up but there was no to my knowledge to my knowledge There was no call went in a mass casualty like that for a People to be on site to administer, you know aid even beyond what EMS can provide So that that was that was and there was a lot of weird stuff that was You probably know that there's a lot of weird reports that was floating around so that was my that's that's my question and Sort of I think that that's a discussion with that would be held with Winnebago and Boone, but we are regional and And an awful lot of docs and nurses live in Winnebago County, not necessarily Boone. There's a few that live out in Boone. So that was sort of a question and a comment or a suggestion. It was interesting the rumors that were floating among some of the staff that I had heard. So as far as what we would do and how we would respond in Winnebago County for a mass casualty, everything we do in the fire service and emergency management falls under this incident command structure, right? There's a structure to everything. So that helps with span of control. It helps make sure we're getting folks where they need to be. It helps with division of labor in response to any incident. So to your point with the medical piece, We have partners at each one of the local hospitals that do the same thing. They are emergency managers for each one of the hospitals. So if there is a route to go, that's where we go through that mechanism if we need to bring people to the scene. We typically build into it. The pre-hospital piece, right? Yeah. So we do that for our jurisdiction. We do that through our normal response plan. If we're mutual aiding with another jurisdiction, we default to what their response plan is as it falls in that bigger, that major structure. So, you know, typically it's not too much different, but as far as the tests going out to docs, and staff I'm not aware of that But it's certainly something we could open up conversation with as part of the post incident review Or as part of moving forward with our response here in Winnebago County well, they won't invite me to that review, but I'm just I'm just telling you I'm just Going back in time. There was I'm just curious if it's still in place. I And again, this is for a mass casualty because it's the only time you would ever need a dock on site as if the whole place was blowing up. And Belvedere's ER only has four beds. And so some of the care is actually being, some of it was being done in the field, is my understanding. So the question is, do we still have that in play in Winnebago County? you know, considering we have an airport, plane goes down or something weird happens, and then a whole bunch of people have to respond to render care on site because right now even, just on a daily basis, our ERs are overwhelmed at suites. So in a mass casualty, We're in a little bit of a world of hurt from that regard so looking ahead or whatever So that was my question does that still exist so a form of that exists? Yeah, so you example if a plane goes down so we do have What we call? Mavis response or Mavis cards. They're already pre-planned out and there is physician reach out through those cards If we had something that warranted what you're describing where we would have you know infield Pre-hospital treatment yeah site then yeah absolutely it would come through that as far as what you're describing that notification through through phone or Text that I'm not aware. Yeah, we used to get like I said this was some time Maybe that came I don't pay attention to it because I hope that never happens for sure, but we used to get like test-tested text, you know or calls whatever it was back and then we Had a point where we would we did stuff out at the airport So so we do an exercise with the airport once every three years We do a full-blown what we call a full-scale exercise out there to simulate some type of plane crash out there and we run that through our emergency operations center and Thanks. Alderman Frost. Chief, you mentioned earlier about the 444 calls Friday night and you indicated 87 of them were related to the storm. And I was, besides the one Alderman Trena discussed, I was just curious what type of calls came in related to the storm? So all of the calls, those 444 calls were related to the storm. The 87 I mentioned, those were lights and sirens, fire truck or ambulance to the call. And we had everything from a down line that was arcing or on fire to lines on houses, lines on trees, trees on houses, lines on trees on houses. and access and everything in between. I mean, we really had a large number of calls comparatively. I mean, the events I've been involved in, it's not out of the ordinary for us to have trees down necessarily or lines down, but to have the number of homes that had trees on them or damage to them or trees through a roof or through a window or damage to the home, we had a number of those types of calls. Any other Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. In the event we have another event like tomorrow or Wednesday morning, as far as gathering information, is that another event or is these put together because they're so close? No, we would treat it completely separate. Separate. Yes, we would treat it separately. Now, it would get a little bit, you know, how do you sort that out, damage from the first storm versus damage to the second storm? You know, if we do it in such a way that we could combine, but they would still be events of their own. Is there a threshold that we need to meet before we get relief from the federal or state? Yeah, there is a threshold in Winnebago County, and it would be the whole county. And it's over a million dollars in damage. And keep in mind, that's uninsured. damage to public property so it doesn't necessarily apply to a homeowner however when we start to track we track all of that right we track the damage to residential the damage to public track everything because if there is an opportunity out there we want to make sure that we're eligible for it so we track everything That's where we're at right now. And, you know, we haven't reached that threshold yet, but we're still... Is payroll part of that? Is payroll in terms of... Part of that sum? Folks that we have... Yes. Yes, but it would have to be. It's not... It's not what you would do in your normal course of the day, right? It would be any overtime exposure Overtime so that you know anything that we did or Public Works or building, you know any of that overtime expenditure would potentially Thank you for a good job Thank you chief one of the Courses I teaches government and I always ask students like what's the point of government and they the easy answer is to protect the citizens But then the other one that they don't often get is Supporting the residents and I think the city of Rockford really checked that box the other night of supporting the residents and supporting the constituents So everywhere from you know fire and EMS to Public Works the the second word it got hit pretty hard right in that stretch there and And a lot of the feet and even public works I emailed some of the public works team and Taylor Hennelly emailed back like we've got two streets crew out there six contractors. I mean like that. So as you conduct your you know your after action report I'm sure you'll see the lessons learned but the feedback that I was getting from a lot of residents in the second ward they were fantastic. You know, just all things considered, pretty, you know, over the moon with the support of the city, with, you know, like the Magna grocery parking lot site and then the curbside pickup, just really being there to support our residents. So, yeah, appreciative of everyone in the administration to support the residents of Rockford. So, thank you, Chief. Any other questions? Thank you, Chief. Appreciate it. Thank you. Okay, appreciate that chief appreciate the work by all the city team Even continue to this day for the recovery Next up we will move to our public speakers. We have four public speakers this evening I want to remind each of our public speakers There's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers. You have three minutes to address the council and then asset you close up your comments and The first public speaker that we have this evening is Ken Dickens. Good evening. I'm going to set up my timer here. It's been a while, but I do want to speak. I have a long list, so I'm going to speak quick and use my time. Good evening, Mayor, and everyone in your respective places. My topic of discussion is going to be a lot of things happening, but it's all for one specific reason. Number one, to those constituents that are here, if you're not familiar with Agenda 21, also known as Agenda 2030, please brief yourself on that. It's major changes for us as a country, and each and every one of us should be briefed on what that is. Two, 15-minute cities, if you're not briefed on what those are, England is already rolling out a 15-minute city. Alberta, Canada is... on par to be the first 15-minute city in Canada, and Cleveland, Ohio volunteered in America to be the first 15-minute city in America. What that basically means is you will have like an easy pass to go back and forth to work if you are beyond 15 minutes of where you live, but your predominant region or zone will be 15 minutes within driving where you live. They plan on greeting out every major city in America like this, and it's already happening in England right now. Number three, BRICS. If you're not familiar with BRICS, Brazil, Russia, India, and China, along with South Africa, are unifying their currency, which basically is giving their currency a backing with precious metals as well as oil. Ours is fiat currency. As you know, it's backed by nothing – backed by trust. So the value of our money is in question. The petrodollar is officially over. Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates are receiving funds from any nation on the planet based on funding outside of the dollar. That helped prop us up for the last 50 years. It is officially over. I'm going somewhere with this. The fiat dollar as we know it today is in its last days. This is a literal statement. It's in its last days. As of April 1st, 2023, Fed now begins stages of going cashless and implementing the CBDC or central bank digital currency. That began April 1st. The official rollout for our country is July 1st. They are going to phase out the dollar. What does that mean for each and every one of us? It is not a dollar-for-dollar exchange rate. They are projecting anywhere from 20 cents, 20 cents, 50 cents, or 70 cents. 70 cents is optimistic. Literally, if you have $10,000 in your bank on Thursday, when you wake up on Friday, whatever's in the bank account will be adjusted to the new rate. It will be catastrophic to 401 s, pensions, and everyone's bank account. everyone's bank account in America. Literally, they're projecting it will be catastrophic to us as a nation. But it is the reset of our finances. Now, and the housing market is projected to mimic 08-09 this summer. That's their projection. Why am I saying this? I'm here in regards to the regrow grants. Because anything that can be implemented now World out now can be spent now and things within our community can be done now because once if it if it goes beyond April or July my concern is it might get hemmed up financially. Thank you. Thank you Thank you next public speaker this evening is prophet Yusuf Good evening ladies and gentlemen and the book of Psalms the 41st chapter the first verse it says blessed is the man who helps the poor and The Lord will help him in time of trouble. What I want to speak about tonight, over 43,000 dead. Why don't we act? We all know what instruments snuffed out 18 innocent lives in two mass shootings within the space of a week. We all know what tools Americans use to kill more than 43,000 people, whether others or themselves, in 2020. The answer is obvious. We just refuse to do anything about it. The problem is that the United States is cursed with a stupid... and tragic vast oversupply of guns. And as a society, we refuse to even talk about the kind of comprehensive disarming that could prevent the next massacre by someone that have a mental problem or revenge. the next drive-back killing by a homicidal drug dealer, or the next gun suicide by someone in unbearable pain from depression. We would rather live with the carnage than seriously try to end it. There are rage-filled people, drug dealers, and people suffering from depression in Britain, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Poland, Spain, and every country in the world, but those nations have only a tiny fraction of the gun violence we experience in the United States. Why might that be? Because they have far fewer guns to use to do violence. I got a solution for this. Make sure all mentally disturbed people don't have guns. Two, make sure all criminals don't have guns. Three, make sure all domestic violators don't have guns. Four, make sure all sex offenders don't have guns. Five, make sure people don't have high assault powerful weapons and high capacity magazines. Six, Congress should approve universal background checks, a gun purchase waiting period, a national file and register. I'm You are here tonight, Alderman Beach. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend, and I wish you many more. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Alderman Beach. Happy birthday to you. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, but mainly those who are watching on TV and approached me today made a comment. I'm looking forward to the meeting that we have next week with Mayor McNamara setting the groundwork to discuss about discuss about the, who had brain freeze, discuss the truancy in the school, the bullying in school, and most of all, the social promotion that's going on in the school. I'm gonna be speaking with the school board, at the school board tomorrow. I wanna start off by saying, Proverbs highlight several benefits of being quiet. It's best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. It allows you to think, the opportunity to listen and learn, and give you something in common with those who are wise. Make sure to pause, to think, and listen so that when you do speak, you have something worthwhile to say. I read the book, Critical Race Theory, and watched the DVD, Hidden Colors 5, the art of black warfare. Thus, I see a renewed turning point is in the middle of that battle, fighting for the have-nots. St. Augustine said it best, an unjust law is no law at all. I agree with St. Augustine. I am not a happy camper. When we have RPS 205, some of our teachers have no respect for community organization. They think that it's normal for our youth to have negative behavior. bullying kids, bullying other kids, fighting teachers back, and they also think it's okay to socially promote our youth in school? I am deep when it comes to religious history and history. One day while watching the History Channel and the news on the TV, how Florida, Texas, Tennessee, Kentucky, and other states is going out of their way to omit certain facts pertaining to the African presence in America before the Europeans floors. I knew right then and now that I had to do something instead of waiting for someone else to tell our story. Right here in Rockford, somebody used to cannot spell their name, they don't know their basic background, do not want to learn their family or their black history. We have took steps to work on that problem. However, we have some school administration and teachers that stated that the youth do not have to go to the Underground Railroad and that it's okay to socially promote our kids. And they, on paper, they have talked about bullying, but on paper, that's a joke. When a teacher tells a youth that he is... have a learning disability, bullying in school, getting into fights in school, hitting other teachers back, have no respect for adults and his mother. He tells the teacher that he doesn't want to go to Brother John's after school program. The teacher calls the mom. By the way, the mom is intimidated by the school officials and her son. Her mind goes back. I remind them that I'm a... Oh, my time ran out. I just want to end it by saying, when he with me, he lies to me. But when he with my other people, he have no respect for. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. For they carried us away captive and required of us a song. And they that wasted us required of us a word saying, sing us one of your songs of Zion. You don't desecrate the Lord's song to tickle the ear of a godless people. as the Israelites saw it, and conscious black people see it as well. It appears to be happy with oppression and deceit. Critical to the escape from this oppressive hell, these oppressive hellish circumstances require a mental and spiritual exodus. It is a conviction that says firmly, I am, I can, and I will. Saying also, I must define me. This is because the definition of my identity determines both my confidence in myself and my ability to perform. You see, you are dealing with people who reject God's creative diversity, which is a fundamental presupposition of all prejudice rooted in the inherent insecurity of those who find such attitudes acceptable and necessary to sustain their self-esteem. This rejection of creative diversity is a pretty good measure of one's own social self-acceptance and sense of worth. Such declaration that some part of God's creative diversity is inferior illustrates one's need to assure oneself of worth by deprecating the worth of others. It is the seed and substance for the rejection of God's diversity and the arrogance required to assure inadequate individuals they possess worth. There are scores of black citizens who accept the diversity, but have yet to come to grips with the need to escape the spiritual and mental exodus from this oppressive hell. It reminds me of the young man from Texas who participated in one of our Zoom meetings last week. With the question to me of Reverend Dotson, how serious are you guys requesting $240 million for one phase of your effort to revitalize Westside Rockford, creating 1,000 plus jobs, including those in manufacturing and other efforts? My answer, after becoming a little annoyed with the young man, because he was perhaps 35 or 40 years old, and I said to him, young man, get rid of your doubt. Many of the people in this Zoom meeting are our friends working there in Chicago because we do have a small presence on the south and west side of Chicago, the south side where I was born. And that $240 million will be dwarfed by what we plan to do on the south and west side of Chicago, approaching at least a billion dollars. Young man, the Bible says you have not because you have not. And we are demanding it. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one under new committee reports, committee recommends approval of the extension of agreement with the Zion Development Corporation for the continued use of the property at 312 Irving Avenue as a stronghouse. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item number two committee recommends approval of the extension of agreement with Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of the property at 1233 Revell Avenue for the resident officer program or Rock House and item number three the committee recommends approval of the extension of agreement with Winnebago Homes Association for for the continued use of the property at 1007 15th Street for the Resident Officer Program or Rock House. All three items, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So, counsel, we have three items before us this evening. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. For the Code and Regulation Committee, I have 11 items, so you're going to hear me read for a little bit. Item number one, the committee recommends approval to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of 23rd Street and 10th Avenue, thus repealing the existing two-way stop at the intersection of 23rd Street and 10th Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 2, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish no parking anytime restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace from Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue, thus repealing the two-hour parking and residential permit parking restrictions. Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 3733 South Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the plot of GRAA Industrial Subdivision. Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from R1 Single Family Residential Zoning District to I1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 4970 and 49XX Linden Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 6, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowable fence height in the front yard along Fieldcrest Drive from 4 feet to 6 feet in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 1003 Fieldcrest Drive. Eric and Tiffany Sherwin are the applicants subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 317 Mulberry Street Jennifer Kuroda for the city of Sippy Audubon is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval of a license for the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with restaurant outdoor seating area and video gaming terminals in a c3 general zoning commercial zoning district at 38th South Perryville Road It's like RBI brunch brought RBI brunch bar are the applicants subject to a mental conditions legal director shop repair the appropriate ordinance number nine The committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval of a license for the sale of beer and wine by the drink class ng slash WV in conjunction with the coffee shop cafe restaurants and outdoor seating in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning districts at 303 and 307 Mulberry Street the Most cafe is the applicant subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 10 committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for The sale of liquor by drink class NGL and the sale of packaged beer and wine class PKG in conjunction with the restaurant bar and outdoor seating in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 68 60 and 68 24 Spring Creek Road salt Is the applicant subject to conditions? The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Lastly, item 11, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the modification of an existing liquor license for a four percent stock purchase in an i-1 light industrial zoning district at 2327 and 23xx kishwaukee street tnt bar and grill is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance place these items before you excellent thank you so we have 11 items items before us an older woman terena thank you your honor i would like to move to amend the committee report under the new committee reports roman numeral 5 subsection b item number one to modify the following recommendation the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action on the request to establish an always stop at the intersection of 23rd street and 10th avenue excellent so we have a motion is there a second we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion Those in favor of simply alderwoman Torino's motion, please say aye those opposed to her motion Okay, so now we have 11 items before us and item 1 being amended. Is there any discussion on those alderwoman Wilkins? Thank Your Honor I just wanted a refresher on item number six. What was the reason for? Them asking for the six-foot fence The resident purchased the property with the fence already in non-compliance. The fence did get damaged, and they replaced it to how it was with that six feet, but it was done without a permit and then received a notice of the violation. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion over those 11 items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thurkey. Aye. Wilkman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. Items 1 through 7, 11 ayes. Item 8 and 9, 10 ayes, 1 no. Items 10 and 11, 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $8,329,870.57 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on March 27, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of professional service agreement with Region 1 Planning and the City of Rockford to work building a domestic and community violence data infrastructure for assessment of strategy development and deployment. The total amount charged for work performed on the agreement shall not exceed $39,520. Execution the screen will require no additional funding and we'll use funds contained in the existing budget approved by City Council The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of agreement to the city of rock for the Rockford Arts Council for utility box artwork and The agreement the RAC will coordinate the design installation of at least 41 decorative vinyl wraps intersections and company Encompassing every ward of the city the funding source of the traffic division operating budget and the total funding amount is not to exceed $25,000 the legal director for the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of a tax exempt lease for 37 police vehicles and Outfitting to hunting public capital corporation at a lease rate of four point eight nine percent the annual payments will be four 524,820 dollars and 8 cents for a term of 5 years. The total amount financed is 2,624,104 dollars and 10 cents. The funding sources the police department operating budgets, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of tax exempt lease for four 2023 fire ambulances to Huntington Public Capital Corporation in a lease rate of 4.89%. The annual payments will be $326,900.88 for a term of five years. The total amount financed is $1,634,500.40. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. legal director shop for the appropriate ordinance number six the committee recommends approval with taxes on lease for 17 vehicles and outfitting to Huntington public capital corporation the least rate of four point eight nine percent The vehicles purchases are SUVs medium-duty trucks and vans for departments the annual payments will be one hundred and fifty one thousand three hundred and seventy seven dollars and sixty six cents for a term of seven years and The total amount financed is $1,059,643.62. The funding sources are from the Street Engineering and Traffic Division, Fire Department, Community and Economic Development Department, and a Water Fund operating budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a tax exempt lease for 16 2023 heavy duty vehicles and outfitting to Huntington Capital. public capital for a lease rate of four point nine four percent the annual payments will be three hundred and thirty six thousand eight hundred and two dollars and forty two cents for term of ten years the total amount finances three million three hundred and sixty eight thousand twenty four dollars and twenty cents the funding sources the street and traffic division garage and water funds operating budgets the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number eight is an approval of an ordinance of the City of Rockford authorizing the City to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note, Series 2018, Fifth Modification Agreement in the amount of $12 million with associated bank. Number nine is an intergovernmental agreement among the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, RMTD, and Rockford Bank and Trust, For a guarantee of a 1.5 million dollar line of credit annually to fund district operations I place these nine matters before you. Thank you. So there's night I've nine items before us Is there any discussion on those nine items clerk? Will you please call the roll Durkee? Logoman Toomer frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach body goes Meeks, Bonnie Bye-bye. Thank you. Next up, we have officers' reports. I want to just draw Alderman's attention to a document memo from myself regarding the committee assignment preferences. We do this each year, and this document will be due back to us on April 17th. That's Monday, April 17th. uh second item i know alderwoman prunty could not be with us this evening but i am sure if she was here she would mention that this week on thursday april 6th at 6 30 p.m. She has the six ward meeting and that's at 45 25 Boeing Drive again that's April 6 at 6 30 p.m. the sixth ward meeting it's a lot of sixes we'll open up for any discussion all the one makes thank you so much I know it's a really difficult time with the storm and everything but I want to kind of bring a little bit of cheer we do have the Edgewater neighborhood this weekend our annual Easter egg hunt that will involve some participation from the Rockford Police Department and the Rockford Fire Department and I do appreciate you all for coming but this is a very wonderful event that happens every year at Oxford Park begins at 10 a.m. so if you are in the neighborhood and you want to see a really cool Easter bunny and a lot a lot of fun then please come out and join us this Saturday Saturday at 10 Saturday April 8th at 10 a.m. Oxford Park be there or be square I said it I don't know if you guys have enough candy but Olympia Maliki there's a lot of they'll be with me that morning so they'll be there I'm just listen I'm just saying be there be square there's a lot of candy that's gonna go out so it's really entitled you know it's encouraged for the residents of the ward to for sure participate in this event How about residents of an adjacent ward? Any other reports? Alderman Tinberg. Thanks, Mayor. Wow, yeah, it was a weekend. I would just like to extend an appreciation to the residents of the third ward, especially between Sinissippi and Eisenhower. I know that Alderman Logman has been on top of things in the second ward and There was a lot of devastation through, but it's very fortunate. It doesn't seem like there was any health-related issues or loss of life. So that's first and foremost. It really was, wow, I mean, there was some real interesting, to say the least, things Mother Nature created during that time. just to give some people that may not have gone through that area and put it in perspective there was an instance where Gentleman had wanted me to look at some things in this backyard some damage very big damage and He had then brought me around front to his neighbor's yard and said, you know, it's funny. She doesn't even know whose tree that is and because it's not her tree laying there. And it was probably three feet all around in diameter and maybe about six, seven feet long. It had already been cut in certain places. They had already started working on it. And I'm going to guess probably 600 pounds. And so a short time later, about three houses down and around the corner about three houses, four houses, a gentleman said, you know what's funny is my neighbor's tree came down but she can't find it. It's not there. So I kind of thought, well, I may have an idea. So that just kind of puts it in perspective, the magnitude of what happened. And boy, talking to a fair amount of constituents, the, what I would say, resiliency, and the determination of Of these individuals was was a great thing to see but they have a lot to do and Mayor I know you and I have been in contact and I Think that's the right thing to do. That's the right decision that the city made because that was a big question of where do we put this I mean if some of these people are going to try doing it a lot of it on their own the cost is going to be great to a lot of individuals to try to clean up and get it out so it is the right thing to do for our city to come and and help out on that and clean up the the curbside limbs and trunks and other things that need to be broken down that can't make it over to Magna. But Kyle, public, Director Saunders, public works just, I think all in all did a fantastic job. I know there's gonna be some complaints here and there when you have this many people and this much destruction. hats off and Tyler over there and Just it was Yeah so i think we're we're we're going to get through it and i just want to thank all the residents of the third ward in those affected air in that affected area and for hanging in there and and if there's anything that we can help out on call me thank you thank you any other uh reports alderman frost thank you just to reiterate what alderman tuber said i had many conversations with um uh Director Saunders Mr. Cagnone the mayor over the weekend about Many issues including the last one about the debris getting hauled away and obviously there were lots of people that were concerned with you know They had actually had trees already cut up and obviously couldn't take in the Magnus. So so I I just would ask residents, I think, to be patient with that. That's not something that can be done. It's not on the garbage schedule. It's not the garbage crew that's going to be taking care of that. So it will take some time and hopefully everyone can be patient with that. And I will say that I did get a call and I went over to a house on Haddon Place in Spring Lake Estates to see the resiliency and the efforts to help out your neighbors. It always comes at a time when there's a problem like this. There was a tree down blocking a driveway. Oh, they could not leave and and within a matter of moments She said that there must have been ten people out there with chainsaws Going at the tree and literally within a matter of you know Minutes were able to remove that tree from the drive and and then they they just kept going down the block and Going through and helping people out. So so, you know it's Please don't forget, you know, and thank, you know, we have neighborhood associations. We have a variety of people that are always there, and it takes an event like this to really see people ready and willing to help out their neighbors, which is a great attribute to our city. Absolutely. Thank you. Any other reports? No other reports? Okay. Next we'll go to appointments laid over Item one is up and that is appointment of Jennifer Smith as chair Men of the zoning Board of Appeals and liquor and tobacco advisory board replacing the current chairman Dan Roscoe ski This appointment is up for passage just a note for all of you Dan It's not the way it reads it sounds like he's being replaced He is not he's just his position as chairman is being handed over to as Dan's been on and served a wonderful job for many years, but he'll be coming off at the end of his term. And so to have a smooth transition of leadership since he's been the chairman for over a decade, I would say pretty safely. Would also call call your attention to items two three and four obviously none of them if you just look strictly by the date are up But items two and three would be up in two days So if anyone wanted to make a motion to suspend rule 18 and then one I would make a plea if someone could Or would be willing to make a motion that We have item four is appointment of Mary call to the Community Relations Commission to replace Aaron Hannigan Aaron Hannigan is actually just took a new position She actually took a position at the city of Rockford And our legal department and so that leaves a pretty large hole on that board so Leave those up to the council on which item I? So you make a motion is that to suspend rule 18 on items 2 3 & 4 Okay, so we have a motion to suspend rule 18 on items 2 3 & 4. Is there a second? We have a motion we have a second Is there any discussion simply on suspending rule 18 on items 2 3 & 4 all those in favor of? suspension of rule 18 on items 2 3 & 4 please say aye those opposed Okay, so now we have items one two three and four up and just Items one two three and four up is there any discussion on those four items alderman dirt. Thank you your honor I'm just a couple of comments on some of the candidates so my vote Is explained on? Candidate number one Jennifer Smith she's been before the council on any number of occasions And sometimes it concerns me that that she sometimes comes with a hidden agenda. And personally, I found that she lacks some of the objectivity that I think is needed on the ZBA. I could be wrong, but that's my perspective here. And I will not be supporting her. Dan McMahon, I've known years ago. I think he's a musician. He's been involved in music and production. I think he'll give a pretty good perspective on rave. Number three, Frank Buchanan, as I read his resume, I see, given the state of the economy, I see nothing in his resume. I may have missed it. that he has any expertise in finance or accounting or investment or any knowledge that I think is currently facing pension boards. A lot of pension boards are somewhat at risk because some of the real estate, some of the other things that have gone on in the banking industry, and there's some warnings out there. I think the Wall Street Journal just wrote had an editorial or a piece on it this week or last week. And so after reading that, this that candidate concerns me. Mary Call, I know, and she's a very good lady and is a good choice for most committees. You know, I've known her. I haven't seen her in a while, but she's insightful and. And but the unfortunate thing is I voted against the Community Relations Commission and even wrote an op-ed on it. So it would be kind of a double minded person if I were to support her candidacy for that. She has my phone number, so I'm sure it's going to blow up when she finds out I didn't support that. But so those are those are the reasons of of the for and against vote. For my vote. Thank you your honor appreciate it and just a good explanations appreciate that just for clarity on item three His name's Frank Buckman. He does not have financial expertise as you may recall alderman Durkee the state Consolidated the pensions a couple years back. So now those boards actually don't manage the finances It's become much more of a people management position and Mike white who served on that board I think for 15 years or so Was actually the one who recommended? Frank due to his ability to manage people because it the board no longer manages money how they used to Due to the consolidation a couple years back by the state any other comments or questions alderman to work Thank you Alderman Durkee. I see Mary quite a bit and I'll tell her you said hello and She's a Churchill's Grove resident. Any other comments? Alderman Bonney. Thank you. So I know Mary Call and personally worked with her for many years at the Rockford Register Star, and I would encourage Alderman Durkee to set aside his opposition to the, we have the commission and we have to fill the seat. So just give her, cut her a break and vote for her. But I was just also curious, I'm missing a sock, and I wonder if it turned up in the third ward. Alderman Rose. I would encourage the appointment of Jennifer Smith. She's been one of those people that is pretty active in her community. I believe she does some work with I Bike Rockford and just – Seems like you know, I've seen her down here too many times and oftentimes I do think she has an agenda I think her agenda is community and That's something I think we need more on our boards. And so I just encourage people to consider her as a one of those people that is highly active in our community and and that's really what we want for our boards and Absolutely, you know again just heard I know you know this but just for clarification for those at home Jennifer Smith is actually already on the board. We're not appointing someone new to the board We're actually just changing we actually decide their chairman of the board. So that's the only thing that's changed any other Discussion on those four appointments alderman frost. I'm sorry. Can I make a motion to lay over number one? Can you make a motion you can make a motion? Is there a second? I? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion on the motion to lay over item one? Okay, clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. We have a motion and we have a second. Logoman. Nay. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. No. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. No. Bonney. Aye. No. So item ones laid over we have items two three and four before us is there any further discussion on those three items Say none clerk. Could you please call the roll? jerky Logum in timber frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios makes Bonnie I am number two 12 ayes, item 3 and 4, 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Torino. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number 1, the committee recommends approval of the resolution initiating a proposed text amendment to Section 80-009 of the City of Rockford's Code of Ordinance regarding nonconforming gravel driveways and parking lots. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Rockford Fire 911 run. This event is scheduled to take place on Saturday, June 3rd from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The run location will be 391 North Traynor Road. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the Midsummer 2023. This event is scheduled to take place on Saturday, June 17th from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The event location will be at 404 South 3rd Street. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the LifeScape 4th of July run. This event is scheduled to take place on Tuesday, July 4th from 6 a.m. to 11 a.m. The run will begin at 7 a.m. and the run will begin and end on North Madison at Lower Jefferson Street, utilizing the Rock River Recreational Path. Number five, the committee recommends the approval of the Fourth of July celebration and I dot resolution This event is scheduled to take place on Tuesday, July 4th from 5 p.m. To 10 p.m The parade will begin at 5 p.m. And the fireworks show will begin at 9 30 p.m The parade route will begin at 7th Street and 2nd Avenue and will end at State Street and Church Street The fireworks will be launched from the Commonwealth Edison property adjacent to Fordham Dam in downtown Rockford number six resolution approving the city of Rockford's participation and the new national opioid settlement reached with CVS, Walgreens, Walmart, Allergen, and Teva, and that will require the suspension of Rule 9. Thank you. So we have six items before us. Is there a motion to suspend Rule 9 on Item 6? We have a motion. We have a second to suspend Rule 9 on Item 6. Is there any discussion on that suspension? No discussion all those in favor of suspending rule number nine on item six, please say aye Those opposed okay, so now we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items alderman Durkee? Thank you your honor. I feel compelled to talk some more. Um number one I did vote to move this to the council out of committee so that the Council can consider it I did make a comment and I wanted to reiterate that we have extended this any I think that I don't know what number I gave 532 time we keep extending this the last time that we Extended it we as a council sort of agreed not in the ordinance per se agreed that that was going to be the last time I was part of that vote and like the prior vote on the Community Relations Committee I Can't say one thing and do another a lot of as I stated some of these homeowners are dumb like a fox We were just through Prior to several years ago. We were in a great economy were interest rates home Home improvement loans all that were extremely low the price of asphalt was extremely low I have no idea what it cost now to do an asphalt driveway to in some of these places, but I There was an opportunity missed and the residents many of them are aware of it And they they passed on it and I'm beginning to wonder they're passing on it because they know we're just going to extend it So I will not be supporting any more extensions of this ordinance. I think our city is taking a hit People aren't taking care of their property for one reason or another some we emphasize homeownership and And I think some folks have no idea sometimes what it costs to have a home. Home ownership is not the investment that it used to be. It takes a lot of capital to buy one and it takes money to maintain them. I mean, some of these folks, I don't know what they would do if the roof blew off. They have a $70,000 house or a $50,000 house. The roof costs the same per square foot as if you have a $500,000 house. So it has nothing to do with the property value. These things just sort of have to be done to maintain our community. But given a great opportunity for some of these folks to get this done in a prior pretty good economy, and they didn't, That says something so I will not be supporting this on the council floor. Thank you Thank you. Is there any other discussion on the six items before us clerk? Can you please call the roll turkey? look men Toomer frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Adios makes funny eight eyes for nose on one items two through six twelve eyes Excellent next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you number one the committee recommends approval and award of an RFP environmental review and assessment services Anderson environmental and GSE Consultants, Professional Environmental Engineers, and Specialty Consulting for an estimated annual value of $50,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options. The funding source is the CDBG. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for Technology Solution for Management of Life Safety Systems to Briceur. There is no cost to the city of Rockford. The contract duration is one year with an option to renew the contract for four additional one year terms based on mutual consent of both parties. Briar will collect all fees from the third party submitting inspection and maintenance reports. Number three, the committee recommends approval of award of a non-competitive contract for the mechanical repair of an aerial ladder to McQueen emergency equipment in the amount of $62,938.30. The funding source is the fire department operating budget. Number four, the committee recommends approval of award of engineering agreement for the Mason Avenue reconstruction and drainage improvements to Ouellette Hoffman Associates in the amount of $42,000. 274.19 the project is estimated to be completed in june of 2023 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax number five the committee recommends approval and acceptance of department of commerce and economic opportunity low-income home energy assistance program Health and Human Services supplemental grant in the amount of $2,236,000. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from March 1, 2023 to June 30, 2023, and will be extended to the upcoming PY2324 grant. The grant award will provide funds for approved clients' electric and or heating bills, clients' energy usage, education, staff training, payroll, and administration. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for Microsoft Office Suite and Security Applications, the CDW, for an annual contract amount of $435,538 with a one-time annual evaluation cost of $48,722. The contract duration is three years. Funding sources, the Information Technology Operating Fund budget. number seven the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for gis rhythm for civics interface to in core in the amount of fifty three thousand one hundred and sixty dollars the funding sources information technology fund operating budget number eight is an approval of a resolution authorizing a letter of support and commitment of funds for city rockford mega sites development program grant application which shall provide with One point two five million dollars in matching funds towards this project. I places the matters before you. Thank you We have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those alderman toonberg? Thank you mayor This would go to director I had brought this up. I'm sorry. I brought this up some time ago and I guess just to cut to the chase Utility costs have gone up dramatically and I Constantly telling my wife quit touching the thermostat and if you want to touch it turn it down in the winter and so Revisiting this is you know as as a steward of taxpayer dollars Which these grants are taxpayer dollars ultimately? I just what I just have an issue is if someone is In a situation where we are helping with their utility costs again Many times a noble thing to do for underprivileged individuals What's to prevent them from? Hey, it's comfy at 80 degrees and and them turning the thermostat to that and getting utility bill for $750 Are we covering that whole? $750 are we covering a portion of these utility bills for individuals? and I Realized that there's probably not Anything in place to prevent somebody from Turning their thermostat up to 80. It's just it's just a concern if someone knows that are not paying for their utility That they kind of become willy-nilly on on the thermostat Thank you for your question Alderman to Merck, um, so to be quite honest with the LIHEAP program Considering the rising cost of utilities over the last year what we see more than anything is the exact opposite of because of how high utility costs have gotten. We have a number of individuals as part of the LIHEAP program who previously would have received funding under a program known as PIP, which is a percentage of income payment plan. So a low income individual would register for the PIP program. They know what their portion of their bill is every month, and as they pay their portion on a regular basis, then the utilities would essentially credit their outstanding balance that was in arrears in exchange for them making their regular payments on time. So them taking responsibility for controlling their utility cost and keeping them under control and managing their portion and paying it on time, resulted in essentially credits for those individuals who were income eligible to help them wipe out their balance. So they were actually rewarded for them taking control, essentially as much as they could of their utility bills. but to be honest what we see more often than anything is not folks turning up their heat because they want to walk around the house in shorts but the reality is is that most of the low to middle income housing stock in our community is incredibly inefficient with regards to energy so truth be told We lead the state, we're second only to Cook County in terms of the expenditures that we make under the LIHEAP program. And it's not because people are warm and toasty in their homes. It's because most of what is being produced in energy is going through the roof or out the leaky windows. So the reality is that the homes are not, they're horribly inefficient. And that's a huge problem, which we also seek to try and work towards through the weatherization program, which helps low-income homeowners and property owners to actually weatherize their homes and help to make them more energy efficient. But again, there are programs in place that essentially reward that, but unfortunately due to the cost the significant increase in utility costs over the last year, the state is phasing out that program where folks are rewarded for paying their portion of the utility bill on a regular basis. They're phasing that out because more and more people are having to take advantage of the LIHEAP program because the costs are so high. So we're seeing individuals who, I mean, and we're not talking about, Well, we are talking about the working poor in our community, who most of them work more than one job, and we're seeing folks whose utility costs have gone up so significantly that there is just, it's completely unsustainable. they are, it's not a matter of them just being as warm as possible. And again, we're not necessarily paying all of the bills. That's contingent on what a person is approved for, whether or not they were on one of those pre-existing programs or not, what the level of their arrearages are, etc. So there's a number of different factors that come into that, but Many times throughout the course of the year, we get to what's called LOF, which is lack of funds. So we run out of money in this particular program and then dollars are reallocated to us from other communities around the state that don't utilize their dollars. And again, when that happens, it's not a guarantee. So the thing is, it's also difficult to get a LIHEAP appointment. So if I am reckless enough to put my heat at 85 degrees and I can't afford to pay it, it's not a guarantee my bill will be paid. I might, it might take me weeks to get an appointment to see a case manager for LIHEAP to get assistance. And then if the agency is at lack of funds, when I actually do qualify for that assistance, I still have to wait until those dollars come in. So I might have been toasty for a little while if I thought so, but there's no guarantee how long I'm going to be very, very cold before that assistance comes in. So I think that's not really what we see in terms of working with families and trying to help them and keep them housed and at a temperature that's livable. Thank you. Good. Thank you Zero any other questions discussion clerk. Can you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Toomer frost Serena Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach adios makes Bonnie 12 eyes Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll move to new business and we'll go to planning and development committee and all their woman meets Thank You Your Honor under new business item number one and ordinance approving the extension of agreement with Zion Development Corporation for the continued use of the property at 312 Irving Avenue as a strong house Item number two an ordinance approving an extension of agreement with Winnebago Homes Association for the continued use of the property at 1233 Revell Avenue for the resident officer program or Rock House and item number three an ordinance approving an extension of agreement with the Winnebago Homes Association For the continued use of the property at 10 0 7 15th Street for the resident officer program or Rock House Excellent. Thank you. So we have three items before us any discussion on those three seem no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? logan to burn frost Terina Wilkins Hoffman and Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. We'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. Our committee has nine items. Item number one, an ordinance establishing no parking any time restriction on the east side of Indian Terrace from Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue, thus repealing two-hour parking and residential permit parking restrictions. Mound Avenue to 45 feet north of Mound Avenue. 2. IN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE ANNEXATION OF 3733 SOUTH BANE STREET. 3. IN ORDINANCE APPROVING A ZONING MAP AMENDMENT FROM R1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT TO I1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICT AT 4970 AND 49XX LINDEN ROAD. 4. IN ORDINANCE APPROVING A VARIATION TO ACCREASE THE MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE FENCE HEIGHT IN THE FRONT YARD ALONG FIELD CRUSH DRIVE FROM 4 FEET TO 6 FEET IN AN R1 SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT. at 1003 Fieldcrest Drive. Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C4 urban mixed zoning use district at 317 Mulberry Street. Number six, an ordinance approving a license for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with restaurant, outdoor seating area, and video gaming terminals in the C3 general commercial zoning district at 3870 North Perryville Road. Number seven, an ordinance approving a license for the sale of beer and wine by the drink IN CONJUNCTION WITH THE COFFEE SHOP, CAFE, RESTAURANT AND OUTDOOR SEATING AND C4 URBAN MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICT AT 303 AND 307 MULBERRY STREET. Number eight, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink and the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with a restaurant, bar, and outdoor seating in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 6860 and 6824 Spring Creek Road. And lastly, number nine, an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license for a 4% stock purchase in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2327 and 23XX Kishwaukee Street. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Is there any discussion, counsel, on these nine items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Radeos. Aye. Meeks. Bonney. Items 1 through 5, 12 ayes. Items 6 and 7, 11 ayes, 1 no. Items 8 and 9, 12 ayes. Thank you. alderman frost for finance and personnel committee yeah number one is in ordinance approving a professional service group with region one planning in the city of rockford to continue work building a domestic community violence data infrastructure for assessment and strategy development and deployment uh the total amount charged shall not exceed 39 500 on execution this free one that will require no additional funding will use Funds contained in the existing budget approved by city council number two is an orange Approving an agreement from the city rock from the rockery arts council for the utility box artwork which includes 41 decorative vinyl wraps at various intersections in every ward the funding source of the traffic division operating budget the not to exceed $25,000 Number three is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for 37 police vehicles. The total amount financed is $2.6 million. I'm sorry, $2,624,104.10. The funding sources is the police department operating budgets. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four is the same tax exempt lease, but this one is for four 2023 fire ambulances. The annual payment will be $326,900.08. For a term of five years, the total amount financed is $1,000. 1,634,500 dollars and 40 cents in the funding sources of the fire department operating budget. Number 5 is an ordinance for the taxes at least for 17 vehicles of which include. SUVs, medium-duty trucks, and vans from multiple departments. The annual payments will be $151,377.66. For a term of seven years, the total finance is $1,059,642.62. The funding sources are from the Street, Engineering, and Traffic Division, Fire Department, Community and Economic Development Department, and the Water Operating Department. Waterfront operating budgets number six in the order to proving taxes at least for 16 vehicles the annual payments will be 336,800 and $2.42 for term of 10 years the total amount finances three million three hundred and sixty thousand twenty four dollars and twenty cents And the funding sources the street and traffic divisions and the garage and water funds operating budgets Number seven is an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockford to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note, series 2018 fifth modification agreement in the amount of $12 million with associated bank. Number eight is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, the RMTD, Rockford Bank and Trust for a guarantee of 1.5 million dollars line of credit annually to the fund district operations of RMT I place it there for you. Thank you. So we have eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items clerk? Will you please call the roll turkey? logan timber frost Torino Wilkins Hoffman Rose Meeks 12 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.