2022 city council meeting clerk could you please call the roll logeman here tunberg frost here terena prenti rose beach alderman beach quinones minx bonnie ten present excellent we have a quorum this evening uh this evening we have pastor john halbert of allen chapel ame church to provide us an invocation
 Our Father who art in heaven, this evening we come to you with thanksgiving and forgiveness in our hearts. You are worthy of all the praises. In which whatever manner we prefer to call you, you are marvelous in our sight. Thank you for your grace and mercies. We are blessed because you are such a wonderful God.
 We come on behalf of our fellow men and women living them before you on this evening, as the object of prayer is to create within us love, joy, happiness, forgiveness, treating our neighbors right, and living as one great big family. Like the captain on the ship which Job was traveling, trying to escape from your presence, which we are trying to do today,
 And have forsaken your ways. The captain heard that he rose. Thank you Jesus. From the ship and said. Awaken all who are on board. Call on your God. Maybe your God can heal us. Where the religion may be.
 Maybe he can calm the storm that reaches in our hearts, in our lives, in our homes, in our communities, cities, states, countries, our world, and most of all in our hearts. Help us to live in love, for we truly believe love conquers all. Your love has no color, no creed, no nationality. It can stand on its own, but in our hearts, we know we need it.
 Lord, it run free like the blood that run through our veins. We truly confess we have sinned and fall short of your glory. Forgive us by your grace and mercy. We can bind the wounds, scars, and the hatred and indifference that live as scars on our souls. Help us to heal. Please give us your wisdom, understanding, compassion, and power
 others who do not look like us. Help us to remember that you are and we are all your children. Help us to remember that love conquers all. In Jesus' name, Amen.
 thank you is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on march 7 2022 we have a motion is there a second someone thank you uh we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed all right item passes next up we have proclamations we have three proclamations this evening
 Our first proclamation this evening is for Arab American Heritage Month and Mustafa. Thank you so much.
 Whereas, for over a century, Arab Americans have been part of the fabric of this nation, making valuable contributions to virtually every aspect of American society in medicine, business, education, law, technology, government, military assistance, and so much more. And whereas, since migrating to America, the men and women of Arab descent have shared rich culture and traditions with neighbors and friends while also setting fine examples of model citizens and public servants.
 And whereas there are an estimated 4 million Arab Americans living in the United States, and they join all Americans in the desire to see a peaceful and diverse society where every individual is treated equally and feels safe.
 whereas the issues Arab Americans face such as civil rights abuses harmful stereotyping and bullying must be combated in the forms of education and awareness and whereas the city of Rockford is committed to ensuring that all that our community remains a welcoming inclusive community and that every resident feels equally valued equally protected and has a and has equitable access to opportunity now therefore
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2022 to be Arab American Heritage Month. Would you like to share a few words with us?
 First of all, thank you so much. Really, it's a very historical moment. I was Googling it, and I found that the city of Frankfurt is the first city who announced officially the month. We are on federal level, state level, but statewide, we are the first. And this is a message that diversity and belonging is our strength. Thank you so much. Can I take a selfie?
 yeah thank you well good luck to the next two groups to top that so we also have child abuse prevention and awareness month and I know we have several folks we have the Honorable Gwen Gulley with us this evening we have Nikki tickner and John Papernick with us as well
 Whereas, throughout the month of April, the Family Violence Coordinating Council and other prevention groups will be hosting several events to bring awareness to the issue of child abuse. And whereas, Illinois Department of Children and Family Services receives over 200,000 calls each year with more than 146,000 child victims associated with abuse and neglect investigations just this last year.
 Whereas every child is entitled to be loved, cared for, nurtured, feel secure, and be free from verbal, sexual, emotional, and physical abuse and neglect. And whereas the City of Rockford has dedicated individuals and organizations who work daily to counter the problem of child abuse and neglect and to help parents obtain the assistance they need.
 And whereas our communities are stronger when all citizens become aware of child abuse and neglect prevention and become involved in supporting parents to raise their children in a safe and nurturing environment. And whereas effective child abuse prevention programs succeed because of partnerships among families, social service agencies, schools, religious and civic organizations, law enforcement agencies, and our business community.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2022 to be Child Abuse Prevention and Awareness Month. Judge, would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mayor McNamara.
 It is very important that we all work together to prevent child abuse, and the 17th Judicial Circuit is committed to working and collaborating with other stakeholders and community leaders to ensure that we prevent child abuse so that our children have safe environments to grow up in and have healthy lifestyles.
 so we're committed to working with you and we'd like to show our appreciation to the city for what you're doing with the Family Peace Center so we all must work together, that's important so thank you for this proclamation we'd like for you to join us on April 21st at noon for the Hands Around the Courthouse so you're all welcome to wear blue and then we will just have a brief program thank you
 And to the council, we'll make sure that you get that information out to your emails. Thank you. Okay. Next, we have a Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity Month. And Kerry Acevedo. How are you? Good to see you. Hey, Howard. Good to see you, too. Okay.
 Whereas, housing is a recognized human right where everyone deserves a safe place to call home and owning a home is a keystone piece of the American dream. And whereas, because minimum wage has not kept up with the cost of rent, coupled with the shortage of housing for those with the lowest incomes, workers often struggle to afford stable housing. And whereas, a safe, stable place to call home is foundational to child development and growth.
 Studies show children of homeowners are 25% more likely to graduate high school and 116% more likely to graduate from college. And whereas, since 1998, Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity has built more than 140 houses and helped over 160 families and counting thrive through safe homeownership. And whereas, Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity owners have invested $1.
 $3 million into our community through their property taxes in the last three decades.
 Whereas the efforts of organizations like Habitat for Humanity, nonprofit housing professionals, financial institutions, elected officials, and government must be combined to address the immense challenge of ensuring that every person in Rockford has access to safe, affordable housing. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2022 to be Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity Month. Would you like to share some words, Carrie?
 Of course. I'll never shy away from a microphone. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, council members. Habitat for Humanity has made such an incredible impact in our community, thanks in large part to how the community comes together to address the needs of our lowest income families. We have been able to house over 490 children in safe, affordable housing. And this year, because of your commitment to affordable housing,
 We're going to be able to rehab and repair homes for so many families in our community. Thank you for supporting our mission and our ministry. Thank you for believing in the work that we do. And we will work tirelessly to make you all very proud. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next, we will go to petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director regarding the 2022 through 2024 funding agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council. Refer to Planning and Development Council, or committee. Thank you.
 Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have two items. The first one is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding an upcoming special events, which include the Rockford City Market, North End City Market, Midtown Market, Midsummer, 4th of July Celebration, Rock and Bowl Car Show, and head of Rock Regatta, referred to Code and Regulations Committee.
 The second is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on April 13, 2022, and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 25, 2022, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First, we have a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding a city comment agreement for Buckbee Creek Road stabilization. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. And we also have number two is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a lease agreement with the Rockford Area Arts Council for the Shumway Building located at 713 East State Street. This will also be referred to Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Next, we'll move to public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and the back left of city council chambers that you have three minutes to address the city council, and you'll hear a cell phone ring or alarm to signify when your time has completed. Our first public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons that are citizens of Rockville, Illinois, but mainly the thousands of people that tune in every Monday to see me speaking at City Hall. My open prayer, the pastor already did it for me because that's the subject that I want to talk about. My observation is on my birthday when Russia attacked Ukraine, we was not surprised.
 One of our other observations is that even on the news this past weekend, and Rock and Regis' star mentioned it, the toxicities, the things that Russia is doing in Ukraine, they did it in Syria, but no one said anything.
 Also, the Ukrainians that's coming through Mexico, the thousands of Ukrainians coming through Mexico, they're letting the Ukrainians in, but they're not letting the other ethnic groups in. We call that double standard, and that's something that they brought up on the news. It's just an observation. So I want to bring it back to talking about Rockford. What is Rockford doing when it comes to
 critical racism and then it also comes to systematic racism. How is it that the YMCA get money for talking about critical racism if they got a bank coming up talking about critical racism? But when we talk about it, we get snubbed when we talk about critical racism. I want to bring up an observation. It's the Citizen Review Board.
 During the Tech City Task Force in October of 2014, one of the Tech City Task Force reviews was having a citizen review board. Here we are eight years later. How do the city and all the persons picked will be on the citizen review board?
 And then I noticed that I can understand that the city workers can be on there. Also, I see they say politicians can be on there. But who do you want to pick who can be on and who can't be on? If the integrity task, the citizen task force,
 do not have any weight like the grand jury do or be able to be independent of the Mass Office and all the persons and what have you, then they're going to see the Citizen Review Board as a joke. So how can we come together, work together, like that? There are people that are sitting on the Citizen Review Board that the people in the community trust
 and that the people that's working for the city and also our politicians can trust and have respect. Just this past weekend, down in Florida, we had a young man that was killed by the police. Up here a few weeks, a couple of months back, we had another young man. No, it was an incident.
 in a mall where two guys is fighting, one black, one white, they didn't come to the black guy and just told the white guy to sit down. It's just an observation. How can we come and work together and not just only see you during election time, but when election time is over, we need more than just cleaning up our neighborhood. We need other things. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr.,
 the Bible. And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, then sent Jesus to disciples, behold the king cometh unto thee, meek and sitting on an ass, and a coat. The king led no fanatical movement or armed revolt. Meekness was his way. But believe me, meekness does not mean weakness. Meekness shows strength and majestic presence. The root meaning of king is the one who is able.
 Our organization, in accord with President Biden and the United States Congress, both are making an urgent plea and a response to the global thrust of communist China, where our trade deficit has averaged about $300 billion a year the last 10 years, or $3 trillion, an enormous transfer of wealth to our avowed enemy. And yet, we continue this economic suicide,
 China is supporting a madman in Russia who is committing genocide and threatening a nuclear Armageddon. And we buy medicine from them.
 We are following the king who is able, and we are able, to invoke the practice and words of economic and racial equality and inclusion, making our country competitive to fight this menace. Germany, Taiwan, Japan, and others are taking advantage of our racial animus toward these black citizens. Rockford's response? Irrelevance to this dangerous stupidity. We are meek, but not weak.
 And any person, especially a black person, with what purports to be a functioning cerebrum, ought to be insulted by this incompetence and irrelevance. Thank you. Next, we'll move to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Mayor.
 Item number one, committee recommends approval of the agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction for the Workforce Development Initiative. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Then item number two committee recommends approval of the subordination for financing associated with anchor housing LP six and seven and loan modifications for anchor housing LP four five six and eight The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you all the moment so council we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on the two items before us? I
 Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. So for item number one, I wanted to put an amendment forth so that women would be in consideration for the hiring of these roles. And I kind of realized later on that if you make this parameter that it has to be a woman or it has to be whatever, that's sort of a discriminatory practice. However, I still would just like to go on record and
 as making a recommendation that women are considered for these roles. Women are typically overlooked when it comes to labor and labor positions. So I just, again, want women to be considered during the hiring process for this program. Thank you. Absolutely. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. How was it determined that LT Construction would be the construction company?
 Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, we identified that the owner of LT Construction, Albert Weathers, certainly has lived experience in this workforce development space, also has the skills necessary to help train youth in the art of sidewalk and concrete work. So identified kind of a confluence of need on both sides.
 Mr. Mayor, thank you. Is this individual a minority or are there minorities with this company? And for the youth, how will it be determined which youths would participate in this? Yes, so Albert Weathers is a minority. And for the youth, I'll let whichever one, Director Saunders or...
 Thanks Mayor. Albert is currently working to identify along with the city team at-risk youth that come out of our local community that do need work experience in the trades. Obviously if Albert is unable to find five successful candidates we'll certainly work with Director Hunter on reaching out to other organizations that may be able to fill those positions. And finally Mr. Mayor,
 Was Mr. Weathers part of the group that had the young kids that painted the water? No. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Durk. Thank you, Madam. Just a follow-up on number one to Alderman McNeely's comment. I have no objections to the program, but by selecting this without going out for bid, are we violating some council policy?
 This didn't go out for bid, correct? Correct. Are we okay with that because of the criteria that we're using for the workforce? Director Meyer? Sorry. I don't believe this did go out to bid. It's essentially a professional services contract that has different rules than a typical purchase, a government purchase of goods or items. And so due to the nature of it, it's not a violation of our council rules for purchasing. Other one, Prenti? Okay.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Could you define or clarify what you mean by youth? I believe it's going to go up to 24. Is that right, Director Saunders?
 So if I use the term youth, I misspoke. It's actually targeted at young adults. I believe the age range that we're looking to target is, you know, 21, 22 and up, you know, up to the age of 28, looking for individuals that do not have substantive work experience in the trades. Thank you. Question. Alderman McNeely. Thank you. What dollars are being used for this program?
 Director Saunders? These are ARPA funding is going towards this program. And how much? So it is $45 per lineal foot of sidewalk improved up to $202,500 with a maximum sidewalk initiative of 4,500 lineal feet. And is this in addition to the amount already allocated for sidewalks? Yes it is.
 And that's all in your report. Director Saunders is right. It's 4,500 linear feet up to, and then 202,500 max out. Thank you very much. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. On to number two. I'm sorry I wasn't here last week for some of the committee discussion. If this gets denied, what happens to all this? Director Franzen?
 So the requestant is currently refinancing some existing debt on these properties in the amount of $900,000. That refinance is set to close later this week. So if it were denied, if it were not to be subordinated, the bank would not refinance, and they would default or they could potentially default on the original debt. Alderman Durkin. And why do we care?
 Mean it sounds like when I read through the this that anchor housing. I did they get in over their skis I mean the city is going to lose out on it looks like at least $450,000 plus interest we're waiving this so anchor housing will make money The the private lender will make money, but the city of Rockford is taking it in the teeth Why why is that?
 So these loans were originally provided several years ago in conjunction with the low-income housing tax credit deal. That deal is coming up to the end, and that's why the refinance is possible. And we're not in a primary position, so we're already in a secondary position related to these loan amounts.
 and due to our underwriting of this, we do not believe that there are the finances available to repay these loans. Alderman Durkee? How aren't they making money? I mean, they're lending, it looks like, the list of people, Rockford Housing Authority and all these, where are they hurting in their cash flow? I mean, is this a bad business model that we're waiving money?
 We're forgiving a loan because of a bad business model? Is this company making money at the taxpayer's expense? Director Franzen? So the units do have cash flow. We do not believe that they have sufficient cash flow to repay these loans, which is why the request is before counsel. However, these units were successfully rehabbed upon the original request,
 loan distribution. They have been quality units through the duration and continue to be. And so, you know, we would anticipate that, you know, the cash flow that's going to be provided is certainly market rate. They do have
 agreements with several nonprofits to you know fill these units however the overall cash flow the appraisal of properties don't provide the cash flow you know to satisfy these outstanding loans Alderman Durkee can well I can rehab my house really you know do a slick job too and keep the properties up if I'm not paying for it and my loan is forgiven
 I'm not quite understanding what is going on with this business model that they're losing money and they're coming to the taxpayers of Rockford Asking them to bail them to be bailed out. I don't see it as Rockford City of Rockford taxpayers problem That's just my my last comment. Okay any other Discussion other woman McNeely. Thank you. This is this a problem that started in
 initially with sitting down with this company and understanding that we would probably be in this situation today. Director Franzen?
 So this was originally provided as part of a LITEQ, as part of a low-income housing tax credit deal. And typically within those deals, because of investors, home dollars, CDBG dollars that get put in those deals are typically not forgiven as a course of that. However, they do provide the gap financing and the subsidy to provide quality housing.
 And so I certainly can't speak, not having been here, in terms of the conversations and the structuring of the loan at that time. However, it is not uncommon for loans to be structured in this way with the request to have them forgiven after the period of affordability and the tax investors get out. It appears that...
 we have this on a regular basis a problem with them not being able to move forward and pay for the loan and we have another organizations that have been put in the same situation so I'm starting to think that it's not
 the individual but it's something with with us the city the way we're looking at loans or the way we're looking at the individuals and the finances to be able to to cure these loans at the end of the day there has to be a reason why so many are coming back to us and asking for forgiveness
 And I would say that that is because of the typical structuring given the LIHTC investors' criteria for entering a deal in terms of why we're seeing some deals coming back to city council and asking for forgiveness. You are correct that underwriting guidelines have become stricter. So certainly, you know, the deals that my staff is underwriting today are being underwritten today.
 more conservatively than in the past with greater allowances to make sure that
 there is cash flow past the period of affordability and that they can You know do rehab and general maintenance as those properties go forward That being said in this particular case obviously there were certainly market forces These loans were done back in 99 and early 2000s you know certainly you know the
 The recession of 2008 certainly impacted the value of these properties and certain cash flow that they could receive, but as we looked at the numbers today, you know, the fact that
 the fact is that they would not be able to repay these when they became due in balloon payments starting 2025 going up to 2030. And that, you know, certainly we want these to remain good units within the community. And so that we would want to allow the refinance to occur. Did we not know that they would not be able to make that balloon payment at this time?
 When they first set this up, there was a question, were there not questions of their ability to do this? Frankly, I would not be able to speak to the decisions when these loans were made in terms of the ability to repay, understanding the timeframe from that. However, again, it is structured very similar to other LIHTC deals.
 And are we making loans like this now, such as some of the loans that we just recently passed in the last few months? So it is within the lines. Our existing rehab programs, while currently structured primarily to owner-occupied properties, are
 up to 15 or $25,000 and we structure those as forgivable loans with liens on those properties during that period of affordability. So we do structure loans that are forgiven with the numbers that we're talking about per unit. However, we do not currently have a program for rental units with our CDBG dollars. With our what? With our community development block grant dollars. Thank you.
 Alderman Toonberg and then alderman logeman Thank You mayor If these funds were paid back First of all, I guess what what years did did this take place? Was it do we have an idea? I think he said 1999 1999 I believe was the the first of loans was it all given it one time or over a period of time there were there were several loans involved Okay
 So I assume there was cash flow coming in and was, you know, as a business individual, was taking some of that money and, you know, being paid for it. Has there been any attempt at all to make any restitution to the city during that time?
 So no, the loans were structured as balloon payments, and so the balloon payments have yet to come due. And so no, there have been no payments or no attempt at payments during the period of those loans. This issue is being forced because of the refinance and the request to subordinate. We don't have any proof that there was money set aside into an escrow account or anything like that, anticipating the time the balloon payment comes due.
 No, not when, not when, there certainly was not money set aside to repay these, you know, in conjunction with the original loans, but nor has he, nor has the applicant, you know, taken any money out through a refi on these properties. Okay. Do we know the value of the properties right now, approximately, market value? No.
 so we have had an appraisal and it is a part of the decision-making process I apologize and I get that for you I don't recall it off the top my head okay so we're second in line to the bank right now is that correct that's correct so if this weren't to go through and the bank and the individual was unable to pay
 the bank then has the option to foreclose would that be correct that's correct the original loan would come due and they would have primary position okay is there any chance of the city to stand to make money back to get paid back at all through the sale of the properties right i do not believe so okay so if if the if we forgive is it 1.7 million
 1.752 all told yes. So if we were to forgive that over the course of five years and the bank then goes ahead and refinances all this, after five years, and again correct me if I'm wrong, the city would have no business at all any longer after five years, is that correct?
 That's correct. So the terms of the refinance is a 15-year refinance. The proposal being put in front of council is as it relates to the CDBG funds to do a five-year forgiveness. But you are correct that once that is forgiven, the city would not have any leverage related to that, to the housing. Could the owner then, the owner of those properties then put those properties up for sale and take the proceeds? Yes.
 They certainly could. Again, and I apologize for not having the appraisal values in front of me, don't believe that there would be a profit on that sale, but potentially. Okay, and you're saying that because we don't know, you don't have available the current value of the properties, the market value. I don't recall the appraisals off the top of my head for all the properties, but...
 So, yeah, it's hard for me to wrap around that we're forgiving $1.75 and change million dollars over the course of five years. It's going to be hard for me to explain that to constituents, number one. Number two is if the owner has then the ability after five years –
 to dispense of these properties after we just are out 1.75 million to be able to put those up for sale and then receive the proceeds, if there are proceeds, you're saying, because the value may not be enough. But we don't know at this time.
 Right. I mean, so certainly nothing prevents the properties from being sold at any time, understanding that there would be positions, you know, on that mortgage. But you're correct that once the city releases its position or forgives the loans in total, it would not have teeth on the properties. Do you know of any other businesses, any other property...
 owners of this magnitude that has this size of funding out there that the city is exposed to
 In terms of city support for residential properties, again, we do have some significant deals in the past, most notably probably with Zion Development for a number of properties. Again, not coming up with the exact dollar amounts and those overall costs relative to each project.
 Typically our loans or typically our programs are structured with one activity, so just an owner occupied, so spread out throughout the community. Certainly it is a significant amount. However, we are again talking about 150 units total. Okay, if the owner were to have made a payment to us,
 would we then be able to with these funds be able to reinvest those back into the community through similar measures lb probably on a much smaller scale to uh you know to various many other uh entities versus just one but or does that money the cdbg money
 Are we entitled to give that back to the source, i.e., the feds? Or are we able, once it comes to us, are we able to keep that?
 and redistribute it? We're able to define the terms of how we loan that money out or give that money out with individual developments. Any money that came back as repayment would be classified as program income subject to all rules and regulations of the program but could be put back into the community. I'll stress again that even we don't anticipate even not approving this, we don't anticipate getting money back as program income.
 as well. Okay. Alright. But there has been CDBG funds paid back in the past to us in past dealings. That's correct. Which then have been able to fund other development with those same funds. So it's kind of a spiraling. Okay. Thank you. Alderman Logerman. Question off the back of Alderman Durkee. I think one of the most common
 I have questions I guess from the constituents is, you know, like what do we do with this vacant property here and if the bank forecloses on here, takes possession of the property? I guess my big fear as an alderman, and I see the, you know, the properties are mostly in two wards, I think they're all in two wards. I guess we don't have a crystal ball, but if the bank, you know, takes hold of the property, I mean, what's to say in the next five years that,
 you know we just go through a whole legal mess the properties continue to fall into disrepair and I mean you just have more and more annoyed neighbors if we don't if we don't act tonight I mean certainly we can't predict the future if you know if the applicant
 was not able to refinance a loan and The original debt was called and they had to foreclose on it I'm sure the the original bank would sell the properties and so, you know, whoever the future owner you know, we we would see how they were but you know, we do believe that this property owner is a a
 qualified one. We have done random sampling inspections of the properties, and they are up to code and quality units. Thank you. Alderman Rose? You might have stated this earlier, but what budget is this coming out of? Is this out of CDBG funds? Okay, so that's given to us by the federal government. Okay. Secondly, I think the one thing that's hard to swallow is the fact that
 it's a it's a five-year guarantee essentially it's that he could go the developer could go ahead and and sell this off a whim is there a portion of a deal where that could be extended into like 10 years or is this is this done it can't be changed to something because i think one of the things is is if we put almost two million dollars into a project and it allows for someone
 keep those properties for five years and then turn around and sell them and potentially make some money off of them. I mean you're looking at per unit about $28,000 per unit is what we're giving him. All they need to make is you know twice that and I'm pretty sure with the housing market you could. They could walk away with a big chunk of change. So is there an opportunity to change that into a 10-year guarantee or something like that?
 The most important request here is to facilitate the refinancing, is to subordinate the existing debt to at least the terms of the refinanced, which is 15 years.
 And so to subordinate that and not make it payable prior to 15 years is the minimum that staff is requesting. The five years is understanding that we have done our due diligence on this property owner. We do believe that these have been high quality units through this past 20 years and to kind of get it...
 that's not the it's not the right word but to make sure that we have some skin in the game for a period of time but then to say that the overall goals of the CDBG program were met and satisfied and to move on from there okay there's more questions but just when we provided these funds back in 1999 I know you weren't here and I was just by the way getting my license
 Were these properties in poor condition? I do not recall the entire work item list in terms of the rehab for all of these units. However, understanding that it was a LIHTC deal, it is certainly reasonable to believe that. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. So, Alderman Rose...
 sort of got to one of my points so why and when director franz and i discussed this a little before the meeting but maybe he could elaborate on why would we not agree to or request or require that the city's
 in this for 15 years versus five years with the thought that then potentially if there was a sale of the property at the end of 15 versus five there might be some funds to be realized for the city in terms of repayment
 That would certainly be with the prerogative of the council in terms of the extent of the period of forgiveness You know as long as it was not made payable prior to the 15 years It would not impact the refinance But then a question for the legal director since we we would if we were to want to amend this We can't do it without it in writing, correct? That's that's correct. I
 i believe uh there's a timing element to this correct this is april 7th april 7th is my neck also quite laying it over is in effect denying it no i mean if we if we that's the will of council what i can do is crib up an amendment as we sit here potentially pat i guess pass this then come back to it so i can circulate that for council i'm not sure i want to make that motion but i guess the um another i guess a couple of points i just want to
 So Zion Development as an example is not really parallel because Zion Development is a nonprofit. We're talking about a for-profit. Although I understand that this for-profit is renting most of, if not all of its space to local nonprofits.
 i wonder if director franz are going to also elaborate on why i think i think the reason we're struggling with this is because we're calling something alone that prac and practice isn't really alone and my understanding is that that's because the lending institutions need it to be worded that way on our part and so
 going off of what Alderman Thunberg was saying, you know, it's hard to justify forgiving a loan to constituents and then we have to say well it's really not a loan but you know it's this it's one of those things that make people distrusting of government that we're forgiving a loan and then we're saying well it's not really a loan but we have to call it a loan for banking purposes and it just
 Yeah. So you're absolutely right, Alderman, that typically in LIHTC deals, these are structured to not be forgiven given the parameters of the investors and what they're looking for in those deals and the returns. There's also certainly the ability by not making them forgiven to
 keep the hand on those units and making sure that they maintain affordability for the long term. In this particular case, you know, we do, you know, these are market rate affordable housing units within our community. We don't believe that's going to change within by forgiving these. And so, you know, from the staff level, we're certainly comfortable with that, understanding that we were filling gap financing to begin with with these programs.
 And just one other question. Is Anchor local? Is it a local company? I mean, they have significant units locally. He does not live in Rockford, but obviously a widespread footprint here. Did he ever? I don't believe he is in the audience, but I apologize. I don't know for sure. Alderman Durkee, then Alderman Rose. I have one more question.
 In the process of this loan application, have we seen their cash position, their financial statements? Is there anything to say that they don't have the assets or the ability to pay back this $1.7 million over time? In the process of a loan, have we seen that as a city? Okay.
 Yes, my staff has underwritten this deal. We've seen the cash flow you know that that that's the cash flow of the project and The cash position the financial statement of anchor housing their assets They have to they have to reveal their assets as a business when they apply for a commercial loan So have we seen that?
 So, yes, my staff has and has been working closely not only with the applicant, but also the refinancing institution. And their assets are? So I don't have that number off the top of my head. However, again, we don't know the assets and we don't know the appraised value of this property. We know that the cash flow and the assets of the organization or of the –
 of anchor housing would not satisfy these loans. That's correct. Alderman Rose? I'd be willing to put forward the amendment for a 10-year gap so that they would not be able to sell within the five-year if anyone would. Mr. Cagnone? So if I understand your amendment correctly, rather than a five-year forgiveness, you're suggesting changing that to a 10-year forgiveness? Correct. Do you understand that, Nick?
 Yep. So that would require... Sorry. We can have Director Meyer prep that up. I don't know if there wants to be any discussion from the council as he's preparing that. We have a motion right now to go from the same deal, except for instead of a five-year forgiveness, or instead of a five-year, it'll move to a 10-year. Is that accurate? Correct. Okay. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. Second.
 Now is there any discussion? Awesome. I can go run and grab this just to make sure we're following procedure. Just take me a few minutes. You can take a vote on the first item and hold out the second item and retake it up when I return. Okay. So you want to hold that discussion so that we can take it up once we have the information, or do you want to just sit here and wait? I'd say let's move forwards. Yeah. Go ahead.
 All right, I'm going to separate items one and two, which will allow us to have a vote on item one. Is there any further discussion on item one? That's Roman numeral 5A1. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach.
 What was it? You said aye, correct? Alderman Bonney, 14 ayes. Thank you, we're gonna come back to Roman numeral 5A2 and we'll move on to B, Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, your Honor. Item one is the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that traffic on Forest Glen Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with McFarland Road.
 Item 2, the committee recommends to sustain the traffic commission recommendation that traffic on Grove Street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with South 3rd Street, thus repealing the existing one-way stop of South 3rd Street stopping for Grove Street.
 Item 3, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that a mid-block pedestrian crossing on 15th Avenue at Spring Court be established. Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on North 6th Street, 140 feet south of Benton Street.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established at 20th Street, 200 feet south of Fruitland Drive. Item 6, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on the 9th Street, 290 feet north of Charles Street.
 Item 7, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on Charles Street, 830 feet west of 28th Street. All of those will have the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 8, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation that no action be taken on the following items. A request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Rural Street and Rowland Avenue, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Rowland Avenue stopping for Rural Street. And a request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Rural Street and Westchester Drive, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Westchester Drive stopping at Rural Street.
 item nine the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 7233 old creek road pin number 12-11-302-012 and 12-11-302-014 the owner of the property submitted a petition for annexation for the strip of land to bring it into compliance for refinancing purposes the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item 10 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to eliminate the four-foot open green space along the west side of the property and a variation to eliminate interior landscape island and reduce the foundation landscaping from 50% to 35% in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 50 75 28th Avenue subject to conditions the legal the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and
 Item 11, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a modification of special use permit number 093-94 to allow a new 30 foot by 25 foot detached garage in the front yard setback along Stone Ridge Drive. A new 20 by 30 foot bridal suite multi-purpose building with an exterior deck and a parking lot expansion to the north side of the existing parking lot for 42 parking stalls.
 A variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 20 feet along Stone Ridge Drive for a 30 by 25 detached garage. Variation to eliminate the required landscaping for the parking lot expansion and a variation to eliminate the required landscaping islands for the parking lot expansion in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 318 Spring Creek Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 item 12 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals denial for a variation to increase the maximum permitted business wall signs from two wall signs to four wall signs in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 7143 east state street
 13, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a hotel and outdoor seating area in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 7675 Walton Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 14, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 290 Mill Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Items 15 and 16 were withdrawn from the applicant. Thank you, Alderman. So we have 14 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 14 items? All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Alderman Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Brunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Minks. Alderman Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Moving on, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $5,802,084.86. Aye.
 as approved at the finance and personnel committee meeting on march 28 2022. number two the committee recommends approval of the authority to hire a senior project manager for the public works department
 The costs for this position are estimated to be 110,000 to be funded by the CIP sales tax. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the authority to hire a grant compliance specialist one for the community and economic developments neighborhood development division. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and
 The FRSA agrees to reimburse the city 100% of the expenses related to the agreements specified items. The funding source is the CIP general fund and the water replacement improvement account and the four river sanitation authority funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of a tax exempt lease for two fire engines and outfitting to Midland State Bank of Effingham for a lease rate of 2.85%. The annual payments will be $215,765.99 for a term of seven years. The total amount financed is $1,510,361.93.
 The funding source is the fire department operating budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those five minutes before you. Thank you, Alderman. So, counsel, there's five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On C-3, we have a little more explanation as to whether we have any compliance now for our grants or this is a brand-new position. Yes.
 Mr. Cagnoni will provide that answer. We do have compliance now for our grants. A gentleman named John Voich out of legal department provides some of that compliance, but Mr. Cagnoni will provide further answer. Thank you. To make sure I understand the question, sorry, I was looking up a question. The question was, do we currently have compliance for the grants that we have, and is this in addition to, and how will that help? I'm just trying to figure it out.
 So this replaces a position that was vacated approximately eight years ago. We do do compliance.
 within that department related to our federal entitlement dollars but we've come to a point where we have insufficient staff to accurately fulfill all the compliance requirements so this will allow us to have staff capacity in regards to compliance as well as segregation of duties from individuals that are also program delivery folks and so this will be
 funded through administration dollars in which compliance is an eligible expense for these federal entitlement dollars. So we would have two then now in compliance? Okay thank you. Thank you sir. I'm sorry was there another question I don't want to miss? Someone Alderwoman Punte. Thank you. This is regarding item number five. What happens after
 Really first, how long does a fire engine typically last? Director Haggard. Alderman Prunty, generally the equipment will serve in frontline status for the seven years that align with the lease term.
 Once those seven years are up, then the vehicles are assessed for, their condition is assessed for either sale on a public auction site or use as a reserve vehicle, which we do maintain several reserve equipment just because of the nature of the response. So either one of those two outcomes will happen at the conclusion of the lease term. Thank you.
 Oh, okay. Thank you. May I ask another question? Of course. So they, I just want to make sure I'm clear. So they typically last seven years?
 Yes, we've done some significant evaluation of our maintenance expenses and found historically that right around seven years, we start to have some significant increases in maintenance expenses for our equipment. So we have found that seven years is the optimal time in which to either move them to reserve status or sell them before they become a significant maintenance burden for us. Okay, thank you.
 Any other questions? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Prenti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to officers reports. Any members of council have an officer report?
 Alder... Wow. Alright. Alder woman, Tarina, then alder woman, Hoffman. The Bible. I'm just kidding. Oh, okay. I wanted to, um... I wanted to just... I wanted to... I just want everyone to have a good laugh, actually.
 There is a gentleman from Rockford. He's a young man that's in college away at Bradley University. His name is David Day, and he just became the president of the student body of that university. And he is a resident of Rockford. He comes home and interns here. And I just wanted to just kind of give him a shout out and say congratulations, because that's a really big honor to be able to represent your school in that way. So congratulations, David. Thank you.
 thank you he is awesome i believe he was a speech champion uh the whole host he's been to this council a couple of times really really remarkable uh alderwoman hoffman thank you mayor and thank you for coming to our rolling green meeting it was very much appreciated i want to thank jeremy carter and kyle saunders and tim hinkins for also showing up
 That night was a very sensitive meeting due to the death of a young man on Broadway, and everyone handled it beautifully. The family left being very, very grateful. And I just want to say Joe Hoffman from the county board is going to be contributing $10,000 to the project to make it a safer area, and the signs that he is working for will go into the 10th ward.
 Absolutely. Alderman Rose. Two quick items. I just wanted to congratulate Emily Bear and Robert Estad on their Grammy win representing Rockford at the Grammys. I think that's just an amazing contribution to music here in our backyard. So it's just nice to see that kind of news coming from two Rockford natives. And just wanted to say thank you to our Rockford Fire Department. There was a fire at the
 the Conklin apartments the other night. And, you know, had the response time been less, there's a fire department literally down the street that could have impacted a lot of lives. And luckily, you know, having that placement there, it was something that wasn't a quick fix because...
 of the level of fire but um with them being there and taking care of it it didn't spread too much um throughout the building so it was it was a big save for us um and credit to the rockford fire department for handling that so thank you absolutely other reports alderman beach so i got an email today that the food that we shipped from rockford this sunday 2 a.m is in romania now
 I understand that there was no children's lives lost. Those that were in that bunker, that schoolhouse, they were all safe there. There are people there now making food and medicines available. So what we started here is in process of being done, and so they end users, families and children getting what they need. So it's not over with, but it's a progress. So thanks again. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you.
 Other reports? Other woman in front of you. Thank you. Just wanted to say that the 6th Ward is having a meeting on Thursday, April 7th at 6.30 p.m. at Life Church Assembly of God at 2312 20th Street. So I welcome folks to come and I appreciate those of you who have already agreed to come.
 So thank you. I also wanted to thank a few people, and I know I'm going to butcher her name, and she gave me permission to butcher it before we came, Jennifer Cacciataglia, as well as Whitney Simpson, who came to Roosevelt last month and gave us a wonderful women's history presentation.
 presentation and shared a wealth of information about the things that are taking place within the city and we really hope to be able to continue growing and developing that relationship in the future so thank you to Jennifer and Whitney I also wanted to
 thank water superintendent Jamie wrote as well as Mike Norris. Really thank you public works because when I, sometimes I get these calls and they're heated and I,
 There's nothing I can do. And so Jamie and Mike took care of it right away. They resolved the issue. They built community and relationships. So I really appreciate the job that they did to help these folks get their situation taken care of. So thank you.
 Thank you. Other reports? Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Since we're giving Rockford natives shout-outs, I have to give a shout-out to 7th Ward Phenom, Fred Van Vliet. He surpassed Kyle Lowry this week.
 In terms of the three pointers that he has made so another milestone just on his belt. Thank you Not even calling him a Rockford native anymore. You just take him just for you I like it all the woman meets. Thank you. I just want to invite anyone that's interested
 I sit on the board for Women's March Rockford and we're having an action meeting coming up on April 12th. It'll be located at Keith School from 6 p.m. until 8 p.m. So I recommend any women or anyone else that's interested in participating in this action meeting will be going over
 maps and just kind of community engagement and information. So we'd love for everyone to be a part of this action meeting. Any other reports? Okay. So before we move on with motions and resolutions, we will go back under new committee reports, which is Roman numeral 5. Okay.
 under a planning and development item two, we still have outstanding. So we still have the committee recommends approval of the subordination of the financing associated with anchor housing LP Roman six and Roman seven and loan modifications of anchor housing LP Roman numeral four, five, six, and eight. We had a motion.
 And we have a second director Meyer. Let's just make sure that we restate that motion. So everybody's Alderman Rose, could you restate your motion? Yeah The motion would would say I move to amend item v8 5a 2 so that the proposed agreement reflect a 10-year loan forgiveness rather than a five-year loan forgiveness and
 okay so we'll take a vote simply on the motion because we had a motion and we had a second uh is there a discussion alderman bonnie and then alderman beach then frost i'd like to amend the amendment to 15-year loan forgiveness the maximum 15-year rather than the 10. okay so we have a friendly amendment to the amendment do we need a second on that friendly amendment is there a second we have a second
 So right now that five years has been proposed to go to 15 years. We still have some discussion out there. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. So let me see if I understand this right. If we so-called kick this can down the road just either 10 or 15 years, the discussion then will start all over then with the same things we talked about tonight, is that if it's forgiven, they can sell the property, the owner can –
 Cell or what makes this different than what it is right now in this moment. Mr. Cagney or mr. Fancy I
 so as the um as the amended or the proposed amendment to the amendment would uh i believe if i correct me if i'm wrong alderman would forgive uh the cdbg loans over the 15 years and so at the end of 15 years there would be nothing due back to the city and uh the file would be closed yeah and that's right that's what i understand and so then we still are having the same discussion if the loan was forgiven tonight
 Over five years they could sell the property and put the money in so-called in their pocket. That's what we talked about earlier I'm saying isn't that good the same case whether it's now or later? I think I can accept for the 15 year difference, but No, thank you. Your honor. So right now the loan terms are a balloon payment due between
 With a due date of 2025 through 2028, I believe is that due date. So if council was to act on this amendment and the item as a whole tonight, it would not have to come back to council again. That loan would be forgiven over those 15 year period.
 And the idea of having it over a 15-year period, not to put words in anyone's mouth, but there was discussion raised in regards to the properties being sold at some time in the near future in which there would be value created in which the city's second position could be paid back in part or in whole.
 So the idea of the 15-year forgivable loan is to further protect the city's interest should there be any concern that there's more value in those properties than what we believe to be now based on our internal analysis.
 A couple other points to take into consideration as you're discussing this. There was a point in time in which the city of Rockford did have forgivable loans for rental property.
 So it's not, this is a 30-year-old loan, right? So decades ago, the city did have programs that provided funds to developers on a forgivable basis, which allowed for reinvestment into properties.
 you know alderman mcneely talked about or alderman bonnie i apologize talked about zion development or previous projects that also had balloon payments in our conversations with those developers similar to with this developer there was an expectation that the balloon payment was going to be forgiven at some point in time and the
 That does make sense on a staff perspective because why would you defer a balloon payment To the end of the loan period versus capturing that unless there wasn't sufficient cash flow on the projects to support repayment So for those reasons why we've brought this forward and certainly with the 15-year amendment You're taking action to further protect
 any equity within the property being repaid to the City of Rockford should it be sold over that 15-year period, as well as making sure that the housing is stable, which was the primary goal 30 years ago. Those properties were not in good condition when they were reinvested in. Alderman Beach, did you have any additional questions?
 i'm still thinking about it your honor absolutely well thank you we're here all night we can come back to um i will say this is a national championship game um uh alderman frost i'm just a little confused as i think alderman beaches as well i mean if if we change the term from five to ten to fifteen on the loan forgiveness it really has no ramification i mean if if anchor decides they want to sell these properties in year two year seven year 12.
 our loans are forgiven unless I'm missing something and that's my first question secondly if the way it's structured now with the balloon payment beat over the course of the 30 years I take it there's been no no amortization or no payments made at all to the city correct so I'll start with the second question first correct no payments made to the
 to the city understanding that the forgiveness is prorated year over year so if the property is sold in year two or year three and there's sufficient funds to pay back this the city's portion of a loan it would be paid back so if we extend out the the it's the term forgiveness whether I mean when I think of a loan if it was forgiven over five years for you over 15 years
 there's no it doesn't change the unforgiven amount but you're saying you're saying if he was a 15-year term with it being forgiven in 15 years if in year seven the property is sold you're saying and if there's sufficient funds which I don't know what that I mean from the cash flow from his assets from the LLC I'm not sure what it was but if there was quote-unquote sufficient funds
 if it was sold after the seven years then there would be a prorated portion of it that would be paid back to the city due to the city that is correct and have we ever collected on one of those loans like that before i'm sorry have we ever collected on a loan like that before on another project you know typically these loans related to affordable housing have been forgiven so they're
 You know, these are unique situations where we have balloon payments that I believe are ultimately structured where they were because of the nature of the low-income housing tax credits that were involved. So more than likely, probably not. We probably have not been paid back on a typical basis. Correct. Our existing homeowner program is a forgiveness program, not a repayment program. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor.
 Well, first of all, Alderman McNeely and I often get confused for each other when we're out in public, but not quite as good as Alderman Tarina's Bible joke, but I thought I'd try. Second, Alderman Frost asked my question. I think we have an answer to one of my questions. I think we have an answer to it. The second one is to revisit the question of laying this over. Is it possible, since the owner is here, we can ask the owner?
 if he thinks that there's any ability for him to get an extension from the lender, should we lay it over? In other words, is a layover a layover or is a layover a denial?
 So we can certainly ask the applicant. My understanding is that, you know, that the refinance is scheduled for Thursday the 7th, that it has already gone through delays, not in part of the city, but in terms of getting the appraisals and those types of things, and that they're looking to close. But if the applicant, if you'd like to ask the applicant, he may be able to shed additional light on that.
 So would I have council's permission to, typically we don't ask people during council, do I have council's permission to ask the applicant if a delay is a possibility? You can just nod your head, it would be helpful. Bueller. So if the applicant could come up to this microphone right over here and just answer the question, if a potential delay is possible.
 I did already have a 60-day extension, so I don't think I can get a further extension. I probably have a 10-day grace period, so I might make it one more cycle. I suppose it would, if I do the math, if council would choose to address it the next cycle in two weeks. 10 business days? Is that possible? So then we would need to hold a special council meeting. Thank you. That's helpful. Thank you. I'll do that.
 okay let's keep answering these questions uh these are good questions uh uh alderman thunberg and then i'll go back to alderman beach thanks mayor and thanks alderman beach because i was going to ask a very similar question or make a statement that i believe it is just uh kicking the can down the road
 Similar to what we're finding out right now from a deal that was made back in 1999, we're now having to deal with this in 2022. Do we know the amount of the refi that Anchor is doing with the bank? It is $900,000. Okay. Similar to Attorney Meyer's speeding itself,
 How soon do you think you could get us an answer on what the value of the properties are, the appraised value? Is that something you could find out tonight? So I did check with my staff person. The 28 properties, so with the exception of those last two loans, those 28 properties totaling 113 units appraised at 1.7. So the appraisal is about the amount that we're owed on the balloon payment?
 The total appraisal of the properties is approximate to the amount that we have existing in loans. That being said, the existing debt that's being restructured, you know, is the maximum leverage that the applicant's able to do through traditional financing. Do we know what the cash flow is on these properties?
 So my staff has looked at the cash flow of the properties. And what is that? So I apologize. In terms of the individual properties, I don't have that at my fingertips. You don't know the total of the properties that are in question tonight, what the cash flow is for these properties only? No, I don't have that information at my fingertips. Okay. Do you know if there's been any in the past, any prior...
 Cash pullouts there is not not from the CDBG not from our side, but from the bank side that there has not okay Thank you. Thank you back to alderman Beach. Thank you Is there any way that this can be structured or an amendment to our agreement? That if property is sold any one of the hundred and eleven 150 properties that a percentage of that sale is
 I'm not suggesting determine what that is at this moment, but a percentage of that sale comes back to the city against that loan. So Director Franzen?
 So, certainly, you know, if the loan is subordinated and the property was sold and there was existing debt still owed the city, then after the primary mortgage was satisfied, additional proceeds would satisfy the obligation to the city. So you're saying that's in place now? So, yes.
 So if it was subordinated and it's in the secondary position, even if it's on a forgiveness schedule, there's going to be remained principal that is owed since the forgiveness would be on a pro rata basis. And so if the property was sold, even in that schedule of forgiveness, any additional dollars that are excess of satisfying the primary mortgage would have to go satisfy the city. Okay.
 the city what that would be would be dependent on the actual principle that was uh remained to be owed okay so uh so so just i'm sorry no so there is not an individual mortgage on each property there's a blanket mortgage on all of it but if one of the properties were taken out of that blanket mortgage what you're saying then is true is that what you're saying
 There's actually 16 different loans that are, that encompass all of these properties. And so if one property was sold out of one that had, you know, eight properties within the loan, it would be taken as a ratio of that overall loan. So, you know, if that was, you know, 10% of that loan, the bank would look for 10% of that loan out of that as much as they could get for the sale of that property. Thank you.
 Okay, so then we will go to Alderman McNeely, Alderman Bonney, Alderman Tarima. So, Director, are you saying, following up on Alderman Beach, that that's what you just stated is in effect now?
 So the status now is that these loans would become due at various points in the near future. And if that remains the case and they become due before what these refinance terms would be, then the refinance would not happen. So what we're asking is to just subordinate, push those out to at least the 15-year terms,
 uh whether they're forgiven or not um it would allow the refinance to happen the request to forgive them over those uh terms um is the secondary request so i'm not sure if you just answered me or not so um what you stated answering alderman beach that's in effect now
 So, correct. If he were to sell the properties today, he would have to satisfy the primary mortgage as well as our mortgage as well. Now, understanding it's a $900,000 plus the $1.7, which would be above the appraised value, what would probably happen is the properties would not sell. And they were appraised at $1.7? The 28 properties, yes. All right. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. So...
 he currently if the refinance amount is 900,000 the appraised value is 1.7 million is the current debt to the private lender something other than 900 thousand no it's right at a nine hundred thousand that's what it is it is the same amount okay okay and if
 If the council were to deny this, then the owner either has to honor the terms that currently exist, which staff believes owner doesn't have the capacity to do that, or sell or default, correct?
 Right. Probably in reverse order. So, you know, the existing primary debt is what's coming due first. That is what's pushing the issue is to refinance that. Our loans don't start becoming due until 2025. So, you know, if this was not approved and the refinance couldn't go through, you know, one would suspect that the bank would call that loan and call it defaulted. And then the bank would take possession, the city would...
 Then have no ability to or would we still have an interest in the properties? We would still have a secondary interest Absolutely, but but we wouldn't have we wouldn't take control of the property if the bank were then to turn around and sell the properties after it satisfies the private lender balance and potentially any proceeds would come to us
 Anything above the $900,000, let's say. Our existing loans continue to have a position on the property, yes. Thank you. Thank you. Alderwoman Tarina. Okay, I just wrote some thoughts because I wanted to say it right. I guess my, it's not really a question, it's more of a rhetorical question, but if I'm understanding properly, this forgivable loan that was created using CDBG dollars to support the development of affordable housing in this community,
 So now on the same night that we recognized Habitat for their work in the development of affordable housing, we're contemplating if this resource that's allowed for thousands of low- to moderate-income folks to secure housing in our community for over 30 years is worthy of our support. That's essentially what's happening. So I just want everybody to wrap it up because me and the mayor are trying to see the game. Thanks. For the record, I haven't watched a minute of the tournament. Just...
 alderman rose yeah i agree with you alder woman tarina um if we look at the amount of units i heard different numbers but if there's 113 units you're looking at a four five year period us basically subsidizing 258 dollars per unit um if you extend it to 10 years obviously that gets cut in half um and 15 even more so to me i feel like using these federal funds for the purpose of
 low-income housing is actually a good sell in the sense that we're we're getting out some longevity out of it while while allowing people to get back on their feet um so you know if we go forward with either the 10 or the 15 year amendment i think that's a fair sell um along with the fact that um you know they're not really making a bunch of money off of the city um number one these are not
 city dollars these are federal dollars and number two these are to subsidize low-income um families that are are not doing well especially after uh covet so I'm in support of it as long as we move towards the either 10-year or 15-year amendments okay any additional discussion
 Alderwoman Wilkins. Sorry, Your Honor. You're good. Do we know the average rental income for any of these units, the current? The average? No, I can certainly get that, but it's a variety of units here. Any further discussion? So we have one item before us. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. Yes. No, you're right. Thank you.
 Yes, I'm sorry. Yep. So we have a vote right now on the amendment to the amendment that went from five years to Alderman Rose's 10 years to Alderman Bonney's 15 years. Is there any discussion on Alderman Bonney's 15 year amendment? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. 12 ayes, 2 noes. Now we're back up to the amended item before you. Is there any further discussion on this amended item? I thought there may be. Alderman Beach and Alderman Durkee. I'll just make a comment here because the discussion came on the floor a moment ago comparing what we're doing to Habitat.
 But if I'm not mistaken, with Habitat, the people ultimately own their property. They wouldn't get a chance to get in the property, they get a chance to sweat equity, some help with Habitat, and they own it. In this situation here, there's no ownership. It's all rental. To me, it's a different thing. And not that we shouldn't be doing that, but I'm saying it's different when you're trying to compare the two, in my opinion.
 Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Yes, sir. Just one final comment. These kind of models, they're not sustainable anymore. I hope in the future we avoid them. If these are 28 units, these units are underwater by $30,000 per unit. I don't know how that happened, how that evolved, but it's the old adage. These programs are good until you run out of other people's money.
 So we've run out of other people's money. So I hope going forward that this doesn't happen anymore. We just can't afford it. Thanks. Any Alderman Thunberg? Thanks, Mayor. You know, whether it's federal, state, or municipal money, it's still the taxpayers' money. I know that I pay federal taxes. I know that many times that...
 When we have money coming to us, sometimes we think it's free money because it's coming from the feds, not from our local Rockford tax coffers. But it's still the taxpayers' money, of which I think most of us pay federal taxes. With that said, it's something I just can't fathom explaining to taxpayers.
 any justification on forgiving 1.75 million of their money. It's just incredible. To explain that to constituents and all would be a daunting task, to say the least. So, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor.
 Yeah, I would just, again, reiterate, same with Habitat for Humanity. For Humanity is with Zion. Those are nonprofit organizations. This for-profit business is not nonprofit. While this business may lease to a lot of non- or entirely to nonprofits, the forgiveness here is to the for-profit. And the...
 Assume that there are lease agreements with all these nonprofits that are going to remain in place regardless of what happens and there are either through the 15-year Maturity amendment or if we were to deny this altogether in both scenarios there is the potential that some of this money could come back to the city and Could be put back out on the streets And I just you know
 to call it a forgive i have to agree with alderman thunberg the optics are difficult to call it a forgivable loan it's still really i mean it's really a grant at that point and um i mean not that any constituents of mine have called or necessarily will call to ask why did we forgive it but i just think it just it's it is it's there's an optics problem with it
 Thank you. Alderman McNeely, then back to Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I hope that the public understand that this council did not set this up. The federal government set this up. It's given to us as a city to work with it to hopefully help those of lower income to live somewhat comfortably and decent. So even though I'm not in agreement with how
 city the city may have put these projects together the bottom line is Congress came up with this not the city and if we don't take advantage of those dollars Then we won't have projects like this and currently we're in we need more housing in the city particularly in in this area and the majority of those homes are within my ward and
 And as I go out to talk to constituents and see some of the rental properties, this gentleman has provided decent rental property as I've seen it. So I don't want the taxpayers to think that we're just throwing out these hundreds of thousands of dollars because we got hundreds of thousands from the feds and we could do whatever we want with it. That was not the case.
 So we're trying to make the best out of what we were given. And I think tonight we made that effort with all of us. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg, then Alderman Rose. Yeah, and thanks, Alderman Bonney, on pointing that out. Because that is such an extremely valid point that whoever the powers that be, if this is being sold as a loan...
 That needs to change and it needs to be portrayed as what it is and that's a grant. If we're making or previous administrations are making balloon payment deals with pretty much no anticipation of getting it back, that needs to change. I mean, I'm not going to hold the previous whoever that was in 1999
 necessarily, but I wish they would have used a little bit more due diligence or better wording instead of putting us in this situation, because to explain this one to taxpayers at Rockford is something that I wish not to have to do. But with that said, on an optimistic note, is that with the makeup of council and Mr. Mayor,
 that I think it's our duty to do what we can and for the city, which as a result in turn would raise property values, which then by doing so could stand a chance for the city to get paid. So I think it is in our best interest to do what we can to make this city better, if not for just this loan itself or a grant.
 Alderman Rose. I think with the amendment made, you're looking at the 30 years that this company has been in service offering this opportunity for low-income people, added on with another 15 years. That's 45 years for a $1.7
 $5 million. I don't know if there's a government program that's cheaper than that. When you look at it from the perspective of units, you're looking at $28 per unit over the 45 years. So I think that's a steal when it comes to, you know, offering some affordable housing that is desperately needed. Like all the women, um,
 Mentioned over here, you know, 113 units. If we were to say no to this, we'd essentially be saying no to 113 families, potentially go find another place to live. And I think for $28 a unit per month, that's pretty affordable over the course of 45 years. So, again, I'm glad to move forward on this. Thanks. Any final discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee.
 No. Logaman? Aye. Toonberg? No. Frost? No. Tarina? Aye. Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? No. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? Nine ayes, five noes. Excellent. We're moving right along. We're going to go to motions and resolutions. If there's nothing under planning and development, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose?
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, the committee recommends approval of the Community Hope Fest. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 4th. The event location will be 3300 Rural Street from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the Kentucky Derby Party. This event is scheduled to be held on Friday, May 6th, 2022, and Saturday, May 7th, 2022. The event location will be at 4007 East State Street on the grounds of Don Carter Lanes from 9 a.m.
 a.m to 9 p.m item 3 the committee recommends approval of the churchill grove annual garage sale this event is scheduled to be held on saturday may 7 2022 the event location will be
 1526 Harlem Boulevard from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 Rockford Pride Month kickoff party. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 4th, 2022. The event location will be in the alley adjacent to 513 East State Street from 2 to 10 p.m. That's all we have. Thank you. So there's four items before you. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 Item's passed. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 alderman frost thank you your honor the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the harman park drainage from northern only service in the amount of three hundred and twenty one thousand five hundred nine dollars and ninety seven cents the project is estimated to be completed by may 31 2022 the funding sources of cip general fund number two the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the city wide shroud painting to rock river valley painting an estimating amount of 50 000
 The contract duration is through December 31, 2022 with four one-year annual extensions. The funding source is a 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the citywide sidewalk repair package number one, N-track of Lost Park. They have $233,472.50. The project is asked to be completed by May 31, 2022. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the sprinkler irrigation maintenance and repair to Evergreen Irrigation of Rockford for an estimated contract value of $55,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through March 31, 2023 with four possible one-year extensions.
 CPI is only considered a contract renewal. The funding source is the parking fund and street division operating budgets. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the bikeway implementation at Epstein in Chicago, the amount of $29,859.18. The project is estimated to be completed by December 2022. The funding source is also the 1% infrastructure sales tax.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of the joint purchasing contract for budget management software to ClearGov of Menard, Massachusetts. The amount of $47,500 annually with an initial setup fee of $9,000. The contract creation is through December 31, 2022 with optional annual extensions through December 31, 2020, 2025, the funding sources information technology fund.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the award of the joint purchasing contract for data storage infrastructure to Insight of Tempe, Arizona in the amount of $546,470. The funding source is the Information Technology Fund.
 Number 8, the committee recommends approval of the award of a non-competitive contract for self-contained breathing apparatus cylinders, also known as SCUVA cylinders, the air one equipment of South Elgin in the amount of $129,500. The funding source is the Capital Equipment Fire Department operating budget. Thank you.
 number nine the committee recommends approval of the award of non-competitive contract for mental health counseling services to carry counseling of rockford for an estimated amount of twenty six thousand dollars based on unit pricing the services will be provided to head start children and families at the pace center as well as other sites as needed the contract creation is one year with four optional extensions the funding source is the health and human services operating budget and number 10 the committee recommends approval of the acceptance
 of Balmer Foundation grant to receive a case for community investment built for zero grant award in the amount of 150 000 the grant does not require a cost match the grant term is from April 1 2022 to March 31 2023 the purpose of the grant is to reduce the number of severely mentally ill homeless persons furthering our agency's goal of ending homelessness by the end of 2022. I place these 10 matters before you
 thank you so we have uh 10 items before us is there any discussion on these 10 items clerk will you please call the roll turkey logaman tomb bird frost terena printy wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks mcneely bonnie 14 ice excellent so now we're at new business and we'll get to have this conversation all over again planning and development committee uh alderman meeks
 Thank you. Item number one, an ordinance approving the agreement between the City of Rockford and LT Construction for the Workforce Development Initiative. And item number two, an ordinance approving the subordination for financing associated with Anchor Housing, LP 6 and 7, and loan modifications for Anchor Housing, LP 4, 5, 6, and 8. As amended, yep. So we're back.
 as a quote to quote Michael Jordan we're back we have two items before us is there any discussion on those two items awesome clerk please call the roll turkey Logum in timber frost Tarina Prenti Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Kenosha's Meeks I make Neely
 Bonnie. I have one. Item number one, 14 ayes. Item number two, nine ayes, five noes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one, an ordinance approving the traffic on Forest Glen Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with McFarland Road. Number two, an ordinance approving that traffic on Grove Street be required to stop prior to entering the intersection with South 3rd Street, thus repealing the existing one-way stop control of South 3rd Street.
 3rd Street, stopping for Grove Street. Item 3, an ordinance approving that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on 15th Avenue at Spring Court. Item 4, an ordinance approving that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on North 6th Street, 140 feet south of Benton Street. Item 5, an ordinance approving that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established at 20th Street, 200 feet south of Fruitland Drive.
 Item 6, an ordinance approving that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on 9th Street, 290 feet north of Charles Street. Item 7, an ordinance approving that a mid-block pedestrian crossing be established on Charles Street, 830 feet west of 28th Street.
 Number 8, an ordinance approving the annexation of 7233 Old Creek Road. Pin numbers 12-11-302-012 and 12-11-302-014.
 Item 7, or, got tongue twisted there. Item 9, an ordinance approving a variation to eliminate the 4-foot open green space along the west side of the property and a variation to eliminate interior landscape island and reduce the foundation landscaping from 50% to 35% in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 5075 28th Avenue. 10, an ordinance approving a modification of a special use permit
 Number 093-94 to allow a new 30 by 25 foot detached garage in the front yard setback along Stone Ridge Drive. A new 20 by 30 foot bridal suite multi-purpose building with an exterior deck. A parking lot expansion to the north side of the existing parking lot for 42 parking stalls. A variation to reduce the required front yard setback from 30 feet to 20 feet along Stone Ridge Drive.
 for a 30 by 25 detached garage, a variation to eliminate the required landscaping for the parking lot expansion, and a variation to eliminate the required landscaping islands for the parking lot expansion in an R1 single-family residential zoning district at 318 Spring Creek Road.
 Item 11, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a hotel and outdoor seating area in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 7675 Walton Street. And item 12, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 290 Mill Road. Thank you, Alderman Rose. So we have 12 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 12 items? Yes.
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogoman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye at all. That was a no on nine. No on nine. Thank you. Frost. No on nine, aye. DeLandre. Tarina. Aye. Parenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye.
 Items 1 through 8 14 eyes item number 9 12 eyes 2 nose item 10 11 and 12 14 eyes Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you There were one is an ordinance approving the authority to hire a senior project manager for the Public Works Department the cost of this position is estimated to be 110 thousand dollars and be funded by the CIP sales tax and
 Number two is an ordinance approving the authority to hire a grant compliance specialist, one for the Community Economic Development and Stable Development Division. Number three is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Fort Rivers Sanitation Authority for the logistics parkway extension project for a total cost of $3.7 million. Four Seasons agrees to reimburse the city 100% on the expense related to the agreement specified items. The funding sources, the CIP general fund and water replacement improvement account.
 and the Four Rivers Sanitation Authority's funds. Number four is an ordinance approving the tax-exempt lease for two fire engines and outfitting to Midland States Bank of Effingham for a lease rate of 2.85%. The annual payments will be $215,765.99. For a term of seven years, and the total amount financed is $1,510,361.93. I place these four matters before you.
 Thank you. We have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My question is regarding number two, but I thought that we had hired earlier this year at least one individual that was a grant writer. No, we didn't hire. Not within community development. Pardon me? Not within community development.
 but a grant writer is a grant writer. So this isn't necessarily a grant writer position, although, uh, you know, they may, um, apply for grants. It's more about the implementation of grants. And so, you know, as we are, uh,
 doing activities with whether it's CDBG or home dollars or a grant through IDA for for rehab or other purpose it would be about the implementation making sure that the policies and procedures rules and regulations of the grant are followed and the proper reporting is completed okay thank you very much another discussion please call the roll Durkee Logeman Toomberg Frost Tarina fronty
 Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Hoffman? Thank you. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? 14 ayes. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Just Alderman Wilkins. Okay. Thank you. Have a good night.