... from day to day, these things we ask in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Durkee. Connell. Odo. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. McNeely. Here.
 6 present your honor. Thank you. We do not yet have a quorum. We need one other member of the, one other alderman to be in council to have a quorum. So we will move on to the non-voting items that are on our agenda which is perfectly appropriate to move to. So we'll hold off on approval of the journal. Move to item 2 on our agenda, public speakers. And we'll do our public speaking
 I remind our public speakers they have three minutes to make their comments and if they start going over I'll ask them to finish up. Our first speaker this evening is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our aldermen and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm practicing on my iPod again. Proverbs 28 verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them.
 restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. We help others when they are in trouble. They will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does. This do other people. What can you do today to help God supply some of your needs? Well, every day we've been hearing about Donald Trump on the news and we've been hearing about Russia. Eight years ago,
 Bill, Glenn Beck made me famous when he put on the news that they should ship John Brantley back to Russia. And the reason why he said they should deport me back to Russia is because I was at a tea party at the library and my comment that I made eight years ago, the only difference between, I asked them why do they hate Obama so?
 And the comment I made behind that was that the only difference between the Tea Party and the Ku Klux Klan was that the Tea Party took off the hood and put on a certain tie. So now here we are eight years later. Well, I ran for alderman, but even though I didn't win, I did win. What I showed was that Rockford is still divided with the west side and the east side
 of the river. I received 90% of the votes that I received, the 96 votes that I got, 80% was black. The 234 votes I didn't get, 98% was white. That shows you the great divide. While this past four weeks while we was out here working on the campaign, I found a lot of people speaking and saying John didn't know me. But it's not about John and what happened. A lot of people in different wars wanted to vote for me but they didn't.
 Our elected officials got to recognize once you get in office, a lot of people's complaints is they don't see you until election time. When the election is over, they don't see you no more. So even though we got two major people that's running in office for the mayor's race, one of the largest quality of people, the voters that they're not looking at is the unemployed and those with special income. These are the ones that they voted for.
 is larger than the working class voter block. If we, those that's running for office, do not reach out to the unemployed and those with special income, them are the ones that say they feel like they vote don't count, and so they are not gonna get out to vote.
 Two of the races that's very close is Rudy and Tom. If you do not reach out to the unemployed and to those with special income, you will not win that vote. A lot of people make a million promises. They say, John, we're going to promise to do this, we're going to promise to do that. A lot of times they make promises to me, but they don't come through. Now that they say they feel sorry for me, stop feeling sorry for me and get me out of
 Since they wanted to see me work in the community, we need a van and we need a bus so we can move 80 to 90 people at any given time. This weekend, we needed a van to take the kids to the circus. The church didn't come through. RHA has something else to do with their van. We want to stop depending on someone else. But those in the city who got the funds, who got the vehicle, who say they're sorry, they
 They say, John, we like seeing you in the community. I say to you and to each one of them, stop feeling sorry. Give us a van and let us continue to take these youth to places that they never been before. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Robert Lukasik.
 I apologize if I mispronounce your name. You pronounced it perfectly. Thank you. And, again, my name is Robert Lukasik, and I'm the attorney for the residents of Red Oak Subdivision, an entire community of residents who are all opposed to a liquor application for 1620 North Bell School Road, which is on your agenda for tonight. As I understand it, this item may be laid over, but I hope that you take my comments to heart in any event.
 This battle has already been fought and decided many times. The owner of this building bought the building as an R1 and tried to have it rezoned as a C2. The city denied that request. The restaurant owner then applied for a liquor license less than a year ago. It came before the city council and after extensive discussion and weighing of policy, that request was denied.
 The restaurant owner then sued the city, a lawsuit that the residents joined to defend. And again, the business owner lost. Now she's applying once again just less than a year later. I'm here to respectfully ask the city to protect these neighbors. I believe some of you can relate to where these neighbors are coming from.
 They bought their homes with an understanding that the building in their backyards at 1620 North Bell School Road was zoned for light office use. And it was, and it still is, zoned for light office use.
 And their concerns with the proposed change in use range from more slamming of car doors and car alarm beeps every time someone locks their door to the effect that having a bar and gaming so close would have on the desirability and on the values of their homes. A legitimate concern since this neighborhood is known for being a safe, quiet, family-oriented place. That's part of the value for people who buy homes there.
 On the other hand, even if you cannot relate to these residents because different people have different things that they value, I ask that you please consider the residents' earnest efforts in this matter nonetheless. It means the world to them. How many liquor applications do you approve without any objection whatsoever? On the other hand, these residents have written countless letters to you guys and have attended, I don't even know how many city council meetings and committee-level meetings.
 As dedicated public servants, those facts alone should cause you to pause. If this application is pushed through despite everything that has happened, I just want to ask you, what is the point of public comment and weighing in? Whether it's today, on April 10th, or some later date, the decision is in your hands. Please support your residents, the large group of people that have to live with your decision every day.
 And please also send the right message by supporting the decision that has already been made by the City Council and by the court. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Matthew, the 10th chapter, the 41st verse, it says, Anyone who receives a profit because he is a prophet will receive a profit reward. What I want to speak about tonight, the 12 reasons why people are leaving Rockford.
 The first reason, people don't have a visionary leader here.
 The second reason, people have no hope to live here. The third reason, no jobs with good wages and benefits. The fourth reason, no transportation because the bus don't run 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, so people can get to jobs and back home. The fifth reason, women don't have free daycare service, so they can't get to jobs or go to school. The sixth reason, no affordable homes or rental apartments. The seventh reason, bad public schools. I call them dropout factors. The eighth reason, high crime.
 The ninth reason, high property taxes, killing the people here in Rockford. The tenth reason, no diversified entertainment for the different races of people who live here in Rockford. The eleventh reason, companies and business in Rockford do not believe
 in giving people a job who have a felony, a job with good wages and benefits. That's why the crime rate is high here. People here do not believe in giving people a second chance like God gave us with his grace and mercy. The 12th reason, people see they can't help anything by staying here. If you eliminate these 12 obstacles, you can stop people from leaving Rockwell. I'm glad you're here tonight, Auburn Beach. I've been wanting to tell you this for a long time.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friends. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. And I want everybody here tonight to pray for my good friend, Alderman Ann Thompson. She needs prayer. Because when prayer goes up, blessings come down. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. I would also like to present and give my speakers. Pastor Copeland is Pastor Copeland present.
 Next speaker is Mike Schablaski. Good evening. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, members of the City Council, the administration, and fellow residents. The work you do here sets the tone for our city, our community, and our region. I thank you for your leadership and support in bringing our community to this point, a point of momentum, one that is unique in our state. We are experiencing momentum on several fronts in our region.
 In recent years, we have seen significant progress in capital spending, employment, and wages, and the revitalization of our educational system, city center, and community pride. We have all contributed significantly to this progress, this momentum, particularly regarding the city center. In recent years, the City of Rockford has been a leader or partner in the creation and revitalization of the interconnected assets.
 of our city center. From the Prairie Street Brewhouse, Forest City Beautiful, filled storefronts on State Street, the UW Sports Factory, Stroll on State, the Burnham Art Scene and more, the city of Rockford has been a critical part of the community's progress. And you should be proud of your efforts and the results we all get to enjoy.
 We now are presented with the next large piece of the puzzle, a hotel and convention center. As with the previous opportunities, I appreciate that city council and the administration are doing their work to make sure it is the best deal for the city and that it has the greatest opportunity for success. For that, I thank you.
 I want to share a message from the community members of the Transform Rockford movement. They see this project as aligned with the community's vision, values, and plans. In particular, a successful hotel and convention center will move our community along in efforts to bring private investment to part of our city that has experienced little. It will increase employment and add to the attractiveness of our city center and region as a destination for visitors.
 Most importantly, we see this project as providing further momentum. We already see this momentum spilling over into other areas of the city. Further momentum should be expected to lead to more opportunities such as South Main, Cedar Street, York and neighborhood hood and more for development. It is great to see projects in the wings such as the Valencia, the Millennium Center, Riverview Ice House and the Hanley.
 Most importantly, the community members of Transform Rockford wish for this momentum to be used to see that all wards, all neighborhoods, all business districts thrive and that all residents are leading successful and fulfilling lives as described in the community's vision to become a top 25 community. Issues such as safety and wellness can be better addressed when we harness this momentum. Thank you for your service and leadership. It is hard work. I appreciate your dedication.
 And thank you for contributing significantly to this region's progress and momentum. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to each of our speakers this evening. Petitions and communications, Alvin Durkee. I have one item to be referred to planning and development. It's a memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago Homes Association for the use of a residence located at...
 1007 15th Street for Resident Officer Program, which will be referred to Planning and Development. That will be referred. Ms. Neuber. Thank you. Codes and Regs, I have five items to be referred to the Codes and Regulation Committee.
 First item is memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events, which include Angels Too Soon, Memorial Day Parade, Independence Day Parade and Fireworks, R.O.C., Party, St. Stancilas, Polish Festival and Rockford Starfires, Peach Orchard Classic,
 The second item is from Mike Hankison, Land Transaction Officer regarding proposed sale of a Kishwaukee Street lot. The third item is from Angela Hammer, City Attorney regarding amendments to Chapter 5, Article 2, Division 3 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Motel-Motel Tourism Tax, and all three of these will be referred to Code and Regulation.
 Thank you. Matters be referred. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight for Finance and Personnel Committee. The first, a memorandum from Matthew Vittner, our Director of Public Works and City Engineer, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the Village of Cherry Valley for citywide pavement markings. That's the paint striping agreement.
 Memorandum, second is a memorandum also from Mr. Vittner regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the city of Belvedere for citywide pavement markings, the paint. Third is a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, our Head Start Director, regarding Head Start program governance. That's a review of the documents. And a second, a fourth also from Ms. Lewis regarding a proposal for the conversion of enrollment slots from Head Start
 children to Head Start, early Head Start. And all of those will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. If I may, Your Honor, I just wanted to give people a quick update on Alderman Thompson-Kelly. I went by the hospital before coming. She's resting. She's doing okay. It was not a stroke or heart attack, but she's doing okay. And they're asking that people in the community not come out.
 The emergency room is kind of crowded, and she's going to be resting for a while, and then her family is going to take her home. So she's doing fine. Thank you very much. Thank you, and our prayers and thoughts are with her and her family. Thank you. Further petitions and communications, proclamations. We have one proclamation this evening. I invite one proclamation. This is regarding the Great American Cleanup, and I invite our friend Frank Manzillo to please come forward from our friends that keep Northern Illinois beautiful. Please come forward.
 Thank you very much.
 community involvement, and public awareness. And whereas on April 22, 2017, hundreds of volunteers from neighborhood groups, the Adopt-a-Street and Adopt-a-Highway programs, and service organizations will gather to clean up and green up our community. And whereas this year, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, the City of Rockford and Winnebago County announced the 29th Annual Great American Cleanup event, April 22, from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m.
 Whereas the City of Rockford is proud of its natural resources and our neighborhoods, and we seek to improve and protect our community through the actions of citizens, government, and businesses working together. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2017 to be Great American Cleanup Month. We call upon our citizens to join in cleanup projects throughout the city and county on April 22, 2017, to keep our community clean, green, and healthy. Would you like to share a little bit more?
 Thank you, Mayor. I also want to thank you for your years of service. My brother once told me, if you keep half the people happy, you're successful. Thank you.
 I also want to thank the Councilman for the years of service. It's a tough job. And I don't know tonight if the game, the campaign, or the rain. But anyway, those during the campaign, tomorrow good luck. It's a tough job, but I think we have enough good qualified people to run this city. Mayor, thank you for proclaiming April 22nd is a great American cleanup. It's our 29th annual year for doing this.
 And we were told this year that we are now the biggest single volunteer group of this type in the state of Illinois. There have been 1,500 people at 20 different sites in that day, cleaning up all the garbage, the trash, the litter. I see so many people here who do work on the cleanup that I want to thank them also.
 I think image is so important to a city, as you well know. When you walk into or go into a town, we've all seen towns that have a lot of litter. Well, we like to keep ours cleaned up. It's very, very important.
 to our image, our property, and to who we are. It defines who we are. So I want to thank the city, the councilmen, Mayor, your years of service for proclaiming a special day as the Great American Cleanup and we'll get her done. Thank you so much. Thank you.
 I just want to return the favor in thanking you for your service to the community. You know, I feel like I've gotten older these 12 years as being mayor, but every year you come here for this proclamation, I think you get younger. So God bless you for all your youth and spirit and action for the community. God bless you. I could be playing golf. I'd rather be doing this. Thank you. Thank you, Frank. Thank you. We'll go back and do the journal. Thank you. Thank you.
 So there's been a motion second to approve the journal proceedings. We have actually two, just to make sure we're clear. March 20th, 2017 and March 27th. I'm assuming those are okay with the movements. Any amendments or changes to those journals? Hearing none, all those in favor of approving those two journal proceedings, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Thank you. Do I need to vote on those, Mr. I don't, do I? Okay, good.
 So we'll move on to committee reports. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Roman numeral 5B, I would like to number 6, which is the signed variants, and 7, which is the 1620 North Bell School Road. I would like to lay those over until next week's council meeting. So there's been a motion second to lay them over. Any amendments or any questions? All those in favor, please say aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Six and seven. Six and seven. Aye. For the layover? That's fine. I would like to put one, two, three, four, five, and eight up for passage, please. There's been a motion to suspend the rules. Is there a second? Second. Motion to suspend the rules on Roman Rule 5b, items one, two, three, four, five, and eight. Ten votes. Of course it does, yeah.
 My apologies, I absolutely forgot that for a moment. So we cannot move those forward without 10 votes to suspend the rules, so they will automatically lay over to the next regularly scheduled meeting. Alderman Newberg moved to have 6 and 7 set for a special meeting tomorrow,
 Next week, would you like to... Could I make a motion to lay 1 through 8 over until next week? They will automatically lay over. So because we don't have a quorum, I'm sorry, we don't have 10, we can't suspend the rules on those. So the only question would be is for some reason you want to... They will lay over for two weeks under our normal procedure. If you want to do it earlier than that, then we'd have to set a separate...
 We're planning on already having a special council meeting next week. So if you want to do them during that special council meeting, we could take that up later on. Because we could notice it up. If we were to lay it over, then the two-alterman rule wasn't in vote. So then it would be the next whatever meeting they would want it to be. It wouldn't have to be the next regularly scheduled meeting. All right. So we will.
 We'll follow up with you, Alderman Newberg, on the setting, make sure we notify under our rules. We have proper notice when we ultimately have those meetings. If they're not set otherwise, they will be two weeks from now. So all of our items that need a suspension of the rules can be read in but would lay over automatically. Alderman Hervey, do you want to just read those items in? For item C? Yes. Yes, Your Honor. Okay.
 Item number C1 is the recommendation for approval of the vouchers in the amount of $4,853,061.29. The second is committee recommendation for approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Township for 2017 residential resurfacing projects with the appropriate ordinance to be prepared. Thank you. Those matters are laid over.
 Officer's Reports, I do not have any significant officer's report tonight, so I'll just, from my chair, make one reference. Good luck to all those running for office. In the election tomorrow, I really encourage our citizens to come out and vote, hopefully beat our last general election turnout from four years ago, which was fairly low. And also just wanted to make reference to the point I alluded to a moment ago. We're still planning, based on the vote that happened last week.
 for a special council setting for next week, April 10th. If there's items that members want covered during that meeting in addition to the AMROC, we could take that up and use that opportunity to cover our business, including those items that were laid over by failure to have ability to suspend the rules tonight. So, any other officers' reports? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor.
 One of Alderman Thompson-Kelly's last requests was that everyone remember to get out and vote tomorrow, as she made from her gurney. And I would ask the same thing. Obviously, we all have the candidates that we're in favor of and I again thanks to the Fifth Ward voters. I'm not opposed coming up for tomorrow, but I remember the fight for the right to vote on behalf of a lot of people.
 I wasn't old enough for women's suffrage, despite what people may think. But certainly during the days of the Civil Rights Movement, to me it is a sacred duty, and I am appalled at the extent to which so many people have abdicated. So I do ask that people make that effort. A little bit of rain, a little bit of wind is not going to hurt anything. Second, I've had about five calls.
 well, two emails from people deploring the, quote, filthy, litter-filled Fifth Ward. The Fifth Ward is not the only place in the city that is litter-filled. We get this a lot in the spring. The paper has blown all winter. It's caught up against the fence posts. And thanks to Frank Manzulo, who owes me Swedish pancakes, by the way. Kiss is fine, but the pancakes, too. With the great American cleanup, I want to urge
 every church to organize a group, all the community centers. It's going to take a lot to get it cleaned up. The city does not have clean-up crews. We do a little bit in the downtown area. We do some in dangerous areas like the railroad tracks because we don't want kids and people walking there. But other than that, it's up to us.
 So I'm asking if everybody gets out and does just the L-shaped block around their house and picks up the paper, if there's a fence row at a park or something, to get the litter tongs from Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, organize a family crew. You don't have to be part of a group.
 a formal group, get three or four family members and just go pick an area and pick up the litter, pick up the trash. My understanding is the city will still be picking up the trash bags that next day or that Monday? I believe so, yes.
 They will. So everybody's got their parts. I do want to thank the people who called and said, get the litter up. But one person requested that I teach people not to litter. If I had raised them, they would not litter, as my mother would not let us do. But maybe we do need some kind of major campaign, not just to stop the litter, but also to pick up the trash if you can. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Yes, I'd like to give everyone the advance notice of National Day of Prayer, which will be May 4th. This year it will be at First Free Church on 2223 North Wofford Road from 8 a.m. to 9 p.m. So it has a full agenda. If people want to see what the agenda is for the day, they can go on the Facebook page for National Day of Prayer, Rockford, Illinois. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alden Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. If I may indulge my fellow council members, I will not be here next week. I have a pre-planned vacation. One of the items that's on the agenda for next week from codes and regs is number 6B6. An issue, I'm sorry, B7.
 It's an issue regarding the cafe on Bell School Road. As you know, I've argued pretty strongly against this establishment. Mostly from, as most of you know, I've opposed the expansion of gaming pretty consistently on the council. I think we have a lot of gaming. It's all over the city.
 I think a lot of the gaming, we have too much of it, makes us look like Potterville sometimes. This particular area though is devoid of gaming. Joseph's Restaurant up on Spring Creek Road, Francesco's, Garrett's, neighboring restaurants don't have it. The history behind this property was actually zoned residential and went to C1.
 The residents actually preceded this property and the zoning. So the area of the residents, and the attorney was correct, these residents bought their property assuming certain commitments by the city to hold to zoning. Essentially by giving this permit under special use, you've moved it to C2. That's really what's happening. And from a,
 sort of a citizen's protection point of view, we're doing them a disservice. The residents came first, the business came second, and the building owner is now really engaging in a slippery slope to convert this to C2. And it shouldn't be that way. And I remind you that these residents also suffered under, it was their,
 Nothing was done illegally, but the zoning where Meyers was originally was C2 with the ability to convert it to C3. It was in the pre-annexation agreement, sort of hidden, but it was there.
 The Meijer came, these two neighborhoods now have the Meijer store and with whatever other development will go. Now up a block where they anticipated R1 or C1, we're gonna give them C2. The owner has been approached to dump the gaming or do some other things. She really doesn't want to do that. She had written the council on a prior occasion
 stating that she was doing well as a bakery until she had some difficulties. But now, for some reason, she can't survive without gaming. Garrett's does, like I said, in this area, all the restaurants in that area don't have gaming. So I frankly don't understand it. I think some provision can be made with that owner to give beer and wine if she says no gaming, but she's not willing to do that.
 So my respectful request to my fellow aldermen is to respect the neighbors. And that's really the issue. These neighbors, these folks bought their property in that area with the understanding that this was going to be C1 at the most. We're now moving it to C2, and their backyards are right up against this property.
 Up the street from there is a school. We generally frown on putting gaming near the school. It's near Rockford Christian. Like I said, Garrett's does fine. I eat there, they have no gaming. Joseph's, no gaming. Francesco's, no gaming. They do fine. This is an area where these types of restaurants do absolutely fine. So I respectfully, the owner is unwilling to forego it, so I just respectfully ask you to deny this license.
 until something else can be worked out. I will not be here the week that you're voting. I will send you e-mails, you know, elaborating on it. But so that's just my request. Thanks. Further officers' reports? Your Honor. Mr. Partridge. Mr. Partridge.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to remind everyone you should have received your statement of economic interest in the mail. I'd ask you to fill that out as soon as possible. Legal department staff will be following up with all the department heads by the end of this week to let you know which ones of your staff members have not yet completed the economic interest forms. So thank you. Thank you. Further officer reports, Alderman Beach. With that thought in mind,
 You can also file it online. Do you still need a hard copy? No, you can do it online. I just asked this question. I have not received an email like I did last year yet, but I think I may have it. You can log in if you got the code, whatever that comes in the print, should tell you how to do it online.
 Mr. Parcher. Already? I've done mine too, but I wasn't sure by your request whether we need to do it again. No, you have to do it every year. If you've done it again for 20 — if you've done it in 2017 already, it should be covered. You should get a receipt confirming that as well.
 Alderman Herby. Thank you, Your Honor. This is a request to the legal department, but also potentially to Mr. Cagnone's department and some others. I've had four fires in vacant structures in the Fifth Ward in the past six weeks. There's junk in the yard. It's horrific. We are having more fires in these abandoned properties. And I don't know what the status of these...
 Many of them are. When they're abandoned like that, my guess is they're not even going up for tax sale. But we need some way to get these structures demolished faster. I had some sit for just months and months. Vagrants go in. The kids go in to play. But other than that, it's the animals, the birds. It's just...
 the windows are blown out, they're worse than eyesores. And I would ask that we come up with some kind of system, if it is burned, not to the point where it's dangerous, but beyond repair, that we have some special process. Even if we have to use ward funds, I want them down as quickly as possible. And it's causing a real burden for the next door neighbors. They can smell it and it's moldy.
 And we just need to get them down. So Mr. Cagnone certainly can follow up with you on that with the rest of our staff. However, we do fairly regularly take down on an emergency basis. If it's not quite a structural integrity issue, it's less than that kind of alluding to.
 I see your point. We can certainly follow up both with our resources but also with the health department if there's implications that might trigger health department code and sanitation-related issues. But Mr. Cagnone, I'm sure we'll follow up on good ideas. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I will join in with Alderman Hervey regarding the structures where there were fires at. I have one on Mulberry Street where lives were taken and that structure is still standing. It doesn't appear that anyone's done anything with that structure.
 I agree that we need to come up with some kind of plan or enact the plan that we already have. So I, too, would like to be included by Director Cagnani. Certainly. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports, motions, and resolutions. All maneuver. Thank you.
 Roman numeral 7b 1 through 7 I'm putting them up for passage Thank you for passage under Roman numeral 7 motions and resolutions upper passage rope items be 1 2 3 4 5 6 and 7 their discussion hearing none clerk, please. Call the roll turkey frost Kirby Connell Odo Newberg I I
 Eight ayes. Matters are approved. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. Under finance and personnel, this is for item 7C, items 1 through 12. I would place all of those up for passage. Do I need to read through those? You do not. Okay, thank you.
 1 through 12. Thank you. Under Rule No. 7C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, and 12 are all up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Frost. No 1, 8, 9, remaining. Irby. Aye. Connell. Odo. No. Newberg. Beach. McNeely.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12, 7 ayes. Item number 8, 6 ayes, 1 no. Manager will pass. Thank you. So we will move on to rule number 8, new business. And these items, again, can be read in, but since we do not have 10 members in attendance, we will not be able to suspend the rules. Alderman Newberg.
 Thank you. So I still have to, I read these, correct? You just reference them. Reference. Roman numeral 8B1 through 7. You're just reading them and reference them. So they'll lay over, but you want to put them on, just reference that they've been read in. They've been read in. All right. Thank you.
 For this, by the way, I believe this is one of the rules that Alderman Getchis has referred to that he's suggesting we would change. I tend to agree with that as well as some of our other layover rules to eliminate some of the need to suspend rules on our committee reports and ordinances. So these matters are read in and will lay over pursuant to current rules. And then Alderman Hervey. Thank you.
 Item 8C, only just number one, will also be an ordinance for an intergovernmental agreement for the 2017 residential street resurfacing. I would ask that it be laid over until the next meeting. It will be laid over, and I believe that's all that's before the council. Motion to adjourn. Second. There's a motion to adjourn and a second. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Those no. Aye. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you.
 Thank you.