Good evening. We will call to order the city of Rockford's regularly scheduled Monday, April 5th, 2021 city council meeting clerk. Could you please call the roll? Logaman. Logaman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here.
 We are McNeely nine present. Okay, we squeak by with a quorum this evening as we begin every evening or every city council. We have an invocation this evening. Our invocator this evening is Imam Mohammed Ahmed Al-Gobashi from the Muslim Association of Greater Rockford and there's a microphone back there for you. Thank you, sir. All praise due to God the Lord within verse.
 the most compassionate, the most merciful. The Lord of the Day of Judgment, guide us to the straight path, the path of those whom you have favored, not of those who earned your wrath or those who went astray. Our Lord, bless this meeting, bless these people, bless these ladies and gentlemen, and help them to take the right decision for our beloved city. We ask you, God, to heal the world and heal our city and state.
 and all people from this pandemic. Guide us all to the way that you love. Ameen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the republic, one and only, and to the
 Thank you. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on March 8th, 2021? Is there a second? Thank you. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Bilgeman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Higgins.
 McNeely, nine ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on March 15, 2021? We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Hearing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Alderman Hervey. Hervey is an aye. Thank you. Thompson-Kelley. Rose.
 Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Nine ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next up, we have, if you don't mind, we do have a couple of public speakers. I'll bring those public speakers forward so that they don't have to wait as we move forward with our business. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Mr. Brantley, I just want you to know we are thinking of you and praying for you with the loss of your sister. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, Aldermen, and all the persons of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28 says, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people would be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they would do whatever they can to return the favor.
 probably Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. Tuesday is election day and um, I voted already and I noticed a maritime Mac and Mary and my Alderman, Chad,
 I believe for y'all but anyway we have two people running for all the person two people running for Rockford school board we have to stop getting mad or worrying about someone else doing for us we have to start doing for ourselves this Easter Sunday I'm gonna give you our little history three reasons I'm gonna bring up Easter Sunday back in 75 years ago back on April 9th 1939
 a lady by the name of Marian Anderson was famous in Europe and U.S. during the Jim Crow era where she was never able to speak or sing to a white audience. So they... The...
 The First Lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, asked her husband to allow this lady to sing. There were 75,000 people that showed up at the Lincoln Memorial Hall, and she sung My Country Tears to Me. Twenty-five years later, she opened up for Dr. Martin Luther King, delivering the I Have a Dream speech. She did this on...
 yesterday. All right. Michael Luther King also was assassinated on April the 4th, which was yesterday. Now as I move along, the propaganda that the CD and the health department has been putting out there on the news, I left out one part,
 Oh, by the way, my sister, she passed away yesterday. She was 62 years old, and we're still waiting to find out from the autopsy what she passed away from. So I will always remember Easter for them three reasons. I want to go into the part of talking about the propaganda that the CDC, the health department, have been putting out on the news. They like you to think that the only people that...
 That's against the shots are Republicans. That's not true more than 90% of our African Americans Against taking taking this here shot and we talked about the new world order and the new Jim Crow law But in a few we also learning that if you don't
 If you take the shot, there's certain places you can go in, certain places you can't go in, that you have to have the car. How soon is it going to be before everyone actually has to have that car before they can go in certain places? We call this the new Jim Crow law. When they talked about a war on drugs and you have to take a drug test, the war was never on drugs. The war always been on us, and we always been able to adjust. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. Earl Dotson, Sr. Good evening. My name is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. I'm chairman and president of Progressive West Rockford Community Development Corporation. And I stand here tonight with utter delight and to announce that this corporation has invited the Illinois Legislative Black Caucus to Rockford to discuss its black agenda and related matters
 within the next few weeks, possibly late April or early May. Their coming here is historic, especially when many of them are in historic positions of leadership in the Illinois General Assembly, notably the Speaker of the House in General Assembly, a black man, notably a woman, a black woman, who's a Senate Majority Leader, and the list goes on.
 The Lieutenant Governor we all know is a black woman. This historic event, these historical happenings followed the historic signing into law of the black agenda. The fourth pillar was signed by Governor Pritzker. It dealt with economic reform and excess.
 The other three pillars dealt with health, criminal justice, and education that the governor had already signed into law, completing the Black Caucus's attack on systemic racism in these areas that have negatively impacted the black citizens to this day. Our organization operates from the premise that with the economic one, the other, it addresses all of the others.
 I it would be to complement whatever the black caucus does. Illinois indeed the United States of America has not been kind to black citizens but you reap what you sow as the bible says. You don't plant thorns and expect thorns and sissels and expect grapes. You don't put out enmity hostility and expect not to be civil unrest and people upset with what they see things being.
 So we hope that the mayor of Rockford, the city council, the county board president, the county board members would afford space, would afford space for the Black Caucus to visit in our city, as they suggest a virtual town hall format. They are sending a communication specialist here to talk with me and some of our people. One of the outstanding things that I like about the fourth pillar was it involves
 access to $20 billion that's spent annually by the state of Illinois in procurement and services that has traditionally, traditionally excluded black citizens. Thank you. This is unconscionable and intolerable. Thank you. That's it. That's it. Thank you. No, thank you. Appreciate it. Sure.
 Also want to just take one second and recognize that we have Janessa Wilkins in the audience and Janessa recently Won seventh Ward alderman and is going uncontested and just want to say thank you for joining us this evening Next up we'll move to petitions and communications and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee alderman Rose. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have two memorandums, one from Barb Chidley, Neighborhood Specialist, regarding the renewal of a funding agreement for Great Neighborhoods, referred to Planning and Development. The second is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a pilot operating agreement with Bird Rides, Inc., again referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next up, we'll move to Codes and Regulations Committee in Alderman Beach. Thank you, sir. Under B.
 Number one, a memorandum from Megan McNell, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the approval of an ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 3005 North Rockton Avenue to be referred to Cozen Rigs. Number two, memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transition Officer, regarding the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 17XX Black Hawk Road, also to be referred...
 Number three, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits for special events, which include the Rockford City Market, the North End Market, the RPS 2.05 run, Girl Scouts Over the Edge event, Swedish American Health Systems State Street Mile, and Head of the Rock Regatta, and that's referred as well. Number four, traffic commissioner's agenda for the meeting to be held on April 14, 2021.
 The minutes from consideration that the codes and regulations committee and that's also referred number five memorandum from Megan McNeil's Assistant city attorney regarding a proposal modification to the city of Rockford code of ordinances chapter 16 motor vehicles and traffic also referred to the codes and
 Number six, memorandum, excuse me, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding an amendment to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance, Chapter 2, Division 5, Human Services Department, and that's referred as well. And the final memorandum from Scott Capovella, planning zoning manager regarding a request to file as a legal objector on county zoning petition C-
 0-2-21 and 1975 North Lyford Road, which is the northeast corner of Rote and Lyford. And that's referred as well, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Next up, we will move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First we have a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding the approval of an ordinance for the IEPA loan led service phase three loan agreement. This will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from John Posey, Police Business Manager, regarding the acceptance of the DCEO grant award to be used to assist with the completion of the indoor weapons firing range at the police department's Shepherd Trail facility. This matter will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the acceptance of the DCO Rebuild Illinois Capital Grant Program for Davis Park improvements.
 This will be referred to the Planning and Development Committee. Number five is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, a city traffic engineer regarding an application for Bloomberg Asphalt Art Initiative Grant, it will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Number five is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, city attorney regarding an extension of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Public School District 205 for police services.
 this will also be referred to finance and personnel number six is a memorandum from angela hammer city attorney regarding approval of the voluntary employee beneficiary association plan for the iaff members this will be referred to finance and personnel committee number seven is a memorandum from jennifer cachapaglia manager of the mayor's office of domestic violence and human trafficking
 Regarding the acceptance of the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority Restore, Reinvest, Renew, known as R3, grant award to be used to provide six additional staff to the Family Peace Center and continue the Family Peace Center services for the citizens of Rockford. This will refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And I believe that's it, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Thank you alderman frost Also, just a reminder to council you should have on your desk a traffic commission appointment for mr. Tom. Okita To serve a five-year term on the traffic commission. He's replacing a gentleman named. Mr. Fred learman Just of note fred has served our community
 incredibly well for now 50 years. And so it will be certainly honoring Fred, as I know a number of you would like to do. So with that, we will move to new committee reports. And under new committee reports, we have nothing under planning and development. So we'll move to code and regulation, Alderman Beach. Thank you again, Your Honor. Under 5B, number one,
 committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish the 20 mile per hour speed zone limit on clover avenue from montague street to lincoln number two committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish the 20 mile per hour speed zone limit on rose avenue from montague street to lincoln avenue number three committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission recommendation of no action on the following items and you can see those here
 A, B, C, and D. Will not read them. Number four, committee recommends to the zoning be approved for a special use permit for planned unit development for a shared parking lot for a multi-family complex and a single family residence in an R1 single family residential and an R4 multi-family zoning district at 1404 East State Street, 1416 East State Street, 119 Summit Street,
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Number five, committee recommends the Sania's EBA approval for a special use permit for a drive-through in conjunction with a bank in a C1 limited office zoning district at 1825 North Perryville Road from the First Midwest Group. Thank you.
 Number six, committee recommends extending the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the modification of the existing liquor license to serve liquor Friday through Sunday until 2 AM. And for the current 1 AM and to allow outdoor seating with the liquor sales in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C3 general commercial district at 3725 East State Street.
 Number seven, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for A, the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store, and B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in the C3 General Commercial District at 2837 11th Street. And that, again, is a subject to conditions. We place it up for passage, Your Honor.
 thank you alderman Beach so alderman we have seven items before you is uh there any discussion inside Council Chambers on those seven items alderman Hoffman curious about number six they want more video terminals where does that put us is this uh just a company that already existed in in
 going to come out the same or are these additional terminals and is it going to put us in trouble thank you director franson this request uh this current location does have vgts but the request does not concern those this is only for outdoor seating expanded uh hours okay so they're not asking for anything no thank you that is correct thank you any further discussion inside council chambers seeing no further discussion inside council chambers is there discussion online
 Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey? Thank you. With regard to number six, was there a change that was made to that one? I thought there was something worked out, maybe I'm thinking of a different one, where they agreed to keep the hours at 1 a.m.? I thought there was an amendment to this one. Director Franson? So the original staff recommendation was a denial of the expanded hours. However, the...
 ltab did grant the original request to expand to 2am any further questions online hearing none clerk could you please call the roll logan hi thunberg hi frost hervey uh no one six eye on the remainder thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones mcneely
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 10 ayes. Item 6, 8 ayes, 2 noes. Item 7, 9 ayes, 1 no on A. Thank you. So every one of those items passed, correct? Yes. Thank you.
 uh before i move forward i just want to make the announcement i need to make every week now uh due to covid19 we don't find it to be practical or prudent to have all aldermen inside council chambers so we are allowing some aldermen to be present and some to join us virtually
 So with that, we will move forward to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $8,151,182.75
 As approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on March 22, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockville, Illinois, to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note Series 2018 modification agreement in the amount of $12 million with the associated bank. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those two items before you.
 Thank you alderman frost. So there are two items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers first alderman? Alderman mcneely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor on item number two If staff could explain to us What the loan is for director Haggerty? Oh
 This is simply our, it's our line of credit. This is just our annual renewal of that. We have not accessed the line of credit for our own cash flow purposes in several years. If you recall, it was put in place in 2008, and we have attempted to just maintain a balance, or maintain an open line of credit in the event that we need to access it, sort of emergency purposes. There's no cost to us to have access to it. There's no charge for non-use.
 Additionally, if you recall, Council allowed Rave access to that line of credit as well to help cover some operating shortfalls when the pandemic began. So we're holding a balance open on the line of credit right now that's associated with Rave that they're paying back over time. Is there a need for funds from this? Not for our purposes, no.
 mainly for it's right or any other it's a it's a it's for emergency purposes only and you know in in the event that we have some sort of you know 2008
 the cash balance declined very quickly and it was difficult at that point to obtain the line of credit. So we want to maintain access to it in good times so that it's there in the event that we have bad times. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Good questions. Any further discussion inside Council Chambers? Any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie aye Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach You known as all right McNeely. All right Ten eyes excellent. Thank you Next we will move to motions and resolutions and we have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Beach I think yes, sir
 under b number one committee recommends approval of the conducting derby party saturday may 1st and sunday may 2nd from 9 a.m to 9 p.m the parking lot of don carter lanes at 4007 each state number two the approval of miracle mile cruise and car show uh saturday may 29th from 8 a.m to 5 p.m in the parking lot of don carter lanes located at 407 east state street
 Number three, the Memorial Day Parade and I-DOT resolution. This is scheduled for May 31st from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. The parade will start at 7th Street and 5th Avenue and ending at Memorial Hall on the Wyman Street side. Number four, approval of LifeScape 4th July 8K Walk.
 This event will be Sunday, July 4th from 6 a.m. to 10.30 a.m. The run will begin and end at North Madison at Lower Jefferson Street, utilizing the Rock River Recreational Path. Number five, the Fourth of July Parade and Fireworks in Ida Resolution. This event is scheduled for Sunday, July 4th from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. The parade will begin at 5 p.m. and the fireworks show will begin at 9.30 a.m.
 The parade will begin at 7th Street and 5th Avenue, ending at Chestnut and 1 at Bagel Street. The fireworks show will be launched from the Commonwealth Edison property, which is adjacent to Fordham Dam. Number six, the block five trucks in Tunes' 4th of July celebration, which is scheduled for Sunday, July 4th from 3 to 10 p.m. at the corner of Walnut and North 2nd, which is the Old City body lot. These six will be placed for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So we have six items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those six items? No discussion inside council chambers. Is there any discussion online on any of those six items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee, do you want to? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Aye. Cook?
 McNeely 11 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, your honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition group 17 in Northern Illinois service. In the amount of $89,142 for the demolition of various properties. The funding source is a community development block grant.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for asbestos abatement at the Rockford Watch Factory and roofing materials to Hauser Abatement of Franklin Park in the amount of $77,000 for asbestos abatement of the interior of the building and to Dynamic Contracting Services of Geneva for abatement of asbestos containing roofing materials in the amount of $34,930. The funding source is the United States Environmental Protection Agency Cleanup Grant.
 Number 3, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Christina street reconstruction phase 2 to Northern service company. Of rock for the amount of 536,879 dollars and 8 cents. The project is estimated to be completed by July 30, 2021. The funding sources sales tax number 4, the committee recommends approval. Of the award of engineering agreement for the Parkview sidewalk phase 2, designed a fair gram of rock for the amount of 59,250 dollars.
 The contract is estimated to be completed in 2021. The funding sources, the motor fuel tax funds number 5, the committee recommends approval of the supplemental resolution. For improvement under the only highway code, which requires council authorization for the use of MFT. Funds for the design and construction engineering for Parkview Avenue, sidewalk, transportation, alternative.
 Program known as tap for an additional amount of 350,000 dollars in a total amended MFT authorization amount of 450,000 dollars. Number 6, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the seminary street bridge replacement over Keith creek. To HR green and mchenry in the amount of 221,917 dollars. The contract duration is 2021 and 2022. the funding sources, the state DCEO.
 an approximate amount of $44,383.40 and $177,533.60, which is approximately 80% of the cost utilizing the Federal Surface Transportation Bridge Replacement Funds, known as the STP-BR.
 Number 7, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for the Auburn street quarter. Study to Crawford Murphy until you have Rockford in the amount of 149,922 dollars. The contract duration is 2021 and 2022. The funding source is the motor fuel tax amount of 29,984 dollars and 40 cents in the statewide planning and research program known as in the amount of 119,937 dollars and 60 cents.
 Number eight the committee recommends approval of the resolution for improvement under the only highway code which requires City Council authorization For use of MFT funds for the Auburn Street corridor study in the amount of thirty thousand dollars and lastly number nine The committee recommends approval of the resolution to take bids for the water and street fleet vehicles Funding source is the water and street operating budgets. I placed those nine matters before you I
 Thank you alderman frost. Uh, we have nine items before us Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those nine items alderman mcneely? Thank you Mr. Mayor on item number eight What what is the area that the study is covering for auburn street from what street to what street? Thank you. Thank you director saunders
 Thank you, Mayor. Alderman McNeely, that's going to cover basically the west extent of the Rock River all the way to Springfield along Auburn Street. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, did you have a follow-up? I'm not sure I know where the west extent or...
 so basically right just west of of the um auburn street bridge that would be the beginning point and then extend all the way west to springfield that'll be the extent of that corridor study thank you thank you yeah thank you uh alderman thompson kelly thank you i have a question on item one um
 What criteria are we using or the same to establish the addresses? Are these addresses in partnership with the development or something from community black grant? What was the first word you said? What criteria? Yeah. You know, why does these address qualify to be demoed other than the ones that are on the demo list that has been there for quite some time? Thank you. Director Franzen? Is that better? Yeah. All right. Thank you.
 So these properties were ranked and met the criteria of the demo ranking system, regardless of the funding source being identified. In these cases, they were eligible for CDBG because they were not historic. They met our blight obligations and so we were able to utilize our budgeted funds of CDBG for this demo group. But they were ranked. These were not selected outside of our normal process.
 Could I possibly request that list, our demo list? Absolutely. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion inside council chambers? Alderman Frost. Thank you. With respect to number three, the Christina Street reconstruction phase two, how many phases are there to this reconstruction plan? Director Saunders. I will circle back with you, but I believe this is the final stage in that project. All right. Thank you. Any further discussion inside council chambers? Alderman Tunberg.
 thanks mayor on uh item four and uh five i just want to thank everyone for their work on this this is something that i uh inquired on my first year and
 and I'm glad to see this taking place on Parkview and I think it'll help improve the safety of all our pedestrians and especially the students at UIC and those individuals who utilize activities in Anderson Gardens so thank you very much because everyone was pretty much relegated to literally walking in the street before that so thanks to everyone for
 Their assistance on that. Thanks. Thank you. Is there any other discussion inside council chambers alderman Thompson? Kelly do you have any other questions? I Just only have a couple more weeks. I got a is there any discussion online? Yes, your honor alderman Hervey. Yeah with regard to item number one. Are there any commercial property? in that demolition group director Franson
 There are not. These are all residential properties. As you know, we do not have a formal commercial demolition program. We have brought commercial demolitions on a case-by-case basis with funding sources like TIF or grant opportunities, but we would identify those as such. Within this group, it's all residential properties. Thanks. Okay. I would like to ask again that we establish a formal funding stream
 There are some monies coming through for infrastructure improvements, and there are some other monies coming through. Some as a result of COVID, some as a result of some major, well, we hope major infrastructure bills coming through Congress. I think we should be ready and start to look at, you know, some of these things. They want you to be, quote, shovel-ready.
 I think we should have our commercial property ranked and ready to go if that is the case.
 so that we could maybe make some headway. Just like we have our current demolition list, I think we need to have a citywide commercial demo so that they're not emergencies and we're not just sitting here waiting. Maybe council would say we want to do at least two minor and one moderate cost commercial demolition each year, maybe $500,000 or something, because
 because we've got to start to make some some headway on those some of them are just terrible and they're real blight on the rest of the the neighborhood so i would request we talked about that at once if staff could put it up there and kick it around and see if it makes sense um the second question is on the
 Oh, I'm sorry. It's with regard to number two. And this is the asbestos abatement in, I think it was 2011 or 12, maybe a little after that. We did some extensive work with returning citizens, um,
 Ex-offenders and did some really great training in the Barbara Coleman complex for asbestos abatement. And I believe we had started to do some training in lead abatement.
 So we're giving all of this the best of abatement to outside companies. I only know of one or two in Rockford, and I can't remember whether Ironwood or Greenwood, whatever, bid on this one. But I would like to ask that we again go back and look at those people that we trained, and the feds came up with some additional resources.
 certification requirement in order to hire the people, the person doing the contracting or the hiring had to have some certification that none of the gentlemen had. I'd like to ask that we go back and look at that program. We did so much with it and then it just died. Maybe that's a pipe dream, but if any of those gentlemen are around, I would think that employment would be a good interdiction to the
 REPEAT OFFENSES. AND I KNOW, I FORGOT HER NAME. I THINK IT STARTS AT THE DEBIT RATE. IS IT DONAHU? MAYOR, DO YOU REMEMBER? IS IT MISS DONAHUE? ARE YOU REFERENCING TO VITA DONAHUE? NO. THE WOMAN WHO IS OVER THE RETURNING CITIZEN PROGRAM. I KNOW THEY STILL KEPT HER ON. MARLENA DOCKIN. DOCKIN. THANK YOU.
 on running sort of on fumes but if we have any of this training money any of the um marijuana money that would be an excellent use to go and get those gentlemen and see if we can meet whatever those requirements are we didn't have the money uh
 at that time. Actually, it was much later than 2011. I apologize. But at any rate, I would just like to ask that we formally do that. It just seems such a waste and all these outside companies are getting all this asbestos abatement. So that's all. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye.
 Frost, Hervey, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Aye, McNeely, 11 ayes. Excellent thank you. We'll move to new business. There is no planning and development item so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Beach. Thank you Your Honor.
 Number one is an ordinance establishing the 20 mile an hour speed limit from clover avenue from montague to lincoln avenue number two An ordinance established a 20 mile per hour speed limit on rose avenue from montague to lincoln avenue
 3. In Ordinance, approving the Special Use Permit for a planned unit development for a shared parking lot for a multi-block complex and a single-family residence in an R1 single-family residential and R4 multifamily zoning district at 1404 East State Street and 1416 East State Street and 119 Summit Street.
 4. In order to disapprove of the Special Use Permit for a drive-through in conjunction with the bank in a C1 limited office zoning district at 1825 North Perryville Road. 5. In order to disapprove of the modification of the existing liquor license to serve liquor Friday through Sunday until 2 a.m. from the current 1 a.m. and to allow outdoor seating. 6. In order to disapprove of the modification of the existing liquor license to serve liquor Friday through Sunday until 2 a.m. from the current 1 a.m. and to allow outdoor seating.
 with liquor sales in conjunction with the restaurant and video gaming terminals in the c3 great general commercial district at 3725 east state street number six is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station a convenience store in the c3 general commercial district at 2837 11th street
 Number seven North's approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and a c3 general commercial district At two eight three seven 11th Street. You're under these all are for passage tonight. Thank you alderman Beach So we have seven items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those seven items? Seeing none. Is there any discussion online? regarding those seven items
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. No, aye. Bogeman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on five, aye on the remainder. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Items one through four, 11 ayes. Item five, eight ayes, three nos. Item six.
 10 ayes, 1 no. Item 7, 11 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Kevin Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1 is an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockville to execute a loan agreement and taxable general obligation promissory note, also known as a line of credit, Series 2018 modification agreement in the amount of $12 million with Associated Bank. I place that one item before you.
 Thank you Alderman Frost. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on that one item? Seeing no discussion inside council chambers, is there any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey? Aye. Bogeman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Eleven ayes. Excellent.
 Next up, we have legislative and lobbying committee alderman frost. There's 1 matter. It is an ordinance approving the contract for lobbying services for 2021. With Zephyr government strategies in the amount of 10,000 dollars per month for a period of 1 year. And I would ask that we suspend rule 15 in this manner. We have a motion to suspend rule 15. is there a 2nd.
 We have a motion. Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion simply on the suspension of Rule 15 inside council chambers? Seeing none, is there any discussion on lying about suspending Rule 15? Hearing none, clerk could you please call the roll on the suspension of Rule 15? Durkee. Aye. Luegmann. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Bras. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. No. Ten ayes, one no. Excellent. Next up, we have one item before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on that one item? Seeing none, is there any discussion online? Yes, Your Honor. Alderman Hervey? Aye.
 oggman hervey when was the contract terminated and and by whom the previous one we had with um i can't think of the name of it now mcguire woods absolutely uh
 director nicholas myers here over here we sent an email to uh mcguire woods about a couple weeks ago maybe 10 days ago after mr cassidy mike cassidy had let us know that he was leaving his current uh job with mcguire woods and starting his own firm at zephyr we actually just signed the contract with mcguire woods i think in january or
 February, we felt comfortable doing that because he is taking over with him the individuals that were also his assistants on our account. In fact, since I've been here, I have not had any contact with anybody at McGuire Woods other than Michael Cassidy and Jeremy
 Duffy. Duffy, who does a lot of the legwork for him. We felt confident. We wanted to make sure we maintained the relationship with Mr. Cassidy, who's been the primary, I think sole lobbyist since we signed with McGuire Woods in 2009. I believe he's also, my understanding when I'm talking to him is this is a similar path for most of his other clients.
 Yeah, I wasn't questioning that. I would have done, you know, wanted to see this same outcome. I was just talking about the cancellation of the contract. I didn't remember it coming to city council or going through legislative and lobbying. That's what I was a little confused on. Do we need to do that as a formality? No, we were able to send them an email and they accepted the cancellation by email from me.
 And by signing this one, that would certainly signal council's intent to move forward with the cancellation and the approval of the new contract with Zephyr. Okay. So it was just done directly with McGuire-Woods, no timeframes or anything? Correct. It was effective April 1st. Okay. Thank you. Any further discussion online? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye.
 Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Ten ayes, one no. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have officers' reports. Just a couple of items. First,
 that I have for you. One is just a big thank you to Director Carl Franzen. This is now the second week. It's exciting and I'm getting to like it that I get to say thank you to Director Franzen for bringing more jobs and economic development to the community and just say thank you to Director Franzen as well as the entire Ingersoll team, from their employees to Chip Story, their CEO, for, you know,
 We had the opportunity to break ground this week on the northwest side of Rockford for the giant Magellan Telescope Project, which is 40,000 square feet, world's largest telescope. And I will just add two other things of interest. One, they also have built the world's largest 3D printer here in Rockford, and on site they have the world's second largest 3D printer. And the last thing I'd make note of is they are hiring
 They have openings for about 20 people right now, and just make everyone aware of that. Second item, our positivity rate is continuing to increase. It is now, I believe, at 6.6%. You couple that positivity rate with increases in hospitalizations as well as the severity of those being hospitalized.
 I just urge everyone, especially here on Council floor, to share the information about wearing a face covering, washing your hands, practicing social distancing, and registering for the vaccine, but also those at home. Please do what I just said and please get registered for the vaccine and when you are called for the vaccine, take the first available appointment.
 You can register for the vaccine at WCHD.org. And I just urge everyone, any of the vaccines that you're afforded, please do what you can to get vaccinated to protect yourself, protect your family, your friends and everyone else around you.
 Third item, tomorrow is election day, so I just want to say good luck to those who are in contested races here at Council floor and urge everyone at home to certainly get out and vote and have your voice heard. And the last thing is, I'm sorry, one of the last things is.
 As I mentioned, that increase of positivity rate in the pandemic, obviously the pandemic has just disrupted every single person's lifestyle, especially those
 who rent and or own rental properties. I want to say a big thank you to Director Aquanet Parham for the work that she did with so many other partners here in our city team, but also with Winnebago County for securing $8.3 million of rental assistance.
 That money can help our renters, but it also can help our landlords. And I think I mentioned this today at the press conference. I think there's this misconception that our landlords are some huge corporations. The vast majority of our landlords own just a handful of properties. And that is their living or that is their retirement. And so this is a huge deal and they've seen already more than 400,000
 renters, nearly 500, and more than 100 landlords already requesting assistance. So I'll just read these, and we can provide this to you. It's also been published out on our social media and the county's social media. But you can apply if you rent or you are a landlord within Winnebago County. If you are a household member qualified for unemployment or you experienced a loss in income since April 2020,
 April 2020 due to COVID-19. Or you make less than 80% of the median household income for a family of four, the necessary income level would be $55,700 or less. For a one-person household, that income level would be $39,000. And you are behind on utilities. You can simply go to the Winnebago County website,
 on quinnette do you remember that exact one so we can get people to yes it's rent help dot win coil dot us rent help dot win coil dot us yes and no www at the beginning because it's a sub domain so just rent help dot win coil dot us
 it's that easy but uh if you would just please push that out to all of your constituents really especially right now you have folks who are deciding you know do they get medicine food or do they pay their rent and now as we're approaching summer you have youth programs that people are determining what they can afford to put their children in and maybe making those decisions so please help us spread that word
 Last item I have is much more somber. We, over the weekend, here at the City of Rockford, lost a long-term City of Rockford employee. His name was Chad Vandray. He was one of our IT department's network engineers. He worked for the City of Rockford for 27 years and died, passed away tragically in a car accident.
 He has three boys and two of those boys were with him during that accident. Those two boys are doing fine now, but he certainly will have a huge loss in the lives of those three young boys and his entire family. But also, he played a significant role in a lot of different departments here at the City of Rockford, but certainly a huge role in the IT department.
 And so one, I'd ask that you keep him, his family, an extended family, as well as those who work so closely with him for years in our IT department and your thoughts and prayers. And also I just ask if we could have a brief moment of silence to honor Mr. Chad Vandrick. Thank you. Next, I'll turn it over to Alderman inside council chambers first for officers reports.
 OTHER MENORAHS. THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR. LIKE YOU'D MENTIONED WITH THE RENTAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM, I JUST WANTED TO MENTION I BROUGHT UP A STUDENT LOAN FORGIVENESS ISSUE FOR THE CITY OF ROCKFORD RESIDENTS ABOUT THREE OR FOUR WEEKS AGO AND RECEIVED A REALLY GREAT RESPONSE FROM THE CITY OF
 Sherry Bustos on what she's doing for area residents in her district and really looking forward to seeing where that information goes but I did want to share that Sherry did personally respond to that email and I think it's really awesome to have representatives that that do respond when when asked and I just wanted to share that with
 Local citizens on a separate item. I just want to also say thank you to Vicki Fogle who is the Nesna president over on the North End Square neighborhood association. She's working on two events. One of them being a dog walking event for May and another one, a plant exchange for local air residents in the ninth ward. So looking forward to those events and I'll be sharing that information when we have a final date for that.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. Alderman Hoffman? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to know if we are aware of any programs that help with mortgages. It's great that we're doing rent, but I haven't heard of anything that's helping with mortgages. Yes. So we have, over the last year, assisted with mortgages and rental assistance to the tune of a couple hundred thousand dollars. But at this time, I'll let Director Parham state. Thank you.
 alderman hoffman our office does have some resources um that are still available for mortgage holders again if they qualify um under those income limits i did hear on a call last week that potentially there may be some additional mortgage assistance coming um in some of the federal packages that are coming out but nothing nothing confirmed to the same extent that the other cares act funding that we recently seen around rental assistance
 Alderman McNeely Thank You mr. Mayor I received a call last week from one of my constituents who said that her landlord was Evicting people and still wanting them to sign for them to be able to get the rental assistance So where would they call to report such fraud first? I'll turn to director per him and then potentially director Myers I
 Yes, Alderman McNeeley. They can call our offices depending on which rental assistance program they were applying for and trying to get assistance. There are requirements that landlords agree not to evict under some of the programs that were existing prior to this one with the county. We have been working with the local county courts.
 With regards to that process and helping to ensure that folks who do have active eviction cases are able to apply for assistance if necessary. And the courts are aware of the assistance that's being offered in working with us on helping to ensure that people have that process.
 If that is the case, again, they could call our offices and we could potentially help them to advocate or navigate around that. I do know that Prairie State Legal Services is also offering services to folks who are facing eviction at this time as well. And then I defer to Director Meyer. Thank you.
 My understanding is there should be a process set in place right now that even if somebody files preliminary notices for an eviction, the case should not be filed and proceed to the circuit court if it's based solely on nonpayment of rent. There may be some landlords who are sort of sliding in nonpayment of rent issue.
 under the guise of some of the reason. But the courts are pretty good at catching that. So I would encourage anybody who's facing that to make sure that the court is aware of what's happening, what the issue is. But also, I believe there's an eviction help desk at the circuit court that can also speak to that gives free legal advice.
 and also would encourage anybody to reach out to prairie state legal services who's very uh very well informed of what the moratorium rules are would be able to assist anybody anybody they think needs assistance any further officers reports inside city council any officers reports online yes your honor alderman hervey
 I'm Harvey. Thank you. I want to let people know that the Rockford area plumbing, pipe fitting and refrigeration local 23, the joint apprenticeship committee is open for applications for their J. A. T. C. Joint apprenticeship and training committee.
 RECRUIT APPRENTICESHIP RECRUITMENT THAT'S GOING TO BEGIN MAY 17TH AND RUN THROUGH THERE'LL BE ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS MAY 17TH OF THIS YEAR THROUGH JANUARY 7TH OF 2022 AT THE JATC OFFICE AND THAT'S AT 4525 BOWING DRIVE UM
 Information will be online or you can give me a call. My number is on the city's website, 815-968-7682. There is a $20 non-refundable application fee check or money order. If that's an impediment to anyone, please contact me. We have a small cadre of people who are willing to...
 Get rid of that if people need money for lunch or something, the day of the apprenticeship, so that as much as we can, there's no barrier to people being able to go out there. The plumbers and pipefitters have really done a fantastic job of trying to reach out to the minority community.
 and just communities that traditionally have not participated in these apprenticeships. So if you're interested, just get in touch with me, and we'll do whatever we can to take you through. So I just wanted to make sure people were aware of that. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Any other reports online? No.
 Hearing none, before I ask for a motion to adjourn, does anyone want to talk about anything? Just because I know Administrator Cagnoni does not want to get home and watch this basketball game tonight. Is there a motion to adjourn? Is there a second? So moved. Is there a second? We have a motion, we have a second. Anyone want to have any discussion? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. No. Logerman. Yes, aye. Alderman Logerman.
 Tumber? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? 11 aye. Have a wonderful night. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website.