Chaz, you there? Can't hear you. Hello? Can you hear me now? Yep. Okay, Sturkey. Hi, here. Jeff Berini. Here. Timber. Here. Ross. Irby. Irvin. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Me or not. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Present. Beach. Here.
 Oh, there he is. Monette? Copy, you there? Sure. Here. Wonderful. So we have a quorum. We'll go to new business. We have one item under finance and personnel. Alderman Frost, do you mind if I just read this real quick?
 All right, I'll just read this approval of a sub award agreement with the Youth Services Network as part of the Illinois Heals Helping Everyone Access Link Systems grant from the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Authority, also known as ICJ. The proposed sub award with YSN is $87,132.40. As part of the grant award, YSN provides $35,360 in cost match.
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance any discussion on that item please raise your hand or unmute yourself if you have any discussion
 Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Kerkey? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Timber? Aye. Ross? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Rubin? Aye. Johnson-Kelly? Aye. Did you hear me? Yep, we got you. Okay. Hoffman? You keep blinking out. Hoffman? Hoffman? Aye. Kemp? Aye. Kemp?
 Did you call Rose? I did. Okay. All right. Sorry. That's all right. Beach. All right. Donut. All right. Really. Pro-bite. All right.
 Excellent. I'm going to come back to Officer's reports and go directly to the new business ordinance citizen via one item.
 at the same item i just read which is an ordinance approving a simple word agreement with youth services network as part of the illinois heels helping everyone else has linked systems grant from the illinois criminal justice information that we need the proposed award with ysn in the amount of eighty seven thousand one hundred thirty two dollars forty cents as part of this grand award ysn ysn provides thirty five thousand three hundred sixty dollars and cost match is there any discussion on that item
 No discussion. Could you please call the roll? Aye. Jeff Green. Aye. Humbert. Aye. Ross. Aye. Irving. Aye. Irving. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Kite. Aye. Kite. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. So that item moves forward or is passed. Sorry. First, we'll just go around the horn here. Maybe that's easiest. Alderman Durkee, any officers' reports? No, I know we're all going to comment on...
 John Beck's passing, and I think most of us will probably come and say quite a bit of the same things. You know, as all of us, I'll really miss him. He was great, just great. And I think overall that's a tremendous quality, just friendly, pragmatic guy.
 guy who loved the city, and I really liked meeting at Della Italia, sitting and talking with him. One of my favorite things to do on Monday night was to hang out and talk. But when I, as I, you know, contemplated, you know, his death, we all know he was quite remarkable for overcoming his handicap, but at the same time, well, I...
 He went through life with such grace and dignity and efficiency that you barely noticed it, except when he ran over your foot with his wheelchair when you got in his way, which if that ever happened to you, if you got in his way, it hurt a little bit. So you learn if he was on a mission, stay out of his way. But it's quite remarkable that we would consider him physically handicapped
 I never thought of him that way. I just didn't, just because the way he lived his life. And quite a testament to what he was able to accomplish. Quite a remarkable man. And I will miss him. Thank you, Tim. Alderman Gasperini.
 Thank you, Mayor. You know, I've known John a long time. I didn't get a chance to work with him until this year, obviously. But he was a very welcoming person and a very nice man. Welcoming with open arms was always, always nice to me. We can call any time, and I appreciate him. And my condolences to the family to lose a husband or a father or a friend of his life.
 Difficult time. So I just want to thank him and his family for who he was. Thanks, guys. Thank you. And Alderman Toomber.
 Thank you, Mayor. Yeah, I was able to get to know John better, obviously, three years ago, getting on council. You know, we worked and conversed together with our wards, butting up to each other. And so he's always just a stand-up person. And I just, I feel for his family and I think, you know, not just...
 Us alderman and the staff that are going to feel this loss, but especially his constituents. And I know they had very good things to say about him always. So we'll miss him. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. My condolences go out to John.
 entire family, his wife, his parents, and any other family that he had, and also to all of his friends and co-workers. Alderman Durkee said it best. I've known John since being an alderman, and at times he was so adept that you forgot that sometimes he was in a wheelchair or he had a handicap because he plowed through everything. As an alderman,
 John was so level-headed. John represented, you know, and cared for his ward. But more importantly than that, John always cared and was concerned for all residents of Rockford, no matter where they lived, no matter what they came from, no matter what their circumstances were. And obviously he was an advocate before when he worked for the ramp and he continued on with the park district and advocating quietly
 but certainly for people with disabilities. And he did that with great courage and honor. John wore many hats, you know, and he was more than an alderman as it's been reported in the paper. He was a great employee and advocate for the Rockford Park District and for all the people that John served, like I said, not just as an alderman, but for the park district as well. He'll be greatly missed there.
 JOHN ALSO WAS INVOLVED IN THE COSMOS. I DON'T KNOW ABOUT THE REST OF YOU, BUT HE HIT ME UP EVERY YEAR TO BUY THE BLANCETTAS. HE WAS A GREAT SAILMENT AT THAT. HE WOULD SOMETIMES GO AROUND MY BACK AND FIND WAYS. THE NEXT TIME I WOULD HAVE THE DELIVERY MADE. HE WAS GREAT AND CARING AND DOING GREAT WORK THROUGHOUT THE CITY IN SO MANY WAYS.
 God bless you, John, you'll be craving this in city council when we're able to return. Certainly. Alderman Hogan, we're gonna unmute you. There you go.
 I'm going to have to follow with Alderman Frost with regard to John. Despite his own challenges, I always said John had an injury rather than a disability. It just didn't stop him. It just didn't get in his way. Most people, I think, do as much as they can. Having a full-time job that they're very good at that takes a lot of time and a lot of commitment would have been enough, but...
 as Alderman Frost said, John went around doing fundraising. I can't remember the group that he did the calendar for, but he sold calendars. And,
 John, I'm going to have to figure out how to buy Christmas gifts again because I gave everybody poinsettias. I would order five, seven, eight poinsettias and go around and deliver them to everybody and that was their Christmas gift and everybody loved them. And that was for the Cosmopolitan Club that he did that for.
 But John, a lot of people forget, was with RAMP. I didn't know it was for 22 years until I saw it in the newspaper. Twenty-two years, he was an advocate for people who had suffered some kind of injury or a cognitive or physical challenge at birth and was a strong advocate. Okay.
 He had, I believe, I don't know if you call it a dock or a ramp built for people so that people who are wheelchair, needed wheelchair accessibilities could fish. And I can't remember if that was at Leavings or at another lake. I think it was at Leavings. That's always what John was doing, looking for ways to expand other people's items. And as an advocate, he did it with tremendous grace and...
 camaraderie and that's hard for a lot of advocates and I can attest to that on my own part so he will dearly be missed and he was just an all around number one great guy thank you he really was Alderman Irvings
 Yes, thank you, Mayor. I have to say, I didn't know Alderman Beck much at all, actually, before, you know, council, and I can remember, you know, seeing him for the first time and thinking to myself, how did he make it on city council with this disadvantage? I know it was hard for me, and I'm like, you know, there's something special about this dude, and I'm
 I'm excited, you know, honestly, that I could say that I've been able to share this position with such an awesome man, you know. And I think, for one, I know for myself, you know, I want to live a life that's impactful, you know, not only, you know, to my family, but my community. And, you know, with all that, you know, most people would...
 used as an excuse or a crutch to not contribute or not do their part in society, you know, Beck went above and beyond. And, you know, I just hope that I'm able to do as much as he has done in his time spent here. And, you know, I just...
 Yeah. No, I'm not. I'm not sorrowful. You know, my heart does go out to the family, you know, but I'm extremely excited for Beck, to be honest with you, because this world has so many issues and too many problems for a man to fix. And I know that he went above and beyond and done more than what most have done. And we all deserve a time of rest. And so, yeah.
 I'm celebrating his reuniting with the Father is what it is. So, yeah. Alderman Thompson Kelly, are you there? Yes, I am. I'm not going to repeat everything that everyone has said, but the one thing that we're all gonna suffer is the history that John brought. Him and I started about the same time on City Council and he has been a founding board for me.
 But the history that he shared in this community, not only with RAM, you know, you're looking at over 40 years of service that he's provided this community. And I'd like to make a request, Your Honor, that we at least fly our Rockford flag half-mast in honor of John.
 So thank you and we're actually flying all of our flags at half staff right now and we have been reached out to by a couple of people wondering if we have authority to do so just briefly we do and I have reached out to the governor's office so we're all legal in doing it and I think certainly most respectful of a great guy who gave a ton to our community not just us all so thank you all the way Thompson Kelly.
 Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I didn't know John very long and I didn't get to work with him a lot, but what he will always be remembered for in my ward
 is his tethering law and his compassion for animals. They're still talking about it and it's still important. And so for me, his kindness, and we've heard all about his compassion for people, but what we've forgotten is his compassion for animals. And as a rescuer myself, that's important. So he will always be remembered for what he did for dogs and it was important.
 Thank you. Alderman Rush. It's hard to put words into a few minute kind of speech with John and what he's accomplished for our city. I have the utmost respect for him being a freshman kind of alderman. John was a servant leader. He was involved for all the right reasons.
 and none of the wrong ones.
 I think the paper did a really wonderful story on his life and what he's accomplished as not just an alderman but as a human being. I hope someday that, you know, if I have kids or, you know, I take my family out to a park that the park district would consider naming a park or doing something, you know, that
 you know, big for John because of the work that he's carried with that organization. Just there's no one that even comes remotely close to what he's done for people with disabilities. And like many of the aldermen have said, like, you wouldn't even know John had a disability. I mean, it was like the exact opposite. And...
 One of the funniest guys, too, that you get to work with, you know, going up to meetings with the mayor and the heads of the different committees. And John was at those meetings. He always came in with a joke. And it actually lightened the mood for us. It actually allowed us to get much more work done because of that.
 THAT GOOD, FRESH FEELING THAT WE WERE ALL IN THIS TOGETHER AND WE'RE TRYING TO DO OUR BEST FOR THE CITIZENS OF ROCKFORD. AND JOHN BROUGHT THAT TO THE TABLE EVERYWHERE HE WENT. AND I HOPE THAT ALL OF US LOOK TO HIS LEADERSHIP AND WHAT HE DID TO BRING PEOPLE TOGETHER. JUST IT'S A GREAT THING.
 it's a huge loss for our community and at the same time i'm um like alderman urban said up i'm glad he's at peace and um i'm sure i'll have a few scotches for him uh in celebration of his life thank you uh alderman beach uh thank you uh your honor
 I had the occasion this morning to speak to his wife and through a broken heart she still wanted to let us know how much John loves being an alderman and serving with this council. I knew John quite well through his music in the park and through snow sculpting. He really loved those events.
 especially music in the park. All summer long, people could come out. He'd always say to me, you think they enjoyed it tonight, Frank? And something like that. It's wonderful that he just didn't do the job. He put his heart into it because he loved people. I will miss John. Like Tim said, we had a lot of talks on Monday nights. John put true letters in his convictions. We will miss him. Bless his soul. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Quinonez? Yes, I knew John Beck before I got elected, and he always was there for me to give me guidance, which at that time I needed. And when I got elected, he came to me and still gave me guidance and asked if I needed any help to make sure I'd contact him. And we worked together and got things done in both our wards with each other's help.
 and his guidance. I'm going to really miss him and a lot of things that he's taught me how to do. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, it looks like you joined us. Yes, I have. Thank you. My prayers goes out to John's family and
 pushing them the very best and understanding that like some others have said this truly is a celebration of life as he moved forward to his next life so may god be with his family thank you thank you uh alderman shirely thank your honor you know everybody has said such beautiful things about our dear friend john
 And, you know, I've had the opportunity and the honor of sitting next to him since 2013. And I can tell everybody that he had a sense of humor on city council nights, unlike anybody I know. He would love for me to serve him every Monday night, getting him Fritos, get his water, turn his beaches, throw away his garbage. And I said one night...
 I said, John, am I here to serve you only? And he says, you got that right. And he was just an extraordinary man who knew the subject matter. He always was on cue. I went back this morning and looked at all my text messages from him. Usually was on a Monday night and telling me that I was not doing a good job or I was doing a good job or I was talking too much.
 or Tombird's talking too much, and, you know, send him a text, tell him to stop talking. Let's move these meetings forward. He would always just be constantly texting me about things going on in the community, and I'm going to miss that guy on Monday nights mostly. Today I went to the cover to get something for my wife and a bag of,
 Fritos fell on the floor and that was the first memory I had of John is getting his Fritos on a Monday night and helping him with that. So, you know, it's going to be very hard for all of us, but he was a dear friend and I'm going to miss him dearly. So my condolences to his wife, entire family and to our city council. We were very blessed to work with him. God rest his soul and we know we'll see him soon.
 thank you so uh i'll just close by saying uh i think alderman trellis right he had certainly a really funny sentence towards the end of my time as alderman i had already announced i was running for mayor and i said almost directly across from on my council and i started asking lots of questions and i'll just be honest i was being a total pain to the past administration and uh all
 back when we got done, he was looking at me the whole time, and when we got done, he was like, Tom, we know you're running from there. Just be quiet. We all want to go home. And so he was just the funniest, nicest guy, and we're certainly going to miss him as a city. So...
 uh, we certainly will pay him a very good tribute when we're back and being able to meet together. Uh, no, right now that, we do have his photo and a couple of pieces of memorabilia on his chair, uh, today inside council chambers. Uh, and, uh,
 uh we're working with the park district to see what else can be done to honor him uh and i think maybe it was uh alderman rose talking about a park i know they're already looking at potential opportunities they just want to make sure it's something nice enough to meet his stature um so we'll continue to work towards that uh with that being said is there a motion to adjourn
 your honor yeah before we do that could i ask us all uh for a moment of silence and stand for a moment in honor of john beck first if we sit for a moment in honor of john beck whatever you prefer you can stand thank you
 Thank you Alderman Frost. Thank you. So with that is there a motion to adjourn? Alderman Hurley moves to adjourn. Second. Alderman Jackson-Kelley. I have a second. Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Have a wonderful night and be healthy guys. Thank you. Bye bye.