begin with an invocation from Pastor Samuel Sarpea of Rockford Community Church. I invite you to pray with me. The God of creation, the God that oversees the affairs of men and women, we ask that even as this city council began tonight, that your presence and your wisdom would guide every decision that will be made here to the glory and honor of your name and for the good of the people of Rockford.
 Grant our leaders the wisdom as they serve this community and grant us citizens the willingness to follow and to encourage and to serve. Thank you because we know you can do greater than what we can ever think or imagine because we ask all this through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen.
 Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Shirelli. 11 present. Thank you. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings. Okay, we have a motion and a second to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 2, 2018. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Item passes. Thank you.
 This evening we have a number of proclamations. And the first up we have is a week of the young child, and I believe Heidi Stocking and maybe some others are here as well. No? No, I'm not having it. Hi, how are you? Hey, what's up? I'll take a hug. Give it to me. Sure. I'll definitely take hugs. It's a Monday. I need as many hugs as I can get on a Monday. Thank you, sir. There you go. Thank you.
 So good luck to all the other proclamations. I don't know if it gets better or cuter than this.
 So I'll be getting with the proclamation. Whereas the Week of the Young Child, Rockford Collaboration, and other local organizations, in conjunction with the National Association for Education of Young Children, are celebrating the Week of the Young Child, April 16th through the 20th, 2018. And whereas these organizations are working to improve the learning opportunities, including early literacy programs that can provide a foundation of learning for children in Rockford, Illinois.
 Whereas teachers and others who make a difference in the lives of young children in Rockford, Illinois, deserve thanks and recognition. And whereas public policies that support early learning for all young children are crucial to the young children's future. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 16th through the 20th, 2018, Week of the Young Child. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 All right, well, we want to thank everyone for their support. This is the seventh year that we've celebrated with the Rockford community, and we've also had our Week of the Young Child Family Fun Fair, which we'd like to invite everyone out to this Saturday, April 21st, from 10 until 1.30. It's at Heartland Community Church. It is a free event open to the community.
 We welcome all children and families to come out. This year we have someone coming to do a bubble show, and then we also have a stew show, Be Kind, Be Positive, and Read. So he helps spread positivity within the Rockford community. So we hope to see you all out there. Thank you so much. Thank you. Loading me up. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Good to meet you guys.
 Okay, if anyone can top it it's Joan Sage with Comcast Cares Day. Ask them if they can come back up. How are you? Oh, sorry. Thank you. Good to see you. Okay. Whereas Comcast remains an active, committed, and engaged member of the Rockford community and supports the core American value of volunteerism through partnerships, grants, and volunteer activities that empower individuals and organized communities.
 Whereas Comcast Cares Day is a celebration of service and commitment to year-round volunteerism and has become the nation's largest single-day corporate volunteer effort that brings employees, families, friends, and community partners together for a common purpose and mission.
 Whereas Comcast is celebrating its 17th National Comcast Cares Day and has reached important milestones including 1 million volunteers and more than 5 million volunteer hours at 8,800 projects since Comcast Cares Day started in 2001.
 And whereas Comcast CareState promotes a spirit of corporate responsibility thanks to the hard work, dedication, and service of volunteers who will be taking part in the Fatherhood Encouragement Project Adopt-a-Block in Rockford at Washington Park Cleanup. Oh, and Washington Park Cleanup.
 and Northern Illinois Food Bank packaging on April 21st. And whereas the Comcast Cares Day projects are symbols of us renewing our connection to our community and to each other. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 21st, Comcast Cares Day. Would you like to share a little bit about the day with us? Thank you so much. Thank you, Mayor and Council and all guests.
 We are really excited. As the mayor said, this is our 17th year for Comcast Cares Day, and we will have our one millionth volunteer. We'll be working on Saturday, and I know the mayor's going to be at our Adopt-a-Block project, and
 And for those of you that are familiar with the fatherhood encouragement program, Dan Petrie's goal is to do one of these projects every month. So this will be the first one. We will be gathering at 8 o'clock in the morning at District 2 Police Station, and we will be going through the...
 the neighborhood cleaning up and from 830 until 12, we'll do a cleanup from 12 until two, there'll be a block party, we're gonna have a DJ with music. And we're gonna have a bouncy house, castle and all kinds of fun things. So we look forward to all of you coming and joining in one of those projects, you can see on your desk, there's a list of them as the mayor had mentioned.
 And one more thing, if I could add about our Internet Essentials Program, you each have a brochure about that. This is where low-income families can get Comcast $50 internet for $9.95 a month. If they need an installation, we do that free, which normally is $60.
 And if they need to buy a computer, they can get a very nice one for $149. So that's, if you can help us spread the word on that, we have connected over 3 million families with that program. So thank you very much for your time. Okay, next up we have Arbor Day. And some of our very own, Mitch Leatherby, our street superintendent, and Taylor Hennelly, street maintenance and forestry supervisor. Good to see you.
 Whereas, on January 4, 1872, Jay Sterling Norton proposed a tree planting event to be called Arbor Day, and in his words, other holidays proposed upon the past, and Arbor Day proposes for the future. And whereas, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world. And whereas, trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of our business areas, and beautify our community.
 And whereas trees can reduce erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide a habitat for wildlife. And whereas trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal. And whereas Rockford is a recipient of the 2017 Tree City USA in Growth Award,
 from the National Arbor Day Foundation. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Friday, April 27th, Arbor Day. Mitch, would you like to share a few words with us? Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I just want to say thanks to everybody for your continued support for our forestry program and our urban forestry operations that we have for the City of Rockford here.
 The City of Rockford's been a part of the Tree City USA program, part of the Arbor Day Foundation for 25 plus years. So 2017 was another year. We hope to continue that year after year from this point moving forward. So our urban forestry program consists of roughly 50,000 trees on the inventory, trees between the sidewalk and the curb.
 Mr. Taylor Henley here is our forestry supervisor that maintains those trees, or his group maintains those trees. They do a very good job. So thank you very much for your support. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Appreciate it. Taylor wanted to say something real quick. Next up, we have Neurofibromytosis Month with Aaron and Cash Carter and others. Awesome. Good to meet you. This is Cash. Cash, you look awesome today.
 Hi, how are you? How cute are you? Hi, John. Hi. Hi, Aaron. Nice to meet you. You guys look really good. Intimidating.
 Whereas the Children's Tumor Foundation is observing May 17, 2018 as World Neurofibromatosis Awareness Day to educate the public about this rare genetic disorder. And whereas, although over 2 million people around the world are living with the NF and one in every 3,000 births is diagnosed with NF, it is still relatively unknown to the public.
 And whereas NF causes tumors to grow on nerves throughout the body and also can affect development of the brain, cardiovascular system, bones, and skin. And whereas the Children's Tumor Foundation leads efforts to promote and financially sponsor world-class medical research aimed at finding effective treatments and ultimately a cure for NF.
 And whereas the Children's Tumor Foundation works to improve access to quality patient health care through its national NF clinic network. And whereas Children's Tumor provides patient and family support through its information resources, youth programs, and local chapter activities. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2018 to be neurofibromatosis month.
 I like that you added NF for me, though. I appreciate it. Would you like to share a few words? Yes, I would. Thank you. I just want to say thank you to your office for supporting this proclamation. I think it's very important that people know what NF is, neurofibromatosis for the long word. Thank you.
 It's just for it is the most common genetic condition and most everyone has never heard of it So it's just raising awareness for this condition is extremely important to finding a cure because as of right now there is no cure so Cash my five-year-old is living with it daily. So this is a very important cause for us So thank you for your support for this
 Thank you both for all your work. Really appreciate your advocacy. Next up, we have petitions and communications, and I believe there's one item on the legislative and lobbying agenda. Alderman Thompson-Keller. Yes, Your Honor. There's a refer that I'd like to refer to the legislative and lobbying for our consultant Woods lobbyist contract. I'd like to refer that to the next legislative and lobbying, which is April 23rd. Thank you, Alderman.
 Next up we have alderman Durkee for planning and development Thank you honor. There's four items from planning develop to planning development a memorandum from Mark Williams economic development manager regarding the development agreement between the city of Rockford and UEP Jefferson LLC for the redevelopment of 327 West Jefferson Street into a mixed-use building
 This will be referred to planning development. There's a memorandum for Mark Williams, economic development manager regarding development agreement between the city of Rockford and UEP. Jefferson 3 0, 1 LLC for the redevelopment of a new mixed use building at 301 South Main Street.
 Which is the Hanley building this is referred to planning and development memorandum from Mark Williams economic development manager regarding development agreement between the city of Rockford and UEP investments one LLC for the redevelopment of 321 West State Street it's a Talcott building into a mixed-use residential commercial building and
 This will be referred to planning development. And finally, a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, regarding a ground lease agreement with the Rockford Solar LLC or Trajectory Energy to develop and operate a solar farm on the city-owned Horstman Quarry property located at 1166 North Horstman Street. This will also be referred to planning development.
 Thank you alderman Durkee. Next up we have alderman Shirely for codes and regulations. Thank you your honor. First and second item are the zoning board of appeals agenda and the liquor and tobacco advisory board agendas for April 17, 2018 and the minutes from both those meetings for consideration at the code and regulations committee meeting on April 23, 2018.
 Third item is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn the assistant city attorney regarding the nuisance business businesses ordinance amendments
 The fourth is a memorandum, again from LaFakeria Vaughn, regarding the annexation of 1515 Valencia Drive, connection to City Water. The fifth is a memorandum from Michael Hackenson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding the proposed sale of 327 Foster Avenue. The sixth is a memorandum from Michael Hackenson regarding an amendment to the vacation ordinance.
 2016-73-0 for the right of way on the south side of Ford Avenue adjacent to 2500 Church Street.
 The seventh is a memorandum from Kelly Nopes, the deputy operations manager regarding the upcoming special events which include Memorial Day Parade, Fast Friday's 5K run series in the Main Street District Block Party. The eighth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the zoning and land use administrator regarding the plat number two of Israel of God's Church subdivision. The ninth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla again regarding the plat of Eastman Vacation and Dedication, the UW Swedish American Hospital.
 The 10th is a memorandum, again, from Scott Capovilla regarding the right-of-way dedication plat South Main and Cedar. The 11th is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, our legal director, regarding the proposed amendment to the City of Rockford's residency policy to require new employees to live within the City of Rockford except as set forth within the collective bargaining agreements. All those items will be referred to codes and regs, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman. Next up, we have Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. The first matter will be held out. Number two is a memorandum from George Davis, Director of Human Services, regarding an agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township for emergency rental funding, as we refer to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number three is a memorandum from Mark Stockman.
 Director of Public Works regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Township for the 2018 residential resurfacing projects. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee as well. Next is a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Finance Director, regarding the associated bank line of credit. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 And then fifth is, additionally, will be a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Water Superintendent, regarding an intergovernmental agreement for consolidation of environmental lab services with the Winnebago County Health Department. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. And lastly is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a request for exception to the fine reduction policy, reduction of fine at 1303 15th Avenue. And this matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frumms.
 Next up, we have public speakers. I'd remind all public speakers that you have three minutes. First public speaker that we have is Brandon Currie.
 Good evening, everyone. My name is Brandon Curry, and I'm a senior at East High School. More importantly, I am the business manager of East Highlight Student Newspaper, and I come here today to ask you and the council and all those participating if anyone would be interested in purchasing an ad to be printed in our school newspaper. It supports the education at your local high school, and funds go to sustaining our newspaper year-long. It supports... Oh, sorry about that.
 While also providing an affordable marketing strategy for local businesses. Getting an ad kind of gives everybody a help in the community.
 it costs roughly two thousand dollars to print the newspaper year long and the school actually doesn't fund us at all so everything we do and that is contented on the school newspaper and website is self-funded we are also willing to take donations and greatly appreciate it thank you all for your time and having and having me here today um if you're interested i have flyers and newspaper ads and you can be contacting our directly to our teacher brittany glenn and i have all of their information thank you
 Thank you, Brandon. If you'd provide that to Alderman Beach, it would be wonderful. Yes, I will. Thank you so much. Thanks so much for coming, Brandon. Next public speaker we have this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNamara, our aldermen, alderwomen, and citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Dear Lord, help me every single morning to find faith in the midst of chaos. Give me the desire and ability to see you, hear you, talk to you, and give thanks to you. And as I do, I pray that I will draw nearer and nearer to you and that my faith will multiply exponentially. As I understand in new deeper ways that you are everything and every hope you would be and so much more.
 I have faith in you. Last week in history, on April 11, 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law the Civil Rights Act of 1968, expanding an early civil rights legislation through a provision for equal housing signed only seven days after Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was assassinated. The landmark, also known as the Fair Housing Act, provided for equal housing opportunity regardless of race, color, or nationality.
 religion, sex, disability, family status, or national origins. The day that the 19th Civil Rights Act was passed would certainly go down as one of the most monumental in the civil rights struggle of 1960. That was 50 years ago.
 Last week we talked about the government, we talked about Rockford Police, RHA building a relation with the community. What happened to the CompStat meeting we used to have, the Rockstat meeting, and the transparency that the Rockford City government is supposed to have with the community? As a duty elected precinct committeeman and precinct captain, a lot of people here in Rockford ask me that question.
 So, I come before you to tell you some of the things that I have been informed in these streets. So stop hating the messenger and ask how we can work out our differences. Well, we just got over the city of Rockford general primary election on March the 20th.
 During the primary election the past month, going from door to door each day, seeing 60 to over 100 people today, some of the biggest things they talked about was deep mistrust of the government. You only see them during elections, and once the election is over with, you do not see them anymore. They make a lot of false promises that they don't keep. Some of the people in the government cater to special interests.
 group. A lot of people feel that they vote do not count. We used to have a constant meeting every month with the last chief of police. With the new chief of police, we do not have that anymore. We used to have a rock stat meeting every month with the city government body. Here we are going into our fourth month of the year, no rock stat meeting. So where's the next rock stat meeting going to be? The city government police department, RACA, just
 talk about transparency. However, there is very little transparency. Our system always want us to talk about what our concerns are and when we tell them they do one thing or another and just to name a few let's talk about our white privilege. Anytime they say something or do something they can lie just like Donald Trump and they think everything is okay. Take for one let's talk this takes forever let's go back to you like for example some of the workers thank you John
 Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the 16th chapter, the third verse, it says, Commit to the law whatever you do, and your plans will succeed. What I want to speak about tonight in four letters, why people are leaving Rockford, Chicago, and Illinois. J-O-B-S, jobs. Why didn't Metropolitan Dallas gain 146,238 residents last year, while the Chicago area lost 13,286 people?
 Don't say the weather, it's jobs. The promise of a solid paycheck would cover the cost of hats and menswear you hauled rental to Texas. Good paying jobs are everything. The Texas economy is boom. Illinois is sort of getting by. You want numbers? I got numbers for you. Over the past year, Texas employment grew 2.3 percent, while Illinois' employment grew 0.8 percent. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, that's 285,200 new jobs in Texas versus 48,007 jobs in the other.
 understand yet. This is one of the best periods of recent United States history to look for employment. The national unemployment rate is 4.1 percent with a record high 6.3 million job loans. The United States economy, I look, is bright, but Eleanor is doing just okay. Eleanor lags in hiring people. Its unemployment rate is 4.7 percent. For four years, the United
 years running. Illinois has lost residents. In 2017, Illinois lost a near 33,073 residents, dropping the state to six largest below Pennsylvania. Texas grew because good paying jobs and everything. And today's economy of how Illinois undercuts itself
 I focus on some stupid action by members of the Cook County Board, many of whom are forever complaining that their constituents deserve more job options. There are plenty of differences between Texas and the other, but the one I focus on is business friendly. Pound for pound, Chicago may be able to outshine Dallas as a global business, which is why Amazon is looking at both cities for a second headquarters, but Texas with low taxes, low
 business fees and low regulatory burdens and a functional government is inviting to implore us. Eleanor is not. I spoke many times about Eleanor. It's rooted in political dysfunction and corruption and a lack of respect for the people who own business. Executives, entrepreneurs, investors want to play by the rules, not get strangled by them. They don't want to get fleeced by the tax authority and they want to know the rules and tax burdens won't be changed. They won't
 certainly. Amazon came up with a smart description for its idea of second headquarters location. The company is looking for a stable and business friendly environment and tax rate. My solution to this problem, everyone should be become more business friendly. Get rid of these dysfunctional and corrupt beliefs. Get rid of these stupid regulations that are killing business. Lower your tax rate, lower your business rates and the price of doing business. By doing this idea, more business will move and the business that's here will stay here. This will help
 bring more revenue now. This would help provide good paying jobs so people would stay. This would stop people from leaving now. This would help
 help keep your budget down and also help keep your firemen, policemen, and teachers and public pension down because you would be bringing in more wealth. This also would help reduce crime because people would be working because an idle mind and idle hands are the devil's workshop. I also want to say happy birthday. I'll see you next time. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Shirley Ann Brewer.
 good evening everybody my name is cheryl andrew and i thank the lord for being here yes what i'm what i'm speaking on here behalf today they think is that uh on behalf of 2429 vendor work where i was really a place to buy charter fatigue no in november 2017. okay everything was just perfect
 fine but all of a sudden when his grandkids had moved upstairs and everything overflowed the bathroom or whatever it was the water started coming down in the bedroom and everything then the ceiling caved in on my head. Can you imagine? Ceiling caved in and the bathroom wall caved in and the water just went everywhere and I was telling Charlie Petit about it and it seemed like he did not seem to care.
 And so the idea of anything, and so in January, in February, as I was trying to go down the back stairs and go catch the bus, okay, I slipped all the way down there, you know, 14 stairs to the sidewalk and the bus driver had to stop, you know, real fast and jump out of her car, yeah, fantasy the bus driver, yes, and jump. Because she thought I was dead because she said I hit my head so hard.
 But my legs and things still swole. And you could see them if you want to. Yeah, I was hospitalized and everything. And the car was in my heart and everything. Because Charlie Petit just don't want to do his work. And so Jim, the billing inspector man, and Owen Carter, I'm quite sure you know who I'm talking about. I got the recording on my cell phone. And so Owen Carter said he got in contact with Jim. And Jim, you know, told me, you know, to call him back. And when I called back, you know, the next thing I know the water was off.
 Charlie Petique owed over almost $1,000 water bill. Can you imagine? $1,000 water bill. And the idea is now, and so I've been, you know, getting on the bus daily and everything, never go back home till midnight. And then his grandkids upstairs locked me out. And then when the police would get there and everything, they'd make them open the door.
 Yes, they were locked the door to keep me out. And so Charlie, I've been keeping that, got the key, why I cannot get in there at all. And all my personal, my first coach and everything, and now I have to, you know, that way to church and everything. Because I need what's mine and my medicine and everything. You know, so that is wrong. But, you know, Owen Carter said he's been trying to get a condemned sign to go on that building ever since, you know, he talked to me the first time, you know, in December.
 when I ran from the health department came out December 29th. Yes,
 The idea of the house needed to be condemned. Because I got photographs on my CD, on my cell phone, you can see. Because when I went to the mayor's office and everything, the secretary, when she seen them all, she said that was a crime scene. They think, well like I said, it don't make no sense for nobody to rent no place to nobody. Where something got to cave in on your head. Bathroom wall have to cave in. Like I say, but God sees everything, but God knows what I'm telling is not a lie.
 but Charlie Petit is going around telling people I'm not paying no money. Thank you. Well, I'll speak to you next time. Thank you. God bless you. Like I said, what I mean. Thank you. Moving forward to new committee reports. We have Alderman Durkee for planning and development. Thank you, Your Honor.
 There are two items under Roman numeral 5A. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the Rockford Community Partners proposed budget and organization work plans, legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an amendment, the development agreement bind between the city of Rockford and Sugar Jones incorporated. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance in place was up for passage.
 Thank you. We have items before us this evening. Your Honor, this just in. We got this news flash. We're going to hold out number two. The sugar drone steal. We're going to hold that out from city staff. Thank you. Thank you. With the remaining items before us, is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. No.
 Ross? Aye. Urban? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Quinones? Chiarelli? Ten ayes, one no. Thank you. The item passes. Next up we have Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations.
 Alderman Frost. I'm sorry. If we could just go back for a moment to the petitions and communications under finance and personnel. There was an additional item that wasn't read in, and it was a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Water Superintendent, regarding the establishment of a private-led service line replacement known as the LSLR loan program. In this manner, shall be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 Next up, we have Alderman Turelli under new committee reports for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. The first committee recommends approval of the Platte No. 1 of Kishwaukee School Subdivision. The second committee recommends approval of the Platte No. 2 of Guilford Crossing Subdivision. The third committee recommends approval of the Platte No. 1 of Peary School Subdivision. The fourth committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code, Chapter 3, Article 1.
 Sections 3-63, change of location. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The fifth, committee recommends the approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford tobacco ordinance. Chapter 3, Article 2, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place those five items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman. So we have five items before us. Is there any discussion on the five items that we have before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Aye.
 Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Brost? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Chiarelli? 11 ayes. All items passed.
 Next up we have alderman frost for finance and personnel committee. Thank you. The first time is the number one The committee recommends the approval of vouchers the amount of four million two hundred and seventy two thousand six hundred and sixty nine dollars in Four cents as approved by the finance and personnel committee meeting on April 9th 2018
 The second matter is that the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the City of Belvedere for a citywide pavement markings paint project. The agreement is a three year with two one year renewals. The City of Belvedere shall reimburse the City of Rockford with full payment upon completion of the contract. The estimated cost of the City of Belvedere's responsibility each year is approximately $24,500. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the City of Cherry Valley for the citywide pavement markings paint project. The agreement is for three years with two one year renewals. The Village of Cherry Valley shall reimburse City of Rockford with full payment upon completion of the contract. The estimated cost of the Village of Cherry Valley's responsibility each year is $7,500. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the transfer of city-owned property located at 224 Foster Avenue to Ann Rivera and Savannah Pabon, eligible homebuyers for $25,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 number five the committee recommends approval of an agreement with the illinois environmental protection agency for an air monitoring station to be placed on the roof of the fire administration building located at 204 south first avenue the city legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six the committee recommends approval of the corrective action measures proposed to address a recent office of head start
 finding related to the Early Head Start Child Care Partnership Grant. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And lastly, the committee recommends an approval of a memorandum of understanding with resource innovations LLC for weatherization work under the income eligible qualifications. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place those matters before you. Thank you, Alderman. Is there a discussion on any of the seven items before us?
 Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes.
 We had a gentleman named George Zawzlak, and I'm probably mispronouncing that last name, who spent 31 years on our traffic commission pass away. And I just wanted to recognize him and tell his family that he and all of them are in our thoughts and prayers. Thirty-one years of service to any organization is impressive.
 But 31 years on our traffic commission is terribly impressive with the amount of work that they do on a monthly basis So when I recognize the passing of George
 Is there additional officers reports alderman Thompson Kelly? Thank you your honor First of all, I'd like to comment and I don't usually comment on public speaking, but I did have the opportunity to speak with mr Petit in regards to the complaints that was shared with us this evening I also want to share with you And I have the honor of representing you at a 100 birthday party the individual was 100 years old and
 And the amazing thing about it is her older sister was there. 101. 101. Wow. So the two of them, they do appreciate the fact of the proclamation that you did give them. And I do have a picture because Mrs. Simpson wants you to put her picture on your chest. So thank you very much for acknowledging them. Appreciate it. They share any secrets? I don't know. It's pretty doggone jeans. I don't know.
 In addition to all of the
 keep northern illinois beautiful cleanup efforts on april 28th across the neighborhoods in the second ward um we'll also be doing i call it the the great second ward cleanup this upcoming saturday from nine to noon i've put information out on on facebook and neighborhood organizations as well but anybody watching at home will be meeting at the bethesda church from 9 a.m to noon we'll do a another cleanup effort and between this weekend and next weekend second word's going to be looking mighty fine thank you
 Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to point out the thing. Going back a few months ago, Attorney Myers and Alderman Logerman and I worked very hard on a bill.
 massage establishment that was opening up and we came up with some I think everyone here really had a piece in that and So much so that I've heard other communities are contacting Rockford To to see how we had done that or the wordage and using it for their own communities. So along those lines, too. I
 Along with trafficking it was pointed out. I think very clear to us that this website Backpage
 was it was a culprit and I wanted to mention if some of you didn't read the opinion piece and those at home but I'd like to point out something I think it's very important for us as a community to know about this what is going to be happening and I just want to take out a few excerpts from this opinion piece so if you could bear with me for a moment
 On Wednesday, President Trump will sign into law the Stop Enabling Sex Traffickers Act, a bill designed to crack down on websites that knowingly facilitate the online sex trafficking of vulnerable persons, including underage boys and girls.
 The FBI just seized the website Backpage.com, which the Center for Missing and Exploited Children says is responsible for 73% of the 10,000 child sex trafficking reports it receives each year, and also arrested seven of its top executives. The act...
 faced a wall of opposition from Silicon Valley because it amended Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act, which gave blanket immunity to online entities that published third-party content from civil and criminal prosecution. Big Tech wanted to preserve that blanket immunity, even if it gave legal cover to websites that were using it to sell children for sex. Chief among the culprits was Google.
 who lobbied fiercely against the bill. I think that's absolutely horrendous, mind you. The bill allows sex trafficking victims now to sue the websites that facilitated the crimes against them and allows state law enforcement officials, not just the Justice Department, to prosecute websites that violate federal sex trafficking laws. So I think it's very important for our community to know this.
 um it's a it's something we're we're obviously taking very seriously uh mayor and in your office and i commend you for that um i want to commend those in washington because i think it's been very candidly pointed to us that this website backpage.com was responsible for a lot of things happening right here in our city
 And so not only to shut down that page, but to go after the schmucks that ran it. I commend all those involved. And I hope that due to this action that we will in Rockford see results happening in our favor. So thank you very much for everyone for allowing me to speak on this and taking the time to do so. Thanks, Mayor.
 Thank you. I hope that they get strong, lengthy sentences. Alderman Irvins. Thank you, Mayor.
 I just wanted to say I was excited to be able to be a part of, I'm excited to be able to be a part of Daniel and Petrie, the Fatherhood Encouragement Project and the Adopt-A-Block on April 21st. And we at the 6th Ward are looking to partner with Daniel. May 12th is the ideal date. Still haven't really got it set. But we'll be doing cleanup around the Orton Keys area, right across the street from there.
 If you'll be interested to get out and get involved do some cleanup in the sixth ward as well and awesome Thank you other officers reports alderman Shrella. Thank you your honor I just wanted to let everybody know that come at and NICOR offer a program online if you go to their websites and you can sign up for the comment and I core to come to your home and they will both do
 Selectively, whatever services they provide, ComEd will install new LED lights in the interior and in the exterior of their home, and NICOR has a similar program for their services. So I just want everyone to know that have your citizens and residents call or get online and register for that so we can get some new LED lights in their homes. Thank you. Thank you. Additional officers report.
 Okay. Seeing no further reports, we'll move on to appointments laid over. Before us this evening, we have an appointment of Cindy Green to the Community Action Advisory Board to serve a three-year term. We've waited pursuant to Rule 18, and this time has now come up, and it's up for passage this evening. So if there is not discussion on this item,
 Clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerke? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. Next up we have Alderman Chiarelli for codes and regulations under motions and resolutions. Yes, thank you, your honor.
 The first resolution is the YMCA Heritage Run for April 28th, Saturday, April 28th. Second is the Kentucky Derby Party, which is Friday, May 4th, and Saturday, May 5th. The third is the Rockford Public Schools 2.05 Fun Run for Saturday, May 26th. Fourth is the Miracle Mile Cruise and Car Show on May 26th. And the fifth is the 37th Annual Polish Festival on Sunday, August 19th.
 Place those up for passage. Thank you. We have five items before us for passage. Is there any discussion on the five items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Shirelli. Eleven ayes. Excellent. All those items pass. Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel.
 Number one is an award of bid for citywide sidewalk and AD repair package number one to Campos Construction of Rockford in the amount of $60,708.50. The funding source is sales tax. Number two is an award of bid to citywide sidewalk and AD repair package number two to Stenstrom Excavation and Blacktop of Rockford in the amount of $64,164.50. The funding source is sales tax. Number three is an award of bid.
 Demolition package group number one to Northern Illinois service of Rockford in the amount of $83,945. For the demolition, the property is located 2516 Young Street, 331 Willard Avenue, 424 Salter Avenue, 2615 Mulberry Street, 724 Linden Avenue.
 720 Linden Avenue, 925 Island Avenue, 1417 Andrew Street, and 127 North Henrietta Avenue. The funding source is the APP Abandoned Property Program and CDBG. Number four is a word of bid for the City Hall exterior restoration to Otto Baum of Morton, Illinois in the amount of $480,735. The funding source is the Property Fund.
 Number five is an award of bid to Gateway Landscaping for right-of-way mowing and landscape maintenance to Zion West Enterprise of Rockford for an estimated annual value of $32,606. The contract duration is one year with two additional one-year extensions. The funding source is the Street Division Operating Budget.
 Number six is an award of joint purchasing contract for the tree purchase to J Carlson growers of Rockford for an estimated value of $38,000 good mark nurseries of Wonder Lake, Illinois for an estimated value of $86,000 and Beaver Creek nursery of Poplar Grove, Illinois for estimated value of 39,000 the total estimated value is one hundred and sixty three thousand dollars the contract duration is one year and the funding source is sales tax and
 Number seven is award of RFP to the Employee Assistance Program to Cure Align LLC of Chicago for a contract amount of $1.25 per employee per month for an estimated annual amount of $15,225. The contract duration is three years with two one year extensions. The funding source is the health insurance fund.
 Number eight is a change order for Spring Creek Road resurfacing, which was originally awarded to Rock Road Companies of Janesville on July 17, 2017. And the amount of $1.4 million included in the memo is an information-only change order totaling $144,000.
 I'm sorry, $144,717.50, and this was necessary due to the suspension of work that was unforeseen during the bidding process. The proposed change order will require Council approval includes three additions to perform additional performance value to the project for an additional amount totaling $166,075 in a new total project cost of $1,793,414.86
 the funding source is sales tax and number nine is a word of bid for city-wide street repairs group one which is residential to rock road companies with jeansville wisconsin any amount of two million four hundred and forty seven thousand nine hundred and fifty two dollars and seventy three cents the funding source is the sales tax and of that amount rockford township will be responsible for forty thousand two hundred and seventy dollars and forty seven cents thank
 thank you alderman frost is there a discussion on the night items before us alderman beach thank you your honor on number four just an update on what uh is going to happen to the outside of our building director stockman
 thank you mayor alderman beach this is generally a tuck pointing process to make sure that the stonework on the portion of the building that is the oldest remains intact and that we don't have to have any issues later on with pieces of the cornices and the decorative elements falling off the building it's not at that danger stage right now but if we let it go much longer it would probably reach that
 mr stockman how long will that extend the life it's anticipated that this could uh last another 15 to 20 years by doing this all right it's not a temporary fix by any means all right thank you sir thank you very much thank you is there uh additional uh alderman tunberg thank you mayor i just wanted to point out just an fyi to uh to alderman and public that number nine the
 award to Rock Road Companies of Janesville, Wisconsin. The second lowest bidder was a Rockford company and they were within 5.8%, so about 80 basis points or eight-tenths of a percent of the winning bid. So I don't want to go into another committee's
 business on this but legislative and lobbying that just goes to show we are going to springfield to attempt to get the bidding process more in the favor for our taxpayers than what exists right now so this could have stood a eight tenths of a percent lower would have possibly kept this bid within a rockford company and employees that live within our community so thank you certainly thank you
 Other discussion? Seeing no further discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Move on by a hundred meters. Irvins. Thompson-Kelby. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Cirelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 11 ayes. Item 5, 10 ayes, 1 no, 6, 7, 8, 9, 11 ayes.
 All items pass. Alderman Thompson-Kelly for legislative and lobbying. For the legislative and lobbying approval and confirmation of certain items for the city legislative and lobbying efforts for the Illinois General Assembly. Thank you, Alderman. Thank you, Alderman. Is there further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Shirelli. Aye. Eleven Eyes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up is new business and planning and development, Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There is one item under Roman numeral 9A, number 1, an ordinance approving the Rockford Community Partners proposed budget and organization work plans. Place that up for passage. Number 2 was held up.
 Thank you. Is there a discussion on the item before us this evening? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee, Logeman, Toonberg, Frost, Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Chiarelli. Ten ayes, one no.
 Thank you. That item passes. Next up, we have codes and regulations. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Rule number 9B1 is an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Liquor Code, Chapter 3, Article 1, Sections 3 through 63, the change of location. The second is an ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Tobacco Ordinance, Chapter 3, Article 2. Place those two ordinances up for passage. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Is there a discussion on the ordinances before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk will you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Logman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Hoffman? Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Chiarelli? 11 ayes. Excellent. Those items are approved. Next up we have Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel.
 first time is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the city of belvedere for the city-wide pavement markings paint project the agreement is for three years with two one-year renewals
 The estimated cost to the city of Belvedere's responsibility each year is $24,500, the remainder for the city. Number two is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the city of Cherry Valley for a citywide pavement markings paint project. The agreement is also for three years with two one year renewals. The village of Cherry Valley will reimburse the city of Rockford for full payment, which should be approximately $7,500 per year.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the transfer of city owned property located at 224 Foster Avenue to Anna Rivera and Savannah Pabon, eligible home buyers for $25,000. Number four is an ordinance approving an agreement with the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency for an air monitoring station to be placed upon the roof.
 of the fire administration building located at 204 south first street number five is an ordinance approving the review and approval of the corrective action measures proposed to address recent office of head start finding related to an early head start child care partnership grant and number six is an ordinance approving a memorandum of understanding with resource innovations llc for weatherization work under the income eligible qualifications at this time those six items i have
 Present to you. Hey, is there any discussion on the six items before us items one through six? Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll on the items one through six turkey nogaman? Toomer frost I Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Kenona Shirely 11 eyes
 thank you those uh items one through six are approved alderman frost yes did you have something uh extra special for the group for everybody yes for everyone uh you know i'd make a motion this time to go into closed session to discuss the labor negotiation matter i need someone out there to give it a second thank you uh any discussion on that seen none clerk will you please call the roll turkey
 Logan, Tumberg, Ross, Irvins, Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Shirely, 11 ayes. At this time, we'll break for closed session. It's one of those nubby things. It goes on the back of your phone. I can show you. I know. I forgot. They should have.
 Toomber frost urban Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Shirely 11 present. Thank you alderman frost. Do you have a couple remaining items for finance before we get those items? I'd like to make a motion To suspend rule 15 so we can proceed with these two ordinances motion to suspend rule 15 in the second clerk, will you please call the roll I
 Turkey Logman Toomer all right frost. I urban's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Shirely 11 11 ice. Thank you. I placed before the council two items one is an ordinance approving the agreement with the PBPA number six for a two percent wage increase in 2018
 Number two is an ordinance approving a 2% general wage increase for non-union employees for 2018. Excellent. Is there a discussion on the two items before us this evening? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Chiarelli. Aye.
 Item number 7, 10 ayes, 1 no. I'm sorry. Item number 7, 11 ayes. Item number 8, 10 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Those items pass. Is there a motion to adjourn this evening? Second. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.