the wisdom to lead and to serve and grant the citizens the ability to uphold them and to support them in every direction that you've called them and led them into. We ask this in your holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Will you please call the roll?
 Durkee. Here. Getches. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Herbie. Here. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Eleven present. Thank you. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journals? And just for the record, these are two journals. The journal of April 3rd and the journal of April 10th. Is there a motion and a second to approve both of those?
 Any discussion, amendments, or changes? All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Journals shall be shown as approved. We have several speakers signed up for public speaking this evening. I want to remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Luke, the sixth chapter, the forty-first verse, it says, Strange that you see the splinter in your brother's eye, and do not notice the log in your own. What I want to speak about tonight, leaders in need of a self-examination. And the Lord sent Nathan to David, and when he came to him, he said to him, There were two men in a city. One was rich, the other poor.
 The rich man had everything. He had many sheep and oxen. But the poor man had nothing at all but one lamb, which he had bought and nourished up, and which had grown up in his house together with his children, eating of his bread and drinking of his cup, and sleeping in his bosom. And it was unto him as a daughter. And when a certain stranger came to the rich man, he spared a take of his own sheep and oxen to make a feast for that stranger who came to his house, but took the
 poor man's lamb and dress it for the stranger that came to his house and David's anger being exceedingly mad against that man he said to Nathan as the Lord live the man that did that to the poor man deserved death he shall restore the lamb fourfold because he did this thing and had no pity on the poor man and Nathan said to David you are that man
 Then Nathan proceeded to point out to David all the blessing the Lord had given to him. And yet how unjustly David had acted toward the poor man. In reading over these words of scripture, it would be well for each one of us to ask ourselves, am I like David? I want to say happy birthday to my oldest brother. He's 88 years old.
 He was a Montfort Point Marine. He did 11 years in the Marine Corps, 9 years in the United States Army with secular state justice. He was the first after-mayor commander of the 77th Division Homicide LAPD. I've been wanting to tell Alderman Beck this for a long time, but he's not here tonight.
 And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. And you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, my good friend. And I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family. I also want to congratulate my great-great-nephew. He'll be 35 December the 18th.
 He was the new Chief Master Sergeant in the Air Force and I'm proud of him. And I also want to congratulate Ms. Brandy Brown for winning a position on the school board. And I'm a little angry tonight and the reason why. They want to put the immigrants in jail, but if you study history, we all are immigrants. We all are immigrants. Why do they want the same thing that the people that came before us?
 They came here for the American dream, and then you're going to slap them in the face like that. And I don't like it. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Attorney Robert Lukasik. Many of you probably already know me by now. I'm the attorney that represents the residents of the Red Oak subdivision in opposition of the liquor application for 1620 North Bell School Road, which is on the agenda for tonight.
 As previously mentioned in various meetings I've spoken at with you guys, these neighbors are not anti-business. They simply want the city to do what was promised long ago. The property in question, which was previously zoned R1, was rezoned C1 with a PUD, which expressly requires the property to be developed responsibly and consistent with light office use.
 The neighbors have explained their concerns for not wanting gaming many times before. They're also worried that if you allow the liquor license tonight, even without gaming, that we'll be back here again soon. C1 light office zones do not generally allow restaurants, let alone bars or gaming. As an exception, the bakery was allowed to operate there, and that's where the slippery slope began.
 When the bakery closed, Vito's Fine Dining restaurant moved in there. Then Casina de Rosa moved in and currently operates as a bakery, cafe, and a restaurant. And then the business owner sought to expand that use to bakery, cafe, restaurant, bar, and gaming. Now she's apparently offering to take gaming off the table.
 As stated, the residents are not anti-business. They're very reasonable, so much so that they had me reach out to the applicant's attorney and propose a private covenant, a contract essentially, whereby they would not even oppose the liquor application, subject to certain reasonable restrictions like limiting hours to 9 p.m. and only serving beer and wine.
 in consideration for the business owner promising that she would not pursue gaming at this location, she would not sign that agreement. My question about that is why? Why not? If she's willing to not go with the gaming.
 Frankly, the neighbors are worried that the business owner is just continuing to play games, that the intent isn't to give up gaming, that the intent is for this incrementalism to continue so that she could just go after the gaming later. It's really what's been going on all along.
 The city decided to go the direction, not go the direction of a C2. The business owner then applied for a liquor license less than a year ago. City council had extensive discussion and weighing a policy on that and decided to decline that liquor application. Then she sued the city and lost. Now she's back again trying for a liquor application again.
 Again, our concern is that if she's sincere in her proposal, I think she's proposing, to make restrictions and not have the gaming, why wouldn't she just sign an agreement with the neighbors to that effect? I would suggest that if she is willing to do that, then lay this matter over and let us do that so that the neighbors can have closure. Otherwise, she can just come forward and ask for gaming again later.
 And that's why I ask you once again to protect these neighbors. I ask you to not subject them to the same process over and over again until the business owner and the building owner get what they want. I ask you to hear the repeated calls from your residents. I ask you to please support the decision that's already been made by city council and by the court, and we're asking you to deny the liquor application altogether and finally put this matter to a close. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Mr. John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our audience, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed.
 If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this through other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? Jesus told his disciples in the vineyard, the work is plentiful, but the workers are few. I'm going to talk about Donald Trump tonight. I'm going to save that for next week.
 But this week, there was no school today, so we joined the Rockford Police Department that hosts a kite for kids and fun and family friend opportunity for the kids to interact with the police and learn how to fly kites. This is first time for our youth and adults from Fairgrounds and Concord area to learn how to fly kites and take one home.
 especially some of our youth who have a very disliked towards the police officers. This is a time for them to unite. We want to thank our RHA van driver who made three trips to bring 27 youth and adults to this event. Plus, we want to thank the sponsors and the police department for making this day happen on Monday. Wednesday through Monday, the Renewal Turning Point Program and RHA Neighborhood Network has been out in the hood doing what we do best, not just talking but walking the walk,
 Hello, this is what we did on Thursday. We picked up a basketball team from Orton Keyes House area and took them to Washington Park Center for a game against Fairgrounds basketball team at 530. By the way, Fairgrounds won 63-60. What a great game. Also on that same day, we took a bunch of youth from the Fairgrounds to the YMCA.
 on that same day. Friday we went to Northwest Community Center to Rockford Easter Egg Hunt which is sponsored by the Rockford Motorcycle Club Mercy Hospital Crusader Clinic. We had two bands. Saturday was even a bigger day. We started out going to the library which we make sure I take them every Saturday. We also went to the Minishing Club performing arts at 12 noon at 1 30. We went to the North Loft Theater for Easter Egg pageant sponsored by the Rockford Community Church and others.
 Chastity's $5 donation at the door. We came with 36 youths and five adults, and our sponsors covered all of them. Sunday, we went to Community Easter Celebration, Freedom, a church without walls at the University of Illinois, Community of Madison. Guess what? They had activities for different children. Out of the 15 youth that we came with, five of our youth joined that church
 that they are choosing. So far this past few years we've visited a number of different churches and some of our youth and adults have joined the churches of their choice. Talk about Saturday Great America Cleanup at Fairgrounds and Ellis Heights. We're cleaning up our own neighborhood instead of waiting for somebody else to clean up our neighborhood. So we're going to take advantage of this day. Also coming up this Sunday we're going to Elgin for our All Basketball Clinic with
 We're sponsored by Rockford Housing Authority and Gorman Company. We want to thank Gorman for taking our, we've taken Orton Keys and Fairground Youth to Elgin this year, this year coming Sunday for a clinic. Thank you, Mr. Braylon. And thank you for letting me speak. And don't forget, Great American Cleanup, and we need y'all's support and sponsors because we need some food. Thank you.
 Thank you. I was told that our fourth speaker is not able to make it this evening, but I want to give a shout just in case. Is Mr. McCurdy here? I'm taking three minutes. Unfortunately, that's not – I have no authority. That's the City Council, maybe. Thank you to all of our speakers. Positions and communications. Alderman Shirely? Your Honor, I've got five items this evening. The first two items, I think, are
 One is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 18, 2017, as well as the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held April 18, 2017. And the meetings from those...
 The minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on April 24, 2017. The third item is a memorandum from LaFecurie Yvonne, the Assistant City Attorney, regarding the sale of city-owned vacant lot located at 5085 Browns Beach Road. The fourth item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding Platte No. 2 of Broadview Heights Subdivision.
 The fifth item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding upcoming special events, which include Churchill Grover Garage Sales, Shop the Blocks, Same Wind Riders Annual Pig Roast, and the River District 12. All those items will be referred to Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. That is to be referred. Thank you. Alderman Getschis. Thank you, Your Honor. Hi.
 I have Roman numeral 3, Charlie 135, a memorandum from Matt Bittner, Director of Public Works, City Engineer, regarding Cedar Street, South Main Street, to Court Street AT&T relocation, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from Matt Bittner, Director of Public Works, City Engineer, regarding Cedar Street, South Main Street, to Court Street Comcast relocation, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Memorandum from Matt Vittner, Director of Public Works, City Engineer, regarding Cedar Street, South Main Street, to Court Street application of the ComEd Rider LTC as funding source for relocation of overhead utilities. Referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from Matt Vittner, Director of Public Works, City Engineer, regarding intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Township for right-of-way maintenance. Referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from Vicki Manson.
 housing and program manager regarding abandoned residential property program corporate resolution for the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Manager. Are there further petitions and communications? Proclamations. We have three proclamations this evening. The first one is regarding Comcast CARES Day. I invite Amy Pettichini and others that may be here from Comcast to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Whereas Comcast remains an active, committed, and engaged member of the Rockford community, supporting the core American value of volunteerism through partnerships, grants, and volunteer activities, empowering individuals and organized communities. And whereas Comcast's CARES Day is a celebration of service and has become the nation's largest single-day corporate volunteer effort, bringing together employees, families, friends, and community partners for a common purpose and mission.
 Whereas Comcast is celebrating its 16th national Comcast Cares Day, and will reach an important milestone of 4 million volunteer hours and 700,000 volunteers since Comcast Cares Day started in 2001. Whereas Comcast Cares Day promotes a spirit of corporate responsibility,
 And thanks to the hard work, dedication and service of volunteers working at the Nicholas Conservatory and Gardens, Northern Illinois Food Pantry and the Rockford Rescue Mission on April 22nd in our community. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morse, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 22nd, 2017, to be Comcast Cares Day in Rockford. And we urge our citizens to recognize Comcast,
 and support their 16 years of community service for our community. Thank you. I've been running a CARES Day project for the past eight years, and this is my second year working with the mission, and I'm really excited about it because I love all the great work that they do in our town. This is actually my second year running it. I'm working with the Park District, and a lot of the people I speak with,
 They have a sense of pride when they finish doing this, and that's our biggest thing, is being able to give back to the community that we live in and that sense of pride that you get with it. Next, we have a proclamation for Arbor Day, and I invite our own Mark Stockman to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas on January 4, 1872, J. Sterling Norton...
 proposed a tree planting event to be called Arbor Day. And in his words, other holidays repose upon the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future. And whereas Arbor Day now observed throughout the nation and the world, and whereas trees in our city increase property values, enhance the economic vitality of businesses, and beautifies our community. And whereas trees can reduce the erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, they can cut heating and cooling costs, moderate the temperature,
 clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide a habitat for wildlife. And whereas trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal. And whereas Rockford is the recipient of the 2014 and 2015 and 2016 Tree City USA and Growth Awards from the National Arbor Day Foundation,
 And now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Sunday, April 24, 2017, to be Arbor Day in Rockford. And we urge our citizens to take support efforts to protect our environment and to support our city's urban forestry program, which is an ongoing process of renewal, investment, and improvement that continues throughout the years. Mark, do you want to share a little bit more about our efforts this year? Sure.
 Thank you Mayor, thank you Council. Once again we will be doing a tree planting ceremony this year. The site we've chosen is Riverdoll School which is just south of the intersection of Kishwaukee Street and Sandy Hollow Road. Unfortunately we won't be able to celebrate it on the traditional day that we usually have which would be the last Friday in April. It's had to be moved to April 25th which is a week from tomorrow.
 That kind of helps the school out because of their schedule with the children and that. It'll be taking place at approximately 8.30 in the morning on that date. And I certainly welcome all of you out there to help show your support. The kids have a great time every year. Last year was a banner year for us. There is a bit of irony that I'm speaking in front of you tonight because on this very date 28 years ago marked the first day of my employment with the city.
 I started out patching potholes, if you can believe that. It's been quite a ride, and I'm thankful that you invited me into your fold. And hopefully it has been an honor and a privilege to serve you, and I hope to continue that, God willing. Thank you very much. And, Mark, congratulations on your anniversary with the city. It's been a great mutual joy working with you. Thank you.
 Our final proclamation this evening is for Workers Memorial Day. I invite Ron Welty to please come forward with other members of the delegation that might be with him to accept the proclamation. Whereas every year, more than 10,000 American workers are killed in the job, and tens of thousands more are permanently disabled and millions are injured,
 Whereas another 100,000 workers are expected to die from cancer, lung disease, and other diseases related to toxic chemical exposure.
 at their workplace. Whereas concerned Americans are determined to prevent these tragedies, organizing Workers Memorial Day, April 28th, day chosen by the unions of the AFL-CIO as a day to remember these victims of workplace injuries and disease, and by renewing efforts to seek stronger safety and health protections, better standards and enforcement, and fair and just compensation, and rededicating themselves to improving safety and health in every American workplace.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 28th, 2017 to be Workers Memorial Day. And we recognize in Rockford those workers who have been killed, injured, or disabled on the job. Thank you. I also would like to congratulate on its 28 years with the City and one year for Chief O'Shea. I accepted the proclamation last year after your swearing-in ceremony.
 I've been the chairman of the Workers Memorial Day Committee of Rockford United Labor since 1996. So this is my 21st year of doing this and it's an honor to do it. It's an honor to be a part of a ceremony to remember those. Some of them are friends of mine, some of them may be friends of yours, neighbors.
 It doesn't matter, but people that were killed on the job. And Workers Memorial Day was established by the AFL-CIO for April 28th of every year. And 46 years ago is when Congress passed legislation that created OSHA, the agency of OSHA.
 Now everyone can say, or anyone can say, it has good merits and it has bad merits. And I'm not going to sit here and argue whether they're all good or they're all bad, but everything needs to be tweaked. But it's there for one thing, and that's why the AFL-CIO spent many years of hard work in lobbying Congress to provide safe workplaces. And it hits home when it is someone you know. They don't have to be fatally injured.
 just injured on the job. It could be something small, that they only lose a few days of work, or something that it takes years and years of rehabilitation to get back to somewhat of normal. And I'm sure everyone in this room knows someone. That's when safe working conditions matter, is when it hits home. Unfortunately, I have had, in my working career,
 knowing people that have been killed. I was a business agent for Local 15 of the IBEW, which was ComEd and Exelon Nuclear. And we have had in the last 20 years probably 16 names from our local union put on the plaque of members killed on the job. I knew some of them personally. So with that,
 I thank you again, Mayor and City Council, for proclaiming this. It is on Thursday, April 27th. It's a Thursday night, 5 o'clock at the Zeke Georgie State of Illinois building. I believe everyone has gotten an invitation. I know you're busy, but if you can make it, it would be great to see you there. Mr. Mayor?
 Congratulations to you, and I wish you many, many good months to get out of this strenuous job. Thank you. And thank you for all of your service. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for all of the folks who are joining us tonight for the proclamations. Thank you.
 Committee reports. Holder Maderkey. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports, Roman numeral 5A, there's three items. The Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of an agreement with Winnebago Homes Association for the use of a residence located at 1007 15th Street for
 For the Resident Officer Program, the interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Public Library during remediation and reconstruction. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, the committee recommends approval of the Commonwealth Edison Access Agreement to city property during the Rockford Public Library remediation and reconstruction.
 The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. First, I'd like to suspend rules on these items. I think it has been a motion and second to suspend the rules on rule number 5A, items 1, 2, and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rule will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place these up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Duchess. Aye. Item 1, abstain on 2 and 3. McNamara. Frost.
 Herbie, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Chiarelli. Item number 1, 11 ayes. Item number 2 and 3, 10 ayes. One abstain. Matters all pass. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 5B, 1 through 5. I'd like to move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
 All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rule is to be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those five items up for passage. Matters up for passage is their discussion. Mary Nunn, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara, Frost, Kirby, McConnell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Chiarelli. Aye.
 Item number 110, ayes. 1, no. Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 11, ayes. That is passed. Thank you. Thank you. Let me get this. Thank you, Your Honor. I have Roman numeral 5, items Charlie, 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. I move to suspend rules on these items. Motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Rules be suspended. Ayes have it.
 The honor places items of passage. Matters are up for passage. We'll separate number five. Take the items one, two, three, and four first. Any discussion on those items? Hearing none, please call the roll on 5C1234. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 11 ayes on number 1, 2, 3, and 4. That is all passed. Thank you. All in times of Kelly, do you want to speak to the thing? Item number 5, yes, Your Honor. I have a question as far as when was all of these East 8th Street, Fairview, Alpine were in the CIP? What year did we have those in the CIP for work to be done? I don't know. Who wants to take that? Mr. Rittner? I would have to look that, get the book out and look it up.
 Which item exactly? Alpine and? Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you want to repeat your question? My question is, under our CIP plan that we approved, what year did we approve for Fairview, Alpine, East State Street to be repaired? I'll have to look that up. I don't have it off the top of my head. I'm sorry. My next question is the breakdown of each one of these projects.
 The breakdown in terms of the total project cost? I've got the total project cost is $4,400,000. I wanted to know the individual project cost. We didn't get it. Mr. Redner, do you want to take that? I have to apologize. I'm a little confused at what item we're actually looking at on the agenda. Five, Roman numeral five, C, number five. This is the... Forest City Beautiful. Forest City Beautiful. Okay. So I don't know if you've got the detail now, or do we want to lay the matter over or hold it out?
 Is Ms. Noakes here? No, she was here. I don't have the detail with me. Mr. Groh is here from the RACVB. If counsel would like to hear him speak, I would either need a motion or if there's no objection, we could just ask him to come to the microphone. Any objection? Mr. Groh, can you speak to that point?
 Your Honor, it could be. I'm sorry, Alderman Thompson-Kelly. It could be. He may be because the paging is misnumbered here. We're on finance and personnel, item number five under C. Correct. Okay. I just wanted to make sure. Yeah, Roman Amaral, 5C, number five.
 Is the four city beautiful proposal and a. I'm not I've got the wrong one you're on. I've got the wrong one I'm sorry okay okay. So do you sell the question yeah. No I'm I'll get to that one okay all right. So I'm going to run yeah there's. The way it's written is a little bit confusing it seems like we're voting on the 50,000 plus the 20. And then there's another 10,000.
 in the memorandum that says direct expense and control by Public Works for landscape design, $10,000 annually. So is it $80,000 or is it $70,000? And the second question, I remember when we voted on this, is the $50,000, it says this is for a four-year period. What's the four years? The 50 plus the 20 plus the 10? It's just confusing the way it's...
 Who wants to take that on staff? Mr. Stockman, I see him waving in the back, but Mr. Rittner, do you want to take that? Either way. Mr. Rittner, why don't you start, and if Mr. Stockman needs a fill-in, you can as well. So the agreement's basically for $70,000 per year. $10,000 of the $70,000 can go towards design, if that answers your question. Okay, so it's not an additional. Correct. Any other questions on that? And the $70,000 is for the four years, too. Is that total contract term?
 How many years? Per year for four years. So it's $70,000 a year for four years. And that's going to come out of forestry, reforestation, and beautification for all four years? Yes, ma'am. It's going to come out of the allotment that we do for reforestation as part of plantings. There's a $280,000 budget that we have for that that we have historically not used all of it.
 Yeah, remember that. The only reason I was a little bit concerned about it is because with the Emerald Ash Board, and that's what I was going to ask Mr. Stockman, where are we on the replacement of trees for EAB? Mr. Stockman, can you take that? Did that money come out of that same fund? Thank you. Yes, that money does come out of that same fund. However, the original allotment of $280,000 per annum for reforestation has been,
 very much underutilized. We haven't had the response that we thought that we would have from the general public. And we've been hesitant to just arbitrarily put trees in the ground because people sometimes don't want them or they won't care for them properly in their younger years to allow them to develop. Therefore, we have asked council to approve a contract for this particular purpose to utilize some of that
 unused funding that we've seen over the past few years. The most we've ever used out of that contract is slightly under $200,000 per year. Last year it was $84,000. So there's a bit of money left in that fund that can be used for other beautification efforts besides reforestation.
 The only thing I was concerned about with the budget issues that we have coming up in the next three to five years that there be some clause that as funds are available. I'm just a little worried about committing $70,000 out of that fund for the next four years and we don't know whether we're going to be cutting funds to keep ourselves afloat. That's a real concern for me.
 Are there any terms within the contract proposal on cancellation? Does staff know? Mr. Stockman? I don't know if there's any terms for cancellation, but there are provisions within the contract for as, you know, if funds are available and that was stipulated by us as we drafted this. So that's already in there? Yes. Okay. I didn't see it.
 printed it, so, a little while ago. But, okay, then that's raised it. Just for the record, too, they've done a really nice job. The efforts downtown, I'm anxious to see what we're going to do along South Main, but the, it's nice having that, and I would just point out in the report, they have raised significant private money, and I do commend, and I would
 the RACVB for that and thank the Community Foundation and others who have contributed to that. I would like to ask though that we look for expanding the public art program. It's nice to have it downtown. I'd like to look at a program including fundraising to have permanent public art
 throughout the city, especially some of our paths, the walking paths that we have down by the river and other places. And I think it would be good if the Convention and Visitors Bureau and some of our other groups looked at expanding that program. I see Mr. Groh in the back nodding his head affirmatively. It looks like that he seems supportive of that notion. Any other discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee.
 Get your side back to me across I her being I can't Thompson Kelly Odo you bird beach cheer really 11 I sure matter passes thank you just quickly for I'm all men get just anything left and finance on officers reports of just getting a report sitting down just to put items in the one I've got a couple of questions
 May 1st is the last day of business for this council. We will have a full day of business, but that is also the same day that we will swear in the new council members. So at the end of the order of business for this group, that's one from a protocol standpoint order.
 One might recall we will do an adjournment of this council, the new council will come in and essentially just take roll call and adjourn that meeting. But if there's no objection then we will look at doing some sort of a public reception down in the lobby of City Hall prior to the start of our meeting that evening and then we will
 If there's any other suggestions on protocol or format, please feel free to follow up with myself or Deb Powell from my office, Kimberly Bruce, or if you want to give suggestions just on the order of business, Mr. Partridge is just reviewing that for our agenda for that evening. But just wanted to mention that. Also wanted to congratulate Chief O'Shea on his first year. Now I know you've been busy.
 And we've kept you very busy. And I think sometimes it probably seems like more than a year, but appreciate very nice coverage over the weekend. I asked if you'd sign autographs. I've not gotten mine yet, but I'm still here for a couple more weeks, so I'm sure I'll be able to get one. But thank you for your service for the community and a lot of continued hard work, a lot of very challenging circumstances, and we appreciate all the efforts of our officers and our community members supporting the department. For the officers' reports, Alderman Odo.
 I would like to thank Chief O'Shea and Sheriff Caruana for all the saturation patrols that were going on. I know there was some miscommunication, that it was relayed that it was a county board member that spurred this on. But I do know, speaking with the sheriff, that it was a collaboration and they were hot and heavy in my area.
 which is a good thing. And I want to thank all the men and women both on city and on the county for a job well done and staying safe. And I look forward to seeing more of that happening in the months to come. Thank you for the officer's reports. Alderman Hervey.
 Just a couple things. Mr. Brantley mentioned the Great American Cleanup is this Saturday. In the Fifth Ward, I know some churches have individual efforts going on in their areas, but for the ward as a whole, we're going to be passing out supplies at the Ethnic Heritage Museum right there at the corner of South Main and Loomis, and we're going to be concentrating on the South Main Street corridor, and we're going to be doing a lot of work on the South Main Street corridor.
 And I want to also mention, I contacted William Charles today and also IDOT District 2. The junk that is down there in the two out lots of South Main is totally unacceptable. I've asked several times now, when is it getting cleaned up? Is this being used? I've taken pictures.
 It's blowing all over the place, and I think Mr. Vittner may have called them, but I talked to him this afternoon. Orange fencing all over Barbara Coleman lot. This is just pure junk, and
 I'm going to keep it above board. It's unacceptable to leave that in a community for that long and then act like it's no big deal and we'll come get it. I want it moved. Mr. Rittner, if we could do some follow-up with IDOT and ask them to get that contract enforced and get it cleaned up and just follow up with council and Alderman Hervey in particular on the status. The other thing...
 I would like to ask if we can arrange with either Chief O'Shea or the mayor's office to have the county come and talk about
 They have a session that's going on tonight about the detention center in conjunction, I don't know if it's with ICE or Customs and Immigration or who, but I have a very large Hispanic and Latino population in the Fifth Ward and there are huge concerns about the impact that having this center in our area is going to have.
 I feel both ways about it. In some ways, I think because Rockford is smaller than Chicago and it's closer, if people are going to be detained, they could have better support if they were here with their families.
 But I've got a huge number of questions. Is it just Rockford residents? Is this multi-county? Is ICE going to be bringing people in here from other areas or having people brought here? I think as it's going to have an impact on public safety that we have a need to have that conversation. And I'd like to ask if we could arrange something on a larger scale that's not being held during city council.
 So we are clock as they say is ticking on the current council. However, I will be happy to work with Chief O'Shea and extend an invitation to the sheriff to come speak with us about that proposal. I've only I know very little about it myself. Chief, I don't know if you know much about it, but would you suggest inviting him to one of our last two council meetings or do you want to do would you suggest a separate
 I mean, I think it's something, I don't know whether everybody on council needs or thinks that's necessary. We're televised and that's the comment that I got from several people. I think tonight was limited to 100 and some people, but it has impact far and wide. So whether they had it as a forum in the lobby or they had it, I don't care at county board, but I would like to have it televised because I think that would help people be
 be able to see and hear and understand what it's about. I would be, I'd like to get some feedback from council and throw a couple options out to them, but we certainly could, under our officer's reports, you know, move it to the end of the meeting if it makes sense. I have a discussion here on one of our next two meetings if the sheriff was available to have a Q&A on it, and if he was amenable to it, I would have no objection. If there's a different suggestion,
 I'm happy to help forward that as well. Chief, do you have any background information you can share? I will relay the request to the Sheriff. I'm sure he'll want to come if he can and put the correct message or the, I don't want to say correct message, the right answers out there, the true right correct answers if you will. I will relay that request to him later tonight. We talk all the time. So I will ask him. I can get back to you and let you know.
 Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Unfinished business. Alderman Shkreli. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman Numero 7B1, we have a laid over committee report and we want to put some amendments onto that committee report. Alderman Durkee, did you want to read those in?
 Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under room and numeral 7B on 1, wish to amend the committee report under unfinished business item 1 to reflect the reversal of the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's recommendation for denial of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with an Italian cafe and video gaming in a C1 limited office zoning district at 1620 North Bell School Road,
 Subject to the conditions as follows. Number one, compliance with the City of Rockford Liquor Ordinance. Number two, sale of beer and wine shall be limited to the submitted Interior 4 plan as labeled as Exhibit F. Three, the hours of operation for food and non-beer wine sales are limited to Monday through Thursday, 7A to 11P.
 Friday and Saturday, 7 a.m. to midnight. Sunday, 9 a.m. to 11 p.m. Hours of operation for beer and wine sales are limited Monday through Sunday, 9 a.m. to 10 p.m.
 Number four, the restaurant shall not have a cover charge, dance floor, any DJs, any live entertainment shall be limited to non-amplified music, limited to the beer and wine service hours, and I believe that should also read indoor. Correct. So that is not on line four that should be added. It's indoor entertainment.
 Five, the restaurant shall not operate as a nightclub. Six, the windows shall not be covered with bars or other devices that block the windows. Seven, window display signage is limited to 205 of window area. So I guess it's 205 square feet. Maybe 20%? 25%? 40%? Oh, okay, so they didn't hit the shift key.
 So the window signage display is limited to 20% of window area. The premises shall not have a video gaming license.
 9. Installation of vinyl site obscuring privacy fence along the West property line with submittal of a fence permit inclusive of a site plan for staff's review and approval and construction of said fence to commence on or before 90 days from the date of issuance of the beer and wine license. I'd like to amend it. Second. There's been a motion and a second to amend.
 The item on Roman and World 7B1 to reflect the changes that were just read into the record. Is there any discussion on the amendments? Alderman Hervey. The amendment that was read in said that they wanted to amend the committee report to reflect reversal. I think the committee report already does.
 I just didn't want that to be confusing for anybody. No, I just reread that as a descriptor of the committee report. Okay, okay. It was just a descriptor of the report. Any for Alderman Frost? Thank you. With respect to number nine, this final site of security and privacy fence along the west property line, am I mistaken the west property line will be behind the building? Is that correct? That's correct. Correct. And so they're going to put a fence along the entire property?
 parcel the property back property line according to mr kagnoni you want to take that thank you your honor that would be the condition of approval um it would be the entire west property line i mean just a question this particular applicant doesn't own that doesn't own the entire strip center do they so how can we put a condition on the on a tenant in this particular property to to put a fence up when when the owner of the um
 I mean, I guess the strip center isn't really the applicant here today. Alderman Durkee, you want to make that? Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. To clarify, as a condition of this restaurant years ago, there was getting the agreement to sort of move this to a quasi-C2. There's been some incrementalism by the property owner. The property owner actually has the obligation already –
 in the agreement with the city and has not been in compliance. So there are drawings of a berm and a scheme that the property owner has yet to be in compliance with. Follow-up, Alderman Frost. That may or may not be true, but if that's the case, then it's really the job of the city to have discussions with the
 owner of the strip center, which I think was built in its current condition and there hasn't been any, I can't use that fancy word Dr. Durkee used, but there hasn't been any additions or modifications I don't think to this strip center and those back businesses that exist back there are other tenants and they're clearly not in the area of the spot where this particular tenant is trying to run her business on the far east side of the building if I'm not mistaken.
 So, if staff had any conversations that can help clarify the issues between the tenant, the owner, and the requirements that are being read in. I can. Mr. Cagnone or Mr. Partridge or both of you, please. Mr. Cagnone. I'll go ahead and start. Thank you, Your Honor. You know, Alderman Frost is correct. I mean, what's before us and what's before the Council this evening is a liquor license application.
 application for the tenant, not the property owner. It has been relayed to me by the tenant's attorney that they are willing to install the fence as a condition of a liquor license.
 issuance of the liquor license and that would be within the authority of council to take into consideration buffering this property from the adjacent residential property you know not withstanding the liquor license and the proposed conditions of approval there is a special use permit that regulates the property it was a special use permit for planned mixed use development for an office
 retail and restaurant at this particular location. Any buffering requirements as part of that process will be pursued and followed up as well. So I'm assuming just in Mr. Cagnoni, in issuance of the permit, we would have the fence permit, we'd have the ability to also check that there's proper permissions or authorizations from the, in other words, the tenant wouldn't be trespassing on the property.
 rest of the property if the tenant puts the, we just want to make sure from a legal standpoint, we're not asking the tenant to do something that they wouldn't be authorized to do. So can we check that within the permit issue? Yes, we can. Other follow-up? Thank you, Your Honor. And may I ask a question of Mr. Cagnoni? My understanding that with the development of the special use permit, there are renderings that the property owner
 Provided to the city as a condition of the special use permit that have not been complied with so we already have in a sense renderings Submitted to the city counts on submitted to the city staff that the owner are already has Correct me if I'm wrong, but is that true? Mr. Cagnone is that correct? That's my understanding that I
 It has been brought to our attention that there are certain conditions of approval related to the special use permit that need to be enforced and that is in process. Thank you. There was a couple of other hands that were up. Alderman Frost, did you have a follow-up? I just, that was a concern obviously had to do with the owner and the tenant and if
 If the attorney for the tenant has reached an agreement, then I'm okay. I just was concerned about ramifications down the road because there's obviously more than one tenant at this facility. Thank you. And as I just mentioned to Mr. Cagnoni in the issuance of the permit, we'll make sure that we get proper representation on authority for the installation. A number of hands that were up, I'll just take them in order. Alderman Connell, then Alderman Thompson-Calley, then Alderman Otoe.
 Are the residents in approval of this? Are they in agreement with it? Are they good with it? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. The residents as a whole do not oppose the liquor license. They are in approval of it, and many of them said that they would go to this establishment. That is a nice area between Garrett's and this restaurant.
 I used to I went to vetoes I've been to this restaurant once the existing one But it's a nice corridor for those residents and it fits in use with Francesco's and Joseph's just that genre of restaurant the fear that they have which was articulated By the attorney and which you've heard me speak of ad nauseum I want to bore you again is they're worried about a clawback and
 to get a gaming license. That's a deal killer. And also, the owner of the building seems to push the zoning on this. This is, again, this project was originally R1, then went to C1, and the building, the property owner has pushed the limits on it. And we'll go back historically. Again, I want to remind the aldermen that the neighbors here came first.
 They were here first and they bought their properties with certain assurances that we, well not all of us, as a city council had put in place when this was zoned. The, this is also, these two neighborhoods are the ones that got the midnight surprise with the Myers project in which there was a clause allowing that to go to C3.
 So you're looking at neighbors that are very well aware of what's going on around them, and they are exceedingly concerned that this project doesn't turn into incrementalism in which this building then gets converted eventually to a C2 use. So gaming has been the deal breaker. The owner has known, the restaurant owner has known that.
 Once the gaming has been removed, and if there are assurances to the homeowners that gaming won't be in there, they're not in opposition to allow the special use permit to proceed. Again, this is, we're crafting, we're trying to respect the business and also trying to respect the homeowners. We're splitting the baby here. And right now, we're at a point where it looks like everybody is in agreement. The residents,
 will support the restaurant if they, you know, become a restaurant and not a gaming parlor. And they will do so and they are asking the council to have assurances that there is no clawback ability for the restaurant owner to then apply later for her gaming license. And that may be a legal question if that can be done or not with her current license.
 so that's what they're looking for so the residents do agree to it they really don't want this to come back again olden connell did you follow that would be my follow-up is are there any provisions that we can give to to assure them that this isn't going to happen mr partridge you want to take that i didn't what's not going to happen that they won't come back and ask for an amendment to their license or that potentially i think a future
 owner wouldn't come back and ask for it. I'll do my best to answer the question. Short answer is there's no guarantee that they couldn't come back unless, as the attorney said this evening, if there was a covenant or restriction put in deed.
 The owner is not the applicant, however. So this gets back to the point in a way that Mr. R. Oliver Frost raised on the fence. So absent some third-party outside agreement, there's no way we can compel. I believe, as Mr. Parks, as you tell me if I'm wrong, we've got to take the opportunity
 license request. This is not a SUP request. This is a liquor license. The old days we used to have to give a SUP every time we did a liquor license. That's no longer the case. This is a permit request. We're allowed to look at four corners of the permit and that's basically it. Did I get that right? Yeah.
 That's correct. I'm a recovering lawyer. I don't actually practice, just to be clear, but still get a little bit of it. So I don't, again, I don't want to speak for our legal director. But I don't know that we can make a guarantee that they won't come back or if this business
 It no longer is there in some date in the future if someone else couldn't come back and make the request But I think it's fair to say that it's very clear that this Applicant could not operate gaming under the terms of the license that we would be approving if it approved tonight based on these amendments That's correct They would have to reapply and go through LTAB again and have all the public hearings that that they had the first time around in order to get gaming and
 And it's my understanding that this was all done by agreement. So the applicant here has agreed to all these terms and conditions. And if they don't abide by all the terms and conditions, it's subject to revocation of their liquor license. Okay? Alderman Thompson-Kelly? My question was answered. All right. Thank you. Alderman Odo. I'm sorry. Alderman Odo? There are just a few things that have upset me. So everybody knows we're losing Sienna's Kitchen. They're closing downtown.
 I've said it before and I'll say it again. Rockford has the appearance of being not business friendly. We're constantly losing businesses. Business brings in revenue. Revenue gives for the things that we need. I'm appalled at some of the things the attorney said in some of the emails I had. First of all, a gaming parlor, you can't call it a gaming parlor with five machines. Any business in Rockford can get one.
 They're appalled at gaming, but they weren't appalled when there was a shooting in a parking lot at Francesco's. They're not appalled of the, as they say it in their emails, the unsightly people who go to Tiger Tales. So what I think, you know, being a woman, being Italian, I'm starting to think it's becoming a thing against an Italian woman trying to open up a business.
 And this, it seems like it's bullying. Well, if you don't sign this agreement with us, we can't prevent, we can't stop people like this. This isn't Nazi Germany. This is America. You're free to pull a license and get denied or approved. And I'm tired of people picking and choosing what they're gonna stand for. Either you're gonna stand, period, or you're not. Don't fill a chamber when it's convenient for you, fill it,
 For all reasons. Show that you care, not when it's convenient. This woman has a right to own a business. She's compromising. She shouldn't have to be belittling into signing an agreement with residents. Because if she's not there in three or four years, another business could come in. Garrett's can ask for a gaming license. Francesco's can ask for a few. On Belmont Road, the hotels have three gaming machines in them.
 That's not considered a gaming parlor. I hate the word. This is an Italian cafe. When are we going to stop kicking business? Because no business will want to come here. And I'm asking council to support this because I sure as am, I'm tired of the bullying. Alderman, any other council members that have not spoken yet? Alderman Durkee. That's actually a gross misrepresentation of what's going on here.
 The city has bent over backwards to work with the building owner and actually created a special use permit. What's going on is that the special use permit is being pushed to the limit. Remember this was zone R1 first. Rockford was business friendly by changing the standards of the buffer between residents and this property. By ordinance, by how we do projects, we always put buffers between residents,
 and commercial property, and we do it appropriately. The city did work with the building owner to create a special use permit. The residents gave up something. People are compromised. This is not anti-business. It's actually pro-business. Any business owner who wants to do this is free to do it in an area that does not border a residence, and that's the key. The residents and the zoning came first.
 And the city was working with the building owner to craft an ability to create business. That's the reality of it. There's no bullying here. It's called negotiating. Putting a bullying label on it is not correct.
 Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I just had a conversation with Mr. Cagnoni this afternoon about having a session not just with new aldermen but even for some of us around the horseshoe who can still get totally confused by zoning and what it means.
 people have a right to know what's going to move in next door to them, whether it's a bar or a liquor store, a strip club or a service station. I visited Houston once, and I was surprised there was a house here
 and a house over there, and there was a service station in between. And the guy looked at me and he said, we don't do much with zoning here. That was 20 years ago. I don't want to see Rockford get to that same point. Sometimes I think we've gotten to the point where no one can rely on our zoning because of special use permits.
 One day you're in a residential area, you've got a place where your kids can play in the backyard. The next day you've got a full-blown commercial development right behind you. Some of those have to coexist, I understand that. We've got residential areas in the middle. But if we require certain types of buffering and berms and fencing and noise reduction and light reduction,
 We have to give that to people, and sometimes I think we've stripped our community and economic development department to the point where they can't go out and check and monitor and follow up on some of these things. So just a couple things. I had problems with this establishment at first because I do think we're pushing –
 zoning to the point where no one can rely on it. And by the way, I think the same things with signs. Every time we turn around, somebody wants, you know, mine is bigger than yours, and we're allowing signs that are totally out of sync with what our ordinance says we were trying to do.
 On the other hand, I think the parties here got together and made some good choices. We've got another coming up where a person told us that they weren't going to do gaming, rural on tap. And now that's going to be back before us and they're asking for gaming. So to the neighbors, yes, they can come back and ask. That's when you hold us accountable.
 to hold them accountable to what they said. And I think we've got to start doing that. I want business to be able to develop. Gaming brings in buku money, and that's why people are doing it. On the other hand, residents pay big property taxes, and they are the heart of this community, and we've got to protect their interests, too. Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 First off, I am going to support this, but I want to give to both sides. I agree. I like that you've come to an agreement. I understand why the business owner would not sign with the private individuals. She is this business owner is got the city and her to come to an agreement. So I understand that signing with the in.
 I wish her luck and I think she has given as much as she can give and I think she's got a good business and I think she's come up with enough compromise on this that everyone should be happy with what we came up and my hats off to our people that worked on this. Thank you for the discussion on the item Alderman Shirelli. Thank you. I just wanted to thank Alderman Durkee for his time he spent on this.
 And we have come to a compromise on this, and he worked with me as chairman of the Codes and Regs Committee in order to accomplish this goal of having this applicant have her business and have an ability to compete in today's world that if she wouldn't be able to receive beer and wine, she wouldn't be able to compete with the types of businesses that are out there today in these restaurants. So I appreciate that. Alderman Durkee has been away, and we spent several,
 moments on texting back and forth while he's on vacation. I was hard at work, but that's okay.
 But I appreciate that and I think this is a good compromise at this point in time that we send a message that we want to protect the residents of the areas that are affected. We also want to respect the ordinances that are in place and we want to respect the businesses that want to open up in this city. At this point in time, we just got through this election and every candidate running for mayor in Alderman stated they want more business friendly community.
 And I think this is how we operate, by compromise and having an objective and reaching our objective, getting to that yes that we need to get to so we can move our city forward. So I appreciate that, Alderman Durkee. Thank you. Further discussion on the amendments?
 There's no, we have to take the vote first on the amendments that were read in by Alderman Durkee. I place that amended item for passage, Your Honor. Well, we need to vote on the amendments real quick first. So all those in favor of the amendments, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it on the amendments. Thank you. I place the item as amended up for passage, Your Honor. The item as amended, Roman numeral 7B1, is up for passage. Is there any further discussion?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 11-9. Matters are passed. Thank you. Thank you. Unfinished business. I'm going to roll 8B, Aldermatt-Relly. Sorry, back again. Yeah. Sorry. It was good. 8B-1. Okay.
 It's unfinished business. The ordinance is laid over, 8B1. Place that item, ordinance, up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Real quick, 8B1, which related to the item that was just passed as a committee report, is up for passage under unfinished business. This is their discussion. Alderman Harvey. This amendment that we have, I'm sorry, where's 8B1? Okay, hold on. Ordinance. This says, and video gaming in a C1.
 So as amended, it would be obviously what just passes committee report would be reflected in the language of what's up for discussion as the amended item under material laid over. Obviously it was prepared prior to the report. Okay, that's all. I just wanted to make sure that this memo wasn't...
 Okay, so we scratch this one and it's gonna be the I'll just restating I place the amended committee report Up for passage we passed as the ordinance as the ordinance now I place the amended ordinance of the passage The ordinance doesn't need to be amended it would automatically reflect. What was Committed as committee report is that right mr. Partridge video gaming shall be prohibited. Yeah, that's been it's been corrected and let's say Thank you any further discussion
 Please call the roll. We're all confused. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Chiarelli. Aye. 11 ayes. Aye.
 Matter passes, thank you. Thank you. Motions and resolutions, keep standing. Alderman Shirelli. I'm sorry, Your Honor. No problem. In enrollment number 09, motions and resolutions B1 through 5, I place up for passage. Thank you. Motions and resolutions in enrollment number 09B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5. These are all special events or passages of discussion.
 Yes, Your Honor. There was a statement last when these were on committee that there would be some city support for the Memorial Day parade and the Independence Day parade and fireworks. There's no costs or those coming back to us for approval of the expenditures. I'll just take that.
 I don't think they would be coming back to counsel for approval. Mr. I'd like to know what the costs are if we're voting Anytime we have something where we're approving money that money should be listed. So we know what we're agreeing to Mr. Rittner, did you want to hear well, I was absent last week. I was out of town so I'd have to research that I
 And there's nobody available currently to answer that question. I don't want to hold them up because I know, you know, for Memorial Day at least, we're coming up. But at the same time...
 You can't bring a committee report or a resolution that's expending funds. Your Honor, at the committee level, they didn't announce the actual dollar amount. What they said was that these two parades are the ones that the city has allocated for dollars, and these are the only two. What we didn't receive was the dollar amount. You're correct.
 Alderman Thompson-Kellyer, is that correct? You're absolutely correct, but it was still questioned the dollar amount. We needed to know. Right. So I don't know if we have that tonight. Mr. Cagnotti, do you know? Follow-up via e-mail tomorrow with the validation of funds. None of these are pending. I mean, if we want to just lay it over to next week or, you know, frankly, I think we could probably do that. After the Memorial Day parade, I'm not so sure. It's...
 Well, it's May 29th. By the time it's Mike, that's only going to be about a month away. Your Honor, sorry to interrupt you. Director Eklund was pulling up the memo as we were speaking in its reference. So I believe the Memorial Day Parade cites $8,725.49 in police, fire and traffic control costs and 4th of July.
 Is it overtime? Is it? Your Honor, never mind. We're going to pay it. It's just . . . I mean, I understand. It just . . . We've talked about this plenty of times in the past, wanting to know what we're expending for operations. Eight to $10,000 is not going to break the bank. I mean, we have the police and fire. It's all going to be overtime, and that's exactly what we said we were going to cut this year from our budget to make it work.
 Independence Day is more significant substantially. I'm sure that's, operationally, it's a more significant commitment. I don't know if you've got that. Yeah, it doesn't appear that that information is in the Independence Day materials, but obviously the more pressing issue would be Memorial Day. We want to improve that with that information. So do you want to vote on the other ones and hold that one off? No. Okay. Thank you.
 I would like the report on it when we come back again so we know exactly what it is. Sure. We will. It's that far off from last year. Absolutely. So we will get that information out either via e-mail or a memo to Council. Ms. Eklund, if you could, for next week, pull it together, our estimated operational cost. Thank you. Any further discussion on the items? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have six items, and I'm going to place the first four up for passage and separate the last two. So under Roman numeral IX, items Charlie, I, II, III, and IV, I place these items up for passage. So we'll take first Roman numeral IX, C items I, II, III, and IV as our discussion. Elvin Newberg. Yes. On number three, a word of sole source contract, is that because they're the only person that does that type of work?
 that there's there was not a bid put out. Who wants to take that? Mr. Vintner, Ms. Eklund? That is correct. Thank you. So... Ms. Eklund? The type of pump that we have in service is this firm is the only authorized repair facility for servicing that brand of pumps in this area. Any further discussion on the items? Alderman Newberg, go ahead. Okay, so the...
 The total is for three years, right? Correct. What is the cost per year? There's $425,000 budgeted per year for three years. It's the estimated spend. That's the $1,275,000 for one year? No, divided by three, $425,000 per year. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Alderman Frost. Five, the supplemental resolution for the sidewalk. Right now we're just taking one through four?
 If it's a little discussion right now, we're just doing items Nine see items one two three four any questions on those items. We'll come back to the other one after I'm those clerk. Please color roll jerky. I get just like McNamara Ross Herbie Connell Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg I beat Cheerily I 11 eyes that are matters passed. Thank you. I'll McGatts us. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral 9, Charlie 5. Place that item of passage. 9C, 5 and 6? Just 5. Just 5? I have to reread in 6. All right. I changed it in committee. That's why it's separated. Yep, no problem. So we'll do 5, and then we'll do 6 afterwards. So right now, just 5. Alderman Frosty, do you have a question? Yeah, the dollar amount of the $4,400, is that...
 But the correct amount for the entire sidewalk or that just is it's just a supplemental I asked the same question when it was first read a department had so I believe that's a true up with a contract that we had with the state of Illinois that's the difference between what different. I get that right yes sir thank you any further discussion that item clerk please call the role on 9 C 5 30.
 Cross I her being a panel Thompson Kelly Odo you bird I beach cheerily I 11 9 matters matter passes thank you from the edges
 Thank you, Your Honor. Roman numeral IX, Charlie VI was changed in committee. Award of a non-competitive contract benefits consultant of Rockford Consulting and Brokerage Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois, for an annual amount of $136,156 in data warehouse storage for a not-to-exceed amount of $75,000. The contract duration is one year plus one year option. Funding source is Health Insurance Fund. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven-Eyes. Matter passes. Thank you. New business. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items under Roman numeral 10, new business. These are our three ordinances up for passage. First, I'd like to suspend rules. Okay.
 Thank you, motion. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10A12 and 3. All those in favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. Aye, 7. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place those three items under Roman numeral 10A12 and 3 up for passage. Matters up for passage is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getches. Aye. I have one. I'm standing. Two and two. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Warren.
 Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Chiarelli. Item number 1, 11 ayes. Item 2 and 3, 10 ayes, 1 abstain on each. Matters passed. Thank you. Mr. Raleigh. Your Honor, Roman numeral 10B1 through 5, I move to suspend the rules.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 10B1 through 5. All those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. I say that the rules be suspended. Thank you your honor. I place those five ordinances up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee, Getschis, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach,
 2 really I live in I have run matters past thank you. I'm a gutter thank you. Thank you honor a Roman numeral 10 items Charlie one to 4 moves spend rules. Motion in suspension motion to spend the rules and Roman all 10 see Adams 1, 2, 3, and 4 all in favor please say aye aye those no I have it will be spent yeah, but I items up for passage matters of passages their discussion.
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hervey. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Chiarelli. 11 ayes, Your Honor. Matters passed. Thank you. Alderman Shrelling. I move to convene in closed session in order to discuss pending and or threatened litigation matters. Thank you.
 there's been a motion and second to go into closed session to discuss pending and or threat and litigation matters is there any discussion hearing on the clerk please call the roll jerky getches mcmahon herby tronnell thompson kelly newberg beach cheer rolling aye aye aye your honor thank you we will recess for the purposes of discussing pending and or threat litigation matters we do uh there's an i need another vote from the chamber
 Who failed to vote? Don't leave. We need another vote. Frost and Odom, Your Honor. Alderman Frost and Alderman Odom. They're coming. Just say aye. Aye. Ten ayes. Thank you very much. The motion passes. We will recess momentarily for the purposes of discussing pending or threatened litigation matters. Thank you.