kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask that you would come into this chamber tonight and decision would be made for the benefit of the citizens of this community. But also, Lord, we'd ask that your blessings be upon our fire and police departments, Lord, as they go about their business, taking care and protecting the city. We just ask that you would give a special blessing to this meeting tonight, that it may come out the way you would have it to. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Getschis, McNamara, Frost, Kirby, Cano, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely,
 Shear rally 13 present think we do have a quorum so I will run through the initial on orders of business including our public speaking which will do next I'm as a reminder for public speakers
 We have, I think, five speakers signed up for this evening. Our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. If any of our speakers are in the back outside of the chamber, I'll make sure we give some time if somebody needs to grab somebody to come up to get to the microphone. Each of our speakers gets three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Attorney Robert Lukasik. Is Attorney Lukasik available?
 He is outside. We'll give a moment if somebody could see if Attorney Lukasik is in the chamber. So I'll move on to the next speaker. If he gets here, we will come back to him. Our next speaker is John Groh. There's Mr. Groh.
 Good evening. Thank you for the opportunity. My name is John Groh, and I have the privilege of promoting this great community in my role as the head of the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. And I'm sure the members of the council tonight would ask me, would expect me to ask them to vote yes for the Embassy Suites Project. Thank you.
 And you might expect me to tell you that this is an idea whose time has come, but I thought rather than doing that, I would let these 12 prior studies dating back to 1960 speak for themselves, all calling for public investment in similar projects. What I'd rather like to do is share a story of progress and growth that has unfolded since the early 1980s when the newly formed RACDB passed out sunglasses touting a future so bright you'll have to wear shades.
 Well, thanks to council members who believed in our community's promise, as well as others in the community, the future has turned out to be much brighter than anybody might have expected. Then in 1984, just about 4 million annual visitors and residents attended our sites and attractions, and that is now over 7 million on an annual basis. And many facilities exist for the benefit of our residents that are made possible in part by visitor spending.
 Growth in attendance is great, but how much are visitors spending these days? Last year, visitors spent $350 million, up from $254 million just a few years ago. In fact, things are going so well, our growth is faster than all other major counties and regions in Illinois, except for Cook County, our growth exceeding others at a 38% clip since 2009. We're also capturing market share, up 5.5% over the last six years.
 However, more than our attractions and visitor spending, hotels are also doing well in our community, despite what some might have you believe. The total number of rooms sold has increased more than 28% since 2009, up to 651,000 room nights. The average daily rate is up 25%, and the overall occupancy rate for our region's full and select service hotels is up from 57% to 68% over the last six years.
 As far as hotel growth goes, we're outpacing our competitors in Lake County, Chicago's northwest suburbs, Bloomington, Peoria, Davenport, Galena, and Springfield, among others. However, we are leaving business on the table because we don't have the right mix of facilities. We know at the Bureau that over the last few years, more than 200 meetings and conferences have said no to our region and said yes to other cities because they have facilities that meet their needs.
 In times like this, I look to folks who are well-respected and have traveled this road before. If he were here, and I think he might be somewhere, Rex Parker, the longtime and well-respected general manager of the Clock Tower, who worked for the Atwood family, would tell you that the Embassy Suites project would be a tremendous asset for our community. And he'd further probably tell you that building up one side of our community should not be viewed as competitive, but rather complementary with another area of a community.
 Now, Rex is one of those people who has always believed in the promise of our community and that our brightest days are ahead. The future is bright. I still think we need shades. And, yes, I certainly do hope you'll vote yes this evening. Thanks so much. Thank you. Our next speaker is Reverend Derek Shelby. Is Reverend Shelby here? Not seeing him. Again, we'll see if somebody could see if Reverend Shelby, if you can hear this, Reverend Shelby, you're up next. If not, we'll move on to Gary Anderson. Good evening.
 In 1850, business entrepreneurs and city leaders saw an opportunity to harness the power of the Rock River by building the Fordham Dam and creating the Water Power District. That vision led to unprecedented economic opportunity for our young community and set the course for creating the second largest machine tool manufacturing city in the country.
 For the next 80 years, Rockford experienced dramatic growth and expansion. Those conditions encouraged us to believe in ourselves and made it possible for us to reinvest mightily in our community. Our engineering and manufacturing prominence today is a direct result of that foresight and investment.
 Now overlooking Fordham Dam, we are once again offered a vision to transform a fallow city quadrant into a vibrant, productive mecca of hospitality and permanent jobs that can fully expect it to impact all areas in all directions. For over 40 years, we have tried to bring a hotel downtown without success. During that course of time, we have built a variety of destinations for our citizens and visitors to enhance our quality of life.
 We have made key investments with the strategy of making our community an attractive place to live, work, and play. As a community, we have missed too many opportunities, perhaps because we didn't believe they were possible. We have been shackled with pessimism and negativity, sometimes to the ultimate benefit of nearby towns that embrace the opportunities we dismissed. By contrast, other communities have understood and already enjoy the economic impact that large, upscale hotels create. You are not alone.
 In fact, in many cases, they too are faced with decisions about how much to prime the pump, with public funds to entice private capital. But in fact, when managed, prudent risk empowers us and advances our well-being. During the past seven years, businesses here have stepped up by committing over $60 million toward downtown improvement and revitalization, and more is to come.
 Over a broader spectrum of time, you have played a key role in investing over $250 million in our infrastructure, as well as our UW Sports Factory, the BMO, and the Coronado.
 Our investment in this high-quality catalytic project reinforces that momentum will spawn excitement, more investment, and more business. It's time to move forward and not stagnate any longer. We are a city on a new course and on the move that needs to believe in itself and invest in its future to become a top-tier 25 city.
 This hotel is another building block that has attracted significant private investment downtown. A healthy, vibrant, and thriving downtown benefits us all. Tonight, we simply ask you to embrace this catalytic opportunity, hold yourself accountable for our destiny, and vote yes on this development agreement for the Embassy Suites. Your community appreciates your service and due diligence, and we thank you immensely. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Leah Tunberg.
 I know I saw her. Yeah, so give her a minute. Thank you, everybody. My name is Leah Thunberg, and I'm the Executive Director for the River District Association, speaking on behalf of our Board of Directors.
 There's a new vibrancy of activity and excitement downtown. We have seen it change and become a new atmosphere. We have laid the bricks one by one, and as we lay each brick, we are building a foundation, therefore becoming stronger. Because of this, downtown is a destination, a place to meet friends and have fun. We have planned for this to become a vibrant city center.
 We know that cities moving forward have strong downtowns with unique characteristics that offer residents and visitors the opportunity to purchase products and services that one can only get from that respective city. Right now, downtown Rockford's uniqueness
 such as venues such as the Ice Hogs, concerts at the BMO, Coronado Performing Arts Center, UW Health Sports Factory, Discovery Center Museum, City Market, Shop the Block, Stroll on State, and so many more.
 Economic development such as Prairie Street Brewhouse, a plethora of locally owned shops, restaurants and galleries, multiple residential loft conversions, and now the finishing touches on completing the old Rockford Trust building. People now are calling downtown a place to live, not just a place to play and work.
 The RDA's focus is to unite, advocate, and promote efforts to create a thriving business and residential community in Rockford's downtown neighborhood. RDA believes a flagship hotel and conference center such as the Gorman Project will promise to continue additional development and economic investment in our downtown core. This endeavor will address a longstanding demand for rooms for business travelers and visitors to our community.
 To reach our goal of being a top 25 city by 2025, this investment is imperative. If not now, then when?
 The River District Association strives to create a successful downtown, and we are well aware that sometimes it takes hard work by all of us, as well as the many residents, businesses, and organizations who have the same intentions. Unfortunately, not many things come easy as we would like them to. We stand here tonight to highlight a case in point.
 a process that hasn't been easy, but we know that for all the hard work that we have all put into making this hotel a reality, downtown will thrive. We cannot wait any longer. The RDA has always and will continue to support the Gorman Project and believe in the investment of a hotel within the core of our great city.
 To us, it's simple. Our future is an empty book, and we are writing the pages. Your vote tonight will add to those pages and send a very clear message, and we hope that message will be Rockford is open for business. Thank you. Thank you. I just wanted to check to see if any of our other speakers, either Attorney Robert Lukasik or Reverend Derek Shelby, are available.
 If not, we'll move on. Thank you to all of our speakers. Next order of business is proclamations. We have two proclamations that I wanted to have a chance to read in. First proclamation is regarding National Public Safety Telecommunications Week. I invite Chief Bergson and Lee Stromberg. Starenberg, sorry, Chief. The police come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Thank you very much, Rich. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Whereas National Public Safety Telecommunications Week, the week of April 9, 2017, is set aside to honor all persons who serve in the field of public safety telecommunications, and whereas thousands of dedicated public safety telecommunicators,
 personnel daily serve the citizens of the United States, answering telephone calls from police, fire, and emergency medical services, and dispatching the appropriate assistance as quickly as possible.
 Whereas professional public safety telecommunications personnel work hard to improve emergency response and support health and safety of our citizens. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 9th through the 15th, 2017, to be National Public Safety Telecommunications Week.
 and we urge our citizens to support and recognize our public safety telecommunications personnel and the vital contributions they make to the safety and well-being of our citizens. Chief?
 Thank you very much, Mayor. We just want to take this opportunity to recognize the individuals, the men and women, what they do on a daily basis answering the 911 calls. I just want to take a second to introduce, we have some of our dispatchers and administrative staff, Jen Altebrun, Natasha King, Anthony Indovina, Lee Sternberg, who is our director, and Craig Belk, who is one of our supervisors.
 The men and women in 911 center, you don't ever see them, you just hear them when you dial 911. They're that first piece of the emergency response. They're taking information from somebody that's had a very bad day and making sure that they can calm them down. And then their other job is to make sure the rescuers are safe, the police, fire, and the paramedics that they're
 answered and that they get the appropriate assistance that they need. We roughly answer almost 800 calls a day in our 911 center and I will tell you that they do a tremendous job with the amount of call volume. One thing we just want to reiterate, there's only three reasons you should call 911. Either it's a fire,
 a crime in progress or an emergency medical call. All the rest, please call the non-emergency number, which is 815-966-2900, because the 911 call does take priority. We want to make sure we deliver a high level of service to our citizens on a daily basis. So thank you very much for your support and the aldermen and everyone in this room. And I want to say congratulations to these individuals and just take one week out of the 52 weeks a year that they continue to answer those calls, time of day in whatever crisis it is, and deal with it.
 Thank you. Thank you, Chief. Thank you, Chief. Thank you for your outstanding work each and every day throughout the year. Our next proclamation is regarding Money Smart Week, and I invite Yvonne Peterson, co-chair of Money Smart Week, and any other folks that are here with her to accept the proclamation to please come forward.
 Whereas the financial well-being of individual American citizens is linked to the nation's economic progress, an improved financial literacy results in a higher standard of living in more stable communities. And whereas becoming financially literate is a long-term process that for many requires the assistance of institutions outside the home, and in times of rapidly changing technologies and developments, consumers have many choices on how to manage their financial affairs.
 Whereas educational and financial institutions, government entities and community-based organizations can work together to help consumers make informed choices about their personal finances and programs that are available to support them.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of April 22nd through the 29th to be Money Smart Week, and we encourage our citizens to make themselves aware of the importance of financial literacy and to take advantage of the programs and activities geared towards financial management and prosperity this week and all year long. Would you like to share a little bit more about our festivities this year? I'll take just a moment. Thank you.
 Money Smart Week is a national campaign started by the Chicago Federal Reserve. It's been in northern Illinois for 10 years. And this Sunday you can find your Money Smart Week program in the Register Star. So for three counties, we'll have over 80 free events, starting on the 22nd, ending on the 29th, for all ages. And we encourage you to come out and enjoy some financial literacy. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Just one other item before we move on to the Roman numeral II for the rest of the agenda. I just want to give council members a chance to do officer's reports. And I just wanted to start by thanking all of those that have sat for re-election, those who have served on the council through this last term.
 And thank you for your service to the community. We have gone through very challenging times as a community over the years. It's been an honor myself to serve along with you. And just as a reminder, May 1st will be the last day of work for this council. We will have a full meeting, and that's when the new council will be sworn in
 So congratulations to Mayor-elect McNamara. You'll be taking the chair at the end of that meeting, moving from your position as alderman. I'll be working with Mayor-elect McNamara and the rest of his transition team to support him as he makes that transition.
 If there's any questions from any council members as we go through that process, please feel free to reach out. And I would say if they're watching any of the incoming new council members, we've already, as a staff, reached out to them to offer them support and orientation, which we're coordinating with Mayor-elect McNamara. That is all that I have for my officer's report. Is there others? Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 First of all, I wanted to say thank you to our 911 center as well as our fire department for the dramatics that I put everyone through last week. I greatly do appreciate it. And would you pass that on to your staff, Derek? I would greatly appreciate it. Then I want to say thank you to the 7th Board of Residents that had the confidence in reelecting me again.
 I do appreciate it. And, you know, during a campaign, you hear all kind of rhetoric and promises kept. But I would like to publicly say to Mr. Moore that all the things that you promised on the campaign trail, come work with me and let's get it done. The door is open to accomplish the things that we should be accomplishing for the 13th Ward.
 I also want to thank, it was a busy weekend over the weekend, Chief O'Shea for taking my call on Sunday. I do appreciate that. For all the things that happened in the community and addressing those. And also Assistant Deputy Chief Carla Redd and Officer Sims. I do appreciate the cooperation that they've given me. But we still got a lot of work to do. I also want to thank this council.
 You know, you've heard a lot of comments about what we should be doing and what we already have. If it wasn't for this council taking a chance, thinking outside the box on development downtown, we would not have what we have today. So we did take chances and we did listen to this community. So I want to thank each and every one of you for your support in bringing our downtown together. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. I would like to thank Chief O'Shea for a wonderful job that he has done with our department and our officers. I'm glad that our officers are safe and I look forward to Chief O'Shea bringing down crime and bringing some order to the city. And I'd like to thank the officers that came to my home when I had an incident this week. They were very wonderful.
 I'd like to say congratulations to Alderman McNamara for becoming our city's next mayor. And I would like to thank every one of the council members that I have served with. It has been an experience beyond belief. And I walk away more educated than I did when I came here. But I'm not going away.
 I believe that I could do a lot of work behind the scenes, more so than I can here. And I will do that. Thank you, Mayor, for putting up with me when I was a tyrant on several occasions. And I appreciate that. But I'm going to miss all of you. But it's not goodbye. It's I will see you on the backside. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. I have two things tonight. First and foremost, I want to thank Chief Bergstrom and his awesome officers that helped me with my condition in my home Saturday evening. If the officers hadn't been there, they say I would have lost my home. Right now, I'm staying in a hotel, and jeez, you know what, they got room service. Which is really nice.
 The other thing is I want to express gratitude to every
 staff member that I've worked with in the last four years. The department heads, their assistants, their office girls. Please, if you would give the incoming alderman half of the support you gave me, we'll have a good council for the next four years. I also want to thank the Ninth Ward for the privilege to be their alderman for four years, and I ain't going no place. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further officers' reports? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of Prophet Yusef, Alderman Beach, I have something I have to get off my chest. I don't like you. I love you, and you can't do nothing about it. Happy birthday and many more. Happy birthday and congratulations, Alderman Beach. Absolutely. Alderman Elliott.
 I just, maybe these are petitions in favor of the hotel deal. So there's over 20 pages here, and I would like to turn them in for the record. We'll have the clerk take those and submit them as part of our record. Further officers' reports, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I would like to thank the voters of the 13th Ward for supporting me overwhelmingly. Thank you.
 coming out and supporting me for another term as alderman. I also would like to say to all of my colleagues here, the ones that won't be back, I will miss you. And for the ones that will be back, I look forward to continuing to work with you to make the city better, including hopefully the hotel. I also would like to thank
 The fire department, the police department, public works, animal control, I called every department I could think of last week. I had a constituent call me and say that there was a deer in his backyard in a drainage ditch. And he told me that the deer had been there for one night.
 And when I got there, another resident said, no, it's been there at least two nights. And I didn't know who to call, so I just called everyone. And I'm so glad that the city departments all showed up and animal control showed up and they were able to use, what do you call it?
 A taser, not taser. A tranquilizer. A tranquilizer, thank you. A tranquilizer, having to use, I think it was four of them to put the deer to sleep and able to take the deer in the animal control van and hopefully properly dispose of it. The chief shared with me that in some localities
 they're able to use the deer meat and share with the homeless. And I don't know if we'd do that. I was certainly going to check with animal control to see if we can. I don't know how often that happens, but in the 16 years I've been here, that's the first time it happened to me, and I just thank all the departments for helping. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports?
 So we'll move on to Roman numeral 2, our agenda, our first item, Roman numeral 2A, Planning and Development Committee. I'm sorry, Alden McNeely, did you have something else? I'm sorry. That's all right. Thank you.
 I wanted to thank Mary with Channel 13. She did a report a couple weeks ago regarding a property that the city and the EPA are looking at, and I believe the EPA will be back next week. It's a vacant lot that the owner of the property is using it as a dump site. There's an old railroad car in there. There's this huge white thing. I don't know what it was used for.
 an old trailer, there's cars, there's everything that you possibly can imagine that's there. I've been working on this for years through the city, trying to work with the township as well as the county. The people that live across the street from that is just an eyesore. One family that lives there, years ago when they're...
 their kids were kids, that kids used to go across there and fly kites and was able to enjoy the land. Now it's just unbelievable. And the reason why I asked,
 Mary to come and look at it is because now the vegetation hasn't grown so you can actually see in there What's what's all in there? So I'm hoping that the EPA I know mayor that the city is working with them I'm hoping that we can get that cleaned up and have a more decent area there in the city. I
 Unfortunately, there are a lot of places now, Mayor, that people are dumping in a lot of different places, a lot of rental properties. The renters are just throwing the garbage out. They're not putting it out in the day that they're supposed to. And they put it out late. They just leave it there all week. So that's certainly one thing that I look forward to working with the new Mayor, Mayor McNamara, once we get started in May.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. The Honorable allow me to speak twice, but I do have to acknowledge two individuals. I would like to say happy anniversary to Mr. and Mrs. Gulley, former aldermen of the 13th Ward. They're celebrating their 50th anniversary. And I would also like to say happy birthday to Mrs. Simpson. She turns 90 today on Blinn Court. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 So we'll now move on to Roman numeral 2A. Alderman Durkee is not here. I think Alderman Connell, are you going to take that? All right. I have one item up for passage under Roman numeral number 2A1. The committee recommends approval of the Gorman and Company Inc. proposed.
 Go ahead. You can read. Proposed amended and restated development agreement for the development of the Amrock Embassy Suite Hotels, Rockford Conference Center, Davis Park, and associated parking improvements. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. That was laid over last week or a couple weeks ago, actually. Alderman McNamara, did you have a motion? No.
 I do. Thank you, Mayor. Bear with me. I think I have about three pages of amendments here. I move to amend the committee report under Unfinished Business Committee Reports, Roman numeral 5A, item 1, amended and restated agreement for the development of the Amrock Embassy Suites Hotel, Rockford Conference Center, Davis Park, and associated parking improvements to reflect the following changes.
 Number one, in Section B, Project Scope and Funding, subsection two, which is found on page four, modify the estimated total cost for the Rockford Conference Center from 13.1 million dollars to approximately 12.5 million dollars.
 Number two in Section C duties of the city subsection to I Davis Park improvements which can be found on page 5 Modified to read as follows the city has completed a Davis Park master plan with input from the community and Gorman a copy of which of which is attached here to as Exhibit B in the event that a revised plan is created Gorman shall have the opportunity to provide comment on such plan number three and in Section C the
 Duties of the City, subsection 2I, Davis Park Improvements, which is found on page 5, strike the following sentence. Such approval shall not be unreasonably withheld. Number 4 in section C, Duties of the City, subsection 2I, Davis Park Improvements, which is found on page 5, modify to read as follows.
 In the event that phase one of the attached plan or a substitute plan is not constructed or likely to be constructed by the time of completion of the project, Gorman at its own cost shall have the right to demolish the Lordham building and repair the area with the appropriate landscaping and preserve access to power connections and replace the existing public bathroom facilities currently located within the Lordham building or provide alternatives acceptable to the city which support Davis Park activities.
 Number five, in Section C, Duties of the City, Subsection 2II, Davis Park Operating Agreement, which is found on page five, amend the following sentence to read as follows.
 The city shall enter into the operating agreement with the Rockford Area Venues and Entertainment Authority and the Rockford Park District, the city's managing partners of Davis Park and RLDC, to provide Gorman with reasonable access to Davis Park at a reasonable fee in order to erect temporary tents and related structures in connection with outdoor events, such as wedding banquets and the like, being hosted at the hotel and the Rockford Conference Center developed by Gorman.
 Number six in section C duties of the city subsection of four for room taxes Which is found on page nine change the rate at which the city shall refund the hotel operators Occupied occupation tax from five percent to four percent of the gross rental receipt from such renting leasing and for letting of rooms generated and collected by the city from the project to the developer and
 Change number seven, or amendment seven, in section C, duties of the city, subsection 4-4, room taxes, pages 9 and 10, include the following. The remaining 1% may be directed by the city to the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau under separate contract between the city and the RACVB,
 with terms that reflect 70% of funds to the City Redevelopment Fund and 30% of the funds to the RACVB, who shall use the funds to provide coordinated marketing with the Conference Center, hotel, and other downtown venues, BMO Harris, Coronado Theater, UW Sports Factory, etc., for the purpose of promoting tourism and conventions within the city or to otherwise attract non-resident overnight visitors to the city.
 Amendment number 8 in Section D, Duties of Gorman, subsection 3, Application of Building Permit, page 10. The deadline by which Gorman shall apply for the building permit for the construction of the project shall be changed from April 1, 2017 to June 1, 2017.
 Amendment number nine in section D, duties of Gorman, subsection four, locally sourced services, products, which is found on page 11, include the following. In addition to sourcing services and products locally, Gorman will enter into an agreement to reach out to small and disadvantaged contractors, including women and minority owned, to be included in the construction process.
 Amendment number 10 in section D, Duties of Gorman, subsection 8, Rockford Conference Center, page 12, which is found on page 12, changed the fixed price from $13.1 million to $12.5 million.
 Amendment number 11 in Section D, Duties of Gorman, subsection 8, Rockford Conference Center, which is found on page 12, include the following. Gorman shall provide a performance bond and payment bond for the construction of the hotel and conference center consistent with industry standard. Amendment number 12 in Section F, Miscellaneous Provisions, subsection 1, New Market Tax Credits, which is found on page 14, amend to read as follows.
 The city intends to finance the construction of the Rockford Conference Center and parking improvements through the utilization of federal new market tax credits as a public-private partnership with RLDC, but reserves the option of funding by a general obligation bond or direct bank financing. Gorman and RLDC shall cooperate fully in the...
 in the effort to utilize new market tax credits, including but not limited to the execution of additional agreements, assisting in obtaining access to new market tax credits, timing of construction, and tax credit eligibility components of the project, such as low-income job training, local retail store, local foods, connection, et cetera. Second. Thank you.
 So there's been a motion with those 12 items that all the Mac Merritt and is just seconded by all the men I get just as their discussion on the amendments on top. Kelly. I remember seven has the contract between the city and our ACVP in. Crafted Mr. Cagnola on ticket. Could you please repeat the question I couldn't quite hear that.
 I'm sorry. Item number seven, there was a contract established between the city and RACVB. Has that contract been... So the terms that are reflected in that condition have been discussed with leadership of the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau.
 Thank you. And I'd just like to make a comment here. Sure. I want to thank Alderman McNamara for taking the lead on this. The many, many, many, many, many meetings that we've had over the weekend and several days. And also I'd like to thank Mr. Gordon for Gorman.
 That's a gordon foreman for taking the time to meet with us and to go over this it has been a very lengthy in Detail process and I do want to thank them for that. Thank you. Thank you all maneuver Thank you and change number seven the remaining one percent may be directed by the city to the Rockford area is that? Did that change from should be or will be? Mr.. Cagnone you want to take that?
 We addressed it as may, understanding that this is an agreement with Gorman and Company so that this council is not bound by this development agreement directly, but that is the full intention of what would be proposed as we move forward. So I'm sorry, go ahead.
 I understand it's the intention, but the way it reads now, the city could keep that 1% completely, correct? Without any of it going to? Correct. Okay. The other thing is, I just want to remind people that all 14 council members and all of our staff have put in long, long hours studying this.
 I will say it again, yes, Rockford needs a hotel downtown. But sometimes what looks good may not work out. But I really wish people would remember that the four council members that are sitting here, well the 13, we'll think of the 14th one also, we have studied this, we have discussed it. It is not just that we decided haphazardly how to vote.
 But I again want to express to the staff the many hours you put in and you've answered our questions over and over. I truly appreciate it. Thank you. Other comments on the amendments? Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. On item number 11, could you explain the performance bond and how that works and what the dollar amount attached to the performance bond is going to be? Mr. Cagnone, do you want to take that?
 Thank you, Your Honor. So the performance bond would be required by Mr. Gorman both for the cost estimate for the construction of the hotel as well as the conference center. And the method and the requirement of the performance bond is so that we're protecting the city's investment that the project would be completed. Mr. Gorman will be completing a performance bond for his lenders,
 as well and this is would be typical practice this is in addition to a construction schedule consistent with industry standards to ensure that the the the project is moving forward as payments are made and verified through the process thank you for their discussion in the minutes on the all of them and nearly thank you as I don't number for Davis Park the obligation of Gorman regarding the building
 regarding demolishing that or keeping it standing or after demolition how that property will be set up for use by the city individuals other than Gorman is that a definitive that it would be demolished mr. Cagnall anyone take that thank you honored no it is not a definitive that it would be demolished
 As we've worked through the terms of the development agreement, when it was originally published to City Council, it provided Gorman the opportunity to approve any amendments from the Davis Park Plan that was previously created. As through the negotiations, Mr. Gorman does not have that authority within the development agreement.
 any further. However, should the city not advance forward phase one of the proposed Davis Park development, he would have the ability to step in, demolish the Lorden building at his cost, as well as find an alternative to replace the electrical and utilities, including the bathrooms that are within the facility.
 Okay. Thank you very much. Thank you. Olin Beach. Thank you, Hunter. On number 12, in the event the new market credits cannot come through and they go out for bonds, for example, as an option, has that number been wound into the payment schedule that was given to us as far as the total payment per year? I think it was like $950.
 $7,000. Is that bond for that conference center included there? Yes, the projected debt service, if we were to bond from the beginning, no new market tax credits were available for the project. If we were to bond for the full construction costs,
 That estimate was provided to you all today. It's at the large sheet of paper on your desks. That is annual debt service of approximately $937,000, and that's after the reduction from the additional million dollars of leftover bond proceeds that we found last week from the Ingersoll project as part of our normal audit process. Thank you. Alderman Nuff, I'm sorry, was there a follow-up?
 With respect to that last comment made by our Finance Director, I didn't know that we found a million dollars last week. I was just, maybe she could expand on how we found a million dollars last week and how we've decided unilaterally to spend it.
 Ms. Eklund? Certainly. As part of our normal audit process, we go through our construction projects from the year prior and close out final expenses, final revenue, and because the bond issue related to the Ingersoll project was done early on in the process before we had final construction
 bids let and we knew what the construction contract value was going to be. We ended up, and we had some budget savings throughout the project as well, we ended up with a million dollars more in bond proceeds for that project than we needed for the project. We have a number of options on what we can do with that million dollars, namely we can allocate it towards future debt service obligations.
 for that specific bond issue. However, if this project is to proceed, the simplest way to use that money, which is still going to be a net reduction in the redevelopment fund, would be to allocate it to this project. If the project doesn't go forward, staff would recommend that we use that money to defer future debt service payments.
 on related specifically to the Ingersoll project going forward. Alden Frost. And when was the first time that City Council was notified of this?
 I guess, additional million-dollar savings on the UW Sports Factory project. Ms. Eklund? The information was provided to me by accounting staff on Friday afternoon, and that was communicated to Interim Administrator Cagnoni that day and then communicated to City Council on Saturday. Any further discussion on the amendments? Alderman Hervey. Thank you.
 One of my questions with regard to the application of new market tax credits to the project, staff provided us with projection with just bond proceeds or bonding and with the new market tax credits, but the new market was up to a certain amount. What's the determinant as to the value of the new market tax credits? Is it how we apply or how we apply them
 to the project in terms of the, I'm going to call it the cash out, but that's not what it is, but basically buying out the investors at the end of, is it three years, five years, seven years? I'm not sure for new markets. Mr. Cagnone or Ms. Eklund, either of you want to take that?
 So the new market tax credit period would be for seven years, and I believe the up to amount was referenced in my March 20th memo that was trying to memorialize the anticipated savings from those amendments that were read in that night, understanding that all of them may not come into play.
 The predominant factor in regards to what the value of the new market tax credits are going to be are going to be related to the cost of construction, which is we've anticipated through the engagement of outside council an amount of about $4.3 million. Should we get the full value? The full benefit for the city? Correct. So it will be $4.3 million off the 12.5?
 Mr. Cagnone. So it's over the life of the debt. So the amount is that we would go through the new market tax credit period of seven years, capture that savings through the value of the new market tax credits, which is somewhat dependent on the investors that come in, and then bond for 10 years after the new market tax credit period is up. So we'd still be bonding? Correct. So it would be...
 Okay. Similar to Turner School in some ways. Okay. I thought they could actually buy down the initial outlay. No. So we would use
 Go ahead, Mr. Cagnone. Thank you. We would be looking to do a conventional construction loan as we pursue the new market tax credits with Rockford Local Development Corporation and Gorman and Company, understanding that we would need to be in a position of –
 closing a new market tax credit project prior to 75% of the construction being completed on the project. So we would have to work through that overall timing that was set forth in the memo from Attorney Longwell. But we would start construction before we had an answer on the new market tax credits? That is correct. Thank you. Just to make sure it was clear, I think your initial estimate though on
 I can't recall if Mr. Cagnone mentioned this, but it's approximately seven years after the project is put into use or service that we would be taking out the new market tax credit investor. And that's the point in time when we would be issuing one of our options, most likely option given we would get most likely the best rates. We would issue bonds at that point in time, seven years out after the project is in service
 and we would benefit at a net reduction at that time, so the payments moving forward would be realizing the net savings from the prior new market tax credits. Other questions on the amendments? Hearing none, I'm just going to ask the clerk to take this first vote. It will be a vote on the proposed amendments. If there's no further comments, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Amendments passed. Thank you. The amended item then is up for passage, I assume, Holden McConnell? Aye.
 Yes. Item as amended is up for passage. Is there further discussion? On the amendments? No, on the amended, the full matter. So the amendments just passed. That was the vote just on the amendments. Amendments are passed. So the item as amended is up for passage. Is there further discussion? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just want to make a couple statements. We see we have a lot of people here, and I appreciate the community's input on it. And I...
 I definitely agree that Rockford needs a four-star hotel. I agree that Rockford needs a four-star hotel, and I think an ideal place for that would be in downtown Rockford. Two weeks ago, I had two lawyers in town from outside of town, and we were at the courthouse on a Monday morning at 8.30, and one of them wanted to go get breakfast. And we had to actually get in my car and drive to a restaurant on the other side of town because there was no restaurant, full-service breakfast restaurant,
 that was open on a Monday morning. So I truly believe, I think with all the folks here, that a downtown hotel is much needed. It would provide a boost in the economy with respect to construction jobs, and it would be, or it could be, an economic development for the entire city, not just downtown.
 However, with respect to this particular project, when I use the term Gorman, I'm not referring to Mr. Gorman that's here. I'm referring to Gorman and Company and one of its entities that would be participating. So I didn't want to think that I'm picking on Gorman personally. But I've got to tell you what, this deal is the most worst negotiated deal I've ever seen. And I don't even know who's on the negotiation team for the city. I don't know if it was the mayor. I don't know if it was Mr. Cagnoni.
 I don't know what staff members were present. I don't know if Alderman McNamara was present or not. But I can tell you that I have been to some meetings, and in three and a half years, I met with Mr. Gorman twice. Once when he first came to town at the district, and the second time in the mayor's office on February 27, 2017. Since that time, I called him once to ask about negotiating certain other terms. I never heard back from the man.
 I'd like to talk about some other things. And I appreciate the mayor working diligently in his 12 years, and I thank you, mayor, because I know that you've put your heart and soul into this city and especially into downtown Rockford. The mayor asked myself and Alderman McNamara to get involved with the UW Sports Factory project from the get-go.
 I had a lot of experience with Reclaiming First and soccer and Alden McNamara was in his ward, I believe, or partially in his ward. We went to countless meetings here in City Hall and elsewhere in the community with approximately 15 people at the meetings, including architects, a paid and hired building consultant, a former CEO and owner of Court Construction leading the way. We made numerous changes to that project.
 We added items, we deleted items, we put a sidewalk in, we argued about it, we put the promenade in, and then it got built. And it was a great deal, and people questioned that deal. Why is the City of Rockford putting almost $20 million into this building that they've owned since Alderman Scott was mayor?
 instead of letting it go. Well, our mayor made an obligation to turn that building around. We had a lot of other funds including River Edge and a litany of other sources of funds. But we got a good deal and at the end of the project we turned the keys over to the Park District. And people asked, why are you doing this? Well, we work well with our Park District. They're another form of government in our community. They're not a for-profit business but they're the government. Now on Saturday I just found out
 for the first time, timing is everything, that we saved an additional million dollars on that project. And lo and behold, today we're going to swing that deal to this deal. So in addition to the deal that Gorman & Company has already gotten on this plan, they're going to get more. Well, in this deal, we had no involvement as Alderman. We had no ideas. We had no chance to present our ideas. We had no meetings except ones that were per se meetings, I should say.
 We've still never seen a capital stack for this project. So here we are. We're going to spend $60 million, $68 million. I don't know what the stack is of this project. We have no idea. We've never seen a hard bid for what this thing is going to cost to build. But I can tell you this. If the cost of construction goes from $68 million to $48 million, guess what? We don't save a dime. Our cost, according to these amendments, is fixed. Why is that?
 Who benefits from that? Gorman and Co. benefits from that.
 We've already spent $5.2 million in cash money into fixing up and eradicating projects such as Warshawski and other infrastructure improvements around the area. So if you take the $5.2 plus the $12.5, that's $17.7 million that we are not going to give like we've given to Justin Fern or Urban Equities or other downtown developers in the forms of TIFs or other enticements. This is cash. Right?
 We're giving $17.7 million plus the TIFs, plus the rebates, plus the river edge, plus the new market credits. Who gets this? It's never happened in Rockford that I know of. And frankly, I don't know where it's ever happened before. And ask yourselves, why don't we get a benefit or a break if the construction cost is lower? You know, a funny thing about this deal is that we have a company,
 that is not only the developer, they're the architect, they're the general contractor. And in their general contractor bid, I guarantee you that they are going to have the right to self-perform. Now, many of you probably know what that means, but a lot of these union folks do, they're in the trades. It means that as the GC, they can also be a subcontractor, so they can make money on top of that. So ask yourselves, what is the amount of money that at the day of this building's ribbon cutting, when it's done,
 is some form of Gorman going to make? A lot of that money comes back through those three avenues. And just so you know, when we did the sports factory, we had independent people. We went to bid on the building. We had an independent architect. We had two architects. We had people looking fiscally at every turn to make sure we were able to save money. And lo and behold, we did it.
 We also invested in that sports factory building. We were told, well, if you build it, I won't build a hotel unless you build a sports factory. Well, guess what? We built our sports factory. It's built. This hotel should have been built three years ago. It's not. It hasn't been. It reminds me of another deal the city council administration took part in. It happened to be in my ward, and it's not because it was in my ward that I have any special feelings about it, but it is the largest construction project seen in Rockford.
 It's the Mercy Health deal. In that meeting, I was invited to go to meetings. And I'll tell you this, the mayor and the legal staff, we played hardball. We negotiated with the CEO of Mercy Health beyond belief. You may or may not recall, but in the end, the deal almost blew up because we said we wouldn't waive the permit fees. We ended up splitting it. We were 900 grand away from a deal like that.
 Here, we're giving away $17.7 million. And by the way, in this deal, all the permit fees are waived, all the building fees are waived, all the connection fees are waived. So we can add those to the line items of what really this thing is going to cost. The city of Rockford, the redevelopment fund, and the taxpayers of Rockford. Our redevelopment fund only has a little over a million dollars in it right now.
 What is it used for? Well, it's used for the BMO Center, it's used for the Ice Hogs, it's used for the Coronado, and it's used for a litany of other projects which are supposed to benefit and redevelop the downtown. My biggest concern when I see numbers like this given to me today, or the ones I got Saturday, or the ones I got before, are they seem to change. And I'm told, well, they're information. They're not information. How am I supposed to do my due diligence
 as an alderman and vote on something of monumental task when I get this information delayed, late, and when it changes all the time. I'm concerned for the taxpayers of Rockford. I'm concerned for the citizens of Rockford. Not because I'm concerned about the fact that whether or not we get a hotel downtown, because I truly think it's a great idea. I'm concerned about funding it and financing it.
 And that's why I've gotten involved with certain projects. For instance, the sports court. Mayor got me involved with the wellness committee. Again, were we able to negotiate to buy a building in the old Fran Crawl dealership for pennies on the dollar and put together a great program that runs without a great operating loss to the city? I'm concerned about this plan moving forward, not because of the plan, but because of the deal. The deal is not a deal because we weren't at the table.
 I don't know who was at the table, but, ladies and gentlemen, mark my words, it's a one-way deal. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Most of what he said, and to add to that.
 When we started having this discussion, and I think everybody knows the hotel is just outside the Fifth Ward. Used to be in the Fifth Ward, actually, as was the TAPCO building. And I used to gripe week after week because the facades were crumbling and falling onto the sidewalk. So we had to put up barricades and people in wheelchairs and people just walking with their babies in strollers had to get out into South Main Street because they were coming in.
 literally falling down. So I was probably happier than most when somebody actually came up and had what I thought was going to be a viable plan to actually restore the Zyoc building. Everybody knows how I feel about Barbara Coleman, so you know I'm a sucker for old, crumbling, dilapidated
 polluted buildings. Some reason I find them beautiful, but I really wanted to see this project go. I had a hard time with the first agreement, but I plugged my nose and I did it anyway. When the second iteration came around, I had more of a problem because of the asks that were being made of Rockford taxpayers and what we were giving. Two and a half years later,
 some of us started saying, what's going on with the hotel? What's going on with, as we called it, the Gorman deal? What's going on with Embassy Suites? And we got no answer, we got no answer, we got no answer. And all of a sudden, we were presented with yet a third iteration of this deal that asked even more.
 It was being billed, and the thing that bothers me to this day, everyone is saying, but you've reduced your risk. We took away the parking structure because the train, first we said the train's not coming, and I said, who said so?
 The state of Illinois is a total mess, we all know that. So who knows when or if the train will be coming. But my understanding is the train is not off the horizon. It's certainly delayed, as is everything else in Illinois, but no one has said the train project is totally dead. Whether it's Amtrak or whether it's commuter, commuter is more of a long shot, it's not dead. So not only are we not reducing our risk,
 We actually have a bigger risk sitting out there that if we wanted that train and it gets back on track, we're going to have to build a station and come up with the parking for the train. I wouldn't have an objection to that. I do have an objection to it when we're giving away every other development dollar that we have.
 I'm with Mr. Frost when I go back and I look at the performance that we've had for the project, and we went from being 3.5 million, roughly, not 3.5, 3.3 million in the red within a five to seven year period. Now we're almost $7 million to the good. I absolutely have confidence in our finance director, Ms. Eklund, and Mr. Todd Cagnone, and I want to make that absolutely clear.
 If Ms. Eklund tells me that we can add 2% to the projections for the redevelopment fund, I'm going to believe that. But I'm not sure what else we're giving up or ignoring. You know, one week we read in the newspaper where the RAVE board is saying they have $200 million worth of deferred maintenance for BMO, Coronado,
 Davis Park, whatever. And then a couple weeks later, oh, I'm confident that the redevelopment fund can handle it. $200 million? I don't think so. So I'm concerned, and my big thing is, what are we actually doing to the redevelopment fund, and what are we doing to our city's fiscal position?
 I want the hotel, but like Mr. Alderman Frost, I have concerns about how we got here with this deal. I think it gives too much. I know other cities have given, but those cities did that as an overall city project. This came to us as pretty much a packaged and done deal until Alderman McNamara,
 basically stepped in and made some revisions, but for me, they're not enough. I know I'm going to disappoint a lot of people. I'm going to disappoint a lot of people who've had confidence in me, and I'm okay with that, because I've struggled with this more than I have probably any other decision we've made as a city council.
 I'm not comfortable with the financing. I'm not comfortable with the structure of the deal. And I'm not comfortable with, not the risk. I don't mind taking a risk. I mind jumping off the cliff with no parachute. And that's what I feel like we're doing with this deal with regard to our citizens. So my apologies to everyone, but I can't support this agreement in its current form. Thank you. Further discussion, Alderman Connell. I agree with Alderman Frost, Alderman Hervey.
 My concern is for the taxpayers and the money and how we're going to come up with it in the near future or distant future. I think the hotel downtown, a four-star hotel, is fantastic, but I'm just worried about putting the taxpayers on the line for the money. Thank you for the discussion, Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost.
 Alderman Hervey, I too have a problem. I remember a short time ago we talked about Mercy Hospital. The vast amount of construction jobs that was bringing to Rockford, that was great. But not only are they bringing construction jobs, but they're bringing jobs the day they open. They will be bringing well-paying jobs. There will be jobs for every person.
 every level of payment there. And the amount of email I got for and against that was, I thought, the most I would get. Well, needless to say, last night, or this afternoon, I got my, in two days, I got 47 emails. This is over a project that's bringing jobs, yes, it's going to give jobs to downtown Rockford, or let's just say to Rockford, but it's bringing in
 what, maybe 125 jobs? And how many of those jobs are full-time jobs? I have wanted to do something to get more jobs to Rockford, but I don't think people understand. If you don't bring businesses to Rockford, you don't bring jobs.
 We have got to promote to bring businesses to Rockford without giving away everything and the baby along with it. Thank you. Alderman McNamara, then Alderman Gatches. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you.
 Thanks for the work that you've done. Thanks for the work that staff has done and thank you to the work that all the aldermen have done Not just in the last five weeks, but actually if you go back. I think it was April 2014 when we passed the first Amrock deal April 2014 Briefly after all of us got on council and started working together. That's when we first passed the first agreement I certainly agree with
 maybe one or two things that Alderman Frost said. It's been a... Yeah, it is a first. It's been a long process. It's been a frustrating process. It's not been a perfect process. But I think we need to think outside of the lines of...
 the process that we wanted to see. And think about the angle. I'm someone throughout council, since I've been on council, talked about process, how to change processes. I've blasted the mayor publicly about processes. So I certainly feel your frustration and anger and pain over the process. Where we're at tonight is we have had many meetings and numerous asks.
 with from alderman and I'll go through some of those but know that some of those ass have been really taken to heart I mean I can look at many of the alderman here that I've met with personally and we've taken almost every single ass that was asked of us and that has reduced our obligation debt obligation by 3.9 million dollars
 But tonight we have an opportunity, an opportunity to build on the work that we have done as the 14 aldermen collectively and the aldermen who have come before us have done. Some of that, and just speaking mainly in that area, is we've improved infrastructure and the traffic flow from the bookends at the airport to our city center.
 along South Main Street. We've built a multi-use trail transforming an old rail bridge into this beautiful multi-use trail. We built a state-of-the-art sports factory attracting visitors from across our country who we want to stay in our city. And I believe tonight
 The vote can help leverage some of the public assets that we already have existing. From the BMO Harris Bank Center to the Coronado Theater to our fantastic museum complex. And there's going to be a new potential expansion of the Rock River View Ice House that this hotel will also benefit. Tonight's vote, and I guess I shudder or get a little bit upset when I hear it's not full-time jobs. 372 construction jobs.
 You're right. It's not full-time. Like, they will be planted at this hotel for the rest of their careers. But no construction job ever is. They move from one site to another site. This site, they're going to be at for two years. That's a hell of a long time for any construction job. So that's 372 non-full-time jobs paying livable wages that people can raise their family on. And there's also 123 permanent jobs.
 which I will contest that many of those 123, I would say probably several of them are part-time jobs. But there are 372 for sure full-time positions. Additionally, if you look at the study that was conducted, the most recent of, I think, John Groh's 13 studies about a hotel, in just five years, I don't like to look at what's gonna happen in 30 or 35 years, I like to look at the next five years.
 we can see $69 million in new spending, $21 million in new job wages, $2.5 million in new sales tax and tourism tax. Those are things that this study is projecting just in the first five years. Or we can talk about demolishing that structure, which if we can with its historic status is going to cost us what we know between $4 and $5 million and it will not generate taxes.
 But we've talked about this project since we've all been on council. In the last five weeks, I really want to thank all of you. Many of you who I disagree with tonight have taken the time to get involved in this process, and I appreciate that and ask very thoughtful questions that I think have delivered a better result. Mr. Gorman directly has agreed to 12 of the 13 amendments that we have put forward. He's reduced the costs. Some will say minimally, but he's reduced the costs.
 He's reduced the hotel motel ask from 5 to 4%, which is real dollars of $1.6 million. We then spoke with RACVB leadership so that the city of Rockford will get $1.2 million of that $1.6. We have revised the city authority related to Davis Park, which was a huge concern for many people. We now require Gorman to pay a fee to use at Davis Park, which was a big concern.
 sticking point for some people. We have introduced the use, and Gorman has agreed to cooperate on the new market tax credits. We have also included small and disadvantaged contractors, including women and minority-owned businesses, to participate in the construction of this project, which I think is important to all of us.
 Finally, Gorman now is providing a performance bond for the total construction of the hotel and conference center. I'm not going to sit here and say the agreement is perfect. It isn't. I think if you look at any agreement that I voted for on this council, I can't find one that's perfect.
 I can find a whole host of them that I wish I could poke holes in and we could adjust. But this is agreement ahead of us and I think it has an opportunity to not just improve downtown but improve Rockford and I think it has an opportunity to really improve the southwest quadrant of our city that is so desperately in need of transformation and assistance.
 And this is just one more piece. It's not the whole puzzle. It's one more piece. But we need this piece to continue moving forward. Thank you, Alderman Getschus.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I, too, would like to echo the thanks that everybody's put forward. One to my colleagues for all the hours' worth of work that we put in, staff for all your hard work in getting us the product that we have tonight to vote in, everyone who's coming out to participate in the process, and for Mr. Gorman, who has invested a great deal of his personal time in this project. I hear from my colleagues a lot of concern about the Redevelopment Fund.
 And to avoid getting into the details on that, I look at that as my colleague saying, there's too much risk involved in this project for us to put on the taxpayers. And the way I look at those risks is those risks will play out in time. Those risks will play out over the course of five and 10 years as this project comes into fruition and either performs the way we project it to perform or does not.
 The gains of this project are realized almost immediately. And I think that for the numbers that have been given to us on the risk, those numbers were developed conservatively. Okay? The gains are going to help improve upon the projected performance. So what are the gains? Alright, you see a whole bunch of green, yellow, red signs say yes to jobs.
 We're putting people to work right now. And what I've heard in the city of Rockford over the years is we need jobs. We have too many people who are unemployed. We need to put people to work. This puts people to work right away. And then once the hotel opens, we have 120 jobs that we have a workforce that needs to fill. From talking with the Rockford Area Economic Development Commission, if you look at unemployment in Rockford,
 For the large numbers of people we have unemployed, there are an equal number of jobs. The problem is those jobs need an electrical engineering degree, mechanical engineering degree. They are not the types of jobs our unemployed workforce can go right into. These jobs, these 120 jobs are. These are jobs that a single mother trying to make ends meet can go get a hold of. A dad who's trying to help.
 raise his family can go in and get. We've got a workforce that needs these jobs as a stepping stone to get to other jobs. We commit to, we follow through on our commitment to this project
 A commitment that, like Mayor, like Mac Miller said, we made in 2014. If we follow through on that with the construction, I'm confident that we'll see the continued momentum that we've seen downtown. Over the years, we've invested in downtown, and we've seen more and more projects year by year as we make our downtown look a lot less like a whole bunch of dilapidated, abandoned buildings and start to look like a thriving city. And the biggest gain for me,
 is a Hilton Suites downtown Rockford. How does that make the Rockford skyline look? How does that make the parents who are coming out, you know, in between volleyball games at the UW Sports Factory, looking across the river, what do they see? Do they see, hey, Rockford, man, this is a rough town. Why do we schedule this tournament here? This must be a really cheap place. Or, hey, Rockford's looking up.
 Then in a couple years, hey look, there's Davis Park. Let's go walk across and let's see what's going on over at Davis Park. Is there a skate park that my younger kid can play at while his older sister is playing basketball?
 It looks different. It looks thriving. If we continue with our dedication to the downtown area, we take Barbara Coleman, like Oldman Hervey has very diligently kept bringing forward. That has to be our next priority after this. I'll even change the words. I know it's been the next priority for about the last 15 years. That needs to be the number one priority
 Once we are done with tonight's business, downtown will look different. That will bring sales tax dollars. That will bring people coming in that we don't have to use these incentives, that we can actually start getting property tax revenue back.
 Full diligence was done on the risk that we're going to take. Okay, a very conservative finance director has looked at the numbers and is comfortable, all right? And I am comfortable. I have done my homework. I think that this is the clear next step for development in downtown Rockford, and I think that this is the best thing for all of our citizens.
 And I stand behind our mayor-elect. I stand behind all my colleagues and the outgoing mayor in putting this forward. I encourage you, please, vote yes tonight for the future of our city. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Odom. Thank you. I don't think we would all be doing our due diligence if we just...
 went haphazardly with this. I think we all have legitimate fears and concerns, not only for our city, but for our residents. And the feelings are real, but that's what makes us great in what we do. This wasn't light reading, by any means, and I thought the Mercy Rockford was a lot of reading. This was heavy reading. It's going to bring jobs.
 during the construction, it's going to bring, like Alderman Goetjes said and Alderman McNamara, it's going to bring jobs once it's done. My hope is that it will bring more jobs to the small businesses so that they can stay open, so that they can be open at 6 a.m. and maybe close at 9. We used to go to St. Louis for our vacations.
 And we walked from the hotel to places. And at one point in St. Louis, the town was dead. Nothing was ever open, and we stopped going. I live here. I work here. I raise my children here. I worry about my taxes like everybody else does. But I believe that after careful consideration, I believe that this hotel will bring the things that we need to Rockford.
 I didn't make this decision overnight. It was painstaking. I had to weigh the odds. I had a lot of fights with a lot of people about it. But I don't want my city to turn into other cities like Michigan, you know, how they have their issues, and I don't want our city to claim bankruptcy. I don't want to have to sell my home and leave.
 because I want my city to thrive. The only way my city is going to thrive is if I take that leap right off that cliff without that parachute and make the decision to vote yes for this hotel. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm supporting this hotel not because of the jobs, because within the trades, within the unions,
 The people that live in my ward represent probably less than 1%. I want my people to have jobs. I also want them to be able to have a hotel that their relatives, their visitors, can go to without traveling an hour or 45 minutes from where they live on the west side of the city. But I am not confused about the jobs. I would love for the unions to...
 pick up the number of African Americans that are part of the union. I look in this audience, and yes, there are a lot of people here. And every time this issue has came up, there have been a lot of people here with signs saying, support jobs. Well, I want you to support African Americans. And that should not be just with this construction. That should be with every construction.
 The people on west of the river within my ward should be able to visit with their relatives, visit with their friends that come from out of town and comfortably in the morning or in the evenings without thinking about, oh, you have to travel 45 minutes.
 So I think this is an asset for the city overall. But I look at it as an asset for my community as well. The number of jobs that the hotel is going to bring will not put a dent in the unemployment within my ward. The number of jobs, again, that the union will have during that construction period will not put a dent in the jobs, the men that need the jobs within my ward.
 So I support this having concerns as well as Autumn and Frost regarding those numbers. But I'm thinking, if I don't support this hotel, when will we get a hotel west of the river? When will my relatives from Texas or Hawaii or wherever will come and not have to spend 45 minutes? Instead of having breakfast with me, breakfast has to come at 11 o'clock instead of 7 o'clock.
 So, Mr. Gorman, I have never met with you. I know that while I was hospitalized that you met with a number of the aldermen. But I hope with the tax credits or without the tax credits, you will realize, where are you putting the hotel? You will realize that there are people that truly need jobs now.
 that truly would like to be able to spend time with their friends and family when they do come to the city. So it's not just about providing a hotel for the people, the visitors that come for the games, that come for the theater, that come for the IceHogs. I think it's excellent for them. I think that we will benefit
 from individuals that are coming for those events and have the opportunity to stroll along and instead of jumping in their car going to I-90, be able to walk to the hotel. So I hope that you hear me. I hope that the people in the city hear me. We need to get jobs, and this is not it. This is temporary. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. So most of us around here have stated that we've supported this concept at least twice in the past. It's not been just a year. It's now we're into the fourth year that we've been talking about this. And, you know, I've often wondered why, as a city, we didn't build the hotel ourself and
 hired another company such as Embassy of Swedish Government, manage it for us so that we would hold in the profit and the gain for the taxpayers with the money we spend. Because one of the things that really concerns me, and I've let my voice be heard to my fellow colleagues, is that buildings like the Coronado and like the Sports Factory and like the Metro Center, they're all public buildings. They're paid for with public dollars for the public.
 and we subsidize it with public money. Even with the Coronado Theater, as desperately as they wanted, there was private capital brought into that project to help make it work because they wanted it. They wanted to do it even to this day. They are part of that. But I've stated before, even to our mayor-elect, my concern is putting public money into private projects. And I ask, is there any way possible that Mr. Gorman can buy...
 That conference center. Be responsible for that conference center and take that off our back. And the answer comes to me, no. That's got to be there in order to make the project work. So, you know, maybe it will work. I hope it does. But it's very hard for me. I must confess. The people that sit behind me, the people that send me texts, people that call me, they've all been respectful. They're my friends. I'd love to say,
 that this is the best deal. I don't think this is the best deal for us at this moment. I'm not saying there shouldn't be the deal, but I'm not sure this one is. So thank you for allowing me to speak, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Seeing no further discussion before the council, I ask the clerk to call the roll. Amir. Aye. Ross. No. Hervey. No. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. No. Elliott. Beck. No.
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 7 ayes, 6 noes. The matter passes. Out of, if we can, just, if we can, Allamand McNeely, Allamand Odo, just real quickly, if we can, I'd like the, if there's no objection, I'd like to move to ordinances and just deal with this. We have some council members who have to leave. This was, remember, specially set.
 So the same item, if there's no objection, I'd like to take up. It's a companion item under Roman numeral 3A1. There's no objection. So this is the ordinance, and just as a procedural matter, the ordinance needs eight votes. However, the mayor, if it's a 7-6 as it was in the committee report, is allowed to vote. Ms. Partridge, did I get that right?
 So, Alderman Frost. I'm just, I knew that it was, because of the bonding, it required eight votes. I'm just wondering if Mr. Partridge can cite the rule which says that if there's not everybody here on the 76 votes, then the mayor. I'm sorry, Alderman Frost, I can't hear you because of all the crowd noise. Sure. I'm aware that because of the bonding issue that it requires eight votes.
 And so I'm curious, under what ordinances is it that the mayor is allowed to vote on the cartridge? It's a state statute. Alderman Frost is 65 ILCS 5-3.1-40-30. The mayor can vote where one half of the aldermen elected have voted in favor of an ordinance, even though there is no tie under the circumstances. Thank you.
 Thank you. So we'll go to Roman numeral 3A1. Mr. Partridge, do I need a suspension of the rules on that? Yes, you do, Your Honor. Is there a motion and second to suspend the rules, Roman numeral 3A1? All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Is there a discussion? Hearing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Gotcha. Mackinac Mayor. Aye.
 What's his name? Frost. I'm sorry, I didn't hear what the item is. From number 3A1. Oh, no. Hervey. No. Connell. No. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. No. Beach. No. Ellier. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. And I will vote aye.
 order of art back to normal order agenda Roman numeral 2 be on a shovel thank you honor Roman numeral 2 be one through eight first of all I want to hold out item number seven until further notice runner so item number seven under that list would be held yes out by the chair and the remaining items I put up for passage
 On the Roman numeral 2B, unfinished business, committee reports delayed over Roman numeral 2B, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8 are up for passage as their discussion. Alderman Newberg. Yes. On number 6, the committee recommends reversal. It says for a pylon sign from 165 feet, what are they changing it from to or what?
 Mr. Cagnone can take that. Are you asking what the fundamental request of the item is? Yeah. They would like to add an additional sign. They would like, I can wait a moment, the door shuts. So the applicant is requesting a variation so that they may add an additional sign onto the existing free standing sign. And the sign they want to add is 165. That is correct. Thank you. Any further discussion on those items? Hearing none, please call the roll.
 McNamara Frost No Hervey No Connell Number 3 is traffic commissioner Thompson Kelly Odo Newberg No on 6, aye on the rest Beach Aye Beck Aye McNeely Aye Chiarelli Aye All in Beach did you have a question I would like to change my vote on number 6 because I do support that sign out there
 see your vote is an eye on that one then my vote would be no on number six i'm sorry your vote's a no as it says the committee recommends reverse or reversal yeah that's for that all right okay thank you so just to be clear the clerk is asking you're an eye on that one if that's the reversing yes it's an eye thank you alderman oto
 Closing right yeah, I'll read those so we're voting on Roman world to be items one two three four five six and eight on the council agenda Thank you, and one two four five eight eleven eyes item number three Two eyes, I'm sorry nine eyes two nose and item number six eight eyes three nose That is all passed. Thank you. Thank you. Oh back. Oh
 I'm going to move to see there's just two items those were all left over last week since we have a tough to vote on it.
 Yeah, go ahead. Alderman Hervey, thank you. Yes, Your Honor. Your Honor, under Roman numeral 2, items C1 and 2, number 1 being the vouchers, number 2 the intergovernmental agreement for resurfacing township projects for 2017. Thank you. Item 2C, items 1 and 2 are for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gotcha. I'm sorry. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey.
 Thompson Kelly Aye Odo Newberg Beach I thought I'd find it Elliott Beck Aye McNeely Chiarelli Aye 12 by Chiarelli Matters passed, thank you Roman numeral 3B, Alderman Chiarelli I'm sorry, Roman numeral 3B1 through...
 7 also, I'm holding out number six again your honor. Thank you. I move to suspend the rules second motion second To spend the rules on Roman Roman numeral 3b items 1 2 3 4 5 and 7 is there just got All the favors spend the rules please signify by saying hi. Hi. Oh, no. I just have the rules be spending Thank you your honor. I placed those items up for passage matters up for passage is their discussion hearing none clerk Please tell the roll. Thank you mayor frost Kirby
 No, I'm sorry. She said, um. I was actually saying, um. I apologize. It would be a no on number five, aye on the remainder. Thank you. Thompson, Kelly? Odo? Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. And one, two, three, four, seven, 12 ayes. Item number five, nine ayes, three nos. Matters passed. Thank you.
 Alderman Backer, Alderman Hervey, either one? That's fine. Alderman Hervey. This is for item 3C1, Roman numeral 3C1, and that's the ordinance for the intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Township for resurfacing for 2017. Roman numeral 3C1.
 3c1 is the motion to suspend the rules. I would move to suspend the rules. Motion second to suspend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Groves be suspended. That is the end of the passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Otto. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. McNeely.
 T. R. Relling, 12 I's, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Is there any further business before the council? Move to adjourn. There's been a motion and second to adjourn our council meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Just as a reminder, our committees will now follow. If you want to take just a couple-minute break before we start.