Frost, here. Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, here. Odo, here. Newberg, Elie, McNeely, Chiarelli, 11 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? So just for the record, we're accepting, we have two journals. Unless there's some objection, we'll take them both at the same time, April 4th and April 11th. Hearing no objections, is there any amendments or changes to the two journals that are up for passage? All those in favor, please say aye.
 Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it, the journal will be accepted. Petitions and communications. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items that aren't on the agenda, other from planning and development. So memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager regarding inducement resolution to evaluate the creation of a TIF district for the redevelopment of the former Essex Manufacturing Complex located at 2816 North Main Street.
 and a commitment to enter into good faith negotiations of redevelopment agreement with the developer of said property. This will be referred to planning and development. Second memorandum from Vicki Manson, the housing and program manager, regarding the Jeremiah development. It's a subrecipient agreement, and this will also be referred to planning and development. Thank you, matters will be referred. Alderman Shirelli.
 There's only Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 19th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on April 25th. I'm referring that to Codes and Regs Committee. The second item is a Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 19th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on April 25th. That will also be referred to Codes and Regs.
 Third item is the Rockford Traffic Commission meeting, minutes from the meeting held April 13th, referring that to codes and regs. The fourth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operation Manager, regarding the upcoming special events, which includes the North End Market, Don Carter Kentucky Derby Party, Tough Mudder RPS 2.05 Run, Edgebrook Artsy Arts and Crafts Fair, Edgebrook Cider and Cinnamon Arts and Crafts Fair,
 Pink Heels, Winnebago 5K Run, Shop the Blocks, Downtown Dog Walk, Fiesta Petraeus, and Churchill Grove Neighborhood Garage Sales. Referring all those items to the Codes and Rights Committee. The last item is a memoranda from Marcy Leach, the Engineering Operations Manager, regarding the right-of-way vacation for Ford Avenue Advanced Machine. That will also be referred to Codes and Rights, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam.
 Paula Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. For Finance and Personnel Committee, I have a memorandum from George Davis, our Executive Director of Human Resources, regarding the Rockford Township Agreement for emergency rental funding. Number two, I have a memorandum from Matthew Vittner, our Interim Public Works Director, regarding a development agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement for sidewalk improvements to the Lewis Lemon Elementary School walking school bus route.
 And number three is a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, our interim finance director, regarding an authorization to issue bonds to finance the concourse parking deck improvements. All three of those items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Madam Chair. Those will all be referred.
 We have several proclamations this evening. I will be introducing them one at a time and inviting the participants that are here for the proclamations to come forward. Before I do, I want to make sure are there any additional petitions and communications. Thank you. Proclamations. Our first proclamation is for the Great American Cleanup. I invite Frank Manzillo and others that may be here for the Great American Cleanup to please come forward. Thank you, parents.
 Whereas as a nationally organized anti-littering campaign, the Great American Cleanup has grown to become a catalyst of change for community beautification, becoming the nation's single largest community improvement program. Whereas Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful is a local nonprofit dedicated to preserving local environment through education, community involvement, and public awareness.
 Whereas on April 30th, hundreds of volunteers from neighborhood groups adopted a street program and adopted highway programs, and service organizations will gather to clean up and green up our community. And whereas this year, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, the City of Rockford and Winnable County, announced the 28th annual Great American Cleanup event from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. on April 30th,
 Whereas the City of Rockford is proud of its natural resources and our neighborhoods. We seek to protect and improve our community through the action of our community members, government, and businesses working together. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2016 to be Great American Cleanup Month. We urge our citizens to join in cleanup projects throughout the city and county on April 30th and other days throughout the month and throughout the year. Congratulations. Would you like to say a little bit more? Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you, Mayor, Chief. Welcome to Rockford. It's a tough job, but I think you can handle it. Councilman, people of Rockford, thank you very much. This is the 28th annual Great American Cleanup. I'll just tell my friend over here that we spent four months getting ready for a three-hour event. If the weather stays like it is, we have 1,700 people ready to go pick up litter and trash along the roadways. We have 20 different sites this year, including Boone County that's joined us.
 We beautify the city. We pick up all the litter, the trash, the stuff that's kind of our gift to the city for the last 28 years. Anyway, I thank you very much. Anytime a municipality makes a special effort to proclaim a day to clean up, I think it's an honor to receive it. And thank you very much, and just get the litter picked up. Thank you very much.
 Next proclamation is for Money Smart Week. I invite Yvonne Peterson of Heritage Woods, Rockford, and Chris King of Rockford Bank and Trust, others that may be here, to accept the proclamation and please come forward. Whereas our financial well-being of individual American citizens is linked to the nation's economic progress, an improved financial literacy results in higher standards of living in more stable communities.
 Whereas becoming financially literate is a long-term process that for many requires the assistance of institutions outside the home, and in times of rapidly changing technologies and developments, consumers have many choices on how to manage their financial affairs. And whereas educational and financial institutions, government entities, and community-based organizations can work together to help consumers make informed choices about their personal finances and programs.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 23rd through the 30th to be Money Smart Week. And we encourage our citizens to make themselves aware of the importance of financial literacy and take advantage of the programs and activities geared towards financial management and prosperity this week and all year long. Would you like to share a little bit more? Thank you. Thank you.
 We want to thank you for proclaiming Money Smart Week. This is Northern Illinois' ninth year, and during that week we will have about 150 free events for all ages, from children all the way up to the retirees, covering a wide range of topics. There are Money Smart Week calendars down in the lobby, and they were in the register store yesterday. We encourage everyone to come out and share in those events. Thank you very much, Mayor.
 Our next proclamation is regarding Arbor Day, and I invite our own Mark Stockman from our Public Works Department and others that may be here on behalf of Arbor Day to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Whereas on April 4, 1872, Sterling Norton proposed a tree planting event to be called Arbor Day, and in his words, other holidays repose in the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future.
 Whereas Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and throughout the world. Whereas trees in our city increase property values, enhance our economic vitality, and beautify our community. Whereas trees can reduce erosion of topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife.
 And whereas trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 24, 2016 to be Arbor Day. And I also recognize our department for being once again a Tree City USA Growth Award from the National Arbor Day Foundation. And we urge our citizens to take support efforts to protect our environment,
 to support our city's urban forestry program, which is an ongoing process of renewal and improvement continuing throughout the year. General? Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, City Council, for allowing us to have this proclamation again. It's our custom to have a celebratory tree planting every year, and this year it will be taking place at Conklin School on the city's northwest side. It's just up off of Halstead Road, west of Rockton Avenue.
 The date is Friday, April 29th at 9 a.m. We have a special treat this year because besides the normal guest speakers who will be entertaining the audience, the music teacher at Conklin School is preparing the children to sing us a song. I'm really looking forward to that. So I encourage all of you to come if you have the time and celebrate another Arbor Day. And as the mayor mentioned, this is our 27th year
 of Tree City USA status. So again, thanks to the efforts of Mitch Leatherby and his forestry staff, we've accomplished that once again. Thank you. And I would advise to bring a raincoat. It seems to rain every day, but it's always good for the trees too. Our next proclamation is for Workers Memorial Day, and I invite Ron Welty and others that may be here on behalf of organized labor in the proclamation to please come forward.
 Whereas every year more than 10,000 American workers are killed on the job and 10,000 more are permanently disabled, millions are injured. And whereas another 100,000 workers will die from cancer, lung disease, and other diseases related to toxic chemical exposures during their work.
 Whereas concerned, Americans are determined to prevent these tragedies by organizing Workers Memorial Day, April 28th, a day chosen by the unions of the AFL-CIO as a day to remember these victims of workplace injuries and disease, renewing efforts to seek stronger safety and health protections, better standards in enforcement, and fair and just compensation, and by rededicating themselves to improving safety and health in every American workplace. Thank you.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Thursday, April 28, 2016, to be Workers Memorial Day in Rockford in recognition of workers killed, injured, and disabled on the job. Mayor Morrissey, members of the city council, I thank you very much for this proclamation, and congratulations, Chief. As the mayor read, it's observed every April 28th.
 And April 28th was picked by the AFL-CIO as that was the date that U.S. Congress created the OSHA Act, which was created to provide as safe workplaces as possible for all of us to work in so that we can go home to our loved ones. Now, some may say that they overstepped their bounds a little bit or some of them are silly.
 but to people that are hurt on the job or the loved ones, co-workers of someone that is killed on the job. I believe all those rules and regulations are priceless. I don't know when the city of Rockford, or when the Rockford United Laborers started the ceremonies observing this, but I have been doing it for nearly 20 years. And every year we hope
 that we will not add a name to the plaque. Unfortunately, this is another year we will be adding names to the plaque. But that is our goal, and that's why unions work very hard with their employers to provide workplaces that are safe so everyone can go home as they came to work. And that is, I believe, everyone's goal. And thank you, Mr. Mayor. Applause
 Our final proclamation this evening is for Winnebago County CASA Day. Accepting on behalf of this proclamation will be Chairperson Audrey Engelbrecht, Case Manager Jalissa Bondurant, and Program Director Taryn Marko. And if I mispronounce anyone's name, I apologize and invite you please to come forward. Thank you.
 Whereas Winnebago County CASA, Court Appointed Special Advocates, is a non-profit, volunteer-based organization advocating for abused and neglected children within the juvenile court system. Whereas by speaking for the child, CASA ensures that the wishes and needs of the child are not overlooked by the many competing interests at play within the court system.
 Whereas CASA understands the vital need for the child to have a voice in the courtroom, that each child is an individual with unique needs. And whereas in 2015, Winnebago County served more than 400 children through the CASA program, providing training to volunteers, serving many of the more than 800 children currently in need within our community. Whereas CASA volunteers gather their own information, get to know each child, and write reports directly to the judge making recommendations on what's in the best interest of the child.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence Dan Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 29, 2016 to be Winnebago County CASA Day. And we urge our citizens to recognize and support the critical work that CASA provides to our children in our community. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Alderman. And welcome, Chief.
 Thank you so much. CASA is very important in our community. We have a lot of hardships and our volunteers work very hard to make sure that all of the children that we represent do not go a day without their best interests being represented.
 They put in long hours. They put in sleepless nights to make sure that our children have their needs met and the court is aware of their blight. So we believe that everyone plays a role to preventing child abuse and neglect. So please partner with us as we celebrate Child Abuse and Awareness Prevention Month.
 We have our major fundraiser coming at the end of this month on April 29th. So check out our website, winnebagocountycasa.org, for more information. Thank you so much for doing all that you do for our citizens. Thank you very much, and thank you to all those receiving proclamations and the great work that they do throughout the year. New committee reports. P&D, no report. Correct. Alderman Durkee. Alderman Shirelli.
 I have two committee reports, Your Honor, under Roman numeral B-4B. The first one, I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports Roman numeral 4B, item 1, to reflect approval of a special use permit for the operation of a sexually oriented bookstore in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 280 North Phelps, Unit E.
 Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and second to amend the committee report, Roman numeral 6B, item 1, to reflect approval of the special use permit for the operation of a sexually oriented bookstore in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 280 North Phelps, Unit E, that's been moved and seconded as an amendment. Is there a discussion on the amendment? Hearing none, all those in favor of the amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Say aye. Item will be amended.
 Thank you, Your Honor. At this time, should I read in item number two and then suspend the rules? You can, either way. Okay, item number two is the committee recommends approval of the mutual aid agreement to provide mutual aid and assistance during the times of disaster or public works or wastewater emergencies between the City of Rockford and the Rock River Water Reclamation District. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules on both those items. Second.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend Bill and Monroe 6B, items 1 and 2. Item 1 was the one in which the amendment was already approved. Those are both would be up for passage. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules to be suspended. The matters are up for passage. Thank you, Your Honor. I place item number 1 as amended, up for passage, and item number 2 up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Any further discussion?
 Call the mendurkey. Mr. Governor, just a clarification on one. Can you put your mic down a little bit? A clarification on item B1. What is the amended committee report? Basically, it just goes from a not approved to approved. So the item had been at committee voted negatively and was not approved. The amendment that we just passed would show an approval.
 I get that right, Mr. Hayes? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you. Any further? Alderman Harvey. Yes, Your Honor. I just would request a clarification with regard to item number two, the mutual aid agreement with Rock River Water Reclamation, times of disaster or public works or wastewater emergencies.
 Director Vitner, did you take that? What qualifies as an emergency? Is it a water main break or something, and then our staff is going to be out on other calls? So in the event of, say, a natural disaster where we need extra dump trucks or a back hose and things like that, we can call upon the district to provide us some personnel to operate those pieces of machinery and provide their machinery to us to help us do cleanups. Okay.
 Under this agreement, it's an elective decision to do that. There's no obligation at the time. The assistance can be refused.
 Am I understanding your question? Yeah. I understand the disaster. That's the one I'm used to. But this one includes emergencies. And I was asking what's the definition of an emergency. Is it a water main break? It would be something that they would not be able to handle with their own resources, where they would need additional help beyond what their capabilities are. And the only other thing that I would ask is that we track that somehow, how often that
 Rockford is going out on those calls versus calling in assistance. It's just something I want to keep a handle on. The agreement requires us to track all that. Okay, thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please fill the roll. No on item B1, aye on number 2. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Kirby? No on B1, aye on number 2. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Odo?
 Newberg Lea McNeely Cheer rally aye eight eyes three no sure honor best pass. Thank you. Thank you your honor on for item B1 I will not be reading that in this evening under new business. I will read that in in two weeks Everybody knows that thank you. Thank you. So for the ordinance approval, that's correct. I
 Thank you. Finance Personnel, Ms. Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. We have, I believe, six items tonight. The first is recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,659,873.21. It's approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting of April 11th.
 Item number two is approval of a fine reduction request to reduce the fine for 1615 Log Cabin Avenue to $1,000. Repairs to be made within 45 days from the date of closing. Failure to meet the deadline would vacate the request.
 liens will not be released until all violations have been abated and the title company will hold $1,500 in escrow until all work is completed. Item 3 is recommending approval of a fine reduction request
 for 1904 Auburn Street, reducing that to $1,000. Staff recommending repairs be made within eight weeks from the date of closing. Failure to meet the deadline would vacate the fine reduction. Lien not released until all violations are abated and inspected by city staff. Again, the title company holding $1,500 in escrow. Item four is recommending approval of the human rights
 Approval of the Human Service Department's request to carry over funds to allocate $263,277 to purchase three buses and auction outdated buses with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number five is recommending approval of the Air Support Mutual Aid Agreement and the existence and formation of Air One by intergovernmental cooperation with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item six is the committee recommending approval of the 2016 Development Agreement with Rockford Corridor Improvement, Inc. for residential demolitions with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And I would request to suspend the rules on those six items. So moved. Second. Second. Second. Sorry, motion to second to suspend the rules on the following Finance and Personnel Committee items, room number 6C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6.
 It's been moved and seconded to suspend the rules on those items. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I'll place those six items up for passage. Matters are for passage of their discussion.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Just on item number four, I'm not sure if the chairman read $236,277 or $263, a reversal. I'm sorry. I will amend that or correct that to be $236,277. Thank you. Any other discussion on the items?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Gerke. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Irby. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Elliott. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Lemonize, Your Honor. Thank you. The matter is passed. Thank you. Any further reports of committees? Officer's reports. I actually...
 I do not have any officers' report tonight except to thank Chief O'Shea again for taking the position, and we look forward to a lot of great work ahead. There's a tremendous amount of activity that I know Chief O'Shea has already been getting himself plugged into within the department. You've got a great staff that's looking forward to working with you and a great leadership team and a great council that's looking forward to working with you and all the greatest success in the world that we can have. So congratulations again and thank you.
 Further officers' reports. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. I, too, want to welcome the chief to our community. And on your remarks, you said that change is going to come quickly and you're going to establish a relationship with the residents. Well, here it is. You've been on the clock 45 minutes, and I'm going to give it to you. Thank you.
 There was a shooting over the weekend on Auburn Street, and I've received phone calls and concerns. Unfortunately, our coroner released information in the paper that he should not have.
 pending the investigation to be completed. And it's my understanding from the State's Attorney's Office that the investigation will take two or three more weeks to be completed. I really would appreciate some time to sit down with you to address some of the residents or attend some of the meetings to discuss the issue with them. So I will be getting on your calendar. Thank you, and again, welcome to our community. Thank you for the officer's reports. Alderman Harvey.
 Also to welcome Chief O'Shea to the district. I have dibs for the 28th and the evening for the fifth ward meeting, just in case anybody else has designs on his time for then. But also to say that as alderman,
 Some of us got to meet you beforehand. I could not. It was a little gimpy then. But we are going to do something in the next couple weeks or so. I don't know, dinner, lunch, something, to just have a relaxed format, to sit down, talk with you, and get to know you a little bit better and let you get to know us better too. So thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports. Unfinished business. Alderman Hervey.
 Looks like there's just one there, Your Honor. And that is authorization to issue bonds to finance the construction of police district facilities for Districts 1 and 3. And I would place that item up for passage. That is up for passage. Roman numeral 8C1 is our discussion. Allamand Newberg. Thank you. Welcome, Chief. This has been a contentious discussion.
 long drawn out process for the geo policing sites. I understand the philosophy behind it and the reasoning. I still have a problem with the expense that we are going to be spending on that and I am sure you and I will be discussing that at length multiple times because I will tell you I'm going to vote for this but I will also tell you I'm watching you.
 Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Alderman Ackermeyer. Thank you, Mayor. I'd simply say, one, it's exciting that we're at this point. I've only been working on this for the last three years, and I know some aldermen in the administration have been working on this for a long time. So it's an exciting time. I guess I would just like to...
 be assured that with having a new chief who hasn't been ingrained in all this, that he'll have the opportunity to, as we support this item, he'll have the opportunity to take a look at the inner workings and the inner structure of those actual facilities to make sure that the personnel that he wants is where he wants it and where he feels will best serve our community.
 Thank you. Chief, would you like to comment? Your first opportunity at all? I'm looking forward to it. I'm looking forward to it, and I've already been out with command staff to the new District 2 building that's under. So I'm having input already to kind of get ahead of that. So we are talking already, so I think it will go smoothly. Thank you.
 Any further discussion, Alderman Hervey? Just with regard to the new stations, one of the things I think we're going to have to do, not from police administration, but even with our own city communications, I used to be able to get the shift commander, I used to be able to, and I did not call them for every little thing. It was something that was immediate and going on. And now, I'm
 I don't know that I even have the numbers to get to them. I know we changed our phone system. That was nothing to do with police administration, but I really wish we could pick our game up there because I want to get started now with geographic policing and building those relationships, and it's difficult when you can't find people in a time of need. So I'd ask that we update our directory so that we have not just the administration, but also the line staff
 and operational staff for day and night, especially night and weekends, so we know who to contact. Yeah, so, and we can follow up with that, Chief, but Deputy Chief Hoey could, I know, fill you in on some of the lingo that we've utilized, but generally there's been a,
 number with some changes over the last year when we changed the system in probably a little over a year. So that it's been a little bit different. I know even myself, what I've gone to call the shift supervisor, it's a different number to be able to reach someone in the middle of an incident that might be happening or a question that comes to us. So we can follow up on that and just make sure there's, I know one of your priorities is communication, so we'll make sure we work on that. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Mack Namera. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Elliott. McNally. Chiarelli. Ten ayes, one no, Your Honor. Thank you. Matter passes. See you under Roman numeral 9. There's an appointment that was laid over. Is that up this evening? Mr. Hayes. Yes, Your Honor, that should be approved. It's subject to approval at the Council's discretion any time after April 6th.
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey, you want to read that in official? Yes, I would, Your Honor. I would move for the appointment to the Fire Pension Board, Carrie Eklund, to replace Chris Black, whose term expires January 2019. The end. Thank you. The matter is up for passage, the appointment of Carrie Eklund to replace Chris Black on the Fire Pension Board. Is there any discussion?
 hearing on all in favor please say aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye
 I have two resolutions tonight. The first is a resolution for IDOT temporary road regulation for the Memorial Day Parade. The second resolution for IDOT temporary road closures for the Heritage Run and place those two resolutions up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage on room number 10B, items 1 and 2, the resolutions regarding road closures. Any discussion? Hearing not all is in favor, please say aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Matters pass. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you.
 I apologize if I caught you there off guard, Alderman Hervey. Under Roman numeral 10C. Quite all right, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 10C for finance and personnel, we have seven items. Number one is an award of bid for the 7th Street lighting, Phase 2. This will go from 2nd Avenue to Charles Street. That goes to William Charles Electric of Loves Park for their bid of $451,707.09. The funding source is sales tax.
 Item 2 is an award of bid for sidewalk and ADA repairs, package number 3, to AA Construction of Rockford for their bid of $22,756.25, funding source is sales tax.
 Item 3 is an award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs. This is group number 3, alleys, to William Charles Construction of Loves Park for their bid of $541,763.43, the funding source sales tax.
 Item 4 is an award of bid for citywide uniform rental that goes to G&K Services of Rockford for an estimated $25,000 annually per the unit prices on the bid tabulation. The funding source is community development, fire and finance and operating departments operating budgets, and water, property, and garage funds.
 Item 5 is an award of bid for refrigerator and freezer units to Al Gray Suppliants of Rockford. The contract amount is $599 to $650 for each refrigerator or freezer.
 from 15 cubic feet to 20 cubic feet. Contract duration is one year. Funding source is Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, Office of Energy Assistance. Item 6 is a no-bid contract to Zion West Neighborhood Association. This is for abandoned lot mowing with two West Gateway Coalition doing business as Zion West Neighborhood Association
 And item seven is a resolution to take bids for snowplow hydraulic system upgrades, and the funding source will be the garage fund. And I would place those seven items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, room number 10C, items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7. Those matters are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Paula Maneuver. Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry, but number five with the...
 Contract to Al Grace. Do we have a total number of Frigerator freezer units that we are purchasing or A breakdown which of each? I'm not sure. Ms. Eklund, Mr. Davis, would either of you have that information? The number is really dependent on the homes that qualify for the item
 So, I'm sorry. Just as an FYI, by the way, I think people probably picked this up, but just to be clear, these microphones are good, but they're directional, so you really have to have them pointed right at you when you're speaking to them. Excuse me, Mayor.
 The number of refrigerators is based on the homes that actually qualify for the installment of new refrigerators, and it's based on the energy savings achieved. It's not done in every home that's weatherized. It's only done in targeted homes, so the number can vary quite a bit depending on the assessment of that home. Do you have an estimate, I guess, at this time? No.
 Generally about, I think a number is probably typical would be somewhere between 50 and 75. Thank you. Go ahead, please. Is that, okay, so we don't have a total dollar amount that we are spending. What we have is the people that qualify. We don't have a maximum number of people.
 Units or dollar amount? Yes, Alderman. The way that the weatherization program works is that there's a maximum amount per home that can be spent for energy retrofits. And within that maximum amount, there are a number of items, depending on how that home is assessed, that can be done within that maximum dollar amount.
 They include air sealing and certainly sometimes repair or replacement of inefficient heating units, as well as occasionally refrigerators that may be, in fact, creating an energy drain. The whole purpose of the weatherization program is to achieve energy savings.
 And so within that maximum dollar amount, if it's assessed that a refrigerator would actually improve the energy savings of that home, it's eligible. And so the number I'm giving you is pretty much about our experience in terms of how many that we generally have replaced, depending on the age of the unit and how efficient it is. But the total funding is based on what is allocated to us and what we can program in a given year.
 I don't know if you could ask me. Yes, there is a maximum amount that we are allowed by grant. The weatherization program is actually funded by three different federal grants, actually two federal grants and one state grant. And together the total dollar amount is about $1,000.
 a million to a million and a half dollars. And the state is in the process of, in fact, you know, reviewing some of the allowances with regard to state funds. But each of the grant sources have particular restrictions and limitations on what items can be covered.
 within those specific grants. So in some cases, a home might be weatherized with more than one funding source, so in other cases it might be weatherized with a single funding source. But all of these are state and federal funds that come to us as a grantee for this purpose. Ms. Eflin, did you want to add any detail? Yeah, I just want to point out that we've traditionally spent approximately $25,000 a year total on this contract, and we've bid this a number of times in the past.
 It's an ongoing contract, a multi-year contract. We follow the state procurement guidelines in putting the bid specs together. So it is a unit price contract, but just to give you some perspective, we've spent about $25,000 a year. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Any further questions on the items that are up for passage? Mr. Hayes? Yes.
 Six, excuse me, item number six, which is the Zion West Neighborhood Association mowing contract, requires the affirmative vote of 10 aldermen. There are 11 aldermen in the chamber. Thank you. Thank you for pointing that out.
 Any other questions on the items? Alderman Hervey, did you have a question? It wasn't so much a question, just a comment I wanted to make about Zion West. I wanted to thank Ms. Walker for talking about the program. I had probably, between the time we discussed this, and I forgot that it was even televised, three or four calls from people saying, how do we get in?
 It's, people are excited about being able to take care of vacant lots in their neighborhood. One gentleman told me that he has, I'm not going to say who he is, he's mowed one in his, in his neighborhood every year.
 I used to do it, it's trespassing and you're not supposed to, but the city can't do it all. It's like Chief O'Shea was saying with crime. So if we can give our neighborhood and neighborhood development organizations the opportunity to make some money, to take ownership and pride in their neighborhood,
 Again, I want to say Mr. Cagnoni and others who have worked on this diligently, Alderman McNamara, some of the things I know he's contributed to this for the time that he's been on board on City Council.
 And I think it's a great way to get that excellence everywhere. And I hope, I know people have maybe some reservations. You know, I wanted to be first in line for Orchid. I swallowed that. I'm certainly going to support West Gateway Coalition because they are really fired up. So I hope people will support this and let our neighborhood groups know that we support them taking charge of their neighborhoods. Thank you. Thank you. Allamand Ober.
 Question, that needs an affirmative vote of 10. 10 votes, since it's a no-bid contract. Can I make a motion to move this, because we only have 11 here tonight? You certainly can. All right, that's, I'd like to move it. To lay it over? Yes, lay it over. Alderman Hervey? I just want to ask Mr. Cagnoni, when we actually get, does the layover hurt us in any way? I mean, it would hurt even more if it was a no vote, but,
 You know, it'll delay us moving forward in initiating the program. Certainly the preference would be to move it forward this evening. But I understand if there's concerns, if it needs to lay over. If there are concerns, then I would ask to, well, I guess as the chair, I can just pull out. Can I just pull that out at this point?
 Either way, it's courtesy of the body to respect the Chair's desire to hold a matter out or could be, if there's a second, it's automatically laid over. I'm going to hold out item number six. Fine. Thank you. So any other questions on the items there before the Council? At least one or two. We have enough votes? Yeah. I'll put it back in. I'll put it back in, but if we don't have enough votes, I'll take it back out.
 You could always make a motion to reconsider at the next meeting. Reconsider next week. Thank you. Somebody who's in the majority can, if it looks like it's going that way. All right. So I'll leave it in. All right. So the matters are up for passage. Roman numeral 10C, items 1 through 7. Is there any further discussion on those items? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Aye.
 Newberg, Ellier, McNeely, Chiarelli. I love an I. Maddish, did you read your talent? Maddish passed, thank you. Congratulations. Ullman Thompson-Kelly, did you have the legislative lobbying? Sorry, yes, Your Honor.
 A resolution awarding the contract with McGuire and Woods for the 2016 lobbying services for $10,000 per month. I place this up for passage. Do you want to read the other one? Go ahead. Give me a day. Also, a resolution for House Bill 1646, known as, I keep saying, the Rockford Tough Man Competition. I like these two up for passage.
 Thank you. Excuse me. Thank you. Up for passage. Roman numeral 10D, items 1 and 2 are up for passage as they are discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Connell. She stepped down. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Young-Lacta. Newberg. McNally. Chiarelli. Item number 1.
 11 eyes one no item number two ten eyes two nose that is past. Thank you your business all in surely
 We have one item tonight. It's the intergovernmental agreement to provide mutual aid and assistance during times of disaster or public works or wastewater emergencies between the city of Rockford and the Rock River Water Reclamation District. Your Honor, I move to suspend the rules. Second. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 11B, item 1. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No.
 I just have the rules be suspended. Your Honor, I place that item up for passage. I think the matter is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Elliott. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Aye.
 I have three items. Item four is going to be held over. Item number one is for human services request to carry over funds to allocate $236,277 to purchase three buses and to auction the outdated buses
 Item number two is the Air Support Mutual Aid Agreement and the formation of Air One by intergovernmental cooperation. Item three is the 2016 Development Agreement with Rockford Quarter Improvements for residential demolitions. And item four is going to be held out until the bids are actually obtained so we know the actual amount for the bonds. So I would ask to suspend the rules on items one, two, and three.
 Thank you. Room number 11C, items 1, 2, and 3. There's been a motion to suspend the rules in a second. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I just have the rules be suspended.
 Place those items up for passage. That's up for passage. Is there any further discussion? I'm in the cross. Thank you, Your Honor. With respect to, number one, these three buses, I didn't see any detail on what types of buses they are, how big they are. I take it they're about $80,000 apiece, but I just didn't know how they were going to serve your department. All in the cross, the Head Start buses are –
 35 passenger buses and the approximate cost is between $75,000 and $77,000 a piece and they have to be constructed on order and delivered and it takes a number of months to get them once we order them.
 they will replace older buses that right now are considered to be very costly to maintain and not reliable. And so those are the buses that we'll be auctioning. Thank you. For further discussion on those items, I'll call Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Item number two, I'm not sure what that is, so if I may have an explanation. Who wants to take that? Chief O'Shea, do you have the background on that, or Chief Hoy? I do. Thanks. Okay.
 The Air One agreement is mutual aid. It's an intergovernmental agreement statewide. We're there. Rockford PDB joining. Elgin PD is also joining in the next month or so. Other police departments have all joined. And what it is, it's a consortium of air support, which is helicopters for the police departments. There is no cost for the Rockford Police Department. Traditionally, it's funded through donations and Homeland Security.
 We can contribute money to them if we wanted to, but they will fly and they'll come out and assist us. And they have assisted the Rockford Police Department in the past. And they fly right out of Rockford International Airport. So it's very close, convenient, and it's an agreement with our current insurance with Rockford. We don't have to do anything more other than sign up. Thank you. Follow-up. Certainly. Who is they? Air One.
 Air One is a, it started out as Air One, it was a not-for-profit organization, and now it has become a public agency by the state law or by state rules. So now Air One public agency exists, and they're asking for police departments across the state to sign up, similar to our ILEAS agreement that we have, the Illinois Law Enforcement Alarm System, that's been in place in Rockford for many years.
 The Air One public agency is falling under basically the same thing. Its agreement is almost identical to the ILEAS agreement we already belong to. Thank you very much. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Aye.
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Elliott? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Sovage? Your Honor. That is passed. Thank you. Any further business before the council? Is there a motion to adjourn? Motion to adjourn. Second. A motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Say I have a meeting. Thank you.