Good evening, everyone. Good evening, everyone. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, April 17th, 2023. We will begin as we do each and every council meeting with an invocation from Chaplain Norma Barrero. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we just ask you for your guidance and support today as we convene, Lord God, for the city of Rockford and all of its citizens. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Chaplain. Next, Thur, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Rose? Radios? Here. Meeks? Bonney? Here. Nine present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 6, 2023? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Item passes. Next up, we are going to go to proclamations, and we do have a busy night of proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation this evening is for Tax Fraud Awareness Day. I am going to call up Brad Wallen, and I know we have a number of other members coming up as well. Okay, whereas the city of Rockford supports spurring the local economy through the development of quality constructed residential, commercial and industrial buildings and associated middle class job creation. And whereas the city of Rockford supports responsible contractors who abide by federal and state employment and tax laws. And whereas one in five construction workers in the state of Illinois are paid illegally. which denies basic protections such as workers' compensation and unemployment compensation. And whereas tax fraud costs the State of Illinois $60 million annually in lost state income tax, plus an additional $126 million in lost unemployment and workers' compensation contributions. And whereas some contractors commit tax fraud by misclassifying employees as independent contractors or paying employees in cash-only arrangements to save 30% on labor costs, thus creating an unfair advantage for taxpaying contractors and causing higher rates of workers' compensation and unemployment compensation. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maximer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 17th, 2023 to be Tax Fraud Awareness Day. Brad, would you like to share a few words with us? Yes. Thank you, Tom. So my name is Brad Long, business representative for the Carpenters Union, and I have with me a group of union carpenters and contractors. This is a shared concern not only for members of our union but also our union contractors. When our union contractors have to compete against cheating contractors, there's less opportunities not only for our current members but other future members. that want to start an apprenticeship program with us. So I am extremely grateful to live in a city of Rockford that gets it, a group of councilmen and women that get it, and a mayor that gets it, and support responsible contractors with our responsible bidder ordinance. So thank you again, Mayor, and all the aldermen. Thank you. Our next proclamation this evening is for Autism Awareness and Acceptance Month, and I believe we have Lori Davey with us. Awesome. Hi. Good to see you. Hi. Okay, whereas autism spectrum disorder, or ASD, is a developmental disability that can cause significant social communication and behavioral challenges, autism is the fastest growing developmental disorder. And whereas there's often nothing about how people with ASD look that sets them apart from other people. Individuals with ASD may communicate, interact, behave, and learn in ways that are different from neurotypical people. And whereas the learning, thinking, and problem-solving abilities of people with ASD can range from gifted to severely challenged. Some people with ASD need a lot of assistance in their daily lives, while others need much less. And whereas about 136 children have been identified with ASD according to estimates, And ASD is about 3.8 times more common in boys, which it's 1 in 26, than it is among girls, which is 1 in 116. And whereas signs of ASD are present during early childhood and typically last throughout a person's life, research shows that early intervention treatment services can improve a child's development. And whereas during the month of April, we strive to promote autism awareness, acceptance, inclusion, and self-determination for all and assure that each person with ASD is provided an opportunity to achieve the highest possible quality of life. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as the mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April to be Autism Awareness and Acceptance Month. Lori, would you like to share a few words with us? So just recently the prevalence rate changed to 1 in 36, and today I brought Mariah with me. She is a participant in our program, and she is also, for those of you who remember, I come for Anti-Bullying Month. She's developed a program where she paints rocks, and they're all over the world now to send a message that people with autism rock. We will be doing an event in June and she's going to do a painting class out at Hyundai in Perryville. She is an amazing young lady and I'm so proud of her. And you rock, Mariah. And I also want to say real quick, we had an event this past weekend in the... Fire and police came and we had probably over 100 individuals that are on the spectrum and both departments did an outstanding job. And we're just trying to make children, adults and teens not be afraid of our first responders because they're so critical in some situations. So thank you to your team as well. Thank you. Thank you. Appreciate it. Okay, next up, if it's not, bring your dog to City Council Day. It is National Therapy Dog Month, and we have Bruce Erickson, retired Judge Yarbrough, Mary Ellen Kamar, and Jennifer Walker, and maybe others who are going to come up with us. Great to see you. Thank you for being here. And if you want to turn it off. Yeah, oh yeah, great turn it off. And actually, right there, that way, TV can still see you. Thank you. Can you just come down and get behind me? Oh my gosh, this is awesome. Thanks for being here. What I'm about to say has no reflection on the city council, but it would be really nice if I had a couple of dogs up here every Monday night. I'd feel a lot more relaxed. Bruce, I'm going to give that to you. Whereas the 17th Circuit Court Therapy Dog Program has 22 therapy dog teams that provide support to children and adults in Winnebago County. And whereas each therapy dog team consists of a dog and a handler, the handlers walk with the dogs and allow people to pet them, talk to them, and read to them. And whereas studies have shown a decrease in both blood pressure and stress levels during therapy dog visits. And whereas, as frequently as requested, the therapy dog teams visit the Family Peace Center, the Carrie Lynn Children's Center, the Rockford Police District Buildings, the Winnebago County Juvenile Detention Center, Winnebago County Courtrooms, and the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department, and 16 different Rockford Public Schools 205 schools. And whereas, that's a lot for 22 therapy dog teams to do. Whereas these volunteer teams assist in improving the emotional, physical, psychological, and educational well-being of children and adults in our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2023 to be National Therapy Dog Month. And I will just add, we obviously had a... Ended up being fortunate, but a pretty horrific incident that took place with the fake call and the hoax at East High School. Within one phone call to this team, they were able to provide dogs and handlers the very next morning for all the kids at East High School. And I say that Because every single time you call on them, they are always there. And I just want to say a sincere thank you for the work that you do. It really is appreciated. I've heard from so many clients and survivors at the Family Peace Center, at the courthouse, our own officers. Just the work that you do is really appreciated. So thank you. Would you like to share a few words, Bruce? Yeah, me too. Thank you. Our numbers, believe it or not, are continually growing. We're currently in five high schools right now, three middle schools, and we also have 19 elementary schools besides Rockford Rescue Mission and the State Police Crime Lab. So it's amazing, without being a hidden entity, we are out there and we are providing a service. And I thank you very much for this proclamation. And if anybody has any questions or anything, feel free to give me a call. Happy to talk to you. Thank you again. Okay, next up, we're going to move from those proclamations to a public hearing. There's a public hearing for the proposed right-of-way vacation for the for the right-of-way known as North South 3L Club Alley between 15th Avenue and Broadway Court. And I'm going to turn it over to Alderwoman Tarina to chair our public hearing. Thank you, Your Honor. Pursuant to 65 ILCS 511-91-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed right-of-way vacation. Thank you. notice of this hearing was given by publication in the roford register star on april 2nd 2023 that notice informs citizens of raford that the rafid city council will hold a public hearing On Monday, April 17, 2023, at 5.30 p.m., in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall, located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed right-of-way vacation of the right-of-way adjacent to 1515 9th Street, known as the North-South LLL Club Alley between 15th Avenue and Broadway Court. Are there any questions or comments from the Council members on this vacation? Seeing that there's no questions are there any questions or comments from the public seeing that there are no questions from council or public This meeting is now closed. Thank you. Thank you all the woman Trina next We'll move to petitions and communications and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and older woman meets your honor ITEM NUMBER ONE IS A MEMORANDUM FROM KYLE SAUNDERS, PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR, REGARDING THE CONSIDERATION OF AN APPLICATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE BROADWAY ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE GRANT AWARD IN THE AMOUNT OF $150,000. THIS IS REFERRED TO PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE. Item number two is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the consideration of an application and acceptance of the Broadway Road Infrastructure Grant Award in the amount of $250,000, also referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item 3, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the consideration of an application and acceptance of the Alpine Dam Phase 2 Improvements Grant Award in the amount of $800,000, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item number four would be a, or four or five, would be a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the Rockford Area Venue and Entertainment Authority report. And this is referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. Next, we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Mayor. For our committee, we have three items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 18, 2023, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code Regulation Committee on April 24, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 18, 2023, And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 23rd, April 24th, 2023, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And number three, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding Platte number four of Perryville Promenade subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you all these matters will be referred to the finance personnel committee number under number one is a memorandum from Jamie rot water superintendent regarding a 2nd amendment to the between the city and 4 ever sanitation. They had well, number 9, well, 10 and well, 42 number 2 is a memory from Owen Carter. Deputy Director of Program Operations for Health and Human Services regarding the acceptance of the LIHEAP State Supplemental and LIHEAP HHS Grant Awards. Number three is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of Weatherization State, Weatherization HHS, and Weatherization Department of Energy Grant Awards. Number four is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the funding of the HUD-COC Emergency Solutions Grant. Number five is a memorandum from Owen Carter regarding the acceptance of additional funds for the low income household water assistance program grant award number six the memorandum from ann wilkerson regarding the updated fee schedule for 2023 number seven is a memorandum from ann wilkerson uh regarding the 2023 supplemental appropriation ordinance and number eight is a memorandum from ann wilkerson regarding the 2022 supplemental appropriation order thank you Thank you alderman frost next we're going to move to our Public speakers want to remind all of our public speakers that? There's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers you will have three minutes to address the City Council and Then we would ask that you bring your items to close you'll hear Alarm go off and ask that you close up your comments. I Our first public speaker this evening is Lisa Jackson. Mayor McNamara, I am deeply concerned regarding your decision to endorse candidates in the recent school board elections, especially since it appears you endorse using very different standards in sub-districts A and D. I live in sub-district A. The student population is majority black and Hispanic. While both subgroups have challenges, the condition of black students is much worse. For the sake of time, I will only address graduation rates. In the last five years, 2017 to 2022, we saw a 10% decrease in the graduation rates for all black students. And I will quote you to illustrate this. 46, 46% of our black kids, our black children in Rockford are not graduating from Rockford Public Schools. Folks, the system is broken. We need somebody who's willing to address this. The Sub-District A mailer with your endorsement landed in approximately 8,500 to 10,000 mailboxes. You had the opportunity to sound the alarm about the graduation for black students, and you did not. Instead, you told us we needed an advocate to close achievement gaps, increase graduation rates, and build relationships with parents. In Sub-District D, you told them a direct quote from you. Today, 34% of our young people aren't graduating, and that has to change. Since you use your position as a city leader and mayor to tell me how to vote my best interests, I now can and will hold you responsible and accountable for your actions and ask that you respond to the following. One, why did you specifically address graduation rates in the Sub-District D mailer, but not the Sub-District A mailer? And two, please explain why in Sub-District D you did not endorse the incumbent in part because of the overall graduation rates. The 34% you alluded did not graduate. However, in Sub-District A, you endorsed the incumbent despite your knowledge that 46% of black students do not graduate. In conclusion, I ask that you respond timely. I also ask that you not deflect in answers such as, as the mayor of this city, I reserve the right to do A, or as the mayor of this city, that I feel B. I believe I provided my email address when I signed up to speak. I look forward to hearing from you. Thanks. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Daniel Boomer. Hello there. Hello. So I may be a little nervous, so bear with me. My name's Dan Boomer. I live in the 14th Ward, and I have an issue arising with the trailer parking in a driveway. So the ordinance 4002-F establishes the parking and storage standards for recreational vehicles and trailers and boats. So with this ordinance, it basically bans any use of the driveway for business purposes with a trailer or businesses that would like to utilize the driveway for services. So the issue that I had was a code enforcer enforcing the code while working in my driveway. So. Sorry, I'm a little nervous. So I would like to propose maybe a parking permit so there would be like an annual fee the city would charge so they can create revenue for the city of Rockford. Charging a permit to park in the driveway with the trailer. Right now it's banned and I mean I could technically park it on the road and it would be okay for a while until it becomes a problem with the residents. So I feel like it's backwards and so it came to me that if the city of Rockford would charge a permit fee they could create revenue for themselves. And I'm willing to pay up to $1,000 for a permit of such just so I could park my trailer and have a peace of mind having it at my house in my driveway. The experience that I went through was dealing with a code enforcer having his friends call and argue. about my trailer after hours and on weekends, almost as it was harassment or bullying. And that was what I went through, and that's why I come today to speak about maybe a permit to pay for it to have it at my house. Also, it'll save a small business money as far as storage fees and insurance of off-site storage because you have to have separate insurance for having it stored off-site to have everything covered in such trailers. So with all that said, I mean, that's what I would like to present. And thank you for your time. Sorry, I'm a little nervous. You're good. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 41st chapter, the first verse, it says, Blessed is the man who helped the poor. The Lord will help him in time of trouble. what I'm going to speak about tonight confronting the abandoned crisis. I live each day fighting poverty and homelessness. During my career, I have encountered veterans who once fought for our country, now defeated and some from PTSD, drug and alcohol addiction, and hopelessness and despair. I spoke with women who through life's circumstance were now selling their bodies to have a place to stay. I see children who should be living carefree, filled with hope for the future, were begging for food. I still remember my first encounter on the streets of Chicago, Skip Row, 42 years ago. Like most people, I had no comprehension of the magnitude of the problem of homeless abandonment. until I saw men, women, and children, yes children, who live on the streets for years. The decay of precious life had a life of its own and the ideal survivor had a shallow success rate. Digest this for one moment. Abandoned citizens die homeless in the streets each day, but it doesn't make the evening news. Ever wonder why? Could it be because the problem is a stolen reflection of all of us in the United States. Imagine senior citizens who live their golden years in full insecurity or children who go to bed hungry every night. Imagine the little girl who is afraid her parents will be taken away due to immigration. Imagine families who don't make a living wage and living below the poverty line and can't afford to take their sick child to the doctor due to inequity in healthcare. Imagine having to decide to pay for food or your utility bill or medication for an ill family member or milk or diapers for a baby. Just imagine. My solution to solve this problem in America? First, we need one million affordable homes in America. Second, two jobs, jobs that pay good wages. Three, affordable education. 4. Bus tramps take to around 24 hours a day. 5. Alcohol treatment for settlers. 6. Drug treatment for settlers. 7. Mental health for settlers. 8. 24 hours daycare service so women can go to work or school that the government paid for. Let's stop referring to our brothers and sisters, our children, and our veterans as the homeless. They are indeed the bandits. It's time for followers of Jesus Christ to stand up and speak up about this garbage and say we're not going to put up with this garbage anymore. If 16 million followers of Jesus Christ give 35 cents a week for one year, that would bring in $291,600,000, enough money to help reduce homelessness and poverty and keep on doing this. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. The Bible. So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. The book of Esther discusses Purim, a commemorative celebration of preservation of Jewish people living in Persian threat with destruction, typical of Israel's history of constant persecution and deliverance involving triumph of a people determined to survive. Readily apparent is the parallel between them and black citizens in America. I'm reminded of the recent mayoral runoff in Chicago. The business community, mostly whites, including many Democrats and many Hispanics, were against this black Johnson and black citizens some as well. But the blacks prevailed. And I am really thrilled to learn that my suggestion to his campaign had been delivered by congressional operatives as well as Tony Preckwith, the president of the Cook County Board. My excitement was multiplied when Mary Lake Johnson said, listen you guys, I'm scheduling a meeting with you next week with the ministers for manufacturing for Chicago. I'm a statewide co-chairman for Northwestern Illinois. Next week he's going to discover our plans. I have staked out 65 total acres, 35 on the south side of Chicago where I was born, 30 on the west side where I have numerous relatives, for manufacturing facilities, industrial parks owned by black people with manufacturing facilities, some of them owned by black people. That's what my plan involves. Governor Pitzer will truly have something to show to the world at the Democratic National Convention. to the citizens of America and the world, what Illinois stands for, inclusion, equity, and justice in terms of serious economic development for black citizens, not just a pretty skyline. You can bet the governor won't jeopardize his standing in the eyes of the world by being dragged down by gross incompetence that you find in places like Rockford. Chicago's Mayor Johnson's views and action reverberate around the country. They're already doing that, as he has demonstrated. And this is not lost on Pritzker, who supposedly has national ambitions. Consequently, he will not allow people with negative spirit filled with the venom of prejudice, insecurity, injury, and hate to mess him up. with that attitude of, I'll get them, I'll fix them, those progressive people and everybody else, I will get them, they won't go away. A challenge to those folks who think they are in control with this poisonous spirit. Also because the challenge is we are quick to say, I don't take no more of that. We're not going to take no more from them. Be careful, be careful, because you don't know how much no more you got left. Prisky is thinking of himself and racist spirits will be left out. Be careful who you try to hang, that the gals might be the ones you save on. That's Jesse White. He is no longer known by the black people in Chicago as Jesse White. He is known as just white. I got a kick out of that with myself. Okay, thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Denzel Winter. Good evening. I'm here because I had an incident happen to me. When the opinion woman got killed, my son, had I not been with him, ain't no telling what would happen. We had guns put in our face. We could look down the barrel and see the bullets. We had stopped over there to get my daughter to take her to the hospital, and I asked them what was going on. We got no feedback. You know, this has got to stop. They yanked me out of my car. I'm an old man. I've been operated. I got both knees replaced. Both hips replaced. I got a pacemaker. When they got me out of the car, they double handcuffed me. Do I look like I'm that strong? Are you that afraid of me being a black man? I don't have no super strength. And I really believe if I hadn't been there, I would have lost my son that day. Mistaken identity. They got me down to the police station. They said, is this your son? They had pictures, all grainy pictures. I told them no, that was not my son. Their answer to that was, well, we don't know, because I told them my son don't smoke cigarettes. And this guy was smoking cigarettes, walking down the street with a mask on his face and a scar under his eye. And when they blew the picture up, it didn't look nothing like my son. We need to stop thinking that every black man looks alike. There's a large variety of us out there. We are good citizens, we pay our taxes, and we deserve to be treated like human beings. I take my hat off to Chief Redd. She's doing a great job, and I've told her that before. But we gotta stop. I don't know if it's the police department or the county and the police department together, but pulling guns on people, Not telling them what they arrested them for. And they also took my car. They didn't find nothing in my car. They searched us. They didn't find nothing on me. And my son was in the building, so I don't know what they did there. But it's ridiculous. One of these days, that was my third time. I'm sorry, but, you know, something needs to be done. You need to train these people better. Thank you, sir. Thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next up, we're going to move to new committee reports. Next up, we'll move to new committee reports. Under planning and development, I'll go to Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports item number one committee recommends approval of the ground lease agreement with sci-fi for the property located at 2220 20th Street to be used as fiber system hut the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item two committee recommends approval of the ground lease agreement with sci-fi for the property located at 3407 rural street to be used as a fiber system hut the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Committee recommends approval. I'm sorry item number three committee recommends approval of the amendment to the 2020 through 2024 consolidated plan and 2022 annual action plan to complete the 2008 neighborhood stabilization program grant closeout the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance committee recommends approval of the of an agreement with Rockford area habitat for humanity for 2023 critical home care program and The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item number five, committee recommends approval of the proposed funding agreement with the Boys and Girls Club of Rockford for capital improvements in partnership with Winnebago County in the amount of $150,000. The funding source is American Rescue Plan Act funds, and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderwoman. We have five items before us. Counsel, is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Meeks. Bun. 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank your honor code regulation for okay I have two items item number one the committee recommends approval of the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 3 dash 119 hookah lounges the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number two the committee recommends approval of the request to vacate The right-of-way alley at 1515 9th Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you Thank you. So there's two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, Logerman, Toomberg, Frost, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney. 13 A's. Excellent. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,960,820 as approved to the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on April 10, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval and authorization to execute the application for the Health and Human Services Department request for a $266,216 Head Start COLA funds Excuse me, $171,976 early head start COLA funds, $151,133 head start quality improvement funds, and $76,899 early head start quality improvement funds to offset higher operating costs of the program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? No discussion. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logoman, Tuber, aye. Frost, aye. Tarina, aye. Prunty, aye. Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bonney, 13 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have officers' reports. Is there any reports from counsel? Other woman, Hoffman, and then Bonney, and then Tarina. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I have a lot of people to thank tonight. First of all, you, Mayor, and Chief Red, for my rolling green meeting that you were the primary speakers at. It turned out quite lively. And Eric wants me to send you a message that he really wants to serve on that committee that you discussed. So we had a lot of the members of the audience. ENGAGE AND THE MEETING WENT ON FOR QUITE A WHILE. IT WAS REALLY GOOD. SO THANK YOU BOTH. NEXT CARRIE ASAVEDO. I JUST CAME FROM HABITAT. WE WENT OUT TO VISIT AND I LEARNED THINGS I DIDN'T KNOW. I DIDN'T REALIZE THAT GETTING THOSE HOMES FOR PEOPLE ACTUALLY IMPROVES THEIR HEALTH. and the grades for children and so many other things. I mean, I just thought of it as a nicer house, but what it does for the lives of those folks is really incredible and I hope maybe some evening we can have her speak to us because I've been engaged with the program, I learned so very much. And then about our other program that we just voted on tonight, how many people that really helps and what it does for the stabilization of our communities. And then next, I have to thank Kyle Saunders. We've been having a little problem with our Charles Street remodeling or whatever you want to call it. And some people made some suggestions. And I'm going to thank Kyle because he listened to somebody on Nextdoor who suggested that we go back to the television stations one more time, even though we had done it before. And I understand that he was interviewed today from two stations. And so we're getting the information out again. It seems that nobody paid attention the first time. It caused some chaos. More signs were put up and other things were done, but Kyle went on TV today. And hopefully we will get the message out now and people can learn where the detours really are. Wonderful. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. I just wanted to congratulate Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful for its 16th annual. Earth Day Awards banquet, which was last week. I had the pleasure of attending that where former Rockford mayor and former, Illinois Environmental Agency director Doug Scott was the keynote speaker and The event was a great reminder of the important work that KNIV does. Of course, based in the 14th Ward, it operates, it's one of its two recycling centers there on Hydraulic Road as well. And since Alderman Hoffman failed to mention, She won the 50-50 drawing and donated it back to the organization, so thank you to Alderman Hoffman for that act of generosity. And then also, I had requested for my ward some more of our Slow Down, Save Lives signs and Director Saunders gave me a very large box full. So if any other aldermen want to relieve me of a few of these, please do. They're sitting right here. I'm sure I can get it to my car without straining my back. Thank you. Older woman, Tarina. I wanted to make an announcement that I'm having a ward meeting. It will be Thursday, May 4th. It starts at 530. It will go to 7. And it's going to be held at the Jenkins Resource Center, which is at 911 Michigan Avenue. It's a building that is adjacent from Providence Baptist Church. And I honestly don't know that I've actually mentioned it here, so I will do that. Providence... they've been so gracious the building across the street which is the Jenkins Center I have an office so I have a an office where residents can contact me if they want to sit down and talk about issues solutions anything they want to do so I'm really excited to be able to offer that to residents but my ward meeting I'm calling in a resource blitz that I'm bringing the city to the ward so we'll have representatives from pretty much every city department and Police and fire as well as comment will be there and the Rockford Public Library will be there as well So I really just want my residents to be just overwhelmed with the amount of resources and things that they can take away from the Meeting that night. So I hope to see everyone there again It's Thursday May 4th 530 to 7 and the building is 911, Michigan Avenue. Thank you Thank you. Next up. I'll go to alderman toberg then alderman Beach Thanks mayor I want to continue to thank Kyle Saunders and Mitch Leatherby on their promptness on responses and such as we continue to clean up in the third ward from the storm. So thank you very much for that because I still get calls on quite a few questions on that. Also, I'd like to extend a thank you to Assistant Deputy Chiefs. our deputy police chiefs Eddie Torrance and Randy Burke for Just keeping me in the loop on a couple situations that occurred in the third ward and again their proactive approach and such and contacting me and keeping me updated and and The rest of the situation, so thank you to those individuals. Thank you alderman Beach. Thank you, Roger. I spoke with a Public Works director Kyle Saunders by phone and asking if he would give a little update on When they were going to be mulching all the logs and trees So the people can pick that up and where they can pick it up at when they're done Would you allow that to happen sir director Saunders? Yes, thank you all the M&Bs for the reminder. So for those that may not be familiar, after the storms on April 1st, we did identify a public debris drop site at the old Magna parking lot at 3915 East State Street. We've been accepting debris 24 seven, three six, or 24 seven since the storm. It's been about 15 days and that pile is pretty sizable at this point. Right now tentatively the plan is to continue to accept debris through April 30th and then after that Sunday April 30th the tentative plan is to mobilize our contractor in to grind all of that up and then haul that mulch away. As we normally do, we will have a very large pile of free mulch for Rockford residents to take if they'd like. We'll keep the mulch pile well stocked at our city yards. The address for that mulch pile is 516- 523 South Central Avenue. There's a very large pile when it's fully stocked, so people can't miss it. As a reminder, they will need to bring a trailer or something to load all that into, and then obviously as that pile dwindles down, we'll restock it. But the storm will allow us to keep that mulch pile stocked pretty much entire summer. So thanks for the reminder, Alderman Beach. That's fine. Thank you, sir. Thank you, Your Honor. With all these people who are thanking you, do you personally go out there and, like, load each car, or how does that work? Personally, I'm actually going to lift every single piece of debris, yes. Other woman, Pronte. Speaking of public works, I'm just kidding, I do want to, I really do want to thank Mayor McNamara. I'M SORRY, MY BRAIN IS GONE. MAYOR MCMARIE AND REPRESENTATIVES FROM PUBLIC WORKS FOR COMING OUT TO THE AWARD MEETING ON APRIL 6TH. I ALSO WANTED TO THANK FRANK MANZULO WHO IS WORKING WITH KEEP NORTHERN ILLINOIS BEAUTIFUL AND THE GREAT AMERICAN CLEANUP FOR COMING OUT. I really do appreciate it when Alderman Hoffman comes to the ward meeting as well. She always brings some trouble as well as some long-sightedness, things that she too is experiencing or has experienced. So I appreciate that. I really do appreciate representatives from police and fire coming. and all the conversation that spurred from the ward meeting. Also would like to thank Plumbers and Pipefitters for allowing us to hold the meeting at their facility. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to share an announcement where more information will be coming out, but mark your calendars for May 20th if you live on the northwest end. There are two events that will be going on that day. The first one is a Kind of a mix of the garage sale event that they do in certain areas around town where there'll be garage sales, but also A plant event with more information to come that's being hosted by nesna the north end square neighborhood association And then also that day the local A SMALL BUSINESS ORGANIZATION LED BY ZACH ROTELLO AND THE CREW OF BUSINESSES OVER ON THE NORTH END ARE DOING A FLOWER FEST. SO TWO WONDERFUL EVENTS ON THE NORTHWEST END. I KNOW THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE START MAKING PLANS EARLY ON, SO MARK DOWN MAY 20TH FOR BOTH OF THOSE EVENTS. THANK YOU. ANY OTHER REPORTS BY COUNCIL MEMBERS? The item I had is just a reminder to the council that we're still due about, I think, five or six different aldermen's information about the committees that you would like to be on. So make sure that you please complete that as soon as possible. Thank you. Next up, we have one item under appointments laid over. It's appointment of Jennifer Smith as chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals and Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board, replacing the current chair, Dan Reszkowski. This appointment is up for passage. It was laid over on April 3rd. Just a bit of background information. Both Ms. Smith as well as Mr. Roszkowski currently serve on the board. It's just a swapping of the chairs on that board, and both will remain on the board. Is there any discussion on that item? All those who are in favor of this appointment say aye. Those opposed? Okay, item passes. We're going to go to motions and resolutions and we'll go to we have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina. We have a motion to reconsider the resolution initiating a proposed text amendment to section 80-0 09 the city of Rockford's code of ordinances regarding non-conforming gravel driveway and parking lots Okay, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item mayor? Needs to be made by a member of the body and then seconded before it's up for discussion I don't believe it's all the room Torino's intent to actually make that motion, correct? No Alderman Bonnie give me one. Sure. I will make that motion. I moved to reconsider the resolution instructing the zoning officer to file an application for a zoning text amendment to section 80-009-D of the City of Rockford Zoning Ordinance. So we have a motion, is there a second? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion on the item before us? Alderman Bonney? Thank you, Mayor. So the reason this is before us, that I've made that motion is, Reflecting on the comments of other aldermen two weeks ago and my own thoughts on this issue, I realized that maybe, or I wish I would have thought a little more quickly on my feet and amended Alderman Hoffman's proposal further so that we were extending the deadline only for single-family homes with residential zoning. And I think that that puts this more, brings us more squarely to the middle from the idea of eliminating the deadline altogether, which essentially grandfathers all the violators in and refusing to grant any other extension. So the motion that I would bring two weeks from now would be to exclude commercial multifamily, again, every, from the extension of from November of this year to November of next year that that would only apply to single-family Resident residentially zoned property. I feel like this is um, you know that This would give you know homeowners who who still need more time to figure out how to deal with the financial hardship of complying another year and but that businesses and landlords, because they are in fact, this is not the roof over their head, this is a business that they should have a plan for and they've had ample time by now to do it, that we should not exclude them. So that is the motion that I would anticipate bringing in two weeks if this motion passes tonight. Okay. Alderwoman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to clarify because I don't know if I heard it all correctly, but this would be owner-occupied only that would get this exemption, right? Not rental properties or... Well, I guess since we I don't have to present it tonight I would look look at that but I would be concerned about whether it would be become so specific as to create a big You know that it would be easier to just exempt single-family Residentially zoned homes and not require that they be owner occupied. But you know, I think It could be that and so I I mean we have two weeks to I Figure out what that exactly what that motion is gonna say I guess I might want to hear from staff on whether they think that further You know that would get so specific is to make it more difficult to enforce. Thank you So before we take the conversation further director Myers, could you first explain What was on the agenda previously and now what people would be voting on the seat? Sure. Alderman Bonney correctly stated that the item that was approved to go to ZBA at the last meeting was a general extension for all applicable properties to come into compliance with the zoning regulation to bring all... Gravel driveways to pave surfaces by November 2024 instead of 2023 The proposed amenities discussed would then only Would give an exception to properties that are zoned single-family residential so then commercial properties and other other residential type zoning Which still have to come to into compliance this fall? I? We would be able to do that. We would not be able to do, as Alderman Hoffman suggested, to go maybe further and only exempt owner-occupied. Our zoning code is okay to talk about zoning classifications, but not who actually owns and lives in the property. That would be a bit problematic. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I just need to get a little education here. I was under the impression, I said this to Alderman Ponte, that when we vote to reconsider... Item I thought that we were happy to reconsider it at this time No, it's a two-step process We can go right from a motion reconsider to the underlying item if that item was on the agenda Which it is not tonight. All right. Thank you my understanding or could you clarify this for me if? so the zoning administrator is going to be bringing this item to the zoning Board of Appeals and That then will be brought to the Code and Regulation Committee, which will then be brought back to the council. Correct. So if we're fortunate, we can actually have this conversation at least three more times. At least, yes. The resolution directs the zoning officer to petition for the text amendment to the ZBA. ZBA then considers it and makes recommendations. Then that recommendation goes back to Codes and Regulations and ultimately back to City Council. Okay. Any other questions? Yes. Alderman Toomer. Oh, yeah, so Just to help me understand too since I'm such a simple man It is then you cannot distinguish between owner occupied and non owner occupied Residential so that can't be That can't be separated within this. No. Yeah. Generally, when we're talking about zoning, our zoning code, you can talk about zoning classifications, residential, R1, R2, R3, about the use of the property, not about who actually is owning it specifically. There's some case law on that that specifically would preclude us from essentially targeting in our zoning ordinance who actually owns it as opposed to how the property is being used. So if the property is being used as a single family, that'd be, you know, single family R1 classification. That'd be okay. All right. So this would make commercial. They would have to come into conformity this year in November. Okay. Residential, whether it's owner-occupied or not, would be next year, 2024. So, yes, a property that's owned single-family would be, if the amendment's ultimately adopted, would have one more year to comply. Multi-family and commercial would have to come into compliance by the end of this year, correct? Correct. Okay commercial wood Next year now. What was with the 1973 with any Anything built after prior or prior or after 1970? So yeah, the the issue is this so back in when the code was amended in 1973 to require all require any driveway and parking lot built after 1973 to be a paved surface could not be gravel anymore and So anything built after 1973 is not affected by this ordinance change. So if you have an illegal, you know, you established a gravel driveway five years ago, this amendment doesn't apply to you because it's not legal. This is only, our zoning code only talks to the date for compliance for legally established non-conforming uses. So gravel driveways or parking lots that were established prior to 1973. Again, only a small handful of those. Okay, so one of my residential one of my constituents residential home built a hundred years ago Has a gravel driveway right now. This is not Applicable if they had a gravel driveway before 1973 correct It would be applicable to them if they built that gravel driveway in 2000 then this ordinance doesn't impact them They are out of conformance. It's an illegal illegally established driveway. They would still need to comply now. I This is on driveways that were legally – before 1973, it was not illegal to have a gravel driveway. Right. Okay? We changed the rules in 1973. This only relates back to those driveways. I know. There's more hands up, and I'm just holding myself back. I'm trying to – in my head – I want to make about this. Sorry for opening a can of worms. It's okay. No, no. It's good. You used a keyword, if adopted, right? Correct. So – Can you just walk people through, because I think we're missing the biggest piece of this. What's happening right now? It's going to be coming back here, so it's not an offense to Alderman Bonney, but his motion really doesn't mean a whole lot of anything this evening. Correct. The only thing that happens with a motion to reconsider is it essentially voids the previous vote. It puts the item back on the agenda in two weeks as though it was never adopted. We start the conversation over. Is all what he's signal to council is that if that happens it is based on the agenda to each for now he intends to make a motion to extend the Compliance date one year for residential properties, but not for all other properties and just because it may be a question out there if it's voted down this evening and Will move forward to the ZBA then to the Code and Regulation Committee then to council Yes, if this is approved this evening It goes back to Code and Regulation Committee goes back to council goes back to council then back to ZBA Then back to ZBA then back to Cozen regs then back to council. Yep. We had one more dot We had a couple of hands up. We have Hoffman we have Rose we have bonds Thank you, Mayor. I just have one more question. Are we doing anything to come up with a program to assist these families so that they can afford to get a driveway done? There's a lot of these houses in low-income areas, and that's my concern. We helped people years ago with trees when they had to come down, and so then they had help. Are we going to do anything for these families? Yes. We certainly will look at it, as I think Council has asked us to, once it gets to all these phases. So our staff knows what time frame we're working with it. Yes, we will. Alderman Rose? Yeah, just out of curiosity, if I purchased a home that was built prior to the 1973 Act, would I then be, like if it was a more recent purchase, would I then be, Being compliance or is it because I'm a new is it is there an issue there where it's based on whether you own Owned and still own the building or is it are you automatically grandfathered if you purchase that property? I'd have to double check but our zoning ordinance doesn't really Discuss what happens if there's a subsequent purchase, but typically the zoning ordinance applies to the property not who owns it but there are times when I you may have to bring in a compliance. If any potentially, Mr. Cagnone has a different interpretation, please jump in. Mr. I answered correctly as it relates to our zoning ordinance. The zoning ordinance regulates property, not the exchange of property between different owners. So if it was either non-conforming or legally non-conforming when it was sold, that status doesn't change by a sale. Mr. Alderman Bonney. Alderman Bonney Thank you. Two things. Not all due respect to the mayor I did consult with the legal director before requesting to go this route with a motion to reconsider versus letting this go to ZBA and then Raising it when it comes back to codes and regulations committee for the reason that I felt like that was sort of a waste of the zba's time and so that's the reason to if it's the will of the council to reconsider this, to do it now rather than later after they've considered it then once and then send it back again. To Alderman Hoffman's point, I have the Northwest Illinois Alliance of Realtors is interested in seeing the City of Rockford offer some sort of incentive program, assistance program and has expressed interest. I bet they are. working with me or us to do that, and I would like to take them up on that, to hear their recommendations on helping develop a proposal for us to consider. I want to know if you have, Director Meyer, if I have a trailer parked on my gravel driveway behind my chicken coop and my ATV on the front yard, would I be conforming or non-conforming? Okay, any other comments? So right now we have Alderman Bonney's motion, which is to reconsider the resolution initiating a proposed text amendment to Section 80-009 of the City of Ryeford's Code of Ordinances regarding nonconforming gravel driveway and parking lots. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee, Logeman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Rowe, Barrios funny 12 eyes when no all right next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost. Thank you Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the demolition of Church School to N-TRAC in the amount of $323,720. The funding source is the CDBG. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an award of RFP for the Elevator Inspection Services through Elevator Inspection Services Company, Inc. for an estimated amount of $31,150 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with three possible annual extensions. The funding source is the Community Development Operating Budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for the natural gas generator installation at Fire Station 11 to Miller Engineering for an estimated amount of $352,250. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act Fund. Number four, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for City Hall fire panel replacement to Kelso Burnett in the amount of $221,680. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number five, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for Citywide Sidewalk for repairs package number one 2023 distance from excavation in the amount of 139 489.20 the project is estimated to be completed by june 30 2023 the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax Number six, the committee recommends approval award a bid for citywide street repairs group number one residential to Rock Road companies of Jamesville amount of 1,768,622 dollars and 75 cents. The projects estimated to be completed by August 4th, 2023, the funding sources also the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number 7, the committee recommends an award of bid for the wide industry parking structure maintenance to Western specialty contractors in the amount of 222,316 dollars. The project is estimated to be completed by August 2023. the funding sources, the. Number eight, the committee recommends the award of bid for the Pioneer Deck maintenance repairs to Hammer Construction in the amount of $386,845. It is estimated to be completed by October of 2023. The funding source are ARPA funds. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement for Davis Park Improvements Phase 1 to Smith Group in the amount of $540,000. It is estimated to be completed by the spring of 2024. The funding source is the State of Illinois Capital Grant. It's 70%, and the city of Rackford redevelopment funds are 30%. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the award OF JOINT PURCHASING CONTRACT FOR ENTERPRISE INFRASTRUCTURE HARDWARE MONITORING SOFTWARE TO CDW GOVERNMENT IN THE AMOUNT OF $29,221. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OPERATING BUDGET. NUMBER 11, THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF NON COMPETITIVE CONTRACT FOR THE PURCHASE OF SIX DELL POWER EDGE SERVERS IN THE AMOUNT OF $79,536. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS ALSO THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OPERATING BUDGET. number 12 the committee recommends approval of renewal of agreement for temporary staffing services to workplace for one year the contract creation is from may 1 2023 to april 30 2024 the funding source are various departmental budgets number 13 the committee recommends approval acceptance of the case for community investment built for zero from Community Solutions Grant Award, the amount of $152,465. It does not require a cost match, and it is from May 1, 2023 to April 30, 2025. It will provide funds for one housing advocate who will work directly with the data of our homeless population, ensuring timeliness, accuracy, and consistency with direct goal of meeting our ending homelessness. Number 14, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Congressional Direct Spending Emergency Operations Grant Award in the amount of $1 million. The City of Rockford would provide at least 25 percent matching funds toward Project, the Rockford Fire Department proposed to construct a Homeland Security EOC for coordination emergency response activities throughout the city of Rockford. It will be in their current location. It will also serve as the hub of all response activities for police, fire, public works, and other governmental and non-governmental officials. Number 15, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for natural gas supply to city facilities. And 16, the committee recommends approval of a change order for Halo Air Purifiers for the Health and Human Services Department. The change order is $6,329 for a total amount of $29,079. The funding source is the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act 2021. Place for 16 minutes before you come so there's 16 items before any discussion on those items all them in rows Yeah, you're thank you your honor for item 12 is there for the contract duration of one year is that autumn? Like does that come up every single year or is that? Something that we bid out. How does that work? I? Director hunter our intent next year is to go out for RFP So we will be presenting that as an RFP next year next year. Okay. All right. Thank you alderman Beach Thank you your honor again on number 14. We had some discussion at the committee meeting, but it's a real shame that with the ELC Center that we have to the county building that there can't be some way that the city rockford without spending a million dollars can use that facility and Will support it because we're told we need it, but it's a shame that has to happen that way. Thank you Thank you, and I believe we're spending just for clarity. We're spending 250,000 city, but you're right. It's all our money You know it's interesting in the paper this morning talking about some of the county board members wanting to form a caucus cross the lines to discuss the city of Rockford and how it could be more helpful and This is one way they could start right here, so I know you're frustrated The bizarre be honest with you and that's enough. Yeah, thank you. Thank you Other dice skip. I don't want to miss them and there's 16 items any discussion those 16 clerk Will you please call the roll turkey? Logoman Toonberg frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach adios makes funny Item number 1 12 eyes 1 no items 2 through 16 13 ice. Thank you next We're gonna go to new business and we'll go to planning and development committee and older woman Meeks Thank You Your Honor Item number one is an ordinance approving the ground lease agreement with sci-fi for the property located at 2220 20th Street to be used as a fiber system hut Item two is an ordinance approving the ground lease agreement with sci-fi for the property located at 3407 rural Street to be used as a fiber system hut and Item 3 is an ordinance approving an amendment to the 2020 through 2024 Consolidated Plan and 2022 Annual Action Plan to complete the 2008 Neighborhood Stabilization Program grant closeout. Item number 4 is an ordinance approving an agreement with Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity for 2023 Critical Home Repair Program. And item number five is an ordinance approving the funding agreement with the Boys and Girls Club of Rockford for capital improvements in partnership with Winnebago County in the amount of $150,000. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act funds. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. So there's five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderwoman Wilkins you asked last week. I just want to bring back forward Yes, a good question about if the state funding isn't doesn't come forward for item number five And the grant did come forward so Thank you, no other questions clerk. Will you please call the roll jerky Logum in Toonberg frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bonnie 13 ice Excellent next up. We're gonna go a touch out of order and I'm gonna go to alderman frost To provide a special announcement alderman frost. Yeah, I'm sorry are we done with them? We're done with plenty in development, but you're gonna provide us a special announcement. Oh, yeah that you've received Your honor at this point I would ask that we I Move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending and or threaten litigation matters. We have a motion Is there a second? We have a motion we have a second is there any discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed all right, we'll recess into closed session. Okay. We are back into open session clerk. Could you please call the roll? Toomer Serena Prunty Wilkins Rose Beach Thanks, Ronnie 11 present excellent now we're gonna go to we're still under new business So we're gonna move to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Rana We have three items I don't number one in ordinance approving the amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 3-1 1 9 for hookah lounges item 2 in ordinance approving the request to vacate the right-of-way alley 15 9th Street Lastly number three in ordinance approving the eminent domain to acquire a temporary construction easement to real property located at 1715 Parkview Avenue yes, those gonna require us to suspend rule nine excellent. Thank you. We have three items before us First is there a motion to suspend rule nine on number three we have a motion We have a second is there any discussion on suspending rule number nine on number three? All those in favor of suspending rule 9 on number 3, please say aye. Aye. Opposed? Opposed? Okay. Now we have all three items that Alderwoman Tarina read in before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. 12 ayes. Aye. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we are going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the authorization to execute the application for the Health and Human Services Department request for... two hundred and sixty six thousand two hundred sixteen dollars head start cola funds 171 thousand nine hundred and seventy six early head start cola funds 151 thousand one hundred and thirty three dollars head start quality improvement funds and 76 thousand eight hundred ninety nine dollars early head start quality improvement funds to offset higher Operating costs of the program excellent. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that item? I Seeing no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey Logan to bird frost? Tarina fronty Wilkins Kaufman Rose Beach videos Meeks Bonnie 13 eyes next up. We've already done closed session. I just want to make a note We obviously one of our public speakers this evening and Provided a really difficult encounter with Law enforcement and that was mr. Denzel winter. I just want you to know Chief red had the opportunity to meet with mr. Winter and then also Review what took place and found out that the rockford police department did not pull over mr. Winter and that Winnebago County Sheriff's Department pulled over mr. Winter so we Provided information to mr. Winter about the avenues that he can go through to make sure that his voice is still heard on the matter So just want to make you all aware Is there any other well? There is no other is there a motion to adjourn? If a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed have a wonderful night