Looking all over for you, Norma. Now I see you right in front of me, so thank you. Okay, good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, April 18, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Ogeman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Tarina. Here. Prenti. Alderman Prenti. Here. Thank you. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Here.
 Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Fonny. Eleven present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. We're fortunate to have Pastor Norma Barrero to provide us with an invocation.
 Father, we reverence you today, and we call upon your wisdom, your knowledge, and your understanding as this body of people gather together for the good of this city and the good of its citizen. In your name we pray. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
 is there a motion to approve the uh journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on march 28 2022 we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye aye those opposed same sign next uh we have no proclamations this evening so we'll go to petitions and communications and we'll start with planning and development committee alderwoman meeks thank you your honor
 Under planning and development, item number one, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a tax increment financing redevelopment agreement with 420 North Main Properties, LLC. Refer to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item 1, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 19, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 25, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item 2, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 19, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 25, 2022, referred to Code and Regulations.
 three uh a memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the approval of a resolution for the annexation agreement for 920 north mulford road referred to codes and regulation committee item four the memorandum from megan mcneil assistant city attorney regarding the approval of an ordinance for the annexation of 920 north mulford road referred to code and regulation committee
 Item five, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include Clem Garden Fair, Rockford Public Library Summer Reading Challenge, and Swedish American Health System State Street Mile, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item six, the memorandum from Nick Meyer, legal director regarding amendments to Division 7, Section 5-390, a temporary outdoor vehicle sales.
 And item seven, a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding a resolution opting out of Illinois' Commerce Commission regulation of towing from private properties, referred to codes and regulations. This is 3 and 4 of the same. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Logman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Item number one, memorandum from Carrie Hagerty, Finance Director, regarding the 2021 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the release of the FDO and lien waivers for trustee-owned parcels, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Item number three, memorandum from Jennifer Jager, Community Services.
 regarding acceptance of DCEO LIHEAP State Supplemental Grant Award. Item number four, memorandum from Jennifer Jager Community Services regarding acceptance of DCEO Weatherization DOE Grant Award. Item number five, memorandum from Jennifer Jager Community Services regarding acceptance of DCEO Weatherization State Supplemental Grant Award. Item number six, memorandum from Jennifer Jager Community Services regarding acceptance of DCEO LIHEAP
 hhs grant award item number seven memorandum from jennifer jager community services regarding acceptance of dceo whether is weatherization hhs grant award and item number eight a fine reduction request from hansi badib for a reduction in fines at 3604 huffman boulevard also referred to the finance and personnel committee thank you mayor thank you alderman logeman
 Next, we'll go to public speakers. So there's a microphone on the back left and a microphone on the back right. You can use either microphone that you would like. I just want to remind all the public speakers that you have three minutes to address the city council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring when your time is up, and I'd ask that you close your comments at that time. Our first public speaker is Sandra Cohen. Thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight.
 i'm a business and property owner in downtown rockford for 30 years and one of the leaders who joined forces with dozens to petition the city market to return to its pre-covered footprint
 In the process of gathering signatures, I was privy to the concerned voices of many of these stakeholders. Some were affected with financial burden and disruption, others were less affected but still in favor of opening streets. All stand united in support of their fellow businesses and colleagues. In many cases, the stakeholders expressed various degrees of difficulties to business operations and profitability caused by these closures.
 When gathering the petition, we inventoried 85 businesses, building owners and developers for reach out. 64 signed the petition to present to council last week. To date, we have 7 more businesses signing, bringing our tally to 71. Of the 85 businesses inventoried, our 83%, 70 out of 85 signed. 14 are now mutual or unavailable.
 Additionally, I assure that the members of this Council have seen the social media storm created by our businesses keep State Street open. Creating public support and debate accompanied by a Change Job Org petition with 500 citizen signatures gathered since last Friday. It seemed the compromise set before Council last week was a positive step in creating a move for many of the businesses for State Street.
 However, the Westside businesses still remain affected and this cannot be discounted by the group. We desire to return to normalcy for all stakeholders after two years of pandemic and chaos. We are grateful but not finished with this fight. We are also grateful to the City Market. The market has indeed been a catalyst
 for exposing our businesses to thousands of visitors each year. We would like to see this continue and are determined to work in concert with the market to create a robust and exciting experience Friday nights this summer. According to City Market, the outdoor market grew year after year to 2019 with a record number of attendance of 111,000 visitors without expanding the footprint.
 Taxpayers, sponsors, and market supporters have provided funds for a public outdoor pavilion and indoor market capable of handling vendors' programming or activities without closing our arterials. Tonight, I am here for myself, joined by two of our strongest voices who will speak before the Council. We hope that you will consider our requests and that we resolve this issue with a purposeful and positive outcome that does not cause further hardship for already devastated businesses. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Paul Sutton. All good? Yep. All right. Thank you, Alderman, for letting me speak. My name is Paul Sutton. I'm a business and property owner downtown for the last 17 plus years. Also kind of taking a part as a voice to represent the other 70 businesses that are in this fight with us to try to keep our streets open to commerce and business downtown.
 And we're here to ask that the city market return to its original footprint so that we can work with city market in a continuous downtown that supports business and events and brings more people downtown. We want both. But I don't think it's a selfish ask and I think we could do it. There's a lot of ways we can. The question many of us ask ourselves is why does the market need to get bigger? As Sandy stated, 2019 was our best year yet at 111,000 patrons.
 So there's still room for growth in that original footprint and we don't understand why it has to get bigger right now. Like we can go back there and if it needs to grow, it can grow in some of the spaces adjacent to it. There's space behind it in the city house or the Riverview Ice House. There's the room underneath the Jefferson Street Bridge.
 you know there's a parking lot behind cj's there there's there's lots of places for satellite activities that can still grow the market and still draw more people downtown without having to take our streets away from us these streets are important to us they get people in and out and around our downtown into our businesses and not just down there to go to one place but to get back and forth i've been downtown for 17 and a half years and
 And I know what it's like to have people come from my business to go across the river to Octane and then go back over to Mary's place to hear music and then, you know, just keep bopping around downtown. That's the lifeblood of a downtown, of an urban environment. People explore. People see things when they're driving by and through the city that they didn't see before. And they're like, hey, that place looks cool. When we're done with the show at BMO, let's stop back by there.
 I don't know how to explain to everybody how difficult that that is on Friday nights when those streets are shut down and especially State Street. You just steal the ability for people to navigate and get around with ease and just again explore. I can't tell you how important it is to, you know, when I go to a city, you drive around, you see things that you wouldn't have seen if you were just going A to B. Is that my three minute already?
 So it's just, it's critically important, you know, and a lot of talk has been about data. A lot of the data that we have is from two years of pandemic activity.
 So what does that mean? It was the worst two years that any of us have lived through. So how good is that data? We just ask that we love the city market. It's been great for downtown. It's been great for Rockford as a whole. We want it to succeed, but we want to succeed with it. We don't want to be pushed aside. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Stephanie Cauter-Geroni.
 Good evening, and thank you for the opportunity to speak tonight. My name is Stephanie Caltagirone, and for 25 years I was self-employed as a small business consultant and accountant with an office downtown. During that time, I was also elected to public office and spent some time working in the media. In 2015, I closed my practice to invest in opening a restaurant on the west side of downtown. After a year and a half, we were forced out of business for the next two and a half years and have been in court to date for four and a half years.
 In 2019, I, with my new landlord, rehabbed another 100-plus-year-old building and reopened my restaurant four months prior to the COVID shutdown. Last year's footprint was created to address various issues. Unfortunately, this inadvertently created other problems. On Madison Street, where we are located, it meant that none of the businesses north of State were visible.
 The outdoor dining areas of the five restaurants on Madison were rendered useless, resulting in, for us, a 95% decrease in outdoor dining. Criminal activity was rampant after market closed. Property vandalized, garbage everywhere, people urinating on the street, groups of ATVs and motorcycles taking over the closed streets, and numerous police calls.
 While pleased that a compromise has been put forth, it does not go far enough. Closing State Street will still destroy the visibility of many businesses, while negatively impacting accessibility and walkability of business and market patrons alike. Confusing drivers and essentially creating a divide between the east and west sides of our city. Rockford has done this before. It benefits none of us as a whole, and frankly, it is not a good look.
 The city claimed that police required to man the market cost $2,500 a week. I see the officers when they arrive and depart for their shifts, and they number 40 to 52 a week.
 When I was on the school board 20 years ago, we budgeted $75 an hour for off-duty officers. Using 20-year-old cost data, that means currently our costs are more like $12,000 a week for 20 weeks. Additionally, erecting an actual police-secured wall is less than welcoming to all of our patrons. Small business owners are a tenacious bunch. We have to be. Our livelihoods, as well as those of our employees, depend upon it.
 Each of us chose to invest downtown, even though it probably would have been cheaper, easier, and more profitable to do so elsewhere. A few of us chose to do this more than once. When elected officials make decisions that negatively impact our bottom line, not only are you jeopardizing our businesses, but also the very fabric that makes downtown special. Without the millions of dollars petitioners have invested, what would real estate assessments look like?
 and therefore what would real estate tax revenues look like? I respectfully ask that all streets be kept open for the benefit of all. Thank you. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. Blessed is be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.
 yesterday being Easter. A lively hope is essential in this journey called life, demanding courage in the face of trial and suffering, rooted in a strong faith in God and an unswerving trust in Christ. This will meet all of life's ills and accidents. Hope is essential in life, enabling us to anticipate and plan for the future.
 Lacking a realizable future, our highs and lows seem headed towards a deadly, poisonous futility. What value is education, cultivated knowledge?
 marvelous capacities and noble potentialities, if what awaits is this futility. But Jesus Christ, according to his abundant mercy of hope, eliminated hopelessness. And yet, black citizens must confront dearly the trials and suffering of racism, institutional and otherwise.
 So we advocate self-determination, nationalism, and dignity. Every ethnic group that migrated to this country has followed this formula to acquire and maintain power. The lack of high-paying jobs due to a lack of investment and resources cause many to feel hopelessly
 This creates mental and emotional problems, severely impacting one's ability to be productive and function. Everyone wants to feel valued, have a purpose, that your life matters.
 High-paying jobs will solve violence, for hope is elusive when you wonder if you will be alive tomorrow. We advocate reopening church schools for advanced manufacturing to create these high-paying jobs, sustaining family life, self-esteem, and community, challenging communist China and aid our national security.
 In such an environment, the real hope God created to eliminate hopelessness takes on a real significance, benefiting the commonwealth. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons that are citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I'm a third ward in the downtown area, and I want to side with the business.
 why not just have police as crossing guards and then also it's very important that we have a more police presence after everything closed down and the police department can team up which they always do anyway with the district with the Pied District police now there's just my little 30 seconds of chatting with the business because downtown is my stronghold
 My speech tonight is said, God said, love thy enemy as I have loved you. The passion of Christ concerns the last 12 hours of his life, Jesus, in the garden of Mount Olive. Jesus betrayed by Jews. Jesus condemned to death for blasphemy and brought before Pompous Plight, the Roman governor of Judea, for sinning. The royal crowd demanded his death, so Pilate ordered his crucifixion.
 Jesus is severely beaten and made to carry the cross, with his mother looking on he died. Today, it is a pagan, commercialized holiday. Tell me what the hell Easter eggs, bunny, and new clothes got to do with the way they beat the hell out of Jesus Christ and place a crown of thorns over his head. When the Corona 19 epidemic first hit
 the world hard, that's when they truly show who really believe in the Lord. It also show me who our friends and who our enemies are. I've never seen so many scared people that was afraid that they would, if they did not take the vaccine, that they was going to die. We knew a turning point,
 100 strong we went to the front line with the first responders in the community my faith has always been in the Lord that made me and not man made fear Jesus Christ died for us so that we will all be saved Jesus stated that he who
 who believe in me will have everlasting life. I asked three questions three years ago and the system tried to call me a lie and they covered up the truth. One, how many people have died from taking the shot? Two, how many people have side effects after taking the shot? Three, how many people still caught the coronavirus-19, still got sick after they took the shot? I was
 blown away and learned who my true friends are and who's not. Never, never, never did God say love thy enemies as I have loved you. The system forced me to choose sides with their deception, lies, and cover-up. The federal judge this week in Florida ordered on Monday the avoiding the national mandate covering airports, planes,
 and other public service. The decision affects the temporary federal requirement for traveling to wear masks on airplanes, trains, buses, and other forms of transportation. Over 98% of the judges across the country have overruled CDC and the government mandate. Thank you.
 Next up, we will go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. A, item number one, committee recommends approval of the Home Rental Rehabilitation Program Agreement between City of Rockford and Longwood Zion Apartments, LLC, regarding the property located at 1055 East State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And item number two, committee recommends approval of the funding and lease agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council. It's broken up into two. A is the 2022 through 2024 funding agreement, and B is the lease agreement for 713 East State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. So, Council, we have two items before us. Is there any discussion? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to make a motion to lay over A to A and B, please. We have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. So that's automatically laid over. Next, we have just now one item before you. Is there any further discussion on the one item that's before you? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. 11 ayes. Excellent. Next, there's nothing under Code and Regulation Committee, so we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Loggeman. Alderman Loggeman.
 Thank you, Mayor. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $4,112,139.23 is approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on April 11, 2022. Item number two, committee recommends approval of an agreement between the City of Rockford and ComEd for Buckbeak Creek Bank stabilization for a total of $88,014. Funding for this project will come from the LGC writer. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Excellent. So there's two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. Eleven ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to officers' reports. Any council members have reports? Alderman Beach, did you have your hand up?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I had occasion to talk with Kathy McGervitt this afternoon about transportation downtown as we're talking about this this evening. And I asked her if she would just, again, bring this trolley map for each one of us. There's one laying on all of our desks.
 uh to remind people that if parking may not be as close as you think it can be there are trolleys removed all the time from different lots all over the city of rockford i thought it's good to remember the reason i really said this i was out shopping on saturday one of the ladies stopped me and said i i'm afraid to go downtown because i have to park too far away and i'm a lone single woman and i said have you ever considered using this rally other transportation
 Oh, I forgot. They do have one. So I just thought I'd bring it up tonight, and maybe media could cover it. There's all kinds of trolley transportation to move you around the downtown area. So please, thank you for letting me speak. Thank you, Alderman Beach. There was Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I just want to acknowledge that Rockford became a community of the future in partnership with ComEd on April 11th. They came and did a really impressive press conference here, and it's really to bring some smart city technology to Rockford.
 they have a lot of ideas planned but they've really reached out and created um like an advisory board i will be a part of that board um so i was kind of honored to be a part of that um and to continue to be a part of it but um so they're really looking to just various stakeholders in the community uh the the board is very diverse so the various stakeholders are bringing
 just a very diverse perspective to the table about Just some of the needs that the city has and I mean again, it was very impressive. They brought like 20 people I think from ComEd Just to really show a commitment to this program And a commitment to our city So I just kind of want to acknowledge that that took place last week and looking forward to just continue our continued partnership With them. Thank you
 Absolutely. I think we're the second ever in the state and appreciate your time and efforts on their board. Thank you. Alderwoman Meeks?
 My turn. I just want to send a thank you to Rockford Police and Fire. Over the weekend, we celebrated our annual Edgewater Easter Egg Hunt at Oxford Park, and we haven't been able to celebrate this event for two years now because of COVID, and it's always been a very well attended event, and this year it equally was a well attended event. And I have to thank
 Chief Red for helping with getting our CSO officers there and
 the fire department as well, Chief Pankow, who assisted in making sure that they participated. I want to thank the Edgewater Neighborhood Association who put it all together and volunteers that helped execute the entire event. It was a wonderful event. I'm so glad that we got to have it and I'm looking forward to continuing on with extra or more events in the future. Excellent, thank you. Other reports, Alderman Thunberg.
 Thanks, Mayor. This Wednesday at 7 o'clock will be the Churchill's Grove Neighborhood Association meeting via Zoom. The board of the association has been meeting for quite some time now. This one will be open to the residents. Some of the important topics, especially it will be what we had covered last week in the increase of pedestrian and
 bicycle friendly friendly initiatives and initiatives that will Be looking at slowing down traffic particularly in this case on harlem boulevard So there'll be a lot of important topics, uh discussed on that but it is the first meeting I believe where It will be open to the residents now, too. So Thank you. Thank you other reports
 Alderwoman Meeks, I was going to thank the right way for their Easter egg hunt at Andrews Park, and I was going to thank Love and Loyalty Motorcycle Club, but I should probably now be asking them for money as my daughter ate every single piece of candy that she got. My son has an entire bag. She has nothing left over, so not fun.
 Alderman Wilkins, did you have something to add? Yes, thank you, and thank you for that reminder. And I also have to thank Lester in the White Way and Janine Stevenson. They did an awesome egg hunt event at Andrews. Also, I have to thank my former alderman, Ann Thompson Kelly, and she orchestrated a –
 opportunity for us to hand out hundreds of bags to residents out in the community and make them aware of the cleanup day. I also have to thank Barb Chitley, our neighborhood specialist, who helped coordinate that event. So it was a good turnout. Got a lot of things handed out, so I appreciate the help.
 i thought oh uh i will just make everyone aware uh thank you this friday we do have a neighborhood initiative inside the lewis lemon neighborhood right where you were dropping off all the information uh and so thank you uh
 I think you'll have every one of our departments in there doing different things from improving the built environment of Lewis Lemon neighborhood, but then there's 20 different partner organizations helping out and going door-to-door to deliver services to the residents in that neighborhood.
 Also want to make everyone aware and we'll make sure that we get this out there That on April 30th from 11 to 2 if you have a young child And you want them engaged in a summer program You can stop by it can be a five-minute visit or a 25-minute visit stop by you'll have about 16 18 different organizations at the Boys and Girls Club on Kilburn That'll be simply they're promoting the summer programs that they have and
 almost, well, many of them, I shouldn't say all of them, many of them are actually free to our youth. Since there's so many programs out there going on, we want to make sure that those kids who need that program activity during the summer are aware of the opportunities that they have before them. So that's April 30th, 11 to two at Boys and Girls Club on Kilburn. Any other reports? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor.
 So there was this email from the Rockford Chamber of Commerce that says you can share this news with family and friends but not on social media. So I'm going to consider us all family and friends here tonight. Scary. That's a scary thought. I know. I'm going to go out on a limb here and hope nobody shares this on social media, but I would be happy to...
 I am honored to announce that I was successful in nominating our Public Works Director, Kyle Saunders, to be named Chamber of Commerce's one of the Class of 2022 40 Under 40 leaders. And that was done with the support of...
 uh letters from gary anderson who i think may be here tonight uh lorraine logan who was here last week and uh carlos molina from the winnebago county highway department and uh it was uh
 It was a fun exercise in writing the nomination and gathering the support letters, as I typically do at the 11th hour right before the deadline. So I was just very happy to do it and very happy to see that the nomination was successful. Applause
 It is only fitting that you do that since at every council meeting someone needs to thank Kyle for something So that's just great to see I was just afraid somebody would get would beat me to the punch tonight So alderman Rose can we make t-shirts that say thanks Kyle? I happen to know he's posed for his photos already. So I
 It's uh, it's that official. Anyhow, awesome other woman Trina I was actually on the nominating committee and when it came across I was like, oh
 I can't escape Kyle Saunders anywhere I go. So congratulations. I had to say nothing for that nomination. Excellent. Thank you. And I did notice your glaring, dirty look, Alderman Turina. Yes, because you didn't have something to say anything. Yeah. Excellent. All right. So we finished off the search reports. Any other comments? Excellent. Thank you.
 we will move on to motions and resolutions we have nothing under planning and development we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman rose all right we'll start with uh item one the committee recommends approval of the north end city market this event is scheduled for every saturday beginning on may 21st october 5th through through october 15th
 from 8 30 a.m to 12 30 p.m the event location will be in the city lot 33 at maya and toner avenue item two the committee recommends approval of the rockford midtown market this event is scheduled for every thursday beginning on june 2nd through october 27th from 9 00 a.m to 1 p.m the event location will be at 502 7th street the lot adjacent to the rps 205 building
 Item 3, the committee recommends approval for the Midsummerfest. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 18th from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The event location will be at 404 South 3rd Street.
 Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the 4th of July celebration. This event is scheduled for Monday, July 4th from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. The parade will begin at 5 p.m. and the fireworks show will begin at 9.30 p.m. The parade route will begin at 7th Street and 2nd Avenue, ending at State Street to Church Street. The fireworks will be launched from the Commonwealth Edison property adjacent to Fordham Dam in downtown Rockford, the total cost of the city of Rockford.
 for the 2021 celebration was $118,157.37. Item 5, the committee recommends approval of the Rock and Roll Car Show. This event is scheduled for Saturday, October 8th from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event location will be in the parking lot of 4007 East State Street, which is the overflow parking at 3915 East State Street, which is the old magnet parking lot.
 Item 6, the committee recommends approval of the head of the Rock Regatta. This event is scheduled for Sunday, October 9th from 7.30 a.m. to 4 p.m. The event location will be at 200 Y Boulevard along the Rock River.
 Seven, the committee recommends approval of the MASA Cinco de Rockford. This event is scheduled for Saturday, May 7, 2022 from 1 p.m. to 8 p.m. The event location will be at 3915 East State Street.
 then item 8 the committee recommends approval of the Rockford City Market this event is scheduled for every Friday beginning on May 20th September through September 30th from 4 p.m. to 830 p.m. including the street closures of East State Street between Madison Street and Wyman Street Water Street between East State Street and Lower Jefferson Street Market Street between Water Street and Madison Street north-south alley between East State Street and Market Street adjacent the
 the Union Pacific Rail Line, Water Street parking lot and parking lot 6 beginning at 1.30 p.m. to 11 p.m. The special event permit allows consumption of liquor on public property and open liquor carrying special event footprint, storage of pod unit, permission for use of city electricity. Thank you. So, Council, there's eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Alderman Durkee. Can we separate eight? We can. Thank you.
 all right so let's take out the first seven is there any discussion on those for seven alderman quinones yet again yes i just want to check we got that start starting uh street the seventh and second item number four usually the parade starts at seventh and railroad i remember correctly this is seventh and second i think you'll have some that are backed up usually they'll have some off the side streets that roll into it yeah
 but the official start of it is seventh and second okay any other discussion burke will you please call the roll turkey hi logeman tomboy terena printy wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones meeks bonnie twelve eyes excellent so we have one item before you that's item eight any discussion item 8
 Alderman Durkee. Yeah, I just have a number of questions. I know we modified the profile to come down further in the street. I've had actually a chance to talk to some business owners, some of them today. And, Your Honor, I got your call, but unfortunately I had to talk to them too. So I'm sorry that I didn't get back to you. So, yeah.
 As I talked with them and have thought this over, and this sort of is trying to provoke a more robust discussion among the council, the problems that have been brought up are good ones. Number one is Rockford's downtown is a little bit unique, and we've talked about this on the council floor before, in the fact that State Street is the only two-way real street that goes back and forth.
 Wayfinding in Rockford downtown is a disaster. Trying to negotiate people around closing State Street can be really problematic. And we do have some west side businesses that are across the river, including a new hotel. I don't know their schedules. We have a hotel that may have wedding receptions. We have the BMO that I think I counted four events in.
 i couldn't i'm not bmo coronado has four events bmo i don't know because they don't put the days of the week and they put the date like april 18th but they don't give me wednesday and i'm too lazy to look and see what day that is so i don't know how many friday events they have but there's certainly octane and district and some other there's i think there's a new restaurant that's going to open across from district if i'm not mistaken
 So I'm wondering about these guys, and we're coming off of COVID, and many of the restaurants now have raised their salaries to approach the $15 minimum wage, and I'm starting to worry about their costs, and I'm always a big fan of brick and mortar as well. So we have all these competing interests, and –
 So if we manage to put in some traffic calming like we typically do, I'm wondering what are the thoughts of just leaving State Street open? So that's what I'm asking, a robust discussion on that. And I know I can't amend it because it has to be in print, so it may mean that we have to lay it over.
 And I have some continued discussion, but so I'm sorry to surprise you like that So but I read my account any other questions alderman, Bonnie just before anything a point of clarification on it having to be in writing because at the recent council meeting the council at your request held off on the It was at the anchor
 Development issue so that the legal director could prepare an amendment and put it in writing So if we were to have a discussion, could we then suspend the hold so it could be done? Yep, any other discussion? Alderman timber. Thank you. I think in
 Yeah, hours upon hours of discussions with various parties on this. One of the questions that seemed to come out quite a bit was the going north to Riverview. To my...
 you know in in numbers of meetings uh the consensus seemed to be that riverview uh was a critical spot for parking not just for uh some of the patrons going to the market but also for events and individuals and groups that were uh going to riverview and of course some of those individuals going there if you've ever
 played hockey or had kids that play hockey those are pretty large bags and to confront a no parking barricade there at Riverview would be quite cumbersome but the other item that arose that I think would need some proper explanation is the the area underneath Jefferson Street Bridge
 addition to the what was the Rockford Register Star parking lot which is now iconic energies parking lot I believe I do know that parking lot is is in I think we have have put forth some funds to redo that parking lot
 if I'm not mistaken. The Register Star parking lot? Or I'm sorry, there was some agreement that we were talking with redoing that parking lot or having it redone. But nonetheless, that parking lot, my point is, is that parking lot could use some TLC, no question about it. But what I've come to learn in providing a more detailed explanation on that, because I was
 not ready to put forth an explanation with one that i didn't wasn't extremely clear on i i think i was pretty well versed on the riverview parking lot but on this other idea i know that i've come to find out that yes it is used for uh
 believe some patron parking to City Market but it is the basically the staging area and the critical spot for the businesses and such who are using City Market so I think there is 70 some or 70 businesses that are using area within City Market and that is their spot
 for parking and bringing their items to set up and then obviously to break it down. But I was wondering if Mr. Cagnoni could elaborate any further when it comes to
 the under jefferson street bridge and possibly even touching on that parking lot if i missed anything just so i'm clear on the parking lot that you're mentioning uh it would be on the north side of state street that iconic energy parking lot as opposed to the one that they have right at their not not the one that that is connected to the old register star thank you mr cagnone
 Thank you, Your Honor. As you stated, there has been a change in ownership of what you refer to as the Rockford Register Star lot. And there is a new owner predominantly that parking lot is used for our vendor parking and storage in support of the market. And it is in somewhat of disrepair.
 When we reviewed the overall special event permit for the city market, we did take into consideration the potential expansion to the north, but ultimately felt that utilizing State Street was more contiguous as well as addressed our pedestrian safety concern that we discussed last week. When you look at the Jefferson Street Bridge, although somewhat contiguous, it's not fully contiguous to the market footprint.
 Any other discussion? Alderman Meeks. I just wanted clarity on the placement timing and removal of the barriers. I wanted to just kind of get clarity on when we were placing those barriers and when we were removing those barriers. Mr. Cagnoni?
 Thank you, Your Honor. So the market time frame is 4 to 8.30. There'd be a transition prior to the market starting, so we'd start placing those barricades out around 1.30 to allow those that might be within the footprint to exit.
 And then the market closes down at 8.30, so we would be removing those barricades as soon as all the vendors got out of the footprint. So that, you know, I'm sort of estimating time frame there, but I would anticipate closer to a 9.30 time frame to get everyone out of the footprint. Okay. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. As it relates to public safety.
 and closing off State Street for that. Just a couple of observations that sometimes that bridge is taken over by the skateboarder, so I don't know how safe that is. But the other thing is, what if we were to eliminate the crosswalk in front of the Rockford Register Star building and make pedestrians cross at the lights instead? Okay.
 And have them have the have the that would be the safest thing I think if we eliminated that crosswalk and and Advise them crossing at the light where you can't cross against the light Against the law and you regulate the cars and the pedestrians by utilizing the light You don't need a police officer really to watch a crosswalk then Mr. Tignone or mr. Saunders. I'm happy to answer that question mayor
 potentially but I guess I would say in my experience individuals cross where they want to cross and I don't know if that would be a reasonable expectation that that would be the outcome maybe in a perfect situation but I think it would be challenging mr. alderman Durkee thank you but they would be doing that all up and down state
 So if we have the restaurants open and if people are mingling about state, you're having that everywhere. So you might as well close it up here, which we can't do. Are there additional traffic calming measures that we can put in place like we do over the bridge where we go multimodal in the summer? Is there anything we can do?
 Further upstate to calm traffic or put like within the middle of the street along the lights, you know, those little things that say crosswalk. It visually identifies where people should cross. And it also calms traffic because they're sitting right there and people usually slow down when they see these yellow things that say people crossing. So they're in a calming state.
 things i don't know that mr carter's here either but so um you know certainly traffic calming devices or methods could be deployed certainly we took some of those into consideration when we were evaluating our staff recommendation related to the special event permit but ultimately felt that the recommendation we advanced uh last week was the the most effective
 related to pedestrian safety. That's not saying that you couldn't take another approach. We talked a little bit about some of the challenges that we've had in special event permits. You know, not only city of Rockford, but.
 nationally in regards to vehicles entering unauthorized locations that took place earlier this well actually was late 2021 at Stroll on State and taking all those factors into consideration why we recommended the the footprint that we did.
 alderman rose and i'll come back to alderman durkee just a clarification uh uh mr cagnone you'd mentioned that the barricades would are going up at 130 i thought there was a later start time for that for the upcoming that'd be the start of it um you know we might be able to
 Delay that to some extent with the amended footprint that was approved by the Code and Regulation Committee Last week because the time frame and the number of barricades would would be reduced So we would probably pull that back, but that's how we originally presented it Okay, because I just that's a lot I mean two and a half hours to set up a site like that. I used to do this the job and
 Like it shouldn't take them two and a half hours to do that. It doesn't take them that long to do it. It takes that long to get the person who shouldn't be there out of there is my assumption. Oh, okay. So it's a transition period typically where we'd start putting up the barricades, informing individuals that are coming down as well as those that might be in the, in the footprint and allows individuals to get in and out of there. It's not a complete shutdown. Okay. Oh, there I'm in Turkey. Did you have a comment? The yeah, I, I drove around, uh,
 you know, on Friday, last Friday. And I think what got me thinking a little bit more about, you know, closing off state, like I said, I saw that new restaurant opening across from District. And it's sort of, I got the, I was thinking, it gave me the impression that we're now creating an east and west side of the river. And I really don't.
 Rwyf wir eisiau gweld ein ffwrdd y ddaeafrwydd yn gwneud ymgymryd ymlaen â'r ffrwd a bydd yr holl hynny yn un peth ychwanegol. Ac rwy'n credu, chi'n gwybod, felly roedd fy mhrofiad i ddechrau ei gael yn yw ein bod ni'n nawr yn llwyddo, mewn gwirionedd, hanner o'n potensial y ddaeafrwydd. A gall hyn ddilyn yn y dyfodol. Ond dwi ddim yn gwybod pwy sy'n gweithio'r restaurant honno, dwi'n cofio'r enw o'r restaurant, os yw rhywun arall yn gwybod.
 ddechreuais i ddechrau i ddod yn bwysig am y dyn hwn a byddai octane yn cael ei ddod o hyd ac mae'r dynion yn dod yma yn ôl Covid. Nid yw'n wahanol. Mae'n economi gwahanol na'r oedd a ddywedodd y dynion hynny'n mynd i'w ddod i mewn i'r ffwrdd fel pob un. Felly, dwi'n meddwl y byddwn i am wneud y cwestiwn i gyflwyno hyn i Stair Ystradau Agos. Felly mae yna
 Rwy'n gwneud y cwestiwn hwn, yn dda? Iawn. Mae cwestiwn ar y flwro i amenda i fod yn agored. Ydy yna un? Iawn. Felly mae'r cwestiwn wedi cael ei wneud. A yw yna unrhyw drafodaeth arall? Alderman Thunberg. Diolch, Gweinidog. Byddaf yn achosi i bawb amser heno, oherwydd gallwn fynd amser.
 chi'n gwybod dwi ddim hyd yn oed yn gwybod lle i ddechrau yn ffrancol mae'r cwrdd yng nghymru wedi dod ychydig blynedd yn ôl o ble roedd yn ei wneud blynedd yn ôl y busnesau i'r cyfrif o'r busnesau i'r cyfrif o farchnad y ddinas i'r cyfrif o'n gymuned ac mae gennym
 nid ni fel Llywodraeth yn ei gilydd, ond bydd y busnesau, y farchnad y ddynion a'r cymuned yn cael eu cymryd i'r cyfrif. Mae gen i'r swydd ffodus i gyfrifol y llawdrin a'r llawdrin a'r llawdrin a'r llawdrin ac rydw i wedi cymryd rhan mewn busnesau ychydig o flynyddoedd y gorffennol, sydd wedi bod yn rhyfeddol gyda'r mandatau sydd wedi'u rhoi.
 ac yn ceisio ddatganiad am rai o'r mandatau hynny, a chwech, doedd gen i ddim gwybodaeth amdano, ond roedd pobl yn chwilio am arwain a atebion, a'u gwneud yn y ffordd y gallan nhw. Yn yr un pryd, mae'r gymuned yn helpu i wneud ein cwrdd yn llwyddiannus.
 Ac heb ein cymuned, nid oes gennym llawer o ddowntown. Felly, rwy'n cymryd y cyfrif. Rwy'n hapus i'r holl awyrau llythyrol o sgyrsiau a'r cynlluniau a ddod i mewn i'r marchnadaeth y du.
 gyda'r hyn rydyn ni wedi ei wneud y flwyddyn diwethaf, a nawr yr hyn sydd wedi'i bwriadu ar gyfer y flwyddyn hon, a nawr gyda'r amgylchedd, fe wnes i'n teimlo'n ymddygiadol bod yna gyfranogwyr. Mae'n fy mhrofiad i weld hynny, ac mae'n beth mae'n ei fod yn, ond
 It's a very tough spot to be in, but it's what we signed up for. But I look at it as the community as a whole. I know that the third ward is the second in citizens of the 14 wards at a 10-city market, and I have to take that into account as well. And seeing...
 that many of those citizens, apparently 60%, with relation to a 500-person survey, do frequent businesses downtown. I've been made aware that some businesses are coming back to or have been back at 2019 levels. I understand that, very clearly understand that not all have. And so...
 You know, I have to, you know, make that hard decision tonight. It's not to no end situation, frankly. One of my questions is, is if...
 I understand with the east side, the west side, the one-way streets, which again, I've been in many talks with our traffic department regarding many people don't realize that IDOT controls many of our streets downtown. And we are looking fortunately at making those with the possibility of two-way at some point, but we'll see where that goes.
 But, you know, with traffic control going over to the west side from the east side, and Madison Street now, which I thought was imperative to being open in this kind of compromise,
 and it is now open and that having a direct connection to chestnut and over to Jefferson well or or one street over on the east but Traffic control regarding that I would like to see ample traffic
 traffic signage, et cetera, for those individuals that are traveling to each side. Another thing, I don't discount, I've said many times that Rockford doesn't have a parking problem, it has a walking problem. And I would like to see and hope that many of these individuals that are looking at, or being on the east side would walk over to the west side and vice versa.
 But with that said, I would like to be reassured that there will be ample traffic items in place for individuals to get to Jefferson Street, for individuals to get onto Chestnut and back. So you're asking for additional signage from east to west and west to east? We can certainly do that?
 Thank you. Alderman Beach, then Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Your Honor. I too support the compromise, and I've been trying to think about it. Whether it's the night of the market or any other night of the week, if there are events in the Coronado Theater, generally people don't take State Street there. They take Jefferson Street to the Coronado Theater, and they turn right and park and go there.
 If there's events at BMO, generally they don't take State Street to go to BMO. They take Jefferson Street to go down to Main Street and turn left and generally go to the parking deck. That would seem to be the most route. And like Alderman Durkee spoke a few moments ago, the way it's being configured now, coming back to the east from the west,
 Chestnut Street to Madison. They can come right on over Madison North and then head out State Street if they want or continue north on Madison. So I think that until the time comes when we open the entire bridge as part of the footprint of the vendors, so the whole thing is there, I think we do have some responsibility to be careful what we're doing in terms of the safety of
 And but maybe others would disagree with that, but it sure seems that from time to time, Your Honor, we have electric signs right up there at the point by McDonald's and 7th Street directing traffic across Jefferson Street to get to BMO or get to the Cornell someplace else rather than down State Street. And that's not necessarily always on market night.
 So with trying to deal with the problem, I think that's one of the ways we've been dealing with the problem. And I certainly don't want this to be East-West thing. That just makes me feel really bad inside to think we'd even think that way in terms of trying to move traffic back and forth. So thank you again for letting me speak, but that's my thoughts. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. Actually, Alderman Beach.
 Ray's goes said something that goes right to one of my main concerns with this whole issue Which is is this just for another year? because we have had the market organizers and some staff indicating that the motivating factor for this is pedestrian safety and Trends in the end trends in the industry and and
 People avoiding what I think is the motivating factor, which is the ongoing protests, May 30th Alliance protesters. And so I have a couple more questions and comments, and it's predicated on the fact that that has a lot to do with this, and we're not talking about it.
 So one of the things I did not get asked last time that I would like to ask now is, of the remaining core group of protesters, how many of them are under some form of order of protection or restraining order that prohibits them from being within a certain distance from the market, and what is that distance?
 Mr. Cagnoni? I don't know the answer to that question. We would have to review the court records. I know we have city staff that have brand new orders of protection. I couldn't say about city market staff. Staff versus, that's individuals I'm talking about. Are there any restraining orders in place that prohibit them from being near the market on market day?
 There was last year. I don't know of their effectiveness, if they're still in place or not. What was that distance last year? I think it was 300 feet. Is that right? I believe, not certain, 300 feet. Mr. Meyer? There was a number of court filings with differing orders that also changed, and some started out at 300 and then were amended down to 50, so it would be hard to keep track of all of them or know if they're all still in effect or not.
 I appreciate Alderman Durkee wanting to engage us all in further conversation and I was hoping maybe to hear from some aldermen we have not yet heard from but yeah I feel like the underlying the main problem that we have here is that an expanded footprint could even as originally proposed could be a great thing.
 if there was substantial buy-in from the key stakeholders, the downtown businesses, which clearly there is not. And I think there was an attempt made to paper over the level of that discontent. And we are now, on one hand, it's a great problem that we have so much interest in downtown and that everybody is so concerned.
 uh charged up on this on the issue but it's unfortunate that people could not come together and that um i don't i'm concerned about what are we gonna what's what are what are we looking at next year if we don't if we even with this compromise states close this is an issue that is just gonna is going to linger so i did have city legal uh prepare uh
 another amendment that is i believe in writing i thought it was going to be on our desks and it would be to approve the permit and the footprint as passed by codes and regs last week but with the state street closure limited to 10 weeks half of the market run and that unless extended by the council beyond the 10 weeks
 We have a motion prepared based on your email, but that was not the language. Well, it's not the exact language because I don't have it in front of me. Can you read what the language says? I mean, it would be Aubrey Bonney's motion, so if you'd like to read it.
 sure it would be i move to amend the resolution requesting resolution approving the request for a special event permit for the rockford city market by adding the following at the end of the description of the footprint city council shall review the footprint specifically the closure of state after the 10th market date of july 22nd 2022 at which time any amendment to the approved footprint in the special event permit
 will be in the discretion of the City Council. So in other words, we would revisit the issue at the end of 10 weeks and not have this be a hard no to the reopening of state for the duration of the market season. So I think we're going to hand this out so you all have it in front of you. But in essence, you'd get to do this again in 10 weeks or 10 weeks after it starts. Right, which I realize is not probably what any of us want, but
 so are you making a motion alderman yes you just talking so the only reason i didn't second alderman durkee's motion for the purpose of discussion was and was because i thought this might be a slightly more palatable option same all right so now uh we do have a motion on the floor is there a second to that motion we have a motion we now have a second is there any discussion alderman beach
 Please explain to me how, if we revisit this on the 10th week or in the 11th week, we have 10 more weeks of the market, how many weeks will it take us to visit it?
 What happens in the meantime? Well, we would bring this up to the council before it got to the tenth week So we probably around the eighth or ninth and depends on how quickly you all want to move will be how long it takes For it to go through It says that we'll review it after ten weeks. So it would be after the day We go after ten weeks. So let me let me say it again. So if we've if we
 move to open it now. We're really opening up for the entire season. We're going to review it after 10 weeks to see whether they want to continue it the way we're doing it or go back to this compromise next year. Because I don't understand how, after 10 weeks, that we could begin to, let's say, go backwards from where we are.
 My understanding, correct me if I'm wrong, Alderman Bonney, is that his motion would have his previously amended footprint up to Madison. Then after 10 weeks, he's simply asking can we have this discussion again and decide do you want to leave it? Do you want to do whatever? Do you want to go back to the original footprint? Do you want to open it all up? I think everything would be on the table at that point. Alderman Bonney.
 so there yes there is a flaw in the wording i think my intent was that the was that we would review it before the 10 weeks hits my understanding is that the market changes vendors at the 10-week mark anyhow and so there are changes that occur at the market at the 10-week point halfway through
 So the idea would be that if we were to decide then that we would no longer wish to have State Street closed, that the market would have time to plan for State Street to reopen at the 10th week, but that in conjunction with any other changes that would be occurring at the 10-week mark. Thank you. Alderman Rosen. Thank you.
 I appreciate the idea. I mean, is it possible that if something were to happen within those 10 weeks that an amendment like that could take place at that time? I just don't think that at this point it's a valid argument in the sense that we have somewhat of a compromise on the table right now. We worked with both parties to kind of broker that.
 And I almost kind of think that this amendment is too preemptive. Is that let's just get through this component first, and then if something were to happen or things came up, could the city council then address that if they so wanted to? Is that a possibility? Mr. Dagnoni? So...
 In part, it comes down to predictability for everyone involved. So I do believe it's challenging to say that we're going to review it at some undetermined time. I think that would be a little bit challenging. I would say that at the 10-week mark, there is the possibility of some change in vendors, but it's really only a handful. Okay.
 So it's predominantly the folks that are there, the vendors that are there, the 70-plus vendors. It's for the season unless something doesn't work out. So I wouldn't say that there's a significant changeover at that point in time. Okay, so we will go to Alderwoman Tarina, then Alderman Logeman, then Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Your Honor. Okay, Mr. Bonney, the King of Amendments.
 I'm king of amendments to the amendments as well. I'm sort of like getting this sense that this is, you're putting this forth so we can almost test it to see will the market work with this footprint. That's the impression I get, but we know that it works. We know that it works with the larger footprint. So to me, it almost seems like it's pointless. So while I respect what you brought forth, it's a no for me, sir.
 while i have the mic i might as well just say my my comments i'll go back to um the question that alderman durkee posed and that was why or just even questioning what you know just wanting dialogue around why do some of you want state street open for me i i am a patron um of the market and you know you brought up the protesters uh you specifically named may 30th but what the activity that
 concerns me the most wasn't so much the protesters, it was that traffic that was happening and sort of the aggressive behavior that I saw from, I don't know who these people were, other people from the community that were not, I don't know what they represented, but it was, it was, they didn't represent positivity. It was driving through, was honking, was yelling. It was sort of
 aggressive behavior that that's what I feared when I went to the market, not so much what was going on on the protesting side. So for that purpose, for me, I will be voting to keep State Street closed. I always say that I appreciate whenever we see people in this community stand up for something. I would love to see if
 i would love to see our gallery filled every week with people caring about their city so and i don't want people to know that i personally read every email i read everything you put on my desk i read every signature i saw you you made sure that i saw that yellow on my timeline you killed me this weekend i saw that i saw the passion for this um but again there's just two sides to every story and there's just a lot of information that we've had to
 sort of read through and make you know a very difficult decision about I think that we're making a good compromise by at least putting the footprint at the Madison at Madison Street I do think that there is definitely still opportunity for us to expand in different directions we've talked about going north so I would love to see some consideration for that as we move forward that's not something we have to figure out right now
 And what else did I have? Also, if you don't want city market downtown, my ward would love it. So if we want to think about moving into the fifth ward, South Bain, I don't know if the business is there with mind. The traffic being added to my to my ward that doesn't normally see traffic. So I just, again, looking at it from a lot of different angles and thinking.
 For now, for me, it is important to keep our citizens as safe as possible. You know, I'm sick and tired of seeing every single week these pedestrian deaths. I don't want to take the risk of that happening at City Market as that continues to grow. It's just such an amazing thing for our city. I was confused by, it's just like, you know, you think back, like, I can't believe we're
 traffic and so many people going downtown like this wouldn't just never happened five years ago even ten years ago but I'm sort of I'm wondering how people that literally have storefronts now because of the traffic that came downtown could be against something that literally made them who they are
 It confuses me. Again, it's just been so much information. We've all been stressed out about this. Like, don't think we just sat here and made this decision in a second. We did not. Everyone has thought deeply about this. We've had private meetings. We've had meetings together, text conversations. It's just been nonstop talk about this. So just know that we have really tried to think of the best solution. And for me, it is the compromise of...
 Keeping state open on to the Madison Street. Thank you. Thank you next alderman Logan Thank you, and I would just add just so our attorney doesn't scream at me Please all the alderman director comments to me not to other aldermen They're supposed to go to the chair not or having debates directly to all of them. Thank you mayor. Um, I
 i would echo what alderman tarina said um about especially uh reference uh walkability in our neighborhoods i think you know i certainly don't speak for myself for that is one of the number one things that i hear is um you know we don't want a vehicle to hit a pedestrian um our
 the speeds on our streets uh they're too great um and like alderman tarina you know today there was somebody who um you know i know second hand who i was made aware was um killed uh on our streets um but then moving forward uh as it as it was as it relates to alderman bowney's
 amendment here. You know, I think we do owe it to the citizens of Rockford to make a decision tonight, to make a decision now. We owe that predictability to our citizens and this has been, yeah, I think that also the most poignant quote of this entire discussion came from my friend Oldman Durkee here said, you know, I got friends on one side and friends on the other side and all I want to do is help my friends. And then, you know, I think what is also getting lost in here is
 how easily uh you know vehicles can move along jefferson street and along uh chestnut walnut street as well when you think away that closing down state street is essentially um one to one and a half blocks um you know i am on both sides of the river all the time with with my work and where i live and i find jefferson and chestnut street to be you know
 wonderfully easily wonderfully easy to navigate especially when you know most folks you know we talk about uh... people getting confused downtown uh... also would echo what alderman to remember says we've got it like we got a key press forward and making a lot of these streets two-way streets but in the meantime here uh... you know
 downtown you know most folks are if they're not from here they're using their cell phone to uh... google maps or apple maps to to navigate downtown so uh... you know i think ultimately this you know i wasn't crazy about the the expanded footprint but what we came came together found a uh... what i think is a a very fair and reasonable compromise that supports two very important
 groups in our community the the city market and then the the River District Association and I yeah I appreciate all of you know the the consideration of all the other aldermen I know it's been a this has not been an easy decision but I do think that we owe it to our community to make that decision tonight Thank You mayor Thank You alderman timber Thank You mayor
 one of the uh conversations i had uh and i've had numerous with the businesses one business uh uh did state that he he does have a number of people that uh window shop per se he he does uh they do put their menu in the window and and um and he notices these individuals uh they don't come in to his restaurant that night
 or they may pop in for a drink, they said. But later on, in a week or two later, he notices those same individuals back. Maybe they didn't come in that night because they were meeting friends down at City Market. They had all intentions to visit City Market. But the reason I say that is that that's a hard thing to measure. If we're seeing some of our businesses back to—
 COVID numbers. Again, I say not all. But I just don't know how you could measure if you had a number of individuals that came down, saw your establishment, whether that was a shop, whether that was a restaurant, and did not shop that night, you know, by a proprietor's numbers, that's going to show as no business on Friday night. But
 that Thursday or Tuesday, two, three weeks later, they had additional business, that'll count as a non-city market day or night of business unless that customer specifically tells the server, tells the owner, or tells the shop proprietor that,
 they saw their place on city market evenings um they wouldn't they wouldn't know to my knowledge um but that that's a tough thing to measure and and and i don't to no fault of anybody's but uh i i wouldn't discount that completely on that factor of of the city market drawing you know we we had the footprint we had last year
 uh as council approved and it drew 90 000 people um i think that a year before was 25 000. so you know i i'm with this compromise i know that there was a number of business owners that wanted their street open uh in front of their shop in front of their restaurant and you know i i
 Just with this compromise the way it is it is doing that For most there still are a few that it is not But yeah, I forgot there was something else I was gonna mention but thank you if I remember oh, okay So we still have an amendment before us Alderman Logum and then alderman body Bonnie and then let's maybe vote on this amendment. Oh, yeah
 Yeah, I just wanted the looked up the the distance. I appreciate all them in Toonberg's Comment on I not a drive not a parking problem of walkability for a walking problem Just noted that from like you put your mic down just so it's already at State and Madison from State and Madison to Jefferson and Wyman I mean we're talking about 0.35 miles here, so that's it's a it is a short distance, but I thought that that was you know a
 something good for the good of the group thank you thank you alderman bonnie thank you mayor so i can't respond to being king of the amendment i would just wear it okay looks good actually actually maybe i can get a little maybe alderman terena can buy me a little crown uh so this is not about
 Yeah. This is not about a test. If it were a test, if I were suggesting this is a test, it would be a test in reverse. Test to see if we can go back to State Street being open and then I believe we have the, and I think Administrator Cagnoni has already suggested this, we have the ability to change the footprint any time we want. No? Once approved. Mr. Cagnoni.
 i i sorry if i led you with the the opinion you can change it anytime you want i think what's before us is a request for a special event perm um permit for a set period of time with a with a set footprint and you have the authority here to amend it and act upon it however you feel is appropriate but there does need to be predictability you can't issue a permit and then revoke it you know shortly thereafter so it's not about a test it's about
 One more step toward compromise. I propose the original amendment for that purpose. I think, again, I am a regular market goer. I love the market. I, too, would be happy to have it come to the 14th ward, although at this point I'm sure that would be the last ward it would come to if it leaves downtown. But I think Alderman Rose brought up festival creep.
 and the parallels between on the waterfront and growing discontent over as on the waterfront neared its end of its run after 30 years over between the businesses and the massive footprint of on the waterfront and the fear that this is going to become the permanent way that the market exists versus
 temporary closure so this was the purpose of my thought was simply to walk another step closer to the downtown businesses because at the end of the day most of these downtown businesses these are people this is everyone's livelihood this is their bread and butter
 The market, while it's a great thing, it's a non-profit entity. Nobody is not able to put their food on the table if the market suffers a little versus if the downtown businesses do. And we're being told that the market can't sustain itself without the footprint and businesses can't sustain themselves with the footprint.
 So, you know, I think it's not a test. It's another step, attempt to step a little more toward fairness and reasonableness and to force, yes, force us to discuss this again this year versus kicking the can down the road until next year.
 Okay. We're going to go Alderman Thunberg, then Alderman Durkee. This is one of the rare times I wish Alderman, Alderwoman McNeely was here to call the question, but we'll keep going. Alderman Thunberg. Can we get her here by phone? Alderwoman Torino, welcome to the Third Ward. The, the, what, what has in, in regards to Alderman Bonney's amendment to the amendment,
 What does call into question the, over the past few years, I've been in meetings with City Market, obviously, and because it is in the third ward, but also I did sit on the RRDP board. I was appointed by Mayor McNamara on that, as does some of the other aldermen sitting here.
 You can see the amount of planning that takes place with the placement of these 70 businesses that are coming into downtown and set up shop.
 And it does require quite a bit of logistics and planning. My concern is, at this point, with that, is just the flexibility of the
 city market of RDP running city market what I imagine it it would be quite a bit too logistically and just plan on relocating everything on a whim or having to draw that up after the amount of planning that was put in for the original placement of city market so
 That that's just a concern of mine with the 10th week. All of a sudden they'd have to go back to the drawing board and do all that. So thank you. We're still on the amendment. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, your honor. Hang in there. We'll stop talking soon enough. Question. The, the, we're only just at Alderman Tuber's point. We're not changing the footprint. We're just opening or closing state. Thing stays the same. So,
 I don't quite understand it. The other thing is just remember the 25,000 visitor year, I think it was a COVID year. But I would agree with everybody, and I like this discussion. I know it's sometimes frustrating, but it always has seemed counterintuitive to me that you put the market there, which I'm wildly supportive of, and that it doesn't have a positive impact downtown. I mean, some of the shops there I don't go into unless the market is open. And I know a lot of the businesses...
 you know aren't open during that time so i so it's but i guess they're supporting their their brethren um but i would be remiss so i like i said it's a tough decision but it would be remiss if if i didn't share at least one of the business owners a perspective of this compromise basically said well we're not cutting your arm off we're just taking it off at the elbow so from a business point of view bear that in mind that it's
 I don't do what they do for a living. I've talked with them and some of these people I really trust. So and that is sort of what what swayed me. And I don't I don't know that it's horribly detrimental to the market. And I'm sort of weighing who am I who am I hurting most?
 I'm not weighing who am I helping most. I'm weighing who am I hurting in the compromise. And as I look at it, these guys coming out of COVID, these restaurants took it hard. And I'm worried about brick and mortar. And I'm worried that in the hurt, who's going to take the bigger hit? And that's my thought process, is who's taking the bigger hit when we do this and we explore this. I admire the compromise. I think it's a study. I don't know.
 Okay. Any last discussion? Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I agree. And I just also want to point out that the market, while absolutely it has drawn lots of people downtown over 10 years now who had not previously come downtown, is not the be-all and end-all of downtown
 revival. There have been lots of big and small efforts that have brought downtown from where it was 20 years ago to where it is today, starting with the Coronado Theater restoration and even the restoration of the building we sit in, all the way through to Embassy Suites. So and I also think it's unfair to suggest that downtown
 businesses, there wouldn't be downtown businesses without the market because several of the businesses, including ones that are here, represented here tonight, had been downtown 10, 20 years longer than the market. And they were the pioneers that took...
 and took a big risk to come downtown when there wasn't much downtown and i believe that those petitions include signatures of businesses that reside in the indoor market which has to say something and um as all of my turkey said i mean in trying to balance these competing interests
 I just feel like we do, should we, I feel like we should err a little bit more on the side of small business than on the side of the market. Any other discussion? Alderwoman Wilkins. Sorry, Your Honor. No, you're great. When I first heard of this, it was a no-brainer for me. It was, okay, the businesses want you state open, give it to them. You know what's the big deal, right?
 And then I believe it was Alderman Tarina who stated to me it's a public safety issue. And with the amount of traffic that we see along East State Street, it doesn't matter to me who or whatever amount of money we're talking about. No amount of money is worth a life. And I'm not willing to support a decision with opening up State Street for the market and put someone's life in danger.
 that doesn't just take one life that affects so many and there's no discussion to me when it comes to that I wouldn't put that money on my daughter's life I wouldn't put it on whoever lives that I might bring down to the city market I enjoy coming down to the city market I support it
 And I'll go on record and say with Serena and Bonnie, we'll take it in seven on Auburn Street. But for that reason, though, public safety, that is why I have to not support the opening of State Street. So I'm just going on record and stating that. Thank you. Any other comments? All right. So what's on the Alderwoman front? I would like to call the question. Please. Thank you.
 All right, so we have on the floor right now for vote is just simply Alderman Bonnie's amendment. No further questions. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. No. Toonberg. No. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. No. Hoffman. No. Rose. Beach. No. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Aye. Two ayes, ten noes.
 So that doesn't pass. The good news is we get to continue talking about it. So now we have the originally amended item before us. Any further discussion on that? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Aye. Ten ayes, two noes.
 We have a motion on the floor right now to reconsider. Is there a second? That's serious. Is there a second to Alderman Beech's? Does anyone need an explanation of what the motion to reconsider is? Not what it is, but why. I'll second it so we can hear why. Alderman, or...
 almost promoted you. Director Myers, could you explain what a motion to reconsider is, and then I'll give it to Alderman Beach to explain why.
 The motion reconsider is allowed under our council rules. It allows the prevailing side of any motion that passed to make a motion to reconsider that item, essentially take it up for debate again, either at the current council meeting or at the next council meeting, which needs to be motioned and seconded and voted on. If the item passes, then it would be discussed, voted on again, and it can only happen one time. So that I'll let Alderman Beach explain why. We've had a lot of conversation.
 There's been a lot of phone calls, not only tonight, but at committee. And I think it has been vetted well. And I just thought to put it behind us and move forward in a positive way to call the question tonight not to reconsider means next week we're not going to bring it up and go all through this again. That's the only purpose. And if the council wants to vote it down, that's fine. But I thought this was one of the cases where you may want to reconsider the motion right now and move forward with it. Thank you.
 So there's a motion to reconsider. Is there a second? I'll keep Alderman Bonney as second. Oh, did you? I'm sorry. So we have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Bogeman. Tunberg. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. No. Meeks. Bonney.
 I'm sorry, I want to clarify. So voting yes on Alderman Beach's motion means we cannot reconsider this in the future? Director Myers? Correct. If you vote yes and the motion is reconsidered tonight, it can only be reconsidered once. No. So...
 Alderman Beach may I ask clarification of legal your honor? Yes, sir It's been my understood that generally speaking the procedure is if we vote on any committee Report or any as we're doing for this agenda next week someone we can Consider that and bring it back to the floor And that could be voted yes or no at that point in time if no one does reconsider it next week then
 The same thing would happen as if we said yes tonight. Absolutely. That's the only difference. Next week, somebody can bring it up, we can talk about it again. But if I didn't bring this motion and no one brought it up next week. It's the same thing. The same thing. It just moves it ahead possibly another week. That's why. Thank you. It was nine ayes. I'm sorry. Three ayes, nine noes.
 Thank you. Thank you. Moving right along. Next we'll go to the Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Logerman. Alderman Logerman.
 thank you mayor item number one committee recommends the approval of the award of bid javelin drive extension to the northern illinois service company of rockford illinois in the amount of 113 578.25 the project is estimated to be completed by june 15 2022. the funding source is one percent infrastructure sales tax and water replacement improvement account item number two committee recommends approval of the award of bid
 818 South Main Street site remediation to DPI construction of Pecatonica, Illinois in the amount of $110,861.26.
 the project is estimated to be completed by july 2022 funding sources the general fund the committee recommends the approval of the award of bid well 22 reservoir repairs to solstrum and sons of rockford illinois in the amount of 45 900 the contract duration is through december 31st 2022. the funding source is the water replacement improvement account
 Item number four, committee recommends the approval of the award of bid citywide pavement marking paint 2022 to Countrymen Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois, the amount of $281,670.87. The current project is set for completion in 2022.
 The contract duration is for one year with two optional one-year extensions for 2023 and 2024. The funding source is sales tax. The bids have been broken down into the following intergovernmental costs in which the city has entered into an agreement with these government agencies to receive full reimbursement.
 as noted the total cost of the entire contract is 281 thousand dollars six 281 thousand six hundred seventy dollars and eighty seven cents item number five the committee recommends approval of the award of bid citywide pavement marking thermo to traffic control company of south chicago heights illinois in the amount of 345 154.6 the project is estimated to be completed by july 15 2022.
 funding sources one percent infrastructure sales tax item number six the committee recommends approval of the award of bid citywide street repairs group number one 2022 residential to rock road companies of janesville wisconsin in the amount of two million three hundred seventeen thousand six hundred sixty nine dollars and forty two cents the project is estimated to be completed by august 19 2022. the funding source is one percent infrastructure sales tax the committee
 The committee recommends the approval of the award of RFP, Parking Access and Revenue Control Equipment to RevCon Technology Group of Itasca, Illinois, in the amount of $826,875 for equipment, software, and installation, annual software maintenance, approximately $12,000 annually. The funding source is ARP Revenue Replacement Parking Fund Operating Budget. And item number eight.
 The committee recommends the approval of the award of joint purchasing contract, body armor for law enforcement to Tier Tactical, a.k.a. R.G. Beck, A.Z., of Peoria, Arizona, in the amount of $47,926 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year and three one-year optional extensions. The funding source is police department operating budget. Thank you, Mayor.
 Thank you. We have eight items before you. Is there any discussion on those eight items, Alderman Rose? Yeah, for items four and five, I had questions from residents in the ninth ward regarding the citywide pavement painting. And I just wanted to make a note that I did confirm through our public works committee.
 that Ridge Avenue is going to get painted. I got a lot of calls about that a few years back when it got redone, and the contractor had missed the painting. So that is going to get fixed in regards to that. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. About the same subject. Is this now for all of the streets, or is this a portion of the streets? I know I spoke with the director about a week ago, and I wasn't sure exactly.
 If this was going to cover all the streets in the city. Director Saunders. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Beach, this will cover all of our main arterial collector level streets. So this will cover 99% of the streets in Rockford. May I ask another question? Absolutely. Those payments that are in the state, would they be part of this or is that something the state has to do?
 So this is for predominantly local owned streets. We do have some maintenance activities that we perform for the state, but the lion's share of state routes are actually painted by the state of Illinois. Your Honor, I follow up. Is there any way that we could coordinate with the state when we start laying this new striping down so we can maybe get some of those streets in the state done?
 Yes, we can certainly coordinate with them. I'll have our team kind of reach out and understand what their plan is for this year as well. Thank you very much. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Hogeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Bonney. 12 ayes. Aye.
 Excellent next we'll move to planning and development committee under new business alderwoman Meeks Thank You Your Honor Under planning and development committee we have one item number one in ordinance approving the home rental rehabilitation program agreement between city of Rockford and Longwood Zion apartments LLC regarding the property located at 1055 East State Street, thank you. We have one item before you is there any discussion on that one item I
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Twelve ayes. Excellent. We have nothing under code and regulation, so we'll go to finance and personnel. Committee alderman Logerman.
 thank you mayor an ordinance approving an agreement between the city of rockford and comment for buckby creek bank stabilization for a total of eighty eight thousand fourteen dollars funding for this project will come from the lgc writer any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk could you please call the roll jerky logeman toomber terena frunze wilkins hoffman rose beach
 quinones meeks bonnie 12 ice thank you uh just want to say appreciate all the discussion that you all had regarding the city market and all the phone calls and communications i think uh
 You know, I agree. I think Alderman Durkee's statement of wanting to support your friends, I think all of us in a size city that Rockford is, we know everyone pretty personally in some of these areas. I would just say I think the city market has done a really wonderful job of reintroducing people
 existing Rockford residents and introducing outsiders to our downtown that's been revitalized. A lot in part, I would say, not solely from the government, but quite a bit of the redevelopment was assisted or we were able to play a participating role in. And I would just say...
 think our goals as a city for this summer regardless of the footprint you all finalized really remains the same I mean we want the market to succeed We want those brick-and-mortar businesses to benefit off the foot traffic that comes down from the market and we want people to be safe And so I know there was probably some angst throughout that boat But appreciate all the time and energy that you all had to put forward for that vote So thank you
 With that, is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Anyone want to discuss that? No? All right. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a good night.