Thank you.
 I didn't pay you something.
 I don't know.
 We're not taking over. Well, you're going to help her. Are you going to come on with us? Yes, just let me know. No, no. I'm here to help. We're saying the same thing. You do the work. You go up there.
 I got a question. You are in. I'm talking about. All right, sorry. I forgot for you. If you wanted to translate anything, send me an email. But you know, I don't think that. I don't think that.
 Thank you.
 Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled Monday, April 19th City Council meeting. First, we have an invocation. I believe we're supposed to have our chaplain, Norma Barrero, here with us, but I do not see her with us. So I'll ask Alderman Beach to provide us with an invocation. Shall we pray together? Father God, we thank you so much that you allow us to take a moment or two together.
 before our business meeting to honor you, to thank you for the life you give us, for the families, the friends, and the opportunity to be of service to each other through this community and through this city council. God, I pray your blessing upon our mayor, upon the city staff, about each council person that's around this chamber, and Lord, for our police and fire, each week we remember them, and tonight especially those that mourn with the loss of loved ones. God, guide us and direct us this evening
 Thanks for the wisdom that you'll give us. We pray this now in Jesus name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands one nation under God Indivisible with liberty and justice for all Or could you please call the roll? Alderman Frost Alderman Toomberg here alderman frost other man Hervey
 Yeah, I mean, Irvin's. Alderman Thompson, Kelly Hoffman. Rose Beach, Quinones Hanley 11 present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for a special city council meeting held on March 22nd 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Is there any discussion online?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logerman? Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Leach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Eleven ayes. Excellent. That passes. We do have no proclamations this evening, but we do have a public hearing. Alderman Rose? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I hereby call the public hearing on the proposed amendment to the comprehensive plan to include the 11th Street corridor study. Pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes 5-11-12-7-1, a public hearing must be conducted by the corporate authorities upon submission of a proposed amendment to the 11th Street corridor study.
 to an existing comprehensive plan notice of this hearing was given by publication in the rockford register star on april 1st 2021. that notice informs citizens of rockford that the rockford city council will hold a public hearing on monday april 19 2021 at 5 30 p.m in council chambers on the second floor at rockford city hall located at 425 east state street rockford illinois
 for the consideration of a proposed amendment to the 2020 comprehensive plan to include the 11th street corridor study are there any questions or comments from the general public with regard to the proposed amendment to the 2020 comprehensive plan if so please kindly step to the microphone give us your name address and make your statement seeing nobody making a statement the public hearing is hereby adjourned thank you alderman rose
 Next we'll move to petition. Actually. I just asked if we move to public speakers We do have a couple of public speakers and would like to be conscious of their time So just a reminder to the public speakers. There's a microphone and my back right some of you are back left Just outside council chambers. You'll have three minutes to speak. You'll hear an alarm. I'll ask you to close up your comments first I
 Public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson. The Bible. To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice. Justice may be hard to define, but perhaps is more acceptable to the Lord than sacrifice. But perhaps a negative statement makes it easier to understand what it is, indicating what it is not.
 We have just, you have just stood here, placed hand over hearts and uttered a big laugh with words such as, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
 Is it justice to send people to Springfield, Stoudelman, West, etc., and Washington, D.C., Durbin, Duckworth, Boosters, etc., to echo your same lies simultaneously ignoring the black agenda, which includes giving access to black citizens of Illinois to the $20 billion spent annually that has heretofore excluded them?
 Is it justice to ignore Westside Rockets' need for funds to open businesses that are owned by them that can employ 10 or more persons to earn $50,000 a year and up annually?
 This is especially so given the CDBG funds that have come to this community for years, totaling millions going everywhere but Westside Rockford. Is it justice to continue this moral and economic lynching of black citizens with lies mocking their holy God, who will recompense this behavior with this stern warning, the integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them? Come on to Rockford, Illinois Legislative Black Caucus,
 So black citizens can vent what Rockford-style justice looks like, according to your white Democratic colleagues and others. I'm glad we invited them to come. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our audience and citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Once again, this will be our 11th year during the Great America Cleanup, and we'll be doing the fairgrounds area. I want to go with Proverbs once again. God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part is Proverbs could be reinstated positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor will be blessed.
 If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does this through other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs? I just want to open up with some quotes from the community. When people's getting in trouble in school with the police department housing and the neighborhood, the first thing they say is, I'm going to get brother John. We have mad love and trust from the peoples
 in the community. I'd like to take this time out to mention a couple of these quotes. One brother said, happy birthday brother John. This man is such a pillar in the community and I respect him for being unapologetic.
 and activist for our community. You just don't see many black men going as hard as he does for the kids, women, and men in our community. Happy Birthday Brother John. It's a true honor to learn from you and serve with you in this community. Another brother wrote I most likely would have not had
 Had any school clothes or supplies he always made sure brother had a little change in his pocket Do the summer work program at Rock River training or in keys? We called it the sealer program back then if this brother to help you like he helped me tell him Thank you. Mr. Bradley and happy birthday. I was always strive for excellence and all my adjoinments I'm considered by others to be open-minded ambition have alone
 having good physical ability and leadership quality. Renewal turning point mission statement, we are catalyst for changes within the city of Rockford. We seek to mobilize the community to address the common obstacle, the city lower income community and
 build a positive future in and around Rockford Housing Authority property and the city at large. Focus, giving exposure to education, training, jobs, programs, and lowering the incidence of black-on-black crime and domestic violence. Lo and behold, a few weeks ago, I talked about Johnson & Johnson.
 Now they have put Johnson and Johnson vaccine on hold. Here are the reasons why we have a deep mistrust of the government, science experiment and CDC. Let's look at the past. We was promised 40 acres and a mule, $100 after the Civil War we never got. The coronavirus came out in 1919. Back then they called it the Spanish Fugue. We have not forgotten that. We have always been able to adjust and adapt
 to whatever they put out here to hold us back. This is not nothing new. For the past 400 years, they have been trying to take us out. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next, we'll go back to petitions and communications. Alderman Rhodes for planning and development.
 thank you your honor there's a memorandum from carl franzen uh to planning and development on a proposed tax increment financing loan agreement with awaken foundation l3c referred to planning and development thank you next we'll go to codes and regulations all around beach yes number one of seven the zoning board of appeals agenda of the meeting to be held on april 20th uh number two liquor and tobacco advisory board meeting agenda to be held on april 20th 2021.
 Number three, memorandum from Martin Bloom, project mentor permits, special use permits, Pride Month kickoff party, Pasquale Mercado, inclusion pride party, arts happening downtown and Alpine Qantas Brats Day. Number four, from Megan McNeil, assistant attorney attorney regarding free annexation agreement of 1203 South Meridian Road,
 on number five meridian from scott capabella planning zoning manager regarding final plat number six of rockford crossing subdivision number six memorandum from mike hackleton a land acquisition officer regarding the organization to replace the sale of portion of the city-owned property located at 1057 kilburn road and finally number seven a memorandum from scott capovella
 To allow a file of text amendment for article 80-009-D, all of the above seven will be referred to codes and regulations committee, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Next, we'll go to finance and personnel and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor.
 The motion is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the acceptance of the DCEO Rebuild Illinois Capital Grant Award for Downtown Streetscape Improvements. This will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Xavier Whitford, Central Services Manager,
 um the 2020 supplemental appropriation ordinance this will be referred to finance and personnel as well number three is a memorandum from kyle saunders public works director regarding the approval of the private tree removal program and this will be referred to finance and personnel committee i must interrupt our meeting matter because we have a bid opening to do right now uh is for the city-owned property located
 At 12106 Avenue, I'm opening the envelope has been opened already and it is from Ryan Smith for a 1000 dollar amount to buy purchase the lots. He owns the 2 adjacent lots and he is enclosed the 10% in a money order check for 100 dollars. I'll give that to the clerk. We don't want you keeping that. So, yeah. Thank you.
 Number five is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director regarding a development agreement for the downtown streetscape enhancements with the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. And this will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. And lastly, number six is a memorandum from Jennifer Jaeger, community services director regarding the acceptance of seven grant awards for weatherization, homeless prevention, and utility payment assistance. And this will be referred to Finance and Personnel as well. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. We've completed public speakers, so we'll go to new committee reports. But just two quick items. One is I do want to make you aware that there is a new Community Relations Commission appointment and resume included on your desk for the appointment of Joyce Higgins to fill the seat vacated by Reginald Reggie Alexander on the Community Relations Commission. That appointment would expire in June of 2023.
 Other item, just want to say welcome and thank you for being in attendance to council members elect April Prunty of the 6th Ward, Janessa Wilkins of the 7th, and Mark Bonney of the 14th. So next we'll go to new committee reports and we will go back to Alderman Rose for planning and development.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River Water Reclamation District for installation of an antenna on the city's tower located at 204 South 1st Street at the Fire Administration Building. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item two, the committee recommends approval of the pilot operating agreement with Bird Rides.
 Excellent. So, Alderman, we have two items before you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those two items? Seeing none, is there any discussion online about those two items? Hearing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Locoman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on item two. Yes on item one. Alderman Irvins. Yes. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? Item number one, 11 ayes. Item two, 10 ayes, one no. Thank you. Those are all passed. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation, Committee Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the modification of the existing liquor license to add video gaming tournaments in conjunction with a restaurant,
 located at 7403 Argus Drive, which would be Jerry's Pizza. Number two, the committee recommends assigning the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the Hookah Lounge in the C3 General Commercial District, located at 2510 South Alpine Road.
 Number three, committee recommends approval of the request to enact an ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as potable water supply at 3005 North Alpine, excuse me, North Rockton Avenue, Rockton Avenue. Number four, committee recommends approval of the amendment of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 19, Article 1, Section 19-13-Orderly Conduct,
 Number five, committee recommends approval of the amendments of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance, Chapter 2, Division 5, as to Human Services Department. And number six, the committee recommends approval for the request of authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 17XX Black Hawk Road. All these are up for passage tonight, Your Honor.
 Thank you. So we have six items before you, Alderman. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those six items? Alderman rose. For item 1, how many machines would it be? 3 machines. 3. Okay. Any other discussion inside council chambers? Any discussion online clerk, will you please call the roll? Tumor. No, on number 2, I, on the remainder. Thompson Kelly.
 Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Item number 1, 11 ayes. Item number 2, 8 ayes, 3 noes. Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 11 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number 1, the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,481,779 is approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Held on April 12 2021 number two the committee recommends approval of the voluntary employee benefit beneficiary association plan for IAFF Members this is an employee funded retirement health care supplement That is a pass-through service by the city of Rockford the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of The extension of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford public school district 205 for police services the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of
 The update to the fee schedule to include hookah license the legal director shall prefer the appropriate ordinance I place those four matters before you're thank you So we have four items before you with alderman It's or any discussion inside council chambers on those four alderman rose for item four. I didn't get a chance to Read through all of it. But that that fee schedule is the 250 extra
 Or could you kind of go through that real quick? Director Meyer? Sure. For this item, there will be actually three changes to the fee schedule. The first is that the hookah license application fee will be an additional $500 in addition to what the tobacco license application fee is. Then the non-refundable deposit will also be an additional $500. The annual renewal fee will be an additional $250. So in each of those, those are in addition to the tobacco license.
 Okay, that's what my understanding was. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion inside council chambers? Any discussion online? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. No on four. Aye on the remainder. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. Alderman Beach. Quinones. Aye. Hanley. Aye.
 Items one, two, three, 11 ayes. Items four, I'm sorry, item four, 10 ayes, one no.
 Thank you. Next up, appointments laid over. Both of these appointments are laid over, again, this evening. Tom Okiti to the Traffic Commission, laid over until May 5th, and appointment of Anna Montoya to the Community Relations Commission, laid over until May 12th. Next, we'll move to motions and resolutions, and we'll go to Planning and Development Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, your honor. The committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the 2020 comprehensive plan to include the 11th street corridor study. And then there is also a resolution in support of. For item 2 resolution in support of the world migratory bird day. Which I believe I have to read in the item states.
 Whereas migratory birds are some of the most beautiful and easily observed wildlife that share our communities. And whereas migratory birds and their habitats are declining throughout the Americas, facing a growing number of threats on their migration routes in both their summer and winter homes. And whereas public awareness and concern are crucial components of migratory bird conservation.
 And whereas since 1993, World Migratory Bird Day has become a primary vehicle for focusing public attention on the nearly 350 species that travel between nesting habitats in our communities and throughout North America and their wintering grounds in South and Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean, the southern U.S.
 World Migratory Bird Day is not only a day to foster appreciation for wild birds and to celebrate and support migratory bird conservation, but also a call to action, be it resolved by the City Council of the City of Rockford, that the Mayor and City Council celebrate and observe May 3, 2021, to be World Migratory Bird Day and support efforts to protect and conserve migratory birds and their habitats.
 thank you alderman rose so alderman inside council chambers there's two items before you is there any discussion on those two items is there any alderman tunberg yeah i just find that uh ironic that uh we're bringing bird to town and then we're talking about migrating birds so uh i'm all for it i appreciate that is there any discussion online on those two items yes your honor alderman hervey i would yeah i would just ask if
 The county would consider I know it's not just the city that can do it, but I would love city support. To provide a tax break or financial incentive. If farmers who have large plots of land. Especially if it's not being tilled along the migratory route.
 in the spring and fall before planting, if they would consider a tax break for those. I like animal shows, and I happened to watch a documentary, and the dangers that some of these beautiful birds are experiencing are very, very real. Their habitat is just gone with subdivisions, trees being cut down, clear cut, trees.
 It's just sad and they need a place to stop and rest. They need water. They're kind of like Canada geese. You don't necessarily want them around for a long time, but the migratory birds...
 are a little bit different they stop they take a rest they eat some of the extra corn in the fields whatever and then they leave so i would love it if we could ask the county to consider uh a small tax break for people who leave some of their land and make it hospitable for for migratory birds thank you thank you any further discussion online about the two items on the agenda hearing none clerk will you please call the roll
 Logum in timber frost. Kirby Irving's. Thompson Kelly Hoffman rose. Beach can only 11 eyes excellent. Those items pass next. We'll go to code and regulation committee Alderman beach.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, committee recommends approval of the Quarest file and legal checker. One of Banco County's only positions, Z-0221 at 1975 North Lyford Road, the northeast corner of Road and Lyford. Number two, committee recommends approval of the Rockford City Market. There's a list of dates here beginning May 21st through September 24th.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of North End Market, and that begins as well on May 22nd through October 16th. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the RPS 2.05 run IDOT resolution. This event is scheduled for May 29th from 5 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the Girl Scout Over the Edge event and the IDOT resolution.
 And this event is scheduled for June 4th and June 5th in front of the Supply Corps building. Number six, the committee recommends approval for the head of ROC, Ricotta. This event is scheduled for October 10th from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. at 200 Y Boulevard along Rock River. All these are up for passage tonight, Your Honor.
 Thank you alderman beach so alderman there's six items before you Uh, i've been personally looking for a way to get out of doing item five, uh repelling off a building so if you guys want to vote that down i'm not going to tell you what to do, but um, but no there is uh Six items in front of you. Is there any discussion inside council chambers about those six items? Saying none. Is there any discussion online about those six items clerk? Will you please call the roll logeman? um
 Toomer frost Herbie Hi, Irvins. Hi, Thompson Kelly. Hi Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Hanley 11 ice excellent. Thank you those items pass next we'll go to alderman frost and Finance and Personnel Committee Thank you number one the committee recommends that
 Approval of the award of bid for the East 8th street in Newtown drive pedestrian signals to N track group in the amount of 479,505 dollars and 26 cents. The contract is estimated to be completed by October 15 2021. The funding source sales tax.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the grounds maintenance for water sites and fire stations to LGU properties of Machesney Park. For an amount based on unit pricing with estimated annual value of 45,000 for water sites, estimated annual value of 16,000 for fire stations. The local contract is estimated at 61,000. The contract duration is one year from date of award with four possible one year extension options.
 Annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contract renewal only the funding sources, the water fund and the fire division operating budgets. Number 3. The committee recommends approval of the award of a bid for the gray iron sewer casting to Nina foundry of meeting Wisconsin. For an estimated value of 125,000 based on unit pricing, the contract duration is through March 31, 2022 with 4 possible 1 year extensions.
 the annual price adjustments for cpi considered a contract renewal only the funding source is street division and water fund operating budgets number four the committee recommends approval of the award of professional services for water loss control program 2021 to emmy simpson of valparaiso indiana in the amount of sixty three thousand four hundred and fifty dollars the contract duration is 12 months the funding source is the water fund operating budget
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of joint purchasing contract for the purchase of police vehicles to Curry Motor Fleet of Forest Park, Illinois in the amount of $34,772. The funding source is a private fundraiser. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the State of Illinois DCO grant for the police department in the amount of $400,000. The purpose of this grant is to assist with the completion of the police department's Shepherd Trail Facilities weapons firing range.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the application for the Bloomberg Asphalt Art Initiative Grant for public art and traffic safety interventions. This grant is a competitive grant and the maximum award is 25,000. The Rockford Arts Council would be our co-applicant. The estimated project is 31,000 of which the city's responsibility would be estimated to be $6,000. If approved, the funding source is the traffic operation budget. Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance
 of the DCEO Rebuild Illinois Capital Grant Program for Davis Park improvements in the amount of $250,000. The grant does not require a cost match. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the Restore, Reinvest, Renew, known as the R3 grant from the Illinois Criminal Justice Information Agency in an amount up to $520,783.
 The grant also does not require a cost match. The initial grant term is from February 1, 2021 to January 31, 2022, with the renewal for an additional two years. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of a resolution authorizing negotiation of an electrical municipal aggregation contract. The current electrical municipal aggregation supply is with Nordic and expires in September 2021. I place those 10 matters before you.
 Thank you Alderman Frost. So there's 10 items before us. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those 10 items? Is there any discussion online regarding those 10 items? Clerk could you please call the roll? Gerke. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Beech. Aye.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next we'll move to new business and planning and development committee alderman rose. Thank you your honor We have two items an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River water Reclamation district for installation of an antenna on the city's tower located at 204 South first Street Second item is an ordinance approving the pilot operating agreement with bird rides. Thank you. We have two items before us is there any discussion inside council chambers about the two items and
 Is there any discussion online about the two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on two, aye on one. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye. 12 ayes on item one, 11 ayes on item two.
 Thank you. Those items are approved. Next, we'll go to, under new business, Code and Regulation Committee at Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, in order to approve the modification of an existing liquor license to add video gaming terminals, that would be three, in conjunction with a restaurant located at 7403 Argus Drive. Number two, in order to approve the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the Huckelons,
 and the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2510 South Alpine. Number three, in ordinance approving the request to enact an ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as potable water supply at 3007 North Rockton Avenue. Number four, in ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Chapter 19, Article 1, Section 19-3. That's the Disorderly Conduct Code. Number.
 Number five, ordinance approving the amendments to the City of Rockford, Quote of Ordinance Chapter 2, Division 5, Human Services Department. And finally, six, an ordinance approving the request for all the spaces placed for sale, the City-owned parcel located at 17XX Black Hawk Road. Please all for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Beach. So, Alderman, there's six items before you. Just want to make a note on item number two. I had the opportunity to speak with Alderperson-elect Mark Bonney in the 14th Ward, and he's stated his support of that item. I know how often it will carry weight with other aldermen if your colleagues of that ward support it.
 Is there any discussion on those six items inside council chamber? Is there any discussion online about those six items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Hervey. No, I'm two. I am the remainder. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Aye.
 Item 1, 12 ayes. Item number 2, 9 ayes, 3 noes. Items 3, 4, 5, 6, 12 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Those items pass. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Frost.
 Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving the voluntary employee beneficiary association plan for IAFF members. This is an employee funded retirement health care supplement that is a pass through service by the city of Rockford. Number two is an ordinance approving an extension of the intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford Public School District 205 for police services. And number three is an ordinance approving an update to the fee schedule to include the hookah license.
 I place those two matters before you. Excellent. Thank you. Oh, is there a third item on the back of that, Alderman Frost? Yes, that's the one I just read about. Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you said those two items. My apologies. There's three items in front of you, Alderman. Is there any discussion inside council chambers on those three items? Is there any discussion online about those three items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 No on three. Aye on the remainder. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. Items 1 and 2, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Thank you. This is my pleasure to ask Alderman Rose if he has any additional information he'd like to provide us this evening. Okay.
 Yes, Your Honor. I'd like the motion to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending and threatened litigation matters. Thank you. So we do have a motion in a second, and I just want to remind everyone as we do every council meeting that I have found this not to be due to a global pandemic prudent nor practical to mandate all of them and be inside council chambers. And so with that, is there any discussion regarding the motion?
 Hearing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll on the motion to go into closed session? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley. 12 ayes. Excellent. This will be a brief closed session and we'll be right back. Okay, we are back into open session. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Durkee. Here. Logerman. Here. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Here. Hoffman. Rose. 11. Beach. Hanley. 11 present. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn?
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion inside council chambers? Any discussion online? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Kirby. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Hanley.
 12-X. Have a good evening. Thanks for using WebEx. Visit our website at www.webex.com.