Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Mogelman. Here. Toomberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Wilkins. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Barrios. Here. Bailey. Bonnie. Here. Eleven present. Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on March 18, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Excellent. Next, we're going to move on to proclamations. So we're fortunate we have three proclamations this evening. So to begin this evening, we have Elizabeth Russell, who is the 911 Division Administrator, and I believe we have others of your team with us. I'm going to give that to you. Whereas National Public Safety Telecommunications Week, the week of April 14th through the 20th, 2024, is set aside to honor all the persons who serve in the field of public safety telecommunications. And whereas when an emergency occurs, the prompt response of police officers, firefighters, and paramedics is critical to the protection of life and the preservation of property. And whereas telecommunicators ensure the safety of our first responders by providing quality and accurate information obtained from citizens and by monitoring their activities by radio. And whereas each dispatcher has exhibited compassion, understanding and professionalism during the performance of their job in the past year. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara as the mayor of the city of Rockford do hereby proclaim April 14th through the 20th of 2024 to be national public safety telecommunications week. And I would just say, uh, thank you. I mean, the amount of work that you guys do is remarkable. You think about that initial response sometimes, uh. It's going to be a citizen to only direct communication with anyone at the city or government in general, and then how you handle the safety of our citizens, the safety of those first responders, and then immediately go to yet another call. It's nothing short of remarkable. So appreciate the work you do. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mayor. Every year in April for a week we celebrate our telecommunicators. Sometimes people forget about our TCs when it comes to public safety, but as the Mayor said, they're a huge part of that continuum. If you didn't know, they take about over 600 calls a day on average, so they're very busy. So we like to celebrate them every year. We do meals, dress-up days. Apparently Audra didn't want to dress up today. Okay. So it's just nice to take that opportunity to really show how much we appreciate them. So I want to say thank you to the mayor I know you've always been very appreciative and our 9-1-1 division also the chief and chief red as well Have really always shown support to the 911 telecommunicators. So I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you Next proclamation is for our list Hendershot day You can even come in sir If you want you can come in over here if you want looks like looks like you have a long enough lens that you could Reach from there. Okay Oh, you want the official one. I look like my dad, but I still got hair. That's right, but I'm sitting there just seeing his dad. And I'm like, I still got hair. Come on, give me a little. Whereas this month, the broadcasting program at Illinois State University is celebrating its 50th anniversary. And during the celebration, a small number of graduates were inducted into their School of Communications Hall of Fame. For several reasons, Aurelis Hendershot is one of those selected graduates, and I'll add one of Rockford's own. Whereas Arliss began her broadcasting career working as a reporter, photographer, producer, and assignment director. Then in 1986, Arliss was named the news director at a time when less than 5% of news directors in the country were female. And whereas in 2005, Arliss took her career in a new direction as development director at Milestone, a brand new position for Milestones. During her 18 years on the job, Arliss secured more than $24 million for the organization. And whereas over the past four decades, Arliss has given back to our community in so many ways, such as toy and coat drives, organizing telethons to benefit the Rockford Rescue Mission and the restoration of the Coronado Theater, advocating for legislation designed to help the disabled community and serving on dozens of boards and commissions. And whereas Arliss still remains active to ISU and funds a scholarship each year for TV 10 students and visits the campus on a regular basis and continues to mentor the students. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 15th, 2024 to be Arliss Hendershot Day and just want to say congratulations and thank you again. Congratulations on your own personal accomplishments, but thank you for the number of lives that you've touched here in our community. Thank you. Thank you for the opportunities to do that. All I can say is wow. I mean, this past weekend at ISU was a wow weekend. This is somewhere beyond wow. I only do what needs to be done, and I fight for people who can't fight for themselves, especially with the developmentally disabled at Milestone. Thank you. This means the world and all to me. So thank you very, very much. Thank you. Our third proclamation this evening is, it'll be accepted by Bruce Erickson and a host of others, but it's for the National Therapy Dog Month and 17th Circuit Therapy Dog Day, if you would like to come forward. It'll be hard because T.B. is right there. You'll be at the back. Okay. You've grown. Thank you. Whereas, the 17th Circuit Therapy Dog Volunteers have 24 therapy dog teams that provide support to children and adults in Winnebago County. And whereas, each therapy dog team consists of a dog and a handler. The handlers walk with their dogs and allow people to pet them, talk to them, and even read to them. And whereas the studies have shown a decrease in blood pressure and stress levels during therapy dog visits. And whereas as frequently as requested, the therapy dog teams visit the Family Peace Center, the Carrie Lynn Children's Center, the Rockford Police District buildings, the Winnebago County Juvenile Detention Center, Winnebago County Courtrooms, the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department, Rock Valley College, and 25 different Rockford public schools. You guys are busy. Whereas these volunteer teams assist in improving the emotional, physical, psychological, and educational well-being of children and adults in our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of April 2024 to be National Therapy Dog Month, but specifically proclaim April 17th of 2024 to be the 17th Circuit Therapy Dog Day. So... You guys are really wonderful. Anyone who has seen you out and about are really wonderful. I just want to call special attention, probably due to proximity, but our community obviously went through some really horrific times in the last couple of weeks. We lost five people senselessly. And I just want to call out one experience of that. And I know you were engaged in so many different levels, being at different schools and different buildings throughout that week. but had the opportunity to go over to Flynn and talk to some of you there. And that first day, I believe it was a Thursday. You saw, I think, just over 100 people walk through the doors of Flynn who needed assistance, who came there for counseling. And so many people came there for counseling that they had to call in additional counselors. And you all were there, right? with the dogs. And the impact I have heard that that has had on the residents who walk through those doors is really remarkable. And I just want to say, I love seeing you guys, but the work that you do when you do go to the Family Peace Center, when you do go into those schools, you really are making a difference. And especially in light of that tragedy, no one even needed to call. You guys are just there. And it means the world to me, and I know it means so much to our entire city. So I just want to say thank you. Bruce, would you like to share a few words? A lot of things that we do as a program is never even publicized, which we don't want it to be. A lot of things just need to be done. We do it. We enjoy it. We thank you very much, Mayor, and everybody in the City Council for the proclamation. And we'll continue doing what we have been doing. Our program now is 10 years old, starting on our 11th year. So we're hoping to get up to about 30 dogs, so we'll be able to cover even more for you. Awesome. And other communities are looking at you as an example. All I would say is you all have to stay here. You can tell them how to do it, but don't go there. We need you here. You started two others. We've got one in Marion, Illinois. The other county's down there. We also are working with Stevenson County to get a program started over there. All right. But Stevenson's a little close, so none of you can go there. They have to get their own handlers and dogs. Thank you, guys. Really appreciate it. Did I forget that? Okay, thank you, Council, for working with me on those three proclamations. Next, we're going to go to petitions and communications. We'll begin with Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have a memorandum from Ifeani Magbana, city attorney, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for the resident officer program. Item number two. We have a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Oliver Emerson Development for the rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of a mixed-use development at 134 North Main Street. Item 3 is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Oliver Emerson Development for the rehabilitation and adaptive reuse of 325 South Madison Street as residential. And item number four is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, regarding a proposed development agreement with Urban Equity Properties for the rehabilitation of 213 West 8th Street for commercial slash retail at the northeast corner of West 8th Street and North Main Street. All items have been referred to Planning and Development Committee. Wonderful. Thank you. Next, we're going to go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. We have five items. Item number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 16, 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 22, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on April 16, 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on April 22, 2024, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three, a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager of permits and special events regarding the upcoming special events which include Create 15, FVV block party, Midsummer Fest and the Fourth of July celebration referred to the Quota Regulation Committee. Number four, the memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 604 South Horace Avenue, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. And lastly, a memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 4600 West State Street, referred to Quota Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Next, we're going to go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor. All these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one, the memorandum from Owen Carter, Deputy Director of Operations for Health and Human Services, regarding the approval of the application acceptance of LIHEAP State Supplemental and LIHEAP Health and Human Services grant awards, if awarded. Number two is the memorandum from Owen Carter. Regarding the approval and application of acceptance of three weatherization grant awards if awarded, number three is a memorandum from Owen Carter. Regarding the approval and application and acceptance of the Illinois Department of Human Services Rapid Rehousing and Diversion Program grant awards if awarded, number four is a memorandum from Owen Carter. Regarding the approval of the application acceptance of the IDHS Homeless Prevention Grant award if awarded, number five is a memorandum from Timothy Hinkins. Interim Public Works Director regarding a comment agreement for 11th Street improvements for the comment line relocation. And number six is a amendment from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding amendments to Article 2, Section 2-26 and Article 3, Section 2-57A of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost next we're going to move to Public comment just want to remind folks. There's a microphone on the back right or the back left You can use either one you'll have three minutes to address City Council. You'll hear I'm hoping a buzzer from my phone if not, I'll ask you to Complete your comments our first public speaker this evening is Thomas Craven I Good evening, Council. My name is Sergeant Thomas Craven. The short version is I've worked in Marine Corps Armories for over eight years. I'm actually going to go inspect missile systems this weekend for the Marine Corps. I'd like to repair firearms in my home as a second gig source of income. Over a year ago, I was granted approval by the ATF for an at-home gunsmithing license. On the condition, I had Rockford Zoning's approval. Rockford Zoning refused. Six months ago, in November, I first addressed the City Council regarding my issues with Rockford Zoning. Now, thanks to the help of Alderman Durkee and Alderman Thunberg, there's a text amendment to the ordinance in the works. I'd like to thank the aldermen for their help, including the legal director for their help so far. I'd like to thank City Council as a whole for hearing my concerns. Considering that I have ATF approval, I have the approval from all my neighbors, and my professional background, I ask that Council supports that ordinance when it comes to be. If you have any questions or concerns, I provided a slip to the city clerk so you guys all have my information. Please reach out to me. I'd love to talk to you more specifically about what I'm trying to do and address any concerns you may have. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Daniel McGurk. Hi, council. My name is Daniel McGurk. I'm one of the owners of a Orthopedic Rehab Specialist here in town, and I'm speaking about the smoking lounge ordinance that is trying to be passed. Marijuana has been legal, recreational marijuana has been legal for four years now. I'm not sure how it ever got approved by the city's zoning committee for the location that they're in, which is next door to us at the Sunnyside location on McFarland. There's very limited parking there. The parking is U-shaped, so any vehicles that have trucks, trailers, campers can't turn around. So they end up using our lot at Orthopedic Rehab Specialist, which is a physical therapy facility. I've been told by the manager of the city planning and zoning department, Scott Capavilla, that the city looked at the aerial view of where Sunnyside is currently located and assumed ORS and Xavier's Jewelers and Mary's Market parking lot was public parking, which it is not. It's private. So it was approved to be at that site. The issues we've had over the last four years, I'll list them for you. Sunnyside patrons driving cars and trucks using ORS parking lot. Sunnyside patrons driving vehicles with trailers and campers use ORS lot taking up multiple parking spaces where normally our Handicapped or veteran parking spaces are located large service and delivery vehicles for Sunnyside parking our lot Across several parking spaces and walk deliveries to Sunnyside some eyes with tractor trailers Parking in the middle of McFarland turn lane or sometimes even on Perryville Road with drivers abandoning their vehicles to frequent Sunnyside a which leaves limited available parking spots for ORS patients, which most, a lot of them are elderly patients using walkers, wheelchairs, etc. We've had numerous confrontations with Sunnyside patrons when asked to move their vehicles off of our lot. We've had confrontations with Sunnyside security when approached to not direct Sunnyside patrons to park in our parking lot, or when asked to direct Sunnyside patrons to parking in Sunnyside's lot. High traffic volume speeding Sunnyside patients causes accidents and near accidents presenting safety issues to our patients. ORS owners and staff picking up garbage from Sunnyside patients on a daily basis, including but not limited to Sunnyside's orange bags, used diapers, empty alcohol bottles, empty cigar or cigarette packs, and food containers. Sunnyside patients walking in the back of our clinic and walking in the front of our clinic startling our patients as they were exercising. ORS staff and employees witnessing public acts of urination on ORS property. Sunnyside patrons asking to use our waiting area and bathrooms. Panhandlers at ORS front drive entrance because of the traffic volume going to Sunnyside facility. ORS has attempted to work with Sunnyside landlord and property management company with no resolution. We've also attempted to work with Sunnyside with no resolution. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Our next public speaker this evening is John Butita. Okay, thank you, Mayor and Alderman. I'm John Butita. I'm a member of the Winnebago County Board. I represent District 8, which is the far east side of the county. About a little over 90% of my district is in the city boundaries. And within those boundaries are two dispensary, canvas dispensary locations. So I also come before you tonight in opposition to the proposed ordinance on your agenda tonight. I sympathize with the neighbors, but I have a different approach to this. Four years ago, the Winnebago County Board passed a resolution that allowed the sale of cannabis in the county. I was one of two no votes on that resolution. The reasons and arguments I used four years ago are valid tonight, I believe. If you go to the Winnebago County Health Department's website, there's a banner across the top of the page about cannabis products. It says, legal but unsafe. So it goes on to cite many reasons why it's not safe, but time doesn't permit me to cite them all tonight. I'll give you three examples. One, cannabis. It can be harmful to your mental health. Regular use increases your risk of anxiety, depression, and schizophrenia. Heavy users of cannabis products can have problems with attention, memory, and learning. Lastly, cannabis products increase your risk of stroke and heart disease. So I would recommend you to go to that website to find out the other reasons for its use. I mean, unless it is a harmful drug. But I believe as elected members of the community, we do our best work when we seek out the truth and we form public policy to the common good. But we have a – so one truth is that the use of cannabis products is unsafe, And the other truth is that it is legal. So we have a paradox, we have to make a choice of which way we're gonna vote tonight. Which truth are we gonna vote with? One truth would be to vote, if you vote yes, you're voting to benefit mainly the owners of the dispensaries. The city coffers are gonna gain a few tax dollars, not a lot. if you vote no, you're gonna vote on the side of The common good so I believe I would have to urge you to vote for the common good of the community and vote no against the licensing canvas consumption parlor Ordinance, so thank you and God bless you all. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Denzel winter Hello City Council my name is Denzel winter March. I the 19th, I was coming down Forest Hill Road when there was a bunch of squad cars on the right-hand side, so I got into the left lane. As I got past the squad cars, because of that law that you have to get over, I was getting back into the right lane and this car come flying by me, and we went down to where you turn into... Northridge Walmart and I was asking them what was the problem and they swore up and down that I had hit them when I didn't. I turned to walk away. I got hit in the head. I don't know if I'm going to have this eye. The police came there. They found out that the people didn't even have insurance to be driving a car on the street. And this is what I have to pay for it. probably for the rest of my life. Not only that, not only that, when the police got there, they was having a gay old time. It was funny to them that I was laying on the ground bleeding like a stuck tall, and nothing, nothing happened. Now, if I had been driving with no license or no insurance, they would have took my car. My question to you is, why did they drive their car away? I ended up going to Madison, Wisconsin, to see if they could save my eye. And they don't know. They told me that the worst case scenario, they have to take this eye. I think there should be something done, you know, to protect this older people. I'll be 70 this year. I didn't deserve that. I didn't deserve the police officers out there laughing about what happened. And I'll tell you another thing. Yesterday on Facebook, I got a thing from the person, from one of the people that was that I had to run in with. And I don't know how they got my Facebook. Something needs to be done to protect your citizens better than you have. And this was the day before the young man got killed out there. Thank you. And it's not the first time that I've had problems out there at Wal-Mart Northridge. Thank you, Mr. Winning. Our next public speaker this evening is Robert Pace. Thank you. This evening I want to speak about the bread and circuses and the marijuana consumption bar seeking approval by City Council. Let's start by saying I'm not opposed to marijuana and its private use as a drug, but I do have questions to ponder about the choices we're making as a society. Is our nation becoming a modern-day version of the Roman Empire before it fell? Is bread and circuses our destiny or are we already there? For those who may not be familiar with that term, bread and circuses, what it means is the basic definition. It was the practice of the ancient Romans to provide free stuff and entertainment to the public. This was done to distract the people from the problems of the state and to maintain social order. In the pursuit of pleasures, this, the pursuit of pleasures, is going to be our new national pastime. As our government prints more and more inflation-causing money to, number one, fund the latest war of choice, two, promote the latest vote-buying extravagance like college debt relief and reparations, three, enable the intelligence agencies to destroy our constitutional right to privacy and freedom of associations, all under the guise of protecting us from terrorists. And four, fine-tune the censorship industrial complex so we only think and believe official narratives. Or, in other words, gaslight the public. All this while we, the citizens, are mesmerized by our cell phones or are kept in a daze by the next legalized vice, marijuana consumption bars. Now here's the hypocrisy. How can smoking cigarettes be unlawful in the workplace, bars, restaurants, and public buildings? Yet smoking marijuana that has a very similar toxic and unhealthy side effect as cigarettes is under consideration for approval in this proposed consumption bar business model. I look forward to your arguments for and against, and thank you for your time. So a thank you to all of our public speakers this evening. Next, we're going to go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, we have committee recommends approval of the 2024 Home Rental Rehabilitation Program agreement between the City of Rockford and Lafayette Apartments, LLC, for the property located at 411 Mulberry Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before us? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have a couple of... Questions for clarification. So the home rental loan for $630,000, that's for the four floating units only? Support that element of the project? Ms. Lace? Yes. So it's 600, hi, ultimate turkey back here. It's for $650,000 that we contribute towards the full capital stack. When we do the cost allocation, which is how our funding source asked us to do it, it came out to that it would fund four of the 54 units being constructed. So $250,000 goes to the project overall and then the balance toward the units, right? So it all goes to home allowable expenses that are like attributed to those four units. So there's it's really there isn't really 250 to the overall. It's really we focus on the construction of the four. And then the other funding sources are really the other parts of the cost allocation. All right. Because that's a little unclear because I know home where are we considering all 54 units as part of the loan then? So what is difficult about when home is part of the funding source, whenever our federal dollars are in, we restrict basically some of the uses or the definition of some of the other parts of the funding stack. So it becomes a project that's affected by it, but that's why we choose with our home dollars to fund specific units. So that way when we're doing our... are like monitoring, we're looking at match, we're looking at the units, we're doing the 15 years of compliance we have to for the federal government, we're really looking at those four units. The difficult with this part, this particular project is IDA is also using some home funds for their portion of the funding. So there's an additional 14 units that are under their home funding, but they will be responsible for the monitoring of that. Then just like a sort of a housekeeping question, We're the government's the lender. Then there's a senior lender and we're the subordinate lender. Do we bear any? What's our liability to the who are we liable to reliable to the government or the senior lender if this goes? If this were to, in the worst case scenario, is that what you're asking, what would happen? So we would be liable, we have to ensure that homes' purposes are met through the project for that first 15 years. So if something happened in the first 15 years, we would have to try and recoup our money, the $650,000, or we could, that's our potential risk right there, that $650,000. So who monitor is we monitored by the government or the senior lender then there's like all these layers sure Right, we're accountable to the federal government So we have we've written into our agreement those those terms so we skip the senior lender So they would so if if for some reason the project You know we were trying the senior lender would have the right to recoup their funds first from the developer. I One of these days we've got to write these contracts in English. I'd be really happy. I don't know how you guys go to law school. Any other discussion? Thank you. I appreciate it. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Excellent. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the annexation of 4518 West State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an axe-throwing venue in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 301 South Main Street. Subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you There's two items before you is there any discussion on those two items clerk. Will you please call the roll? Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee alderman frost. Thank you. Number one The committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of six million nine hundred and fifty nine thousand two hundred and sixty seven dollars and forty cents on as approved the finance and personnel committee meeting held on april 8 2024. number two the committee recommends approval of the release of the demolition lien for the property located 2905 saner avenue in the amount of ten thousand three hundred and thirty dollars and one cent the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the recent lien to facilitate the sale of winnebago county trustee properties located at 1420 west jefferson 1416 west jefferson 1439 mulberry street 2949 3116 15th Street legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city Rockford and four River sanitation for the East State Street riding project this agreement has a preliminary cost estimate for the frsa work at 231 450 the city will have 100 of all frsa related construction items reimbursed the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number five is approval of rental assistance agreements with Gorman & Company Lafayette Hotel Project in support of transitioning 10 tenant-based permanent support housing units to project-based units. The agreement does not require a cost match. The grant term is for a 15-year extended period. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five minutes before you. Thank you, Alderman. Council, any questions on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Frost. Serena. Turner. Wilkins Rose Beach Barrios Bailey Bonnie 11 eyes excellent next we're gonna move to motions and resolutions. We'll go to planning and Development Committee and alderwoman Wilkins Thank You honor item one committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the statewide planning and research grant transition plan Excellent one item before us on you discussion on that item clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? logan Toomer frost Tarina Wilkins Rose Beach Barrios Bailey, Bonnie 11 ice thank you next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina and Thank you. Item number one, the committee recommends approval of the National Night Out. This event is scheduled for Tuesday, August 6th from 530 p.m. to 830 p.m. The event location will be Water Street between East State Street and Short Jefferson, Market Street between Water Street and the railroad tracks, City Market Pavilion. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the Rockford City Market. This event is scheduled for every Friday beginning May 17th through September 27th from 4 p.m. to 8.30 p.m. The event location will be Water Street between East State Street and Short Jefferson, Market Street between Water Street and the railroad tracks, City Market Pavilion. And number three, a motion to reconsider the approval of the sale of tobacco products at 1344 East State Street. Thank you. Thank you. So we have three items before us. Any discussion on those three items? Could you please call the roll turkey Logum in Toonberg? frost Tarina Wilkins Rose Beach Mario's Bailey Bonnie Items 1 2 11 eyes and in 3 10 eyes 1 no excellent. Thank you next We'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost number one the committee recommends approval award a bid for automotive parts and supplies to motor parts and equipment Corp and and interstate batteries for an estimated annual contract value of $100,000, based on the pricing and the contract ratios one year, with four possible annual extensions, the funding sources, the equipment fund, and operating budget. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a bid for carpentry services at DPI Construction, Contemporary Hammer Works, and Key Solutions Construction for an estimated annual contract value of $50,000, It is also a one-year contract with four possible one-year extensions. Annual price adjustments for CPI consider the contract renewal only. The funding sources are the property fund operating budget. Number three, the committee recommends approval of a reward bid for citywide street sweeping to advance sweeping services in the amount of $793,086 annually on a yearly basis. BASE PRICING. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS FROM MARCH 31, IS THROUGH MARCH 31, 2025 WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OPTIONS. ANNUAL PRICE ADJUSTMENT FOR CPI CONSIDERED CONTRACT CONTINUAL. ONLY THE FOLLOWING SOURCES OF THE STREET DIVISION OPERATING BUDGET. Number four, the committee recommends approval of a board of good for painting services, the painting for you, key solutions for an estimated annual amount of $30,000. The contract duration is one year with four possible one year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI considered contract only. The funding sources, the property fund operating budget. Number five, the committee recommends approval of joint purchase contract for the purchase of one cat pneumatic tire lift truck to equipment depot in the amount of $39,425.82. The funding sources are the capital lease funds and the equipment fund capital budget. Number six, committee recommends approval of award of bid for the East State's rewinding project to William Charles Construction in the amount of $2,924,927.43. The contract duration is May 2024 through September 2024. The funding sources are the EDP grant funds, FRSG reimbursement, and private reimbursement. number seven the committee recommends approval water bid for city-wide bridge repairs uh bmo bridge painting to uh era valdivia contractors in the amount of 75 000 is estimated to be completed by just july 26 2024 the funding source is one percent infrastructure sales tax 8. The Committee recommends approval of a bid for citywide bridge repair of Spring Creek Road Bridge to DPI Construction in the amount of $223,943.95. It is estimated to be completed by July 26, 2024. The funding source is 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing contract for fire apparatus of three Pearson Forster PUC pumpers engines and three Pierce Velocity 100 foot aerial ladders to McQueen Equipment of St. Paul in the amount of $9,564,000. The funding source is the capital lease funds and the fire department capital budget. Number 10, the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for police vehicle moving radar units and installation of custom signals in the amount of $207,220. This is a one-time purchase. The funding source is the police department operating budget. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of a joint purchasing contract for police vehicle computers, docking station printers, and components of CDS office technologies in the amount of $186,456, the funding sources, capital lease funds, and police department capital budget. number 12 the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for police communication radios and accessories to motorola in the amount of 242 817 dollars and 12 cents the funding sources the capital lease funds police department capital budget number 13 the committee recommends approval award of professional services for architectural design of fire stations 1 6 and 11 renovations to larson derby in the amount of 240 000 the project duration is one year the funding sources arpa funds Number 14, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the fiscal year 2025 continuation Illinois Department of Human Services Greater Illinois Violence Prevention Council Coordinator Award in the amount of $43,119 if awarded. This grant does not require a cost match. It is a six-month grant. number 15 the committee recommends approval of a memorandum of understanding with winnebago county for the edward burns memorial justice award grant the city will receive 60 and the winnebago county will receive 40 of the annual jag grant number 16 the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the uw swedish american hospital grant award in the amount of 125 000 the funds will be used continue to fund the existing approved personnel and other resources to support the scope of work in the grant agreement. I place these 16 matters before you. Okay. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Council, we have 16 items. Any discussion on those 16 items? Alderman Loganan? Thank you, Mayor. Chief Red, I just had one quick question on item number 10, which is the police moving radar. I applaud the department for this kind of outside-the-box type of policy. I didn't really see anything in the memo. Are there any other cities that – I'm sure there are other cities that utilize this technology. What are some of those cities? And, you know, I'm sure they find this really helps their speed enforcement. I was just curious about what – Some of those other cities are they don't necessarily need to use this particular firm, but who use that moving radar units? Alderman, we actually have those moving radars in that are designated to our traffic vehicles only right now. So we're expanding beyond that because otherwise the only way the officers are able to run radar is via handheld. Okay, so this gives them the ability to be in motion and Pick up speeds and I stand corrected last week I indicated that I thought it was just the front of the vehicles would have the radars But it is they can actually track vehicles behind them. So there are front and rear moving radars on the vehicles. So if a like a Civilian vehicle is going like 47 miles an hour This new radar can detect speeding and Both in front and to the rear right? Okay. Okay. Thank you Alderman timber. Thank you mayor everything that I was about ready to to mention has now been mentioned and I want to thank Alderman Logum in for bringing all this up and Chief read especially for for diligent work on this and yes, that is good news that It is able to shoot Moving radar from the front and back of the vehicle, so that's all I wanted to point it out earlier. Thank you other discussion on any of the 16 items or please call the roll turkey Logoman timber frost Torino Wilkins Rose Beach Mario's Bailey Bonnie Items 1 through 15 11 eyes item 16 10 eyes when I'm staying excellent. Thank you moving right along We'll go to unfinished business committee reports laid over. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and all the woman Trina. Thank you I have number one, an ordinance establishing a process for the licensing of cannabis consumption lounges. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. This was laid over from April 1st. And number two, the committee makes no recommendation as to the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store at C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 1344 East State Street, subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Thank you. So we have two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items clerk? Please call Alderman frost Oh, thank you. Yeah with respect to one item one the cannabis consumption lounge Yes, I just I wasn't here at the last meeting on April 1st, and I appreciate whoever laid it over But um, I'm an opposition of it for several reasons nothing against the owners or that I welcome the new dispensary to Rockford but you know this Ordinance would not just apply to them but to any and all Dispensaries we currently have three We heard mr. McGurk. Um, just for full disclosure. I know mr. McGurk. I've been a patient ORS before I Witnessed I was there when the sunny side store opened and I've been there since and the amount of chaos and uh and i've gotten involved as an alderman as well trying to help out with respect to them working with um uh sunnyside cresco first midwest group on trying to resolve some of the issues but um you know it's it's just i don't know how to just it's a terrible terrible organization that exists not because they sell um marijuana products but because of just Lack of respect frankly of some of the customers that are there that I've seen people urinating defecating there ordering a pizza there and Throwing the pizza box in a parking lot that they don't own or they shouldn't even be in and again I'm not saying that all of them are the same by any means but This ordinance would allow you or give them the right to have that Consumption lounge there As well as, you know, there's a provision in there, Section 12, about outdoor patios. So now, you know, that would take up either space at either property, either with respect to in the parking lot or on grass or have a patio poured, I presume. And then it's going to have a six-foot fence around it. I mean, I can't think of where we allow someone in a parking lot to build a six-foot fence, you know, and think from a land use or zoning perspective that it's... So I mean I have problems with the ordinance One of my largest problems with the ordinance is that you know, one of the arguments as well You know that there are lots of bars taverns Restaurants that sell alcohol to people and yes, that's true And and I know all the environment like met me mentioning sometimes that I may go out after City Council have a drink the difference is is that I can have a drink or two drinks or three drinks and Based on my size Anyone's size it depends how much you can drink, but if in fact I was to get pulled over on the way home There's a machine called a portable breath test that allows law enforcement officers to test me at the scene specifically to tell what you know amongst other tests, but it allows to tell whether or not I'm impaired or not and Under under the legal standard there is no legal standard right now for marijuana that can be tested on the scene So if someone goes to consume at a at a cannabis location They're in it for the ride. I mean right so they they can't just have one If they choose to have an edible or if they choose to smoke I think it's called flour and they smoke a joint They're impaired by law And they cannot and should not, I mean, not that they can't, they can, but they should not drive a vehicle impaired. And until the technology catches up to this industry, which should probably be here sooner than later, and then I would more likely change my vote. But until someone can be tested, you know, leaving, I would definitely not think, would be an... in favor of allowing someone to be, you know, basically instantly impaired and then get into a vehicle. Now, I know there's, you know, there's, well, you know, we'll have a designated driver program. Well, I've been to bars before where there's designated driver programs or been out on St. Patrick's Day when someone gets a wristband. And, you know, I mean, you can't put it on the business to enforce that. That's too difficult, I think, to ask them to enforce that. Secondly, if in fact someone does become impaired, like in Illinois we have statutes governing what's called Dram Shop and it's coverage for insurance policies for bars, restaurants that serve alcohol that if in fact they do in fact over serve someone there's liability laws that exist that would allow someone like me as a plaintiff's lawyer to actually pursue that bar on behalf of someone that's injured. And I don't believe that exists yet. cannabis industry. So those are two, I think, primary reasons why I think it's a bad idea. I mean, marijuana is here. We have medical marijuana, and then we have recreational. It's legal, and I'm not trying to unring the bell, and I hope the business does incredibly well, but to allow this consumption is a whole different front. And another factor is there's only four communities in the state that allow this. So I don't want to be the fifth. I mean, like, you know, if the state passes a statute and says all dispensaries can have consumption lounges and here's why, then that's different. But for right now, there's only four, and I don't want to join that club. So for those reasons, I would be voting no to allow consumption. Thank you. Thank you. Director Meyer, just for clarity, if this passes this evening, All current dispensaries if they wanted to have a lounge Would they have to go back through an application process or are they granted this by right? So they yeah this tests up a process for licensing so they still have to come back through and apply Similar to tobacco or liquor license it would go through the the L tab then the codes and regulations committee benefit council Thank you. There's others. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I would reiterate much of Alderman Frost's concerns, especially with the false equivalence between alcohol and marijuana. Other than a few very rare medical instances, the use of marijuana is basically to get high and to be disoriented. to be compromised and all those features. That's why people do it. That's why we have problems next door. The ORS is in my ward, and like Alderman Frost, we have tried to contain that crowd, and we just can't do it for one reason or another. But it's curious... Why we think moving to a high community, an intoxicated community, is a good thing. From the 40,000-foot view, what do we want to be known as in Rockford? A couple weeks ago, we had a chance to really limit and restrict a strip club, and we allowed that to happen. Now we have an ordinance where people can go and get inebriated and compromised, and do we think that's a good idea? Is that how we want Rockford to be known? We have Bassett laws in every bar, and the bartenders have to watch the patrons. And if the patrons are intoxicated, the bartender, the bar, is obligated to stop them. We have laws against public intoxication. So if we do this, the bars, are they going to come back and say, forget it? We can have a section in the bar where people can get drunk and inebriated as long as they have a designated driver. This makes absolutely no sense to me. It makes no sense to me as a resident of Rockford. It makes no sense to me as a physician, apparently, either. We go, what we're doing by creating this ordinance, we're going beyond just stating marijuana is legal. Now we're enabling its public use. And so what's next? Then do we have, instead of the skateboard park, do we have the marijuana park at Davis? What's next? We have states like Oregon who have moved toward legalization of drugs and what has happened, they've actually reversed all these things. You like that? The relaxation of drug laws has actually caused a detriment in communities. And the medical effects of long-term marijuana can't be understated, but I know that has nothing to do with this. The other problem is we can sit at a bar and I can enjoy a glass of wine. Guy next to me can enjoy a glass of wine. But if the guy next to me drinks too many glasses of wine, that doesn't affect me. But if you sit in a marijuana smoke lounge despite the ventilation, There still is secondhand smoke effects. And that is in journals. The unfortunate part about that kind of exposure to marijuana, it's not really well known because this is all new. This is all new to our culture as to what is the true effect of secondhand marijuana smoke. So it's an unknown. So now you have a designated driver sitting next to four people that are blazing up in close proximity. They're the driver. So I don't know what what happens with with that whatever you do at your house. I I I don't care I I you know do it at home and there was a comment made by somebody on the news that somehow not passing This is a discrimination against marijuana users because they can't smoke at home. Well, if you're at home eat an edible I mean there are certain apartments that you can't smoke in the apartment. So there's laws, uh, you know all over the place including our smoking laws We went through hoops In order to approve a hookah lounge, but I I guess this this is okay. I I don't know Um, but I I really think from like I said from a 40 000 foot view What what are we putting? What kind of sign are we putting over rockford? What are we? What are we doing? Why are we enabling this? I mean, there's gotta be a good reason. What is the true benefit to our city to allow this to occur? Where do we benefit? What's the long-term goal of this? So if you want entertainment, do it at home. Bring those four friends, sit at home, have a good time. But the nonsense about, actually, the real drug that are being discriminated against are cocaine, crystal meth, and everything else. We have rules against that. So, I mean, the person who said marijuana is being discriminated against, I have no idea where they're coming from. If anything, these drugs have all been more and more relaxed. So I think this is a horrible idea. It's one of the worst I've seen come before council, to be perfectly honest. Just from a medical point of view, from what we're trying to say about our city... and what it does to people, and the risk that the users pose to being inebriated in public. So, thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Just two points of clarification. When we had the strip club come up, it was not to limit it. It would have actually stayed with the current owner and had no new restrictions or a new owner with restrictions. And just for point of clarification, Oregon, their rollback, they are. But their rollback in fentanyl, heroin, cocaine, and methamphetamine, not other discussion. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. I just want to just take a minute to note that I think It is good that we have this before us because what's being proposed is legal in Illinois, and the city is receiving requests, and absent this coming to us to vote up or down, we are leaving it to staff to assume that we're against it when staff doesn't really know that. So I think it is important that this does come before us and we do vote on it. One way or another and it is a little different than I voted against the strip club It's a little different than that because that was a specific that was an ownership change Of course fly very hard for the amendment in our who coordinates Which is also a little different, but I don't think there's any I I just don't want I don't think there's anything wrong In fact, I think it's healthy that this is in front of us and that we are having that conversation. Thank you. I Thanks. Other, Alderman Frost, did you have another point? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. On number two, will you explain what happens with no recommendation if we pass this? Yeah, sorry. I should have explained that at the beginning. I apologize, Alderman Beach. So we are going to move forward with if you vote yes, yes. you are voting for that tobacco license. If you are vote no, you are voting not to provide them a tobacco license. Okay, thank you, sir. Okay, just to make that clear, I should have done that just prior. I apologize. So for 1344 East State Street, if you vote yes, you are saying that you are in support of them having a tobacco license. If you vote no, you are saying that you are not in support of them having a tobacco license. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose. This is a question for staff in regards to the cannabis. Is there a requirement for additional insurance for those organizations that would be selling similar to the insurance that Alderman Frost brought up that bars must have? Director Meyer. They're required to have insurance and be insured. We don't have a specific requirement for additional insurance like we would with Dram Shop. Alderman Frost is correct. There is not, as far as I know, similar Dram Shop type insurance for cannabis consumption lounges, but there is a specific provision requiring them to be insured with liability insurance. is what is the requirement for individuals who would have to have that designated driver? Like, could you give us an example of what that requirement would entail? I'm just going to pull up to make sure I'm accurate. So that, in general, it would require, the ordinance requires this to be by appointment only, and that each group, when they arrive, would need to designate At least one person who is going to be the designated driver for the group and that person would have a specific time where they could not consume any more cannabis is there a tracking mechanism for that or is there a certain requirement that a a company would have to So I don't have there's nothing in the ordinance that dictates how that's going to be tracked that we left up to the the owner It will be the requirement I guess to make sure that is it is tracked appropriately in addition I believe the there is a two hour a two hour limit on the length that Any party can stay unless there's some sort of special event? I mean, I just the reason I ask is it you know I think it's a shame that I Marijuana gets as bad of a rap as alcohol. I think Most people understand that alcohol is far more dangerous than marijuana use and then Also, I mean cigarette and nicotine is is one of those drugs that oftentimes is under Represented as a part of that but I think it I agree with alderman Bonnie. I think it's important that this issue is at least here I I do agree with Alderman Frost on some of the issues, and I think that it's one of those tough situations to take a look at and see. I would like to see some kind of requirement for additional insurance moving forward, so I will just share those wishes. Thank you. Any other discussion on the two items before us? Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Nassau. No on one, aye on two. Frost. Aye on two. Tarina. Wilkins. Rose. I'm going to say no on one, aye on two. Beach. Barrios. Bailey. Bonnie. Number one is eight no's, three aye's. Number two is eight aye's, three no's. Thanks. Next, we'll move on to new business ordinance, and we'll go to planning and development. Alderwoman Wilkins. Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. An ordinance approving the 20... Wait. I'm right. An ordinance approving the 2024 Home Rental Rehabilitation Program agreement between the City of Rockford and Lafayette Apartments, LLC, for the property located at 411 Mulberry Street. Thank you. Any discussion on that one item? Dirk, will you please call the roll? Dirk. Logman. Toomer. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Rose. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Bailey. Aye. Bonnie 11 ice excellent. Thanks next we're gonna go to code and regulation committee all the women Torino Thank you number one an ordinance approving the annexation of 45 18 West State Street And number two in ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an axoring venue in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning District at 301 South Main Street. That's it. Thank you. Thank you Any discussion on that item clerk? Please call the roll turkey. I Logan to bird frost Tarina Wilkins Rose Beach Mario's Bailey, sorry, Bonnie item 110 eyes item 2 9 eyes 1 no Next we will go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving the release of a demolition lien for the property located to 905 Sainer Avenue in in the amount of $10,330.01. Number two is an ordinance approving the release of liens that facilitate the sale of trustee properties at 1420 West Jefferson, 1460 West Jefferson, 1439 Mulberry, 2949 Blydale, and 3116 15th Street. Number three is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Port River Sanitation for the East State Street widening project. The agreement has a preliminary cost for For the FRSA work at $231,450, the City will have 100% of all FRSA-related construction items reimbursed. Number 4 is an ordinance approving a rental assistance agreement with Gorman & Co. Lafayette Hotel Project in support of Transition 10. Tenant based permanent support housing units into a project based units the agreement does not require a cost match The grant term is for a 15 year extended period. I place these four minutes before you Excellent any discussion on those items clerk, please. Call the roll Logoman timber frost I Tarina Wilkins Rose Beach Barrios On ten eyes excellent any reports from council. I Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. My family has prepared just a little treat for those who care to stay in the back room after it's over. Years ago, we had a tradition here at the City Council. We had your birthday, kind of bring treats, and that's been going on for some time. So for some of you newer aldermen, we'll be waiting. That's amazing. Thank you very much. Pick up your game is what he's saying. Any other items? Alderman Berrios. Thank you, Mayor. The city sent for 11 word. They want to thank you and the council and the staff for the garbage and recycling containers. They really appreciate looking to keep 11 word more cleaner without garbage flying. Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, council. Alderman Rose. Just real quick, I wanted to say thank you to Tim Hinkins and his team for coming to our ninth word meeting. Nez in a neighborhood talking about the Auburn project and really just laying out some of the ideas that are expressing the study and So wanted to say thank you and then also our Police Department for sharing all the police stats with everyone So, thank you any other reports Sarah motion to adjourn We have a motion. We have a second any discussion no discussion all those in favor say aye No suppose have a good night