Good evening and welcome to our specially sent city council meeting tonight. Our committee meetings will follow. This is Monday, April 13, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Pastor Kenneth Henley from Free Will Baptist Church. Father in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we ask that you come and fill this chamber with your presence.
 Lord, may things be decided the way you would have them done. And Lord, may it be done for the benefit of the city. Lord, guide the minds and the things that are said tonight that you may receive the honor and the glory from it. Do those who protect us with the fire department and the police department, but most of all, Lord, keep your hand of protection upon the whole city for these things we ask in Jesus' precious holy name. Amen. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Clerk. Please call the roll. Durkee, Getschus, McNamara, Hill, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elie, Shirely. Ten present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum.
 We have a very limited agenda this evening, so we'll go directly into our public speakers. We will have five public speakers this evening. As usual, that's our max. Our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. And in conclusion, you'll hear a timer if they go over. And I'll ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Toby Holt. How are you doing? Good.
 Still no solar panels, geothermal or wind turbines for any of the new police stations. Why? Because no money was allocated for it in the budget even though you knew it was coming years ago. How about asking the heavy hitters for donations or put the people on the other side of that wall to start writing grants?
 Or instead of beautifying Broadway, how about allocating the money for the Turner Building for the solar panels? When was the last time you walked down Broadway or driven down Broadway? Maybe you've noticed that they removed the stoplights at 8th and Broadway. My concern is that a pedestrian is going to be hit and killed by the traffic that refuses to stop.
 Not one car will stop if you are walking. Not one. You do prostitution stings, how about trying not stopping for pedestrians in a crosswalk sting? I can only imagine the drugs, guns, no license, no insurance, wanted for outstanding warrants, no seat belts, no child restraints, open liquor. Need I say more? The chief was at our last neighborhood watch meeting. He said he'd have his officers look into it. I truly hope he does.
 Where were you when you heard that Hillary Clinton finally announced that she was running for president? As a registered Democrat, I can't express how deeply, deeply disappointed I am in her decision. For she has proven that she has absolutely no integrity and certainly no honesty. I'm not concerned with either party, Republican or Democrat. My concern is for the people. Remember how the Clintons trashed the White House before the Bushes moved in?
 Absolutely no respect. Hillary Clinton is the bottom of the barrel. Our country deserves better. I will be voting for Rand Paul if he makes it. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prof. Yusuf.
 Ladies and gentlemen, in the book of 1 John, the second chapter, the tenth verse, it says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. What I want to speak about tonight, economic segregation is killing Watford.
 Often when you ask someone their opinion of Rockford, their answer depends upon where they live. The northeast side of town contains large, rural homes near the area's high education offerings and growing retail sectors. Crime is lower and income is high.
 Banks and grocery stores are within a couple of minutes. On the southwest side of town, streets have gaps in the rolls of homes, vacant lots where houses used to stand. The closest large grocery store or full-service bank is more than a few minutes away. But you can find a payday lender every couple blocks. Nights often are disturbed by gunshots. A look at census statistics shows just how different the makeup
 are in particular areas of the city. In the 61102 zip code, which is Southwest Rockford, 48.6% of the population is nonwhite. Just 10.6% of the population age 25 and above has a bachelor's degree. And the median income is $32,441.15. The 61104 zip code, which is much of downtown Rockford, has a median age of 30.3 years. Just 7% of the population age 25 and above has a college degree.
 The percentage of retail workers is highest at 13.3%, and the median income is $23,088.50. Contrast those figures to the 6-11-14 zip code, which is Rockford's 5 northeast side.
 Zip, cold has a medium age of 49.4% according to census estimate. The population is 86% Caucasian and 43.4% of the residents age 25 and above have a bachelor's degree. The percentage of health care and educational workers is nearly twice that of manufacturing, 32% to 16.8%, and the median income is $66,603.12. Residents in 6, 11, 14 have no real sense
 of what it's like to live in 611-04 or 611-02. But that kind of economic segregation is becoming increasingly common across the United States. People are segregating themselves by income, education, and occupation. Researchers have found that it is not just that the economic divide in America has grown wider, it's that the rich and poor occupy different places.
 even when they live in the same city. This is a disgrace because we all are children of God. We all pay taxes. We live in the richest continent in the world, and this shouldn't be happening. Thank you for now, Mr. Speaker. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy Alderman and all the women of Rockville, Illinois. I'm going to kind of freestyle today.
 because i had accident this year weekend it's been a busy week for me i'll talk about that action later what's important here is that the work is plentiful but the workers are few coming up this year saturday uh fairground outreach program community partners we would be meeting in fairground hillis ice area we are meeting once again to look at what we have done and what more can be done these meetings are productive and have empowered the work we do with fairground housing development residents
 And we are the ones have been waiting for you. Not only that, we're getting closer. We're working with the Salvation Army, and thanks to Auburn and Frank Beach and John Beck, that's also part of the Park District, is getting ready to start working with, by the end of the school year, is looking at having some programs up and running in the Salvation Army that would be catering to the fairgrounds and the Ellis Heights
 uh... you and young adult are going to more details about that later was also coming up this week is good and not many men who should pass it we're going to congratulate upwards african-american uh... to uh... kala read
 And also Ms. Ashley Brooks, the community impact management at United Way, who also became, who was elected Rock Valley trustee board and once again having our aldermen there present. Once again I want to say, and this has been said to me many a time, John, won't you run for alderman, but that's not my place. My lane is community advocate.
 And one of the things we've been looking at is that we have an alderman in the Fairgrounds-Ellis Heights area that's missing in action. A lot of people in the community is complaining about that, and so I'm bringing it to the forefront, to the alderman and to the city. Not me running for alderman. Look for somebody else to run for alderman if you feel that she is not doing her job.
 and what have you. And I leave that alone because that's another story. But mainly, the most important, the shirt that I got on, Black Lives Matter. This here Saturday, we got part two with Saving Our Girls. A nation can rise no higher than its women's.
 This is going to be at Booker Washington Center. It's going to be at 9 o'clock. And what they're doing is bringing our sisters, young and old, together and talk about the impact. When you talk about black-on-black crime and domestic violence, it just don't consist with violence, but it consists with education. It consists with training. It consists with upbringing. It consists with the values.
 village working together. They take a village to raise a child. And then I want to end by going here saying the one thing we have too many of our young people getting kicked out of school, suspended,
 on drugs and gangs, pimping, stealing, robbing, killing, and going to prison. Yet we have some millions that do not want to see any changes. They want to stop us from doing what we are doing to help our young people. The one thing that I do have is love and the power of the people that keep us going. We need your help to continue to do what we are trying to do. It's more than going to church on Sunday and raising hell on Monday. And with that
 being said I just want to mention that by staying in your lane
 I tried to play Dr. John. I am no doctor. I had a burn and it turned into a blister. I tried to use some of the old remedy. You know, you know black men don't like going to hospital. So we used that alcohol and used that needle and burned it, stuck it in there, and tried to drain it out. And you know what? It got infected and what have you. And I'm going to put this out of the water to all of us. Do not play Dr. John.
 go to the hospital and let the hospital do what they're supposed to do. And that's why my fingers like it is today. I'm going to give you a little extra tonight because this is really interesting. I think that lesson is very important. Go to the doctor, listen to the doctors, take care of yourself. Chief Bergson is also a trained paramedic. He may be able to help you if you're in a pinch. Thank you. Our next speaker is Jim Buckingham. How are you doing, folks? I said, how are you doing, folks? There we go. Good evening. No.
 Okay, tonight I want to thank the 87% of the diehard voters in Winnebago County as we passed the anti-corruption on our ballot. We had considerable obstacles, which included Chuck Sweeney mistakenly telling people that we want to use taxpayer money to go to campaign contributions. That is false. Do something constructive like replacing the toilet paper you have flying on top of your building.
 That's six months for five years now. That's ten times. And then we had Channel 17, oh, we had many yard signs stolen, about half of them. And then we had Channel 17's own Philip Reed, who stated that Elizabeth Lindquist conceded that we were wasting our time.
 The fact is that was never said by our leader of the Rockford Anti-Corruption Chapter. When Phillip was asked twice to print a retraction, he finally admitted it was not said, but he thought that's what we meant. So for that reason, he will not be invited to any more reindeer games. I take offense to people putting words in my mouth, so I think 80% was quite excellent. And by the way, DeKalb County also received 87%.
 The only problem with the American Anti-Corruption Act is that there are only a handful of chapters that can hold the candle to the Rockford chapter, thus taking longer to spread like wildfire. Mayor, that's ten times every six months for the last five years that the Rockford Register Star has abused the flag. Twice last year I had videos of our boycott and was told it would never happen again. So I must ask you again to help me rectify this with some type of ordinance.
 And finally, the rest of the week, I will be planting American flags in Rochelle and Fairdale. I have contacted numerous politicians that are donating flags for this cause. Thank you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Mark Beaman. First of all, I'd like to say hello. I see a lot of flags in here. And before I start, I'd like to thank Marcus right there and Mike. They really showed they cared.
 I am an Afghanistan Iraqi vet. I got shot five times in Kabul, and now I live on the streets and I eat out of garbage cans. I've seen many of you and I've spoken to many of you. Some of you spoke, some of you didn't. Some of you thought I was high on drugs, but I have panic attacks very often, and it looks like I'm high because I'm looking around, I'm scared, I don't know what to do.
 But the funny part about it is most people say they care, but they really don't. I eat out of garbage cans. I lay where I can. And when I leave here, I have to figure out how to get a room tonight to stay inside. I don't have all the answers, but I know people have funds for dogs, cats, every other thing except for people who got hurt fighting for everyone here.
 I know this doesn't mean a lot to most of you, but I eat out of garbage cans. I get laughed at. I get jumped on. I get picked on. I have people call me niggers, bombs, hobo all the time. It's hard. They do this in front of my wife. They don't care, you know. When I did have things, I couldn't eat a hundred dollar steak or drink five hundred dollars worth of drinks and see somebody.
 who needed help and not help them and tell them I only have a card. If you wanted the help, you could, but you really don't want to. That's an easy way to say no. I don't know if this touches anyone, but I've been outside nine days. A college student gave me this to wear because I had girl pants on, no socks, and I stank very bad, and I didn't want to come in here like that.
 I hope you guys can understand. Maybe some of you have never been in that position. I have no sciatic nerve. I'm in constant pain. I limp. And yet and still, people laugh at me and don't take me serious and take what they want to. I need help, and I've tried organizations here in this city. That is a way too way. I'm just letting you guys know. Doesn't work.
 And somebody has to care. Maybe not for me, because maybe I won't be around. Because living on the streets, I've lost 100 pounds. I eat once or twice, maybe three times a week. You know, Marcus wouldn't just pop in and help me. That showed me a lot of character. Because most people wouldn't. But I'd like to thank you for letting me speak, because I'm no one. And all of you have a great day.
 Mr. Beaman, I know you and I chatted just briefly last week when you told me you were going to be coming tonight. I know Mr. Davis and I talked this morning about you when you told me you were coming in and he's prepared to follow up with you and I know you've had some interactions with his office in the past. We'll do whatever we can to help. Thank you. Thank you very much. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you again to all of our speakers.
 Just again, remind everyone, we just have one item under unfinished business that's up tonight. This was an item that Alderman Shirelli, are you prepared to take? I think this is a unfinished business committee report regarding the CBA approval for a special use permit having to do with a signed regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Rule Number 5, Unfinished Business, Committee Reports. Number 1, Committee Report recommending sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a fast food restaurant with drive-through that includes site parking and landscaping plans with the deviation from the regulations.
 Approval of a variation to the required 8 feet in height monument style freestanding business identification freestanding sign to 25 feet in height pylon business identification freestanding sign. Approval of a variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for a freestanding sign from 64 square feet to 108.6 square feet.
 approval of a variation to increase the number of allowable business identification wall signs from two to four in the C three general commercial zoning district at two four one north Phelps Avenue subject to conditions placed that up committee report up for passage thank you passage five is that one discussion I just want to make sure I'm referring to
 from a parliamentary standpoint, Mr. Hayes. Since this is an item under unfinished business, we don't need to take any additional motions. That's correct. We will need to suspend rules on the ordinance, but not on this as it was unfinished business. So hearing no further discussion, for passage of Roman numeral 5, I'll have one with me on the discussion. If you're going to allow us some favor, please say aye. Opposed, no. I just have it. Thank you, Your Honor. Now under Roman numeral 6, new business. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under ordinances, number one, zoning board of appeals recommends approval for a special use permit for a fast food restaurant with drive-through that includes site, parking, and landscaping plans with deviation from the regulations. A variation to required eight feet in height monument style freestanding business identification freestanding site, a 25 feet in height pylon business identification freestanding sign.
 approval of variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for a freestanding sign from 64 feet to a hundred and eight point six where the approval of a variation to increase the number of allowable business identification wall signs from two to four in a seat three general commercial zoning district at two four one north Phelps Avenue subject to conditions
 move to suspend the rules on this item thank you there's been a motion and second to spend the rule the rules on the new rule six out of one all those in favor please say aye aye opposed no nice to have it it must be suspended Your Honor I place that ordinance up for passage I think the ordinance is up for passage is there discussion thank you I'm wondering if there was approval with the State Street concerning there was a question of the
 the sign, getting permission to put onto an available sign. I wonder if that's been approved or if they've come to an agreement yet. I'm supposed to take that. Mr. Kagan? Thank you, Your Honor. At this point in time, we have not come to an agreement with the three parties as it relates to a common sign along East 8th Street. Thank you. Thank you, any further discussion? Here at the office, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gettys? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Hill?
 Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. Shirley? Aye. Tenay's runner. May I address this thing? Thank you, Governor. Very no further business before the special meeting on the agenda. Is there anything, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. Motion is seconded to adjourn the special city council meeting. All those in favor please say aye. Aye.
 And we will just break briefly as we move on to our opening statement.