with Chaplain James Brooke of St. Rita's Church. Heavenly Father, we are grateful for your presence among us at this time and place. We ask that you be generous in the wisdom you impart to us and that we be receptive to that wisdom and that all that is done here this evening is done in your service and for the best interest of the people of the city of Rockford. We ask this in your holy name. Amen. Amen. Of the United States of America.
 for which it stands, one and only. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Beck. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Durkee. Here. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on April 1st, 2019?
 we have a motion in a second although is there any uh discussion uh all those in favor say aye those opposed same sign motion passes next is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special city council meeting held on april 8th 2019 we have a motion in a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed same time motion passes next up we have a couple of uh proclamations this evening
 So first up, we have a proclamation for Sexual Assault Awareness Month, and is Maureen Masacci here? Hey, Maureen, come on forward. So this isn't part of the proclamation, but I do want to just say a special recognition to Maureen. So Maureen is with Rockford Sexual Assault and Counseling, and Maureen has provided our community now just over 30 years of service. So I just want to say thank you on behalf of the community. Thank you.
 You can tell Maureen loves a limelight. Whereas, Sexual Assault Awareness Month calls attention to the fact that sexual violence is widespread and impacts every person in this community.
 And whereas sexual violence harms our community and statistics show one in five women and one in 67 men will be raped at some point in their lives. And whereas child sexual abuse prevention must be a priority to confront the reality that one in six boys and one in four girls will experience sexual assault before age 18.
 And whereas the theme of this year's Sexual Assault Awareness Month campaign is Embrace Your Voice, the campaign informs individuals on how they can use their words to stop sexual violence before it happens by promoting safety, respect, and equality.
 And whereas our words shape the world around us, whether you speak out against locker room talk or help someone better understand these issues, your voice is powerful and necessary in this conversation. And whereas individuals can embrace their voices to show support for survivors, stand up to victim blaming, shut down rape jokes, correct harmful stereotypes, promote everyday consent,
 and practice healthy communication with kids. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 29th to be Sexual Assault Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words?
 i'd just like to say thank you for the recognition in our community of sexual assault awareness month like it's being done across the nation and i'd also like to take a minute to thank everybody for what is being done within our community to help all of all victims and survivors of interpersonal violence thank you next up we have arbor day and we have our very own street superintendent mitchell leatherby
 Whereas on January 4th, 1872, J. Sterling Norton proposed a tree planting event to be called Arbor Day. And in his words, other holidays repose upon the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future.
 And whereas, Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world. And whereas, trees in our city increase property values, enhance economic vitality of our business areas, and beautify our community. And whereas, trees can reduce erosion of our precious topsoil by wind and water, cut heating and cooling costs, moderate temperature, clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide habitat for wildlife. And whereas...
 Trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal. And whereas Rockford is a recipient of the 2018 Tree City USA and Growth Award from the National Arbor Day Foundation. And now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Friday, April 26, 2019 to be Arbor Day. Would you like to share a few words, Mitch? I sure would. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mary. I appreciate your support. Members of the council also appreciate your support all these years, particularly with the tree planting program for City Right-of-Way. It's been a huge effort. It's been a good success. I also just want to point out that our Arbor Day celebration this year, we're partnering up with Clem Arboretum and the Force...
 Winnebago County Forest Preserve. They're doing a tree planting ceremony out at Clem Arboretum. The event starts at 10 o'clock. There's gonna be quite a few residents there. Kids from Lathrop School are gonna be coming down to help plant, so there's gonna be a tree giveaway as well for any residents to go. The tree giveaway, which is part of our involvement providing those trees starts at 1 p.m. So appreciate your time. Thank you for your support.
 Next up, we are going to kind of do a dual proclamation, and I would invite Division Administrator Lee Starenberg and Chief Bergson and other fire staff to please come forward. How's it going? All right. You guys come in full force. All right.
 Whereas 911 telecommunicators play an integral role in public safety, working as first responders with police, fire, and emergency medical services and serving as a vital link between the citizen in need and the emergency responders while providing crucial information that protects the lives and well-being of citizens and first responders alike.
 And whereas the United States Office of Management and Budget currently classifies public safety telecommunicators as office and administrative support occupations in the standard occupation classification system.
 And whereas the United States Representative Norma Torres of California has introduced the 911 Supporting Accurate Views of Emergency Services Act, or the 911 Saves Act, which will order the Office of Management and Budget to revise its standard occupation classification system to instead categorize public safety telecommunicators as a protective,
 as a protective service occupation, coinciding with the job classification of much of the nation's other public safety responders. And whereas this change will more closely align the Public Safety 9-1-1 telecommunicators job classification with the true nature and importance of their role as first responders in public safety and will also recognize the hard work and dedication that public safety telecommunicators put
 in every day to aid in the safety and well-being of the citizens they serve, and whose collective efforts serve in making our country a safer place to live and work.
 And whereas this is a zero cost measure that reflects the gratitude, respect and support that this community and citizens of Rockford have for its highly trained 911 professionals who are ready to answer 911 calls each and every day. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as a mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby pledge the support of the city of Rockford to the 911 saves act.
 This is especially important because this is the National Public Safety Telecommunicators Week. I will just say, so we've had a number of really large instances, really difficult instances since I've been mayor.
 I've had the opportunity to tour the facility and meet with many of you, and I just want to say on behalf of the City of Rockford, we are truly grateful for the work that you do each and every day and how you handle those calls with such calmness and professionalism, and you provide the person on the other end of that call so much strength, on both ends of that call, our first responders as well as our citizens. So I just want to say thank you for the work that you do every day. Chief, would you like to share a few words? Sure. Sure.
 Thank you very much, Mayor. This is a great week that we take time to recognize the emergency response system that you don't get to see. It's the voice that you hear that calms people down. We average 620 phone calls in a 24-hour period and day. On days we have major incidents or storms, it approaches almost 1,000.
 These men and women up here answer those phone calls in a quick, proficient manner. They want to extract as much information as they can to keep the caller safe and the emergency responders. They do this day in and day out. The big difference between the personnel up here is that when they're down with the call, they hang up, the next one rings, compared to the police and fire out.
 the street we get to talk to each other kinda decompress they have a very difficult job they work 12-hour shifts other very dedicated to what they do and they really care about the community like the mayor said on some events we've had over the past couple years I had a traumatic impact you see the impact on the officers firefighters and paramedics but
 These people up here feel that impact also because they have a bond with everyone they're out there protecting. They take that job very seriously through their training and what they pass on to their co-workers to make sure the citizens are safe in every emergency response. I think this is definitely fitting for them to be characterized under protective services instead of administrative because the role that they play, they are the first response system when someone needs help. Now just like if they could just introduce, say their name and how many years of service you have with the organization,
 Normally they get to talk and nobody gets to see them, so I think it's fitting for you put a face with the boys. My name is Renee Vangren. I've been with the 911 Center almost 22 years. My name is Joanna Harris. I've been with the 911 Center almost a year. I'm Melissa Erickson and I've been with Rockford Fire for 18 years. I'm Jen Altenburn. I've been with Rockford Fire as a 911 telecommunicator for five years.
 Selena Crawford, I've been at Rockford 911 police and fire telecommunicator for 32 years I'm Trisha Riley, and I'm one of the trainees. It's been two months I'm Patty King. I'm also a trainee been here since January 7th. Justin Anderson 11 years Lee Sternberg I'm the division administrator. I've been here for 25 years and if I could please Those of you who have these shirts on if you could turn around I
 We wanted to present the mayor with one of these shirts. 911, the telecommunicators are actually known as the thin gold line. Please, you've often heard, in fire, thin red line and a thin blue line. We are the thin gold line. So we got hoodies for everyone this year. The ETSB, our 911 board, was kind enough to purchase these for our center, also the other center in the county, and we'd like to present you with yours. Thank you.
 Just a note that I had the yellow line on the microphone. One other thing prior to diving into the petitions and communications. I just want to call attention to Christopher, who is with us this evening. Christopher is a Boy Scout. Christopher is an eighth grader at Eisenhower. He has completed
 His seventh badge of 22 to get his Eagle Scout and if you're wondering In his spare time Christopher just recently broke a 10-year record for the 25 meter freestyle Over at Eisenhower. So thanks for being with us tonight Okay, next up we have petitions and communications and we have a
 Looks like Alderman Shirelli for Code and Regulation. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 16, 2019, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on April 22, 2019.
 Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 16, 2019. And the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Rights Committee meeting on April 22, 2019. Number three is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney regarding the annexation of 4627 Springbrook Road and 4635 Birch Avenue.
 Number four is a memorandum for Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding the upcoming special events, which include the block party event, 4th of July parade and festivities, Clem Garden Fair, and BD is.
 Number five is the memorandum from Zachary Wallace, the city administrator, in turn regarding the existing building and Rockford Task Force report. All five of those will be referred to Codes and Rights Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelli. Next up we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I just have one tonight. It's a memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding approval of a debt policy. Refer this to Finance and Personnel.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next up we have public speakers and I will just remind all public speakers that there's microphones on the back right and back left of the chamber and each public speaker has three minutes. So the first public speaker is Valerie Olofsson.
 Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for allowing me to speak. I am a commissioner with the Historic Preservation Commission. This is my second time serving on the commission. I'm very proud to be on that commission. As a preservationist, I stand with not only the people of Paris, but throughout the world in sadness at the loss of Notre Dame. Our almost complete loss. We don't know yet. I did a presentation for the other commission members after the public hearing for the chancery.
 because there was a lot of misinformation given. And I feel the need to correct some information that was given last week. The National Park Service, which is the keeper of the National Trust, has very strict qualifications on what an expert is. And an expert has to have a graduate degree in history or related field, and then practice full-time experience in research writing, teaching, and substantial contribution through research and publication.
 So when the gentleman from the diocese last week said only one expert spoke about the qualifications of a chancery, he was right. But it was me. I have a Master's of Science in Historic Preservation. I have taught art history for 19 years at Rock Valley College. Right now, I am in the process of writing a National Register nomination for a property in Aurora, one in Rockford, and a district in Champaign. Most recently, I wrote the successful nomination for Turner School.
 And I think we all in this room know how positive that preservation project has been for the Broadway area in Rockford. Preservation works. But we're talking about Rockford. The Laurent House, the Coronado Theater, Beatty Park are only in Rockford. The Chancery, the Vandermeer buildings are only in Rockford.
 Bradley and Bradley, Barloga, Vandermeer are Rockford architects. They defined Rockford architecture. So they deserve to be saved. It saddens me, saddens me that we have to beg the diocese to preserve their history. It saddens me that the diocese is not working with their neighbors that they say they serve.
 And I'd like to leave you with a quote from Frank Lloyd Wright when at the age of 90, he was trying to save his beloved Robie House. It all goes to show the danger of entrusting anything spiritual to the clergy. Our next public speaker this evening is Bill Houtkamp. Thank you very much, council members. Mayor, I'm Bill Houtkamp, homeowner in the third ward, and I support your decision to vote yes for historic status for Piety Hill.
 Here we have a site that not only possesses beauty for itself, but also gives outward that beauty to the world around it and allows others to enjoy and take inspiration from it. Great architecture is a gift to its surroundings, a positive externality, a civic success which our ancestors spent fortunes. Generations after these were built, another completely different group of people has inherited this great legacy.
 and they have decided that they no longer enjoy that kind of success. They have falsely asserted that the Constitution guarantees them the religious freedom to commit the specific atrocity of ignoring our city's ordinances and slowly destroying this beautiful location because it belongs only to them. They attempt to confuse and deceive us.
 They have had an expensive lawyer stand here and present the Chewbacca defense, insisting that they cannot afford the cost of having any of these buildings be purchased from them by a private developer and must instead bear the financial burden of having to pay for demolition and then build new parking lots and prayer gardens. Ladies and gentlemen, that does not make sense.
 I should add, when you visit this site, you will notice that the surrounding area is already rich with parking lots and prayer gardens. Of course, it's not your job to provide anyone with constitutional religious freedoms or to enact our city's ordinances. And as you know, our city has a process to follow that determines what should happen to great architecture. And to follow that process is all that we ask of you. Destruction of great architecture is a dismal failure. And it's a failure which we have a process that allows us to avoid.
 and you have a recommendation from the Historic Preservation Commission. Just a block away from this site, we have many new neighbors who now purchase and develop what had until recently been dilapidated, useless buildings, and they've turned them back into a thriving community. They have transformed broken windows and dead pigeons into creative, vibrant, beautiful neighborhoods. One boarded-up building has become a new restaurant, another is becoming a new performing arts center, another is now a multimedia engineering firm, and this is what we, the neighbors,
 ask that we be allowed to do. We ask you to allow this process to continue to succeed. Of course, that was all happening before someone paid an architect to stand here and tell the commission that it's never financially prudent to reuse old buildings. What a joke.
 Success is what can happen when we make our best choices and do what we must do in order to have a great city. Our City Council should follow through with this process and vote yes for historic status for this great architectural site, lest it become home to nothing and more nothing, much like far too many great Catholic architectural legacies, none to mention today. I'm sorry. Thank you.
 Our next public speaker, I would say, is probably the one and only Barbara McNamara. Good evening. My name is Barbara McNamara. I am here to advocate for a new life for the Chancery Building on Court Street. This is a chance for you to make a contribution to our neighborhood and our city. I've lived in the Signal Hill neighborhood and belong to St. Peter Cathedral Parish for more than 50 years.
 I raised my family here and John and I sent our children to St. Peter's School. As residents of the neighborhood, we've worked hard to keep Signal Hill vibrant. We have one of the most active neighborhood associations in the city with treasured historic homes and businesses, including the prestigious Garrison Lofts. Transform Rockford has designated our neighborhood as a model of urban living.
 Signal Hill residents hope that we will be heard and treated with respect as partners in an endeavor that would breathe new life and opportunity into our neighborhood. Some question why this council is involved in this discussion. It's because you represent our interests and you are our advocates. You can give us a chance to be heard.
 Many of us would like to see the Chancery and the surrounding land have a chance to renew and rebuild. We're not asking for money, certainly not the millions that the diocesan spokesperson says we want. We are asking for time. We need time for developers to put forth a proposal. This requires imagination and, very fittingly for this project, faith.
 The diocese is in a big hurry, but why? They say their plans will add to our neighborhood. But did you know that St. Peter Parish already has three parking lots? Did you know we've had a meditation garden for many years? And did you know we've enjoyed our community garden for the last five years?
 The offer of these so-called new amenities is just an attempt to whitewash tearing down a beautiful historic building and taking the heart out of our neighborhood. The Chancery building has been a beacon of stability, history, and style for everyone that sees it. But sadly, instead of investing in the health of the neighborhood, the diocese chose neglect and abandonment.
 Since the diocese has relocated its office to the far east side of the city, they have allowed their property in Signal Hill to become a problem instead of an asset. They had no vision for the landmark and never made it a priority. We ask you, help us make this a true collaboration. Help us realize a shared vision for this land that rests in the heart of our neighborhood, in the heart of our city. Thank you.
 Biggest sigh of relief came from myself because if I had to time her out. Next is our next public speaker is Nancy Johnson, former alderman, alderwoman Nancy Johnson. So you're going to set the timer for me then? I am. Good evening, Mayor Alderman. Thank you for the opportunity to speak. After six years away from this chamber, it's nice to be back.
 My comments tonight are in support of the historic landmark status for the Chancery, and more importantly, recognition of the anchor this complex has been for the Signal Hill neighborhood. Through my 20 years on the City Council, many holding chairman position on the Codes and Regulations Committee, I truly know the burden of making a difficult decision, of having the courage to vote for the greater good on any controversial issue,
 In the end, if both sides are a little unhappy, you've done your job. That's what we have before you, because granting this requested status won't absolutely guarantee no demolition. Nor will it garner up willing developers. But it will hopefully create an atmosphere of open dialogue and maybe even a groundswell of interest in repurposing a treasure in the rough.
 The question of historic stature, excuse me, the question of historic status is the only one you need to answer. The building itself stands alone and on its own merits. The noise from opposing sides is just that at this point. Granting the landmark designation gives that noise the ability to come to the table of compromise. Recently, my alderman stated that the whole ward wanted a no vote. I highly doubt I'm the lone yes.
 Painting any ward with such a broad brush is reckless. Signal Hill and the Chancery will not be in your specific ward, probably, but each of you would want careful, thoughtful consideration if this body, pardon me, each of you would want careful and thoughtful consideration by this body if the role was reversed. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Gary Anderson. Good evening. Good evening.
 You know, today a devastating fire destroyed the Notre Dame, one of the world's most famous landmarks. That's a tragedy for all of us. Tonight you will make a fateful decision of whether or not to designate our own landmark, the Chancery at St. Peter's. The Preservation Commission with its appointed expertise unequivocally recommended landmarking these beautiful structures because they met the criteria.
 We do not seek to have the diocese spend any money to restore or repair these structures. Because of their lack of desire to do so, we seek an opportunity by others to repurpose these structures that can benefit the entire community
 The diocese contention that community needs are more important or deceptive when they will spend probably a half a million dollars on the demolition, a parking lot, a garden, and fees. The diocese stance about the separation of church and state reminds me of Rome's power play in Jesus' day. The diocese attorneys are using fear and intimidation just like the Romans did in demanding your subjugation and rejection of values that benefit the entire community.
 What would Jesus say about the church lining up its lawyers to destroy a place that believers labored to build and display God's gift of craftsmanship that labored in its details? Pope Francis and Cardinal Kupich have certainly taken a different view legally about how these sacred structures should be repurposed and retain their integral place in the community. They embrace preservation. They embrace community dialogue and discussion about repurposing sacred spaces that are no longer needed.
 By landmarking these structures, we can at least ensure that a dialogue can occur. The ordinance already provides a time period to seek alternatives. Even the proposed compromise of 120 days was a reasonable thing to consider. If no developers are found to repurpose in response to the diocese criteria, a demolition permit still could be authorized. It's all about our sense of values. Do we reject those that labored tirelessly for the church as a legacy of their beliefs?
 Or do we allow its destruction so that no one will ever know what happened or occurred there that shaped so many lives? What about the opportunities to partner, to developers, to sell or to lease? Turner School was a great opportunity to do so and a landmark at that. Our community's values that identify us are on the line here tonight.
 Preservation has been the foundational value in revitalizing our downtown and our great neighborhoods. Landmarks provide that cornerstone and a sense of place that are so critical in identifying and binding our community together. Do we reject those values that future generations wish you had not rejected? Will you reject the foundational features that anchor our neighborhoods?
 I find this debate so ironic during Holy Week of how Christ taught us to be caring of our community with transparency and thoughtfulness, and those values are now in the hands of the bishop's attorneys. Let your conscience be your guide tonight about the values that Jesus shared with us. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next up, we have new committee reports. We have Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Bill Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the Rockford Area Economic Development Council 2019-2020 Agreement for Services. So you have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the item before you? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Chiarelli? 12 ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up we have finance and personnel.
 First is recommending approval of the vouchers in amount of $3,940,375.49. Next is the approval of the application for federal early Head Start child care partnership funds for Winnebago County for the new five-year funding period beginning on or after July 2, 2019 through June 30, 2019.
 2024. Next is the approval of an agreement with Rosecrans regarding guidelines for transporting individuals experiencing a mental health crisis to the Rosecrans Center, or I'm sorry the Rosecrans Crisis Center and
 Next is the approval of an ordinance authorizing the city of rockford to utilize funds from the public water Supplied loan program at the illinois environmental protection agency and then finally we have the approval of the bond registrar and paying agent Staff is recommending it appointing zions bank as the new bond registrar and paying agent for certain Outstanding obligations of the city of rockford winnebago and ogle counties in illinois. I place these five items up for passage. I
 Thank you alderman beck. So alderman we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items alderman? Durkee? Thank you Your honor. I just have one question. I Want to take the time to applaud the chief and rosecrans for this mental health triage system It's long overdue and it's one of those things that you look at and think boy. Why don't we do this earlier?
 I just have one clarification. Part of the triage system and the algorithm requires a patient to give consent for transport. The question is to the chief, and I'm sure they've talked about this, if how do they determine the patient has in a mental health situation has the competency to consent?
 provide informed consent. Chief Bergson? Sure. So we have an algorithm, standing medical orders that will go through the algorithm to interview the patient, take vitals. If they qualify under all the
 questions asked then they can go to the alternative facility but if not whether they're under the influence of any type of alcohol drugs or some other parameters that we have we will have taken to the emergency room so that was designed with working with our resource hospital and Rosecrans what to define what patient would be best suited for that alternative facility can you just make it talk okay they have something similar to a Glasgow coma scale the trauma scale
 Were they, by checklist, assess the patient as to whether they can give consent and where the appropriate transport is within that algorithm? I didn't see it. Correct. There is. So that's our basis that we start off on, make sure they're alert and oriented to time, place, and date. Then we would begin our questionnaire as far as some history and then what's led up to the event that they're currently in. Thanks. Of course.
 Any other discussion on the five items before you? Seeing none, clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? I'm sorry, Chiarelli? Yes. 12 ayes. Excellent. Those five items passed. Next up we have officers reports and
 Before I turn it over to Alderman, just want to wish a belated birthday to Alderman Beach, who on April 9th celebrated his birthday. So happy birthday. Any other? Look at those flowers. I mean, any officers reports? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I know they left, but I wanted to.
 Just speak briefly on the telecommunicators that Rockford has and the professional job they've done and continue to do. Mayor, you mentioned that there's been some significant events since you've been mayor where you've seen them do a great job, a diligent job, and a competent job. And I just remember that, I don't get to do as much in my day job, but approximately nine years ago, there was a Canadian national train derailment case that occurred in our city.
 In part of that case is I had the privilege to depose Chief Berkston.
 prior to me being an alderman. And also there were some of the telecommunicators that were deposed in that case. And it was amazing to see other lawyers from around the country be there and be proud to be a Rockford resident and citizen because everyone walked away with really congratulating and seeing the great job that in a time of crisis on that event, on that particular day, which involved, you know, a,
 some fatalities and some extensive property damage and a lot of people that saw a lot of carnage and saw the great job that they did in saving lives and saving property in our city. So I just wanted to congratulate them again. Thank you. Thanks. I thought you were going to depose them. I was all getting ready for it. Any other comments or reports?
 None? All right. Moving on. Unfinished business committee reports laid over. We do not have anything from planning and development, so code and regulation. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. First item, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime restriction on the south side of Guilford Road from Parkview Avenue to Alpine Road for the purpose of establishing a designated bike lane on Guilford Road from Prospect Street to Alpine Road.
 I believe there's a motion coming forward here alderman to work. Thank you mayor. I'd like to lay this over And I know we're gonna need a vote on this For the reasons of myself and alderman Logan are still working out some of the finance issues on this bike lane So I would request layover, please. We have a motion to lay over alderman. Is there a second out there first? We have a motion in a second I
 alderman hervey i just wanted to ask if he want would would like an extended period for the layover um are they in process of getting that that information yeah we mayor thank you uh yes we are in process it's a matter of uh alderman logan to be out of town and some of the conversations i've had with the traffic department uh that i'd like to convey to him as well and uh we just we're
 We're trying to make this as efficient as possible and also as friendly as possible to our taxpayers. Thank you. Hopefully sooner than later. Just until the next meeting? Possibly another two weeks or so.
 so it's it's a matter of the next time it would come up as three weeks uh correct is three weeks because we have a strategic planning session at the end of the session so i i would hope that we'll have something by that time so this layover is for those three weeks we have a motion in a second is there any other discussion seeing no more further discussion just uh voting to lay over
 It isn't it was laid over last week. So the two aldermen automatic is last week or two weeks ago. I should say So this will lay over for three weeks with the yes vote all those in favor of laying this item over say aye Those opposed. All right Items laid over alderman trail. Yep. Thank you number two The committee recommends denial of the proposed landmark designation of 1245 North Court Street the chancellery chancery building
 Number three the committee recommends denial of the proposed landmark designation of 1231 and 1229 North Court Street Saint Peter's School and Convent I believe so we have two items Alderman Beach I'll thank your honor over the last several weeks of this council has wrestled with this situation and We brought up some ideas about three weeks ago about some ways that maybe we can reach some kind of a compromise and
 and I would not want to move forward with this recommendation without maybe giving one more opportunity for us to look at that compromise. I don't care to talk about it at this moment, but I do want to recommend that possibly we would lay over number two and three in such a way that we can discuss what needs to be discussed and reach a conclusion before the time runs out on May 6th.
 So I think we're prepared to discuss it in codes committee coming up next week. Maybe something can move forward then. I don't know, but that's on my heart. And I'm sorry this whole thing is here. I wish it could have been done, you know, before. But that's what I'd like to recommend we do tonight. So just so I'm clear in directing everyone is,
 Your requests in alderman beach a layover Are you requesting a layover one from are you requesting it from 7b walk two and three? So lay over for those two items and are you requesting that lay over to our next City Council meeting which would be on May 6 Is that three weeks it is because we in two weeks we have our strategic plan So I have a question to you sir. Yes, if we discuss this at committee next week Can we have a special?
 Council meeting the week after that which would be two weeks and vote on this I'm going to turn you over to our legal director My gut tells me as we can always have a special City Council meeting as long as we provide the proper notifications to file the open meetings act but
 That's correct. If this matter is referred back to committee next week and it comes out of committee, we can send it on for a special council meeting the following week as long as we provide the appropriate notice. All right. So I understand that we will be, this will be an agenda item next week for closing regs. Don't lay over, refer back. So, Mr. Myers. All right. Thank you.
 Okay, in order for it to go beyond the agenda for the codes and regulation committee next week There the motion would not be for a layover The motion would be to refer the matter back for further consideration to the codes of resident I thought I'll change my motion to that. Okay, so we have a motion and a second to bring items 7 B 7 3 2 & 3 back to code and regulation committee next week. Yes, sir. I
 Okay. Is there any, and we have a motion and a second with Alderman Harvey with the second. Is there any discussion on those two items? Alderman Frost. Just procedurally then, when will it then, if it goes back to code and ranks next week,
 Will it still be on the City Council agenda then for May 6th? It would be scheduled for that May 6th, as long as it moves through that committee. That's correct. As long as it's voted out, and then there could either be for May 6th, or if somebody wants to put it out for a special council meeting, some other time we could do it as well. Right. But it has to take place by that time, correct? It has to take place by May 6th, but if...
 Council would like to have a special city council meeting, I believe, on what that it's like the 30th or whatever that date is of our last council meeting of April 29th or 30th, 29th. You could ask for that as well.
 So again, we have a motion and a second just to bring it back to Coats and Rags. Alderman Herbie, you had a comment? My comment was about the May 6th deadline. Is that the absolute Cinderella and the pumpkin date or it is? Yes. All right. Thank you. Other discussion? Seeing no other discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Turkey timber frost Herbie I Irvin's Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Beck Shirely I 12 eyes. Okay. So item number two and three is laid over item one next up Next up. We do not have a finance and personnel item correct Alderman No
 Next up we have unfinished business and ordinances laid over. We have Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Chiarelli. I believe this item, Your Honor, was laid over earlier. Is that correct? Oh, you're right. I'm so sorry. Yep. Thank you. Sorry about that. Thank you. Yeah. Just going to allow for a moment to clear out.
 Okay, next up we have appointments that have been laid over.
 Appointment number two, three, four, and five are not yet to be voted on. That's to be voted on after May 1st. The first appointment, which is an appointment of Marticia Brown to the RAVE board to replace Marcus Hill, the term is scheduled to expire in June of 2020, is up for passage. Is there any discussion on item 9-1? No? No discussion? Do we need all those in favor say aye? Aye.
 Those opposed? Item passes. Next up, we have motions and resolutions. Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got one item. It's the authorization to list city-owned property located at, what's the address? East 8th Street and Manhattan Drive for sale. Should I read the PIN number on that? PIN number.
 Is 12-29-277-008. Again, it's East 8th Street and Manhattan Drive for sale. Need to suspend Rule 15, Your Honor, on that item? Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor of suspending Rule 15, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item will be suspended. I will move on to item number two, then, is the RPS 205.
 Should I need the vote underline vote then? I'm sorry you voted to suspend rule 15, but we'll need to go now. Okay, but please Place that up for passage your honor. All right So just to clarify all we're placing up for passage is Roman numeral 10 B 1 That's correct. Is there any discussion on Roman numeral 10 B 1 say no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? tumor frost Kirby urban's
 Thompson-Kelley. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes. I just want that item passes. Thank you. I'll move on to item number two is the RPS 205 2.05 run and IDOT resolution. That event is May 25th, 2019. Number three is the Pascua Mercado that is scheduled for every Sunday starting on June 2nd through August 25th.
 Number four is a beauty and barber showdown that is scheduled for Sunday, June 30th 2019 number five is the Polish fest that's scheduled for August 18 2019 number six is to paint the town party that's scheduled Thursday, May 14th through Sunday, May 19th and
 And number seven is the Memorial Day Parade and Ceremony and IDOT Resolution that's scheduled Monday, May 27, 2019. Place those items up for passage, Your Honor. Excellent. So, Alderman, you have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Real quick. I need to understand number two, but...
 Thank you. Alderman Rose abstains on item number two and is an aye on the rest. Thank you. So those items pass. Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an award of bid for citywide grounds maintenance to Dan's Mowing Service.
 of Rockford for block a legion service provider of rockton for block c d w e f g h j and k reyes rodriguez of rockford for blocks c d e b d i l m and o and annalee garcia madrano of rockford
 The contract is based on the unit pricing with an estimated annual value of $100,000. The contract duration is December 31, 2019 with two possible one year extensions. Next to the award a bid for tree purchase.
 to Goodmark Nursery of Wonder Lake, Illinois, J. Carlson Growers of Rockford, Ivanhoe Nursery of Mundelein, and Ak-Ak Nursery of Loves Park for a contract amount based on unit pricing for an estimated value of $35,000 budgeted annually. Contract duration is until December 31, 2019 with four possible one-year extensions.
 Have an award of bid for rental of traffic control devices to Sanco traffic control for an estimated annual value of about $205,000 based on unit pricing. Contract duration is until March 31st, 2022 with the option of two one year.
 extensions next to the word of bid for twenty third street water main replacement to northern illinois service company of record in the amount of two hundred thirty four thousand seven or seventy four dollars and fifty one cents the contact duration is june fourteen twenty nineteen next to the word of bid for north gardener avenue water main replacement to northern illinois service company of record in the mountain one hundred ninety four thousand five hundred seventy dollars concentration of june fourteen twenty nineteen
 Next is the award of professional services for water loss control program leak survey and production meter valid validation 2019 to Emmy Simpson of Valparaiso Illinois for a contract amount of $57,000. Contract duration is 12 months next to the award of RFP for unregulated contaminant monitoring rule.
 UCM are for testing services to Northern Lake Service of Crandon, Wisconsin for an estimated contract value of $41,822.50 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through April 30th, 2021.
 And I have an awarded joint purchasing contract for two ambulances to Fire Service Inc. of St. John, Indiana for a total amount of $589,436 and includes the necessary equipment for an individual cost of $294,718. I place these eight items up for passage. Anyone need Alderman Beck to repeat those? No? Alderman Rose? Yes.
 I was wondering if we could lay over item number three to get some questions answered by staff on that. So we have a motion to lay over number three. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion and a second. So we automatically got two aldermen layover rule for item number three. So you have seven items before you, one, two, and then four through eight. Any other discussion on those items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Frost. Aye.
 Kirby. We have four more. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Shirelli. Toonberg. Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have Planning and Development Committee Alderman Rose. We have just one item, an ordinance approving the Rockford Area Economic Development Council 2019-2020 Agreement for Services. Place those up.
 Thank you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you alderman Durkee? Just one quick comment. Um, just Just a personal observation Uh as we've dealt with rockford area economic, uh development council the the current director nathan bryant I think has brought a really great new perspective and uh for the region and the city in general and So I think this is a great investment, uh in this organization
 But I don't know if anybody else has noticed that but I I think he's doing a great job for us And for the region definitely. Thank you alderman herbert. I would agree with that assessment, but I would also just wondered how much Does the raedc work with the new art? Is it rpc the regional planning council? Um, I know even when our map was in place and I could be wrong But I always felt there was a disconnect in some of the the larger economic
 development planning and the industry support of RAEDC. And I just think there's a synergy there that we need to capture, and maybe we are, and I just don't see it.
 I do know, I don't know if staff has other information, I do know both Michael Dunn and Nathan Bryan are meeting on a regular basis. I think they both, I wouldn't say they're both newer because I think they've both now been there two or three years respectively, but I do know that they both are working and meeting more regularly to bridge kind of that gap. If it was really there or not, they're working on it.
 And that was a positive comment. If it's there, that's great. If it's not, I would encourage it to flourish because I think there's a lot to be gained from it. Thank you. A lot of synergies there.
 Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to elaborate on that as well. I think Alderman Durkee spoke well on that. I have in regards to Alderman Hervey. I do see the differentiation between RMAP and RADAC, but I do see some of that overlap, and I do know, yes, that they are in collaboration. But I would like to take hats off to...
 To raid act because I think they have stepped it up more so than what I've seen Just over the past two years Especially in the last year So I think I think I've seen them step the game up more so and I'm happy to see that and I think it's I think Our dollars going to that is reaping benefits. So thank you. Thank you any other discussion on the seven items before you See no discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll? Oh
 Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up, I think I misspoke and probably threw you off. I apologize. We only had one item, not seven items. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Beckett.
 How many items do I have? Looks like 44, or just four. Get ready. We only have four. An ordinance approving the submission of the application for federal early head start child care partnership funds for Winnebago County for the new five year funding period beginning on or after July 2, 2019, through June 30, 24. Next is an ordinance approving an agreement with Rosecrans regarding guidelines for transporting individuals experiencing a mental health crisis
 to the Rosecrans Crisis Center. Third is an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockford to utilize funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program at the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. And finally is the ordinance approving the bond registrar and paying agent appointing Zion's Bank for certain outstanding obligations of the City of Rockford. I placed these up for, I'm sorry, City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties. I placed these up for passage.
 Thank you. So we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items alderman? Dirk yeah, just I know I blabbed a little bit about this rosa crans thing about the triage system, but as a physician I can't Underscore enough how important this this program is and and how well thought and well developed as this is for these people Who have these needs? I think it's an underserved population and
 And in a lot of ways, putting them into an ER for many of these patients is almost mistreatment. So kudos to the chief and Rosecrans and all those who brought this to fruition. This is a big deal. This really is going to make a big difference. So thanks. Thank you for highlighting it. It really is a big deal. Alderman Hervey. Who is supporting or following the statutory guidelines?
 Think I may have asked this the last time if I did I apologize Because that's going to be an important piece to make sure that I'm sure it will become statute because I'm pretty sure it'll be successful so who in Rockford or City Council or staff will be Making sure that our voices are heard especially with regard to funding and the ability to capture the
 insurance, all of those things that are just important. I believe Chief said that there's support for it, but who's following that? So I'll speak and toss it to either Nick Myers or Chief Bergston. When I was on the transition committee, the chief provided me information for this in March.
 That was a potential funding mechanisms. And so we're actually tomorrow I'm also meeting with Juliana Stratton to discuss months other things this item So I will personally follow it. I know Nick is meeting weekly with Mike Cassidy our lobbyist and Weekly will be monitoring it and I know chief Berkson will as well. Is there any additional information? to either of you that chief Berkson I
 so we're working with the representatives for illinois department of public health also for tracking this and then one of our goals is um we met probably two years ago when we talked about the inception of this and felicia norwood was a director that oversaw medicaid at the time there's now been a new director and our goal is to
 onto and not have an audience with her to explain the program and what we're making as far as strides because there's a lot of reception on the state level almost trying these programs to save a lot more flexibility with medicaid as doing trial programs um... so that's going to be a overall goal because our goal would be to get reimbursed for doing this type of work but the ultimate goals of the patient gets the best level of treatment in the appropriate facility but
 This is going to be monitored, and also Rosecrans is going to work with UIC for doing a study on this so we have some data and hopefully get that published. Thank you. Thank you.
 alderman frost thank you with respect to um the use of zion's bank although i've never heard them before i did see uh uh carrie hagerty's analysis and i wanted to just thank her and the staff because it's the little things like this with with when we catch and we're able to save even if it is may not look like a significant amount of money it's the principle of it and the fact that we're able to actually find a vendor do the same job for less i i truly congratulate you for doing that thank you thanks karen
 Other discussion. All right. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye on 1, 2, 3, 4. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Irvins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Shirelli. Ayes 1, 2, 3, 11 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes. I'm sorry. 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Excellent. All items pass. Is there a...
 Oh, I'm sorry. Alderman Beach first. There are birthday treats for us and the staff. That's why everyone rushed through today. Got it. Right. All right. We have a motion and a second. All those in favor of adjourning say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a good night.