I will call to order the city of Rockford specially scheduled city council meeting for Monday, April 12th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logerman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Irvin. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Here. Hanley. McNeely. Here.
 13 present excellent. We'll move to new business. We have nothing under planning and development nothing under code and regulation So we'll go to finance and personnel alderman frost
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is an ordinance authorizing the execution of the Human Services Department request for one, $55,693 in Head Start COLA funds, two, for 28,391 early Head Start COLA funds, and three, for $7,630 early Head Start childcare.
 partnership Cola funds narrative and budget You're on this item requires us to suspend rule 15. Excellent. Is there a motion to suspend rule? I would make that motion. Well, we have a motion. We have a second Is there any discussion simply on the suspension of rule 15 hearing no discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll on just a suspension of rule 15? I'm in Turkey bogeyman toonberg frost Herbie
 Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Hanley? McNeely? Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. So we have one item before us. Do we take, can we just take it one item, right? We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Hearing no discussion on that item, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee?
 Logman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Alderman Beach. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. 13 ayes. Thank you. Number 2 is an ordinance approving the Head Start staff and nonrepresented employee COLA for 2021. And I would make a motion to suspend rule 15.
 We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. And is there any discussion on just simply the motion to suspend Rule 15? Hearing no discussion, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hanley? I'm sorry, Hervey? Aye. Sorry. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose?
 Aye. Beech? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. So we have one item before you. Is there any discussion on the one item before you? Hearing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee? Aye. Logman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beech? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye.
 McNeely. Aye. 13 ayes. Excellent. Prior to going to officers' reports, tomorrow will mark one day
 or tomorrow will mark one year uh to the day that we lost uh our former colleague alderman john beck as many of you know he like myself married up in the world to his wonderful wife sandra i think everyone who had the opportunity to serve with him understood he was just an
 Awesome guy an awesome guy a wonderful friend a great colleague someone that I think many of us looked up to on City Council Those who served longer than him and those who were brand-new. He was always an asset on council I know our staff certainly think very highly of him and he was an advocate for people with disabilities He was an advocate for his residence. He was an advocate for business community. He was an advocate for simply just good government and
 And with that, I would ask if we could just take a moment of silence to remember Alderman John Beck. Thank you. I want to just provide a quick update on just a couple of items. One is our human services team, led by Anquin at Parham, have just done an amazing job.
 Working towards the rental assistance initiative with both tenants and landlords as of last Friday we were up to more than 2,200 applications
 so that shows a incredible need that is in our community so there's certainly people in all of your words that have need or maybe even those watching tonight and would just reiterate to all of you watching and council members that if someone needs assistance there's two ways that they can go about it one is they can call 815-972-RENT or they can go to rent help
 That's renthelp.wincoil.us. That's renthelp.wincoil.us. This isn't so much for all of you, but I just want to make you aware we will be having a new alderman orientation. So some existing aldermen have already sent ideas of things that they wish they knew. If you do have any of those, we would certainly love to have it. I know you have some ideas.
 alderman thunberg you can't choose you have to sit next to alderman frost uh that was something he wishes he knew uh but on a serious note if if you on a very serious note you've all been through it it's somewhat nerve-wracking a bit scary if there are things information that you wish you had please do send it to us we would love to make sure it's as meaningful of an orientation for new aldermen as possible
 next item with COVID, uh, our positivity rate now is over 8%. Um,
 We're concerned about positivity rate, but more concerned with the dramatic increase in cases and increases in hospitalizations and the severity of those cases that are in the hospitals. Please, especially to those in front of a meet this evening, the aldermen, please share it on social media where they can get registered, how to register, and to tell people to use common sense. I don't think anyone wants to go through any further mitigations.
 And I've heard the rumor that we may be hearing things coming down. Truthfully, I have not had any of those discussions with the state. But we control a portion of our destiny, so I would just urge everyone to take precautions, use common sense, and certainly get registered. And people can register at www.
 WCHD.org. Last thing I had, I want to thank Todd Cagnoni for his work as well as the RAVE board and Craig Thomas specifically for the work that he did.
 and love to see Alderman Beach and Alderman Thunberg wearing their Ice Hogs and Blackhawks jerseys to ink that deal that keeps the Blackhawks now owning the Ice Hogs here in our community through 2036.
 And a huge thank you to the state, Governor Pritzker, for delivering more than $13 million of much-needed repairs and investments into BMO, which I think will help not just Sahaki, not just downtown, but I think it will help us attract an even more wide diversity of entertainment and acts into that facility. With that, I'll turn you over for officers' reports inside council chambers first.
 alderman hoffman thank you mayor for the last few weeks we've had a speaker ask repeatedly about help for people that need food stamps and other social service programs because they don't know how to navigate the system today i found out that there is a new administrator at the department of human services and they have opened up
 But it is only to take applications and to help people learn the system. They set them up with a phone interview, and people can only be there for 15 minutes. But they can go in and make reports, and then they have to leave. They don't go back and have any appointments with the folks. But at least we're getting seniors and people who just aren't techies some service now. So thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Rhodes. Thank you, Your Honor. Just wanted to recognize Dan Nicholas, a member of our community who passed away. It's my understanding.
 he was 93 years old the Nicholas family has been a staple here in our community for some time and Also, one of the reasons why we have such that a wonderful Nicholas conservatory So just wanted to give sincere condolences to the family and and also say thank you to them for All the philanthropy they've given to our city. Thank you other officers reports inside council chambers any officers reports outside
 Last thing I would mention is we obviously had a difficult 48 hours for our police department and community with two officer-involved shootings.
 We both the sheriff as well as chief O'Shea immediately called in the integrity task force and My hope is that we will see that independent body provide a fair and thorough review of the cases and appreciate
 State's attorney Hanley's take on the transparency and communication That he is providing and has promised to provide to the community to provide us more frequent updates about that process. I think The more we know in a timely manner It's certainly appreciated from the city standpoint and I believe so from the citizen standpoint and as we've learned new information We'll ensure that you get it as well
 Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I really want to thank Chief Redd. There was a rolling shootout in my neighborhood again,
 and they immediately locked down rolling green school and got on the whole issue chasing them around but what i want to thank her for is she got a hold of me right away to let me know what was going on because of course everybody gets concerned i was able to immediately get on next door and notify people and it remained very calm it was very interesting how differently that was handled
 Instead of people what's going on? Who are they and you know starting all kinds of posts all I got back was thank you Karen and the story so again, thanks to chief red Much appreciated. Thank you Alderman beat
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have to say the same thing because I got a call from Chief Redd because there's a shooting up in the 10th Ward. Called immediately. I want you to be aware of it. Here's the situation. It certainly quiets things down that you know. So I want to say thank you again. Thank you. With that, is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. No discussion. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Logerman. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye.
 Aye. Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman? Aye. Rose, Beach, Quinones, Hanley, McNeely? Aye. 13 ayes. Have a wonderful night.