Here. Thompson Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Hoffman. Rose. I'm good. Beach. Beach. Turn my mic on for me. Hi. Keenona. Here. McNeely. Here.
 Sure. 13 present. Okay. So is there...
 I guess for these next ones, if you don't mind, if I can just ask Alderman Frost to provide a motion once I say them, and Alderman Thunberg to provide the second, that way we can move these along. Is there a motion to approve the general proceedings for the special city council meeting held on March 30th, 2020? There is, Your Honor. Seconded.
 With motion and second, is there anyone with any questions regarding those general proceeding minutes? Seeing none of all those in favor say aye. Aye. Aye. Opposed?
 Okay. Is there a motion to approve the journal, the journal proceedings city council meeting held on April 6th, 2020. Second motion. A second. Is there any discussion on those meeting minutes? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed. Same sign. Okay. Is there a motion to approve the journal, uh,
 Zero up proceedings for the special city council meeting held on April 13th, 2020. So moved. Second. There's a motion and a second. Is there any discussion on that? Seeing none, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Thank you.
 was the pose same sign all right so you're opposing uh linda and ann to the meeting minutes oh okay all right i don't think i don't think our hands was taken off when we spoke yeah they you got to take your hand off
 I'LL UNRAISE YOUR HAND. OKAY. OKAY. SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY PROCLAMATIONS SO WE DON'T HAVE ANY PROCLAMATIONS THIS EVENING. THIS EVENING. WESTER, COULD YOU PROVIDE THE WESTER, COULD YOU PROVIDE THE COUNCIL WITH AN UPDATE ON THE COUNCIL WITH AN UPDATE ON THE CENSUS? CENSUS? ABSOLUTELY. ABSOLUTELY. SO I WILL JUST DIG INTO THE SO I WILL JUST DIG INTO THE PROCLAIMS. PROCLAIMS. I'LL JUST TAKE A LOOK AT THE
 give you all a brief update on where things stand. I sent you an update on Friday in your email, but I want to just go through a couple of quick things. And then if you have questions, I will be more than happy to answer them. So first from a national perspective, you may have seen last week, the Census Bureau has adjusted their deadlines and extensions
 for field operations and for reporting. Just give you a couple of quick highlights of that. So they are now scheduled to begin field operations on June 1st. And, of course, all of this is still subject to change with COVID-19 and everything going on with that.
 They will begin doing again based on this schedule. They will begin what's called drop off invitations. That will start on June 13th and run through July 9th. That's where we'll see census workers in our neighborhoods, dropping off information, inviting people to fill out their census if they have not done so already.
 And then what they do, the next wave of people in our community will run from August 11th through October 31st. And that's the in-person enumerators who will go door to door and have people fill out the census. And again, these are only at households that have not to that point filled out their census form. They've extended, the Census Bureau has extended the overall deadline to October 31st to where you can complete the census.
 the census by phone, mail or online. And then just very quickly, because this was discussed, I think, at a recent caucus meeting, the Constitution typically requires that the census data is delivered to the U.S. president by the end of this year, that would be December 31st. That deadline has now been extended to April 30th.
 And then that will impact when the data is then delivered to the states for apportionment counts. And that deadline has been extended to next July 31st, 2021. I want to give you a quick update on where things stand with response rates right now.
 uh illinois continues to we are ahead of the national response rate right now the the u.s self-response rate is just a little under 51 percent and about 44 of those people who responded are doing it uh using the online uh app or going online with their laptop or phone smartphone computer etc uh the state of illinois response rate right now is a little over 55 percent
 And as you probably are aware, we are participating in a five county. Regional count committee, and I chair that committee so we are sharing resources and messaging with the Cal, the ogle Stevenson and Winnebago counties. Um, right now, all of us are ahead of the, uh.
 of the national rates of response in the counties. National rate is about 50%, Illinois is 55%. Our counties right now are ranging anywhere from 59% in Winnebago County to 62% in Boone, in that five county region. And then from some of the key cities in those states, Rockford right, or in this county's Rockford right now, we are at about 54%. Elvira is at 56, DeKalb is about the same, and Freeport's about 59.
 So we are cautiously optimistic that our rates are trending in the right direction. We have a lot of things that will be coming. We launched a media campaign, as you know, back in March. We're seeing a direct mail postcard that will be hitting the mail stream this week. That's also part of our campaign.
 part of our advertising and communication strategies. We're beginning to work with the print publications, El Sol, El Tiempo, Rock River Times and the Register Star. We'll begin to see some print and online advertising in those advertising vehicles. And then we'll continue to do a lot of social media, both on the city's pages and then our regional partners. So I'm cautiously optimistic that we're going in the right direction. The numbers continue to go up.
 fairly consistently and I think you know everyone expected the deadlines to be pushed because of COVID-19 and one good thing that probably coming out of this is this will give more people more opportunity to get their census done so that's that's where things stand right now and I'll continue to keep you updated I would be more than happy to answer any questions Anyone have any questions regarding the census? If you do you can raise your hand or unmute
 None. Okay, we'll move on. I think it may be a good time. I'm going to hand you over to the chief for a second to give you a quick update on the emergency operations center. But before I do.
 I'm going to touch on a couple of letters that we have sent to various folks on the city's behalf. Some of these I may go into more detail than others, and I'm not providing you these probably in the exact timeline that it went through. But one is immediately when this took place, we sent a letter just to City of Rockford to our federal delegation asking them for immediate help through the general stimulus funds.
 Then the next one is our public works team and water department and I sent a letter to our federal delegation for funds to help us maintain our water and wastewater infrastructure.
 We also then sent a letter. There was a push by the federal, by some in the federal government to change how we provide dollars based on community development block grants and how those distributions are provided. So we wanted to fight that change and keep things the way they were or the way they currently are today. Another, uh,
 Letter that we sent was advocating for more flexibility in the SBA loan program. Another letter that we did earlier today, we had about 15 different taxing bodies part of this. We had, I believe, every single mayor. I could be off by one, but I believe every single mayor in Winnebago County, we had the chairman or we had the mayor of Winnebago.
 About the deer and we also had the superintendent and we also had the park district sign on to a letter. Um, asking the state not to defer property taxes.
 So obviously with the city of Rockford, we would be set to get to about $24 million. And so one of the areas we obviously have a reserve for rainy days like this, but that $24 million dramatically assists us in cash flow. Okay.
 We also wrote and signed on to this letter because there's a number of other taxing bodies who aren't, I'll say, as fortunate as we are to have other streams of revenue. So you may look at the Park District who gets their largest amounts of funding through fees and property taxes. So their fees, they've obviously now for over a month haven't been able to have anyone participate in any activities or generate any fees.
 And that looks like it's going to be moving forward and many other areas that gather large groups for some time. That hit on a property tax that ferment would literally crush our rockford park district to which has won so many gold medals and the same. As one of the better selling points for our community.
 Other areas that we had concern for was several of these outlining areas that have fire protection districts that are almost always primarily funded solely through property taxes and referring that would have had a negative impact on our first responders and those voluntary fire protection districts really at one of the worst times. So we sent that
 sent that letter and joined those other taxing bodies. Another letter that will be going out over the next probably 24, 48 hours is a letter that myself and Mayor Urban, Richard Urban out of Aurora has been coordinating to get all the cities with over 75,000 population to sign a letter to our every single federal legislator in the state of Illinois.
 urging them to provide stimulus funding for municipalities. We are obviously dramatically impacted by the loss of sales tax and the loss of income tax during this time. And I think it's rightly so that all the conversation has been on individuals and their small businesses, but as they start to bail out major corporations, we certainly hope that they will provide stimulus to
 cities like the city of Rockford, who is expected to provide so much service through
 folks who are in tremendous need during this time. The last letter that I think got more publicity than all the others was this past week. You saw a group of mayors sign on to a letter that they did a press briefing for on Saturday. I want you to know last Tuesday we sent a letter to Governor Pritzker pretty much stating that
 Number one, I think unintentionally his stay-at-home order has negatively and unfairly impacted in many ways small local businesses. For example, you can go and buy a pair of tennis shoes or a shirt over at Target in their non-essential department, but you can't buy a shirt at Minglewood or at Fleet Feet or Runner's Image or something of that nature.
 So we said a couple of things in this letter. We said that number one, there is a safe way for employees of businesses as well as residents and citizens for you to do curbside pickup at many of these small businesses.
 And so we urged that. And then we said, well, if you're not going to open up these, you should also consider closing down some of these non-essential departments at some of these big box stores so that our local businesses don't get further crushed by people just going to buy their non-essential items at Target as opposed to our small local businesses.
 This was, I agreed, and then on the flip side, you had three or four mayors come together on another letter,
 And there was a couple of differences. One, they said that the governor should wait until May 1st. We said that, you know, if the governor deemed it safe and the health experts deemed it safe, and by the way, our letter was reviewed by Winnebago County Health Department, that some of those small tweaks could be adjusted right now. So they said wait until May 1st, and then they said open up all businesses. Well, no.
 Number one, we know all businesses aren't going to open up. Number two, we know right now in Winnebago County, we're seeing an increase in cases specifically in essential workers. You've seen RMTD bus drivers. We've seen grocery store clerks. We've seen meat packing plants. We've seen manufacturing plants. All just in the last handful of days, more essential workers are catching COVID.
 Uh, last thing is they said that, uh, every single city should have their own, uh, opportunity to make their rules. Uh, one, that's just not feasible when you look at 1300 cities across the state of Illinois, that everyone's going to all of a sudden start playing by their own rules.
 I think at a minimum, you got to look at regions that could potentially and that could be multiple, multiple counties as opposed to one county or one municipality making their own rules. Certainly this pandemic has hit certain parts of our country and certain parts of our own state in different ways. But right now, to give you an update, as of today,
 There's been 2129 total tests with 209 total COVID cases. And I'm just trying to pull up this one piece of information that went away. And sorry, bear with me. My screen froze, sorry.
 So we had 209 cases, and we now have our first cases in River Bluff and Rescue Mission and Amberwood Air Center, and now we're up to 11 deaths.
 So there's a lot of fluidity to this and I think there's a very delicate balance between truly balancing the number one priority which is the health needs and concerns of our citizens and workers with the very true reality of this economic crisis that we're facing. So that's kind of where we're at. Any questions on any of that information before I turn you over to the Chief to do the Emergency Operations Center update?
 whoops is that how i raise my hand i would say you're now talking so you can just go okay i have a question um i don't know when you report numbers i've heard things both ways when you report numbers of the cases
 that are in Winnebago County. Are those cases that are hospitalized or are those all cases, including those who have been sent home to recover at their own address? Great question. Those are all cases. Okay. Thank you. Alderman McNeely, it looks like you have your hand up.
 I have two questions. One question regarding a hospital on Rockton. The information that was in the newspaper was that they're turning out COVID patients. I'm wondering, do you have any information regarding that? And if they talk with you or you talk with them regarding it. Secondly, are we going to have...
 testing within the communities or is it only going to be if you have to go to the hospital? Great question. So the first question I'll touch on is yes.
 Late last week, I believe it was, Javon Bay sent out a press release. It really said two things. One is that he is putting all of his COVID patients at Rockton Hospital, and that is, I have confirmed that after about the first couple days, he has moved all of his COVID, meaning all of Mercy's COVID patients, to the Rockton campus. Second piece of that press release was asking
 all hospitals to put all of their COVID patients all at the Mercy campus. So the chief can touch on some of this, but we've,
 And the EOC, we also have a sub-arm of that, which is the policy group. And that policy group has Chief Bergson, Chief O'Shea, Sheriff Caruana, Chairman Haney, himself, Dr. Martel, all three health systems participate, Paula Kerensky from OSF, Jennifer Mayer from Swedes, and Chief Medical Officer John Dorsey from...
 Mercy and then we have Crusader Clinic participates as well as well as Dr. Stagnero Green from the University of Illinois School of Medicine. What we said there is
 Our policy group has done a great job of working together and really building a great collaboration. So we are going to review Javon's idea, which could be a very good idea. We just don't know. But we're going to review it together, and we're going to provide one unified plan that has the best interests of all three health systems and Crusader, but also, obviously, the best interests of all of our citizens as well.
 Your second question, what was that again, Alderman McNeely? Yeah, the health systems, and then there was another piece to that. Are we going to have the testing, right? So I'll let Chief Berkson also touch on testing, but yes, the next several, I would say in the next,
 safely, I can say in the next six to 10 days, you'll see a lot more testing come to our community. I mean, understand when people say we don't have that high of numbers, they're right. We don't. But also understand less than 1% of our county's population has had the opportunity to have a test.
 So we have about a 13, 14% positivity rate right now. And our cases are doubling about every eight days as it stands right now. I won't speak for the entire policy group, but I think we believe we'll see a larger influx of cases in the coming days for two big reasons. One, it's our predicted surge pattern,
 but also, and probably more logically, we're going to have an abundance of more testing coming to our community, so obviously we'll have more positive. Alderman Durkee, you had your hand up as well? Yes, just a couple of observations. I know this is a crazy time, but even still, our caseload, our positive tests,
 seem to be very, very low as a percent in the county. You know, people are really getting caught up in this testing thing. Most of the people that are tested are symptomatic. They come with symptoms, and we test them. Now, I...
 Somebody can correct me if I'm wrong, but as far as I know, anybody who presents to one of the health systems here can be tested if they pass a screening test with symptoms. When we test people, that's a point-in-time test. So in other words, I can test somebody, and they may be negative today on Monday, but go shopping at Woodman's on Thursday and become positive.
 you know, later on from an exposure. And so I think we have to be careful in how we apply testing. Secondly, you know, I look at the modeling still that's projected by the Winnebago County Health Department, and it doesn't look like, as per some other,
 modelers like at Stanford or at Yale, they're adjusting their model to show that there may be some with new data and new information.
 that this may not quite hit us as hard as we thought earlier. Now, I'm not saying anybody's doing anything wrong. Don't get me wrong. When this all started, we had no doubt. I mean, we didn't know how this virus worked. We didn't know what it was going to do. We didn't know how infectious it was going to be. I think the governor did the right thing by doing this, and now we've bought some time.
 And, you know, the social distancing that we were doing was not to prevent the virus from getting around. It was to prevent a surge that would overwhelm health systems. And so when we look at winning in our region, we have to really define what that looks like. There was a recent...
 A study done by Stanford University, and it was a cross-section random sampling of people. I believe they were asymptomatic. They had no symptoms of the COVID virus, nor were they ever tested positive.
 And so they did a cross-section and they found, based on that, that in Santa Clara County, they tested 3,200 people. And they estimated 81,000 people were exposed to this virus and had no knowledge. So some of the modeling has suggested that this virus is actually more prevalent than we really know.
 And knowledge about this virus is a moving target, and I'll acknowledge that. And I think as we go forward, our health department especially, somehow we need to start modifying how we're looking at this. And I would agree with your letter to the governor, I think.
 I get a little, we're all learning stuff through this COVID thing. And one of the things I learned was, I'm wondering is what is an essential and non-essential business? I don't know. But I do know in this type of pandemic, I guess, and virus transmission, that there's a safe way to operate a business and a non-safe way to operate a business. And I think if we can move forward along those lines,
 We may be okay to do that, but I think most people are afraid of stepping out and making a decision because they're worried about the Monday morning armchair quarterbacks to turn around and say, hey, you were wrong.
 I don't know. I don't envy anybody's position who's doing research on this particular topic and advising local governments to state and our nation as how to proceed. But I agree with, I think, the spirit of what you're saying, the present.
 situation is not sustainable. The only way to get our local economies back on track is to get our local economies back on track with us. And I think with the group that you mentioned, there's a lot of smart people in that group. And I think that we can sort of safely move to
 reopening some things by fine-tuning what we're doing locally. And in a way, keeping the still at-risk people home. But sorry to bloviate, Mr. Mayor, but, you know, I just thought I'd share my thoughts. No, just two comments to that. It's good stuff, Orman Durkee. Thank you.
 I agree with you. I don't think anyone's doing anything wrong. I think as we look, I really, I agree. We're not going to see the same peak we once thought we would because what we're doing is actually working. We have slowed that surge. So I totally agree there. And I would also say, I think Dr. Martell's done a fine job. She, I think...
 From what I've heard compared to other public health officials, she's really done a good job of balancing this, returning back to work while also being publicly health conscious. I mean, the letter we wrote,
 I didn't send it to Governor Pritzker until she reviewed it. She supports it. She's not saying every single business will never open like kind of inferred from other public health officials. She has a common sense approach to it from what I found. And I think as long as you stated,
 businesses have certain precautions and procedures and protocols in place, there certainly could be that opportunity for more to open in maybe different ways, but open nonetheless, that could help. Alderman Hoffman, you had your hand raised.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just got a little confused in what you were saying before. Now, I understand that Mercy is sending all of their COVID patients over to the old Rockford Memorial. Yep. Did you also say that all the hospitals would or that's what they would like? I got a little confused on that part. Great distinction. Sorry if I wasn't clear, Mayor.
 The Javon Bay press release stated that they would write all hospitals and he invited all hospitals to send their patients to Rockton Avenue campus. And what I stated is that...
 every decision we've made around health care has been uh with unanimous uh support of all of the health systems and so we're going to continue that we will uh we do have a group betting on the quote unquote jaban bay proposal which i think we need to bet all good proposals um and so we have a group doing that but right now all health systems as it currently is will deal with their own covid patients
 OSF and Swedes obviously only have one large location so that's where they're at and Mercy has chosen the place Arizona Rockton has. Thank you. I don't see any more. I have a question. I don't know how to raise my hand. I don't see the button but with regard to that to putting all of those patients at the Rockton facility who evaluates
 whether Rockton's reduced capacity and reduced services that they have available there meet the needs. Because it's not a full-service hospital like the other three with cardiac cath labs and other things, which may or may not be needed to support COVID patients. I have no idea. But who makes that determination? Okay.
 so i may have the chief add-in on this if he has additional information uh because mine won't be as scientific i would say this i've been incredibly impressed with john dorsey and uh his approach to this uh his absolute utmost concern is number one patient health and number two trying to be as collaborative as possible
 My understanding is that they do have the ventilators and the ability for ICU. And I forget what they called it, Chief Bergson. They have these rooms that hold all the germs in or reduce it. Negative pressure. Negative pressure rooms. Thank you. Chief, maybe this is a good opportunity to segue into your report.
 Well, can I just add something real quick? I know one of the things when they reduced services there was a significant reduction in intensive care units that were available at Rockton. I mean, I've gotten a number of calls from people who, number one, are concerned about...
 That being stigmatized, whether people like it or not, and we certainly saw the way some Chinese Americans were being treated when COVID first came out. I've been reading a lot about that through some of the civil rights posts that I get. And also people who announced or let people know that they had contracted the virus being shunned and stigmatized.
 by coworkers, by people thinking they might still be infected. I mean, I'm just wondering if anybody's taken that into consideration. But my biggest concern, because we did so greatly reduce those services, whether the emergency room, for example, could get overwhelmed. I think the number of beds there was cut by, what, 51%.
 That concerns me, especially if all three hospitals start to send all their patients there so that they could go back to doing elective surgeries. Mr. Mayor, can I comment on that? Sure. Two things. I understand about the Chinese thing and what people do, but if you're...
 I hope you're not saying that our health systems would ever engage in that. I practiced at all three and work at the University of Illinois, and I could tell you that anybody who walks in the door is going to get good health care. You know, our colleagues who practice medicine in Rockford treat everybody who walks in the door. They don't ask questions like that. Secondly, I practiced at Mercy Rockford for a while. They do have an infrastructure there that they just have to –
 just re-hook. You know, all the intensive care rooms and the units, like any hospital, those rooms did not go away. It's just a matter of reallocating their ventilators or their equipment from one campus to another, or purchasing or acquiring more and moving them into the building. The building still has the capacity, their ER still has capacity. That never went away.
 Well, I know they did some remodeling. I think they went down to what, four operating rooms? Again, that might not be relevant with COVID patients, but I do know they did some remodeling that did change some of the structure that was available. I don't know whether they rerouted oxygen lines and things of that sort. But
 I don't know, maybe the chief is aware. I don't know who makes that evaluation to determine that this facility is at the level that it needs to be and it is equal to the other three facilities in their ability to handle patients who can become critically ill patients.
 In a relatively short period of time you don't have time to go transfer them back and forth So those are some of my concerns again not saying it is I'm just saying I want to know and I want to know who makes that determination We can work to get you that answer. I'll be honest. I don't know that medical answer.
 No other hand raised and that's it. I will get you that answer Alderman Ruby. Chief Bergstein would you like to move forward with your report out? Sure. So Alderman just want to give you an update on the Emergency Operations Center. We're in our 37th operational period. We've been operating Monday through Friday. Like I said, this will be our 38th day. And just kind of give you some idea of what that is, is that when we took over emergency manager for the county,
 We provide the staffing and the training, the expertise for the county emergency center and the city. And we're all housed together at the Criminal Justice Center. We are supporting the Rennebill County Health Department. They're the incident commander of this pandemic because it's health-related.
 so we fill in all the roles that need to support them whether it's over in equipment logistics planning um being the manager and communicating with all the stakeholders in the community so every day there's roughly about 22 to 26 people working emergency operations center
 We like I said, we talk every day. We have several of our staff there. And then the mayor alluded to the policy group we meet, we talk every day at 10 a.m. We get a rundown of all three hospitals of what their occupancy is, what equipment availability they have as far as ICU beds. As far as negative pressure rooms and ventilators.
 We also track ED visits and ED admissions to see if we see any spikes real time. And based on that data, we work with the emergency, the incident command team in all three hospitals. I go visit them on a weekly basis just to check in with all three hospital systems and see if they need anything. And we also review their plans in case they get a surge.
 every hospital has surge plans of what they're going to do if they when they meet capacity and we work with them to make sure they have all the resources they need to deal with if we have any type of rapid onset of patients so a couple things that we also do is support the incident objectives that we have at the emergency operations center so some of our big things is dealing with the equipment shortages the surge
 And also what we can do if we have any, as far as education for emergency responders, what's the appropriate type of personal protective equipment to wear, how long you should wear, and what instances you should wear it.
 And then the big thing that we're doing right now is supporting the hospitals and healthcare providers with opening up a testing center, which will be at UIC. That's set to open this Friday. It's going to be coming out and that'll be running seven days a week. We requested this resource to the state about two weeks ago. The big thing is testing to find out where we're at. The Illinois National Guard came in. They're going to assist us because we already had plans in place.
 They're very impressed with our command structure and what we had going on in the Emergency Operations Center. So this is the first one in the state that the National Guard is supporting a local initiative. So we're pretty happy about that, and that's going to be starting up pretty shortly. So that's some of a lot of the efforts that we're doing there. And also we developed a supply center at Rock Valley College where all of our supplies come in through the state. So we track and distribute those as requests come in through the county.
 and then the big thing is just to continue that open communication with all three hospital systems there are a lot of patients that they do presumptive COVID positive but never get tested because doctors don't want them coming into the hospital ED so they will just treat them like they're positive that's why we feel some of our numbers are a little low because test availability is also a challenge for a lot of the hospital systems is having enough tests that's just a quick
 a quick overview of what we're doing and what goes on every day in the emergency operations center and everybody who's involved with that. Another question? What was that? I was asking for permission to ask a question. Okay I see the mayor nodding so I'll go ahead. Sorry I was muted. Oh okay.
 There had been some discussion about as we reopen, and this may be premature, as we reopen businesses and start to reduce some of the restrictions, that there needs to be a system set up for testing and then contact tracing. Have we gotten that far yet to determine that?
 what that infrastructure will look like. And you mentioned that testing would be at the University of Illinois. Will there only be one test site for people who say I'm symptomatic, I've got a fever, I've got this or this. They all have to get to the University of Illinois to be tested or will we have sites in other places? The University of Illinois is the first site coming online. And the big reason for the delay is the availability of testing.
 So the National Guard brings with it tests. That's our biggest resource that we needed. But we also have another group in town that is looking at opening a site on the west side. Because we really want to access people that don't have transportation and other challenges so we can get a good comprehensive view of what the spread is within our community. But hopefully in another week after next we will have that site online.
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey, you mentioned tracing, contact tracing. I don't know if the Chief mentioned this, but every single case we do contact tracing.
 Yeah, I was listening this morning. They just talked about nationwide, not locally, but nationwide. As we start to open up, that they would need hundreds of thousands of people to handle that. You know, you might have 20 people. If Benita went back to work at Walmart and 10 days later tests positive, that's
 They're going to need somebody to potentially trace, you know, my coworkers, people who went to the store. So I just wondered if that system had started to take shape yet.
 Oh yeah, yep, there we've been contact tracing. I would say that's one of the reasons Dr. Martel, when she brought us down to 25 people very early on, that wasn't just for health concerns. That was also just for capacity for that contact tracing. So yes, it's been going on since day one. Yeah, that's a good point.
 Alderman Hoffman, you have your hand raised. Do you have a question? Oh, no. I must have left it raised. Okay. Alderman McNeil, you have your hand raised. Do you have a question? I'd like to know that we're going to have more than one site for doing the contact tracing. I'd like to know what... You're on mute. All right. You are not on mute right now. Now you're back on mute.
 You are not on mute right now. Could you just ask your question now? Okay, thank you. I'd like to know when the ambulance go out, do they still take the patients to one of the three and not necessarily to Rockton even if they think that it may be COVID?
 So right now when we transfer patients we take them to what hospital they want to go to. It's still their choice. What the Mayor alluded to earlier we're still in the all three hospital systems are evaluating that proposal by Mercy Health. As of now they're all keeping their COVID patients at their own facility. They are not sending them to Mercy on Rockton Avenue at this time. So every patient gets their choice of what hospital they would like to be transported.
 the systems in place at the other two hospitals, St. Anthony's and Swedish American, from when you first go in the parking lot to the ED to actually a room if you're positive, or even if you're presumed to deal with patients that might be COVID or tested positive for COVID. And then, am I still on? Yeah. Okay. Then the other thing I wanted to know with the testing center,
 How will the public know that they can go to the U of I? And do they have to have any symptoms to
 To go there to get a tester, can they just go and get tested? So, 1 thing with the emergency operations center, we have a joint information center, which is made up of representatives of all the stakeholders. So, he's also part of that. We have the county health department, other agencies. But all that information is going to be coming out this week and a press release, but you have to be symptomatic. To go to any of the test sites, and it is also.
 Like I said, it's going to be planned out and Rester can probably do a little more as far as the messaging plan that they have for that. Okay, very much.
 Mayor, do you want me to address that? Yes, please. Okay, no, just really briefly, right. Like the chief said, we'll be communicating that directly to the community. We've been working on documents from IDPH as far as how these testing sites are typically set up. You know, it's been a lot of just information sharing and trying to figure out what the best method is for this. You know, one thing I think to add or to address one of the issues,
 you do need to be showing symptoms and they will be screening people as they pull into the parking lot. This is at least that's the structure. So if you show up and you say, no, I don't have any symptoms, I just want to test, they're going to move you along. So it will be only for those who are showing symptoms. That's one thing we'll be very direct about in our communication. Thank you. Uh, next it looks like we have, uh, Alderman Durkee, I have your hand raised.
 Yes, thank you Mr. Mayor. Hey Chief, thanks a lot for your report. It was great information and I appreciate what you're doing. And it sounds like what's being done is pretty stellar, to tell you the truth. The only question I had for you was something that you mentioned was that you kind of alluded, and I don't know, maybe I'm reading between the lines.
 Did you imply that some symptomatic patients we don't have enough tests for? That's news to me. I thought we had some pretty good, with the three health systems, we had pretty good testing capability for all symptomatic patients.
 Could you please clarify that for me? Sure. So talking with all three hospital systems is that they if they have someone that calls in their primary care physician and says that they have the symptoms they don't want them to come into the office just because of the spread. If they're not having any major difficulty breathing just the fever a couple other symptoms
 They will just treat them as presumptive that they are COVID positive and leave them at home just to conserve tests for the ones that they really need them. And that's laid out by the CDC and IDPH as a tiered system of people that should be receiving tests. And it's more of a conserving system.
 But at any time, just like PPE, in town here, one of the local testing companies was running tests and they did not receive a shipment because FEMA intercepted it. So at any time, you could not get your shipment to count on. Just like one thing we work with all the hospital systems, long-term care facilities, is make sure you manage your protective personal equipment because we can't do that.
 We can't guarantee at any time that we might run out. So that's some of the stuff we continue to work on in the Emergency Operations Center. And that's one thing we're hearing from all hospital systems is they're being on the conservative side also. Not that they don't have enough at the time, but it's like what's the supply chain look like in seven to ten days if something happens with that supply? Thanks, Chief, for the clarification, and thanks for the good job that you're doing. Thank you.
 Any other questions I see Hoffman, McNeely? Okay. I would just add as I mentioned about Anquinette earlier, Chief Birx has done just a phenomenal job at the Emergency Operations Center but also he's really been the kind of linchpin that's brought us all together on this policy group and has just really and his entire team have just went above and beyond and really done a fantastic job.
 He's not going to get any new ambulances or any new construction or anything out of this, but he's done a great job. I didn't want to say too many nice things, Chief, because I knew an ask was coming later. Hey, Chief, just remember, I said you did a stellar job. I appreciate that, Alderman Durfee. Awesome. All right, so we're going to move right into positions and communications and presentations.
 If it's okay, it may be a little quicker if I just read these all in. Remembering them from La Ficaria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the extension of an agreement between the City of Rockford and Winnebago County Homes Association for the continued use of 1,715th Street for the Resident Officer Program, referred to Plainly and Development Committee. Thank you.
 I'm from LaFleur Curia Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the extension of intergovernmental agreement with the Rockford House of Authority for continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for the Resident Officer Program referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Under Code and Regs, we have Code and Regulation Committee, we have Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting held on April 21st, 2020, and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee on April 27th, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. We're current Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 21st, 2020, and minutes.
 And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code and regulation committee meeting on April 27, 2020. And that's referred to codes and reg. Memorandum from Marty Bloom, project manager, permits and special events regarding the upcoming special event for Polish Fest. Referred to codes and reg. Memorandum of Mike Atkinson, land transaction officer regarding the proposed lease of a city-owned property.
 parcel located at 7301 Auburn Street, 10-10-36-300-003, referred to Code and Rights. And then finally, Finance and Personnel Committee, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the updated 2020-2024 Capital Improvement Plan, referred to Finance and Personnel. Memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the application for the 2020 Department of Commerce
 and economic opportunity zone investment program grant referred to finance and personnel
 Number three, my random from Kyle Saunders, public works director, regarding the consideration of an Illinois water and wastewater mutual aid and assistance agreement referred to finance and personnel. Next, we do have one public speaker, and it's John Tack Brantley. I'm going to turn this over to our favorite legal director, Mr. Nicholas O'Meyers, to read Mr. John Tack Brantley's communication. And I'd just like to remind Mr. Myers that he has three minutes.
 I'll do my best. Alright, thank you Mr. Mayor. Good evening, Mayor Thomas McNair, all the women, all the women and citizens of the City of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 2837, God wants us to identify with the need, not ignore it. Second part of this proverb, to be positive. Those who open their eyes and support people will be blessed. Those who help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor.
 all promises that god will supply all of me he does this to other people what can you do today to help god supply someone's needs how is the peace and community cannot be underestimated the first day president trump mentioned the coronavirus 19 in public only one america was one american was known to be infected he assured the rest of the country was no reason to worry
 We had a cold winter before, as Trump said, January 22nd from the world of Switzerland. It's going to be just fine. Behind the scenes, however, even some of the soldiers' full-fledged, thoughtful men posed a much greater threat to the nation and to Trump. Three months later, the United States leaped the world with the fourth number of people infected and killed by the virus, with more than 39,000 dead.
 States, counties, and local hospitals are desperately bidding against one another for stark ventilators and other life-saving equipment in a market that's dominated by chaos, poverty, and sloth. And because this economy is in free fall, as well as 20 million Americans find unemployment claims in the last month.
 I hope that the coronavirus shutdown will ensure that schools and state education officials that encourage districts to prepare for public stations and they would have to keep them moving. Most of the states that are interested in school districts didn't have e-learning plans in place so the schools still open the mid-mark and analysis pods could be used in public in Illinois style. What are we doing right here in Rockford?
 I will be so glad when this is over with. Nevertheless, life will not be the same when all this is said and done. The Marine Corps 24th Staff will always be on the front line. Plus, after all is said and done, a lot of our civil liberties and freedom will be in the past. I think Donald Trump was doing everything he said that he was going to do, and he is doing it.
 Two weeks ago we turned in a native family, United Way, strong neighbors. He wants to say United Way, the family to be able to get food. We have the 30-20 program, we're able to deliver food to their homes and fairgrounds housing and the other types.
 God bless us today during these difficult days. He's 65 years old and cannot be at home looking at all four walls. His calling is to be out there in his faith, helping families. I would like everyone to have a slice of gas and some food. Thank you, Mr. Meyer. I'm going to answer the question. Thank you, Mr. Meyer. You almost did it this week. I almost did it.
 All right, we are going to move into new committee before it's planning and development committee under code and regulation. I'll turn that over to Alderman Chiarelli. The first item I'm requesting to hold that out this evening, that's the sale of tobacco products at 2209 North Main Street. So if there's no objection, I'd like to hold that out.
 The item number two is the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to section 117-5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, posting handbills, other advertising to allow advertising on RMTD bus shelters. And the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that up for passage, Your Honor. Second. Thank you.
 there you have a second and it looks like uh alderman dirky do you have a question well i left that up sorry mr mayor don't worry so it looks like you're good to go all the way okay so if there's no further discussion alderman dirky hi
 All them in, um, if they give me the roll call. Toonberg? Aye. Gasparini? You can have Chaz do that. It may be easier for her. Turkey. Aye. Turkey. Aye. Gasparini. Do I get to vote twice? I'm from Cook County. Justin.
 TUNEBURG. AYE. BROS. AYE. KOBE. AYE. IRVIN. AYE. THOMPSON-KELLEY. AYE. HAUSMAN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. ROSE. AYE. ROSE. AYE. ROSE. AYE. ROSE. AYE. AYE. ROSE. AYE. ROSE. AYE.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Okay. So now we're going to move to finance and personnel with Alderman Frost. Thank you, Aaron. There are five items before this committee tonight. One is the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $3,167,328.38 as approved at the finance and personnel meeting on April 13th, 2020. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for the
 for dispatching emergency services between rock valley community college district 511 and the city of rockford for the e911 center the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement for public services between the city of rockford and the rockford housing authority this
 This proposal, this proposal, intergovernmental agreement is effective through December 31, 2020, with an option of extension of one-year terms to total four years. A legal director shall prepare the appropriate audits. Number four, the committee recommends approval of authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds, sales tax, alternative revenue source,
 Of the city and the aggregate principal amounts not to exceed $11.3 million. Fed bonds being general obligation bonds for which real estate taxes are
 Unlimited as to raise or month may be levied, but which are expected to be paid from sales taxes for the purposes of paying amounts due by the city related to the settlement of litigation against the city. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 5, the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental assistance funding. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Okay, thank you. So there's five items before you Alderman Wilson, looks like you have a question.
 Yeah, I know someone asked earlier about between the intergovernmental agreement with the city of Rockford and human services and Rockford Township under number five. Is that a program that we're doing or like we're in charge of those dollars or is the township in charge of those dollars or is it both of them in charge of dollars and we're just coordinating together?
 thank you uh we'll have anquinette uh director parham uh answer that for you and i'll unmute you uh director
 Okay, thank you. So these particular this $10,000 is a set aside of township funds. So again, we conduct the assessment of the folks and then their eligibility for the program, send that over to township. So we're essentially dictating how the funds are used, but township maintains on possession of the funds until they disperse them. Okay.
 just one of the things that i i'd like for us as a part of this is um i know that the township has their own programs for for stuff that's not related to covid and i think it's important that um we do a really good job on because so many people in our community are not aware of the township programs that currently exist
 And I think it's important that we at least get like a report out or something of the sort on how they use those dollars or something that shows us that these dollars are going to the correct people. Okay. Okay.
 So, again, because this particular, let me just ask you to try to understand what you're asking for all the money. So these particular dollars, this $10,000 is not COVID-related. This is just a continuation of an allocation that we've always had from townships. So this is not COVID-related. But you're asking for a report on other, on the regular expenditures, non-COVID-related?
 Yeah, I mean, I think it's important that, you know, citizens are aware that some of their money from the city is being used in ways that help people and may not be under our total control.
 kind of relationship. I think that's one of those circumstances, but I think it's good that, you know, if they end up helping 50 families or 20 families or whatever, that we get some kind of report out on, you know,
 You know, how many families that they've helped, but also what areas have they seen significant impacts at? I know that, you know, some areas receive more benefits than others. And I think it's good for the city to know that because. We can kind of see where certain trends are happening as well. Okay.
 Thank you. I don't see any other hands raised. We have a motion and a second. Is there any other discussion? Seeing no other discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Sure, clerk. Can I get to vote twice this time, too? Sure. Aye. Jeff Graney. Aye. Tender. Aye. Aye.
 Did I? Aye. Aye. Kirby? Aye. Aye. Urban? Aye. I'm sorry. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Poppins? Rose? Rose is an aye. Beach? Aye. Canones? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 Thank you. St. Mary? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 aye. We'll move on to business and we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish no parking anytime
 on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 125 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 350 feet south of Parkside Avenue, thus repealing the existing restriction. No parking any time on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Your Honor, I place that up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before you, is there any discussion?
 I don't see any hands raised. Okay, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Timber. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Oden. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Thompson-Kelly.
 SHE'S BUFFERING. HER THING IS BUFFERING. SHE MIGHT NOT BE ONLINE. BACHMAN? AYE. NO, I'M SORRY. CAPTAIN KELLY? AYE. ROSE? ROSE IS AN AYE. BEACH? AYE. KENONAS? AYE. MCNEELY? AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 aye aye sure 13 a okay moving right along we're going to go to motions and resolutions uh alderman rose and planning and development committee
 So we have one item, it's the acceptance of supplemental funding in the amount of $636,693 to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development HUD Emergency Solutions Grant through the Coronavirus Aid Relief and Economic Security Act or CARES Act. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? I don't see anyone's hand raised. Chas, could you please call the roll? Okay.
 Jesse. Aye. Jeff. Aye. Timber. Aye. Ross. Aye. Irby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Rose is an aye. Beach. Aye. Pinona. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirely. Aye. Higgins.
 13a thank you we don't have any code and rig items so we'll move to finance and personnel alderman frost thank you there are there are 10 matters i'll try to be quick number one is an award of bid for tree planning services the marco tree service of rockford and acres group of lafonda for an estimated value of twenty five thousand five hundred based on unit pricing the contract duration is through december 31 2020 with four possible one-year extensions the
 The funding sources sales tax number two is an award a bid for electrical services to angle electric of sterling and fritz electric of the real center. An estimated contract by 25,000 annually based on unit pricing, the contract duration through February 28, 2021, but for possible 1 year expenses, the funding source is the property fund operating budget.
 Number three is an awarded bid for HVAC services, mechanical, Freeport, and Geostar mechanical of Rockford and complete mechanical solutions of Rockford for estimated contract value of $100,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through February 28, 2021 with four possible one-year extensions. The funding source is also the property fund operating budget. Number four is an awarded bid for plumbing services to mechanical.
 A PRE-PORT MIDWEST MECHANICAL BYRED AND FIVE STAR PLUMBING ON LOSS PARK FOR AN ESTIMATED CONTRACT VALUE OF $65,000 ANNUALLY BASED ON UNIT PRICING THE CONTRACT RATIONS THROUGH FEBRUARY 28 2021 WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR EXTENSIONS THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE PROPERTY FUND OPERATING BUDGET NUMBER FIVE AND
 It is an award for bid for roofing services, the HC Anderson roofing of Rockford, Distinguished Roofing of Rockford and Weather Guard Roofing of Elgin for an estimated contract value of $25,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through February 28, 2021 with four possible one-year extensions. The funding sources are the property fund operating budget.
 NUMBER 6 IS AN AWARD BID TO LOW VOLTAGE ELECTRICAL SERVICES TO ENGEL ELECTRIC OF STERLING AND KELENBERGER TECHNOLOGIES OF ELGIN FOR AN ESTIMATED CONTRACT VALUE OF $30,000 BASED ON UNIT PRICING. THE CONTRACT DURATION IS THROUGH FEBRUARY 28.
 2021, the full cost of one year extension. The funding sources, the property fund operating budget. Number seven is the award for bid for fire sprinkler system repair and inspection services to automatic fire systems in the Chesney park and SJ protection of Rockford.
 FOR ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACT VALUE OF $25,000 BASED ON UNIT PRICING. THE CONTRACT CREATION IS THROUGH FEBRUARY 28, 2021. WITH FOUR POSSIBLE ONE-YEAR EXTENSIONS, THE FUNDING SOURCE IS THE PROPERTY FUND OPERATIVE BUDGET. NUMBER EIGHT IS AN AWARD FOR A BID FOR SHEPHERD TRAIL FACILITY TO ROCK THE CONSTRUCTION OF THE CHESNEY PARK IN THE AMOUNT OF $5,999,000. THE CONTRACT CREATION IS EIGHT MONTHS. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS BOND PROCEEDS.
 NUMBER NINE IS AN AWARD BID FOR CITYWIDE STREET REPAIRS GROUP 2-2020 FOR WILLIAM CHARLES CONSTRUCTION OF ROCKFORD IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,073,340.68. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALES TAX.
 Number 10 is an award of RFP for bond underwriting services to Robert W. Barrett of Naperville, Illinois. The fee for services worth Barrett is $4.35 per $1,000. A par value of approximately $48,000. The funding source is found here. Thank you. Thank you. So we have 10 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 10 items? I don't see any. Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mayor. Can you hear me? Yes. Okay. On number nine, the funding, I'm sorry, number eight, the funding sources bond proceeds. Do we know which bonds? That would be for the bonds that you are authorizing. We initiate the process today for the settlement. Okay. Thank you. Sure. Thank you.
 Alderman Frost.
 THANK YOU. I KNOW EARLIER THE MAYOR WAS I KNOW EARLIER THE MAYOR WAS I KNOW EARLIER THE MAYOR WAS COMMENDING CHIEF BURKESON FOR COMMENDING CHIEF BURKESON FOR COMMENDING CHIEF BURKESON FOR DOING A GREAT JOB, AND I AGREE DOING A GREAT JOB, AND I AGREE DOING A GREAT JOB, AND I AGREE WITH THAT. WITH THAT. WITH THAT. BUT HE MADE THE COMMENT ABOUT BUT HE MADE THE COMMENT ABOUT BUT HE MADE THE COMMENT ABOUT DOING, HE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BE DOING, HE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BE DOING, HE MAY NOT BE ABLE TO BE COMING BACK FOR ANY AMBULANCES COMING BACK FOR ANY AMBULANCES COMING BACK FOR ANY AMBULANC
 All right. Looks like all questions are answered. So, Claire, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Hi. Yes, Rainey. Hi. Tim Burke. I, on one through nine, abstain on ten. Jeff. Aye. Ernie. Aye. Ervin. Aye. Okay.
 Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Rose is an aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items 1 through 9, 13 ayes. Item number 10, 12 ayes. One abstain.
 Thank you. Those items pass. Next we'll go to code and regulation. And just a reminder, Alderman Treloy, that first item's been held out. Yep, that's right, Your Honor. So I'll move on to item number two is an ordinance establishing a no parking any time restriction on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 125 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 350 feet south
 Parkside Avenue, thus repealing the existing restriction. No parking any time on the east side of Kilburn Avenue for 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue.
 Number three is an ordinance approving the amendment to section 117-5 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, posting handbills, other advertising, to allow advertising in RMTD bus shelters. I place those two items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Trellis. Is there any discussion on those two items? Seeing no discussion on those two items, clerk, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Jeff Greeny.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 McKinley. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 aye. Thank you. Next up we'll go to finance and personnel at SoSite and Pass and back to Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement for dispatching emergency services between Rock Valley Community College District 511 and the City of Rockford E911 Center. Number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for police services between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority.
 The proposed intergovernmental agreement is effective through December 31, 2020, with optional extensions of one-year terms to total four years. Number three is an ordinance authorizing the issuance of general obligation bonds, sales tax, and alternate revenue sources of the city and the aggregate
 Purchase amount not to exceed $11,300,000. Said bonds being general obligation bonds for which real property taxes, unlimited ester rate or any amount may be levied, but which are expected to be paid from sales taxes for the purpose of paying amounts due by the city
 related to the settlements of litigation involving the City of Rockford. Number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and Rockford Township to provide emergency rental assistance funding. And I place those four items up for vote, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Is there any questions or discussion on those four? I don't see any. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Okay. Tony. Hi.
 Aye Thompson Kelly She's buffering again Ann Aye Yes You got it Thank you Hoffman On items 1, 3 and 4 I believe I have to abstain on 2
 Thank you. Opposed? Opposed with an aye on all. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chavez? Aye. Thank you.
 And one three four thirteen eyes and number two twelve eyes one of things Thank you Officer report you could just raise your hand if you have one All the Monroe's
 Just real quick, I know supporting local businesses is a huge question and I normally would 100% buy most of my meat at Pennins. But there is a group that is looking at doing deliveries of different foods.
 in our area and in Rockford as well. I know Laura just put out a press release, but Top Box Foods, they've been operating out of Chicago for some time and deliver in the Chicagoland area is now gonna be offering food service to our region here in May and they're gonna see how it goes and see if people are interested, but we had a chance to go and see them in May.
 Last week, and I can speak to the fact that. You know, when when they asked that, if they would help us promote. You know, looking at offering the service to the rock region, I said, I can't really promote this. It's like going to a restaurant that I've never eaten at. And so they made the long truck in to show us some of their food and it looks great. It actually looked a really good.
 quality. And so if you get a chance and you want to check out Top Box Foods, you can go to their online store and they have a section where you can order under Rockford. And we're hoping that for people who are not making the trips online.
 to the store or can't make it that they can order some of their food on here and it will be delivered to their houses. So hopefully something that our community can look at expanding with some of our local stores as well, because I know I would use it on a pretty regular basis. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Any other, Alderman Durkee? Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to reiterate, you know, hearing how...
 Our city, especially with Chief Bergstrom and all the players involved with the health systems and such in the county health department, now they've all come together to manage this. Again, it was a moving target, and people didn't really know how to respond. And the professionalism, the organization...
 The gathering of good talent, which exists in our city, is quite impressive. And I meant it when I said stellar. And you, Your Honor, I appreciate your efforts with the governor in trying to get our city open and trying to move forward with it. It's a difficult task. Nobody wants to make mistakes.
 a mistake that costs anybody's lives. But, you know, I think our city's in good shape. And kudos to our citizenry because our numbers are good. I think our citizens are cooperating. They're doing the right thing. And the numbers bear that out. So kudos to our staff. Kudos to our community leaders and to our citizens.
 Um, it could have been a lot worse. Uh, and, and like I said, nobody knows, but I think a lot of people have stepped up and done a great job. So thank you, your honor. Thank you. Uh, Alderman Tuber. Thank you, mayor. Um, yeah, I just, I wanted to reiterate, I know everyone is doing as much as they can and, uh,
 And we're all in this together and battling it out. I had a great conversation with city administrator Todd Cagnoni today, just expressing, again, some of the things that I know many of us aldermen are hearing on a local level. I think that one of the things that I'm hearing now more vocal by small businesses is that
 you know they've adhered to what uh has been required of them uh you know initially it was two weeks and now we're going on six weeks and uh i know that again like like uh alderman durkee had stated we didn't know what what was really coming upon us um you know but with that said it's uh i think that now they're really looking at um
 More fear of the unknown, fear that there is not a timetable at all. And many of them are saying that, you know, they've survived up to this point. Some of them are self-employed sole proprietors and or self has small businesses with independent contractors that they don't, they don't get unemployment benefits.
 or they aren't some of the programs aren't available to them so they really are living on not much and many of them said if it continues on for much longer they're just not going to be in business any longer I know I've talked with you Mayor and you've been open to the idea and Administrator Cagnoni about regional approach and
 Trying to push that possibly a little bit more on the state level. I know that just the word came out today that there's a couple of states that are looking at reopening now things, restaurants and restaurants.
 Bowling alleys even. My son would love that. But gyms, fitness centers, I'm just reading it now. Barbers looking at opening this Friday. Some opening on the 30th. But I would say that a consensus for many of these people are we're not looking for a handout. We're just looking to...
 new business again. And, you know, I think that some of these businesses, they know their stores, they know their customers, many of them. And, you know, I think they could...
 operate with social distancing intact. Mayor, you and I have talked about it. We're not talking about an extreme of opening this all up at once and saying, hey, let's pretend it never happened and everything's open for business again. But a strategic, calculated approach. And, you know, I think that they could practice social distancing with
 two or three, four people in their stores. When Walmart and Target and Farm and Fleet and all these are letting dozens and dozens of people in and supposed to be practicing that. So just wanted to let you know and let everyone know just kind of what I'm hearing on the grassroots level. And they're just, they're passionate.
 they're wanting to get open and an extension is just gonna is gonna really be devastating thanks yeah alderman toonberger i think you're touching a lot of things i mean those stories that i think we all are hearing from just amazingly hard-working folks uh built their own business with their own funds and put every single thing they have into it and some uh
 they're heartbreaking to listen to those stories. So as soon as we can safely open it, and I think, and as you mentioned, as we've discussed in a safe, very specific and with a number of protocols in place, the better for them. Any, it looks like Alderman Gasparini and it looks like the last one. Just to say, I'm kind of the opposite direction. I'm,
 I'm dealing with, for the past two weeks, probably 12 to 13 COVID cases I've taken care of. And that doesn't count the ones that weren't on it. Flu-like symptoms that weren't. It's a scary time. And I'm all for businesses are open. I'm a small business owner, but we've got to be careful. And at this point still, there's all the folks that we've got to watch. And we're the ones taking the brunt of this. So I just want to just say that. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Hervey, may I, Your Honor? Yeah. One of the things I think we have to be careful when we do reopen is that we don't do so in a way that erodes the public's trust. Kind of like with Alderman Gasparini. Yes.
 I'm having people asking, and this is interesting to me because these aren't people who are normally, how do I say this, in tune with some of the finer elements of public issues. But they're asking questions like, well, if they open up a restaurant, how do people know that their employees are well-off?
 You know, or if somebody is sick, how are we going to know that we may have been around that person or that they may have eaten something? A lot of concern, I think, from people, these are my relatives, as a matter of fact, who are saying, well, if we don't have adequate testing, how are they going to be able to determine that?
 whether certain places should reopen, should all barbers and personal service people have to be tested before they reopen because of their proximity to the public. I hope we have a good panel or group as good a panel group as you do now that keeps working to answer some of those questions
 Because I think it'd be real easy for people, and this is what people are saying, they're not going to eat at restaurants. They're not going to go to certain places because they don't feel confident that those places are...
 will not put them at risk, if that's a good way to say that. So that's the other side of the coin. People want to reopen their businesses, but you have to do it in a way that the public have confidence and trust that those businesses are safely reopened. No doubt. And I know in talking to Alderman Kuhnberg this weekend a couple times, I think he agrees with that. You get it done in a safe way.
 We will have working groups in place. You'll be getting calls. Thank you so much for getting that back so quickly. We've went through and we've allocated all of them into different working groups. I believe, well, everyone got a choice of theirs. Some gave multiple choices. Some gave different.
 Four committees that want to be on and let's say if you gave for you, maybe on two, but there'll be some aldermen serving on to most just serving on one. We hope that those committees will meet.
 weekly, and then we'll have a chairs committee that will also meet weekly. And we're not asking these working groups to provide like a report at the end of their work. We're asking if they have an item that's worthy of bringing forward, let's bring it forward right away. Let's not wait, you know, 90 days or 120 days. There's something good. Let's get it out there right away and get moving on it. Uh, if it's a, you know, saving the expense idea, or if it's,
 maybe a policy or process that we can work with local restauranters, restaurantiers to safely open and provide trust as you have mentioned, Alderman Hervey, or if it's a small business curbside ideas,
 for other advocacy efforts that we need to do. Right now, we won't have the luxury of waiting for big reports to come out. We just got to start moving. So appreciate everyone taking the time tonight. Appreciate all your thoughtfulness and responding to all the citizens who are, I know reaching out to you. I appreciate that. And we will continue to push information out to you on a regular basis. Yes, sir.
 Mayor, one last question. I'm sorry to, I'll be quick, promise. You know, I was wondering if you could answer a question. I did have a constituent call that was asking why we don't do a mandatory mask policy
 with going out in public and or a restaurant or not a restaurant, a store, but I think even just general public. I know I think Laredo, Texas did it. But I was just wondering if on your task force, if that was ever addressed and what was actually the consensus or wherewithal?
 on council and I'm just looking for what was the task force's consensus on that?
 Yeah, so great question, Alderman Toomer. Right now we have put out that we want all deemed essential workers to be masked. And then also the governor has suggested that anyone who is out in public, that you're not in your own yard or you're not with your immediate family and you're not in your own personal vehicle, that you too should be masked.
 It hasn't went so far as mandatory or even here locally. Our local policy group has discussed it, but we're, and I'm not the health expert, we're not at the point right this second that we believe we have to have everyone masked. I know RMTD just went to all of their drivers being masked, but I'm not at the point right now
 I mean, I don't want to jump the gun. I would say we're slowly moving in that direction. And we've been helping RMTD get getting mass. The other piece to that is we also have to have the masks. So there's a number of great citizens and ones on our council with alderman. Sure,
 Shirely who's made hundreds of masks. So we are collecting those as donations. So if we get to that point and people don't have products at home that they could use, even though I think you'll be able to use things like scarves, bandanas, things that could be homemade. I think the Surgeon General made one out of a t-shirt and rubber bands.
 So there's ways, but we're moving in that direction, I would say. But thus far, the experts have not told us that they think we should mandate it. Well, if Rose doesn't shave soon, his beard's going to be his own personal mask. That could be his goal. Yeah. Yeah.
 Again, just appreciate all your guys' work with all of your residents. We're hearing good things about people getting in touch with you and you being able to reach back out to them in a quick fashion. So it means a lot to them, I know. So thank you so much and hope you all stay safe and stay healthy over this next week. If you need anything, don't hesitate to call me or any staff. Thank you. Thank you, Dan. Thank you. Bye-bye.
 have a motion a second is all in favor say aye aye opposed have a wonderful night good night