Quinones? Beck? McNeely? McNeely? That's okay. Chiarelli? All present. Excellent. Anyone want to do public comment again? Sorry. Next up we have new committee reports and we will go to Alderman Chiarelli for code and regulation committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports the first item is
 114 North 1st Street. It's a special use permit for a mural. Number two is 316 West State Street. It's a special use permit for a mural. Number three is 299 North Madison Street. Special use permit for a mural. Number five is 508 East State Street. Special use permit for a mural. Numbers five. Did I skip one?
 Number 5 is 416 East State Street. It's a special use permit for a mural. Number 6 is 211 East State Street. Special use permit for a mural. Number 7 is 422 East State Street. Special use permit for a mural. I place all those murals up for passage, Your Honor. Excellent. So we have seven items before you. Is there any questions or discussion on those seven items? Motion to approve.
 We don't need one. We don't need one. Yeah. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Items passed. Thank you. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Beck for new, yeah, I'm sorry, Motions and Resolutions and Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck? Yeah, sorry. My assistant is not here. Law enforcement training? No, no, no.
 Information authority in the amount of $48,308. So we have one item before you. Is there a motion to approve? So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion on the item before you? Seeing no discussion, we'll need a roll call. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Toomer. Irby. Thompson-Kelly. Durkee.
 Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. He stepped out. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Durkee. Aye. Ten ayes. Excellent. The item passes. Next up, we have new business code and regulation. Alderman Shirelli. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I've got seven murals in our ordinances. First is at 114 North 1st Street for a mural. Number two is an ordinance for 316 West State Street for the mural. Number three is...
 299 north madison street for a mural number four is 508 east state street for a mural number five is 416 east state street for a mural number six is 211 east state street for a mural number seven is 422 east state street for bureaus i placed all those ordinances up the passage thank you so we have seven items before you is there any discussion on the seven items before you
 Seeing no discussion all those in favor say after or could you please call the roll Durkee? timber Kirby Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Beck I McNeely Shirely ten eyes. Thank you alderman Shirely. Do you have any additional? Yeah? Yes, your honor John. Yeah alderman, Herbie
 Can we have officers' reports briefly? Of course. Yep. There will be a fifth ward meeting this Thursday, the 25th, at 6 o'clock at the District 1 station in the community room. So there will be. Wonderful. Thank you.
 other officers reports alderman rose just real quick i wanted to say thank you to our rockford police department and fire department for coming out to sablewood drive today and hosting a big event for those residents the the people there were super appreciative of of all the work that you did and providing that food and playing games with the kids and it was something that we
 One of the residents came out of the house and told me, he said, we're taking back our neighborhood. It was something really nice to hear. So second, just an announcement that the Great American Cleanup is coming up this weekend. I know that there's a group meeting at our local parks. There's one meeting at Williams Park off of Huffman for the NESNA group and they'll be meeting there at 9 a.m.
 Alderman Thompson-Kellen. I also have to add with the Great American Cleanup that one of the pickup sites will be Wayne Speed Store on Auburn Street. And the West Gateway Coalition will be working on West State Street and Avon. Thank you. Other reports?
 Seeing no other reports, Alderman Shirella? Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Beck has requested that we move into convene. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. Thank you. We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Yeah. Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. Tunberg. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Herbie.
 Surely. 11 ayes. Excellent. We will convene into closed session.