Today is April the 20th, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Herbert Johnson Jr. It is all about our heads. Father, tonight we pray for togetherness, cohesiveness, unity, and community as we work together to come up with solutions that will benefit both sides of the river. I pray now that you would bless our mayor, our city council, our police, fire department,
 our school district, and all of the citizens that make up this great city called Rockford, Illinois. In Jesus' name we pray, amen. Amen. Thank you. Everybody please call the roll. Durkee. Here. Getches. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Here. Hill. Here. Oro. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. Allie. Here. Beck. Here. McNeely. Here. Shirely.
 13, President Rauner. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Is there a motion to accept the journal? Is there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7. Thank you. There's no public hearing scheduled for this evening. We have several speakers signed up for public participation. I'd remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. Our first speaker this evening is Roland Poska.
 I'm sorry, Alderman Dutches. Was there a motion for acceptance of the journal for the last two city council meetings? I guess we had a special one last week. Mr. Hayes, did our minutes incorporate them? So the special city council meeting last week was regarding what is your call? Checking the minutes from the meeting last week to see if we accepted the journal from us. I was going to say, could we do it provisional? Provisional.
 Thank you, Alderman Getsch. We do need to accept not only the minutes from the 13th, but also April the 6th. Thank you. The 13th and the 6th. Mr. Hanson? Yes, Your Honor. So moved. Moved and seconded. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, 7-8. Thank you for catching up.
 of the public participation again we have our five speakers signed up this evening our first speaker is Roland Posca Mr. Posca My name is Roland Posca fishy whale Roland Posca 11-23-1938 it is time to start planning July 4th to continue to sign declarations to do the impossible
 at 12.01 p.m. on July 4th, after looking up for a moment of interdependence at noon with everyone, everywhere, participate with the reports on the state of the world, and gather at the river at Joe Marino Park to plan the sale of the Great Human Race Concept on 11.09.
 We have several people interested in buying the concept for $250 million. Every Monday at Rockford City Hall, noon to 6 p.m., we will continue to sell the entire Fishy Whale product line. We will sell twine, string,
 We will sell music, we will sell paper, we will sell posters, we will sell books, we will sell bricks, we will sell everything to build and rebuild a better world for when we return. I hope we get better news coverage this year. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Jacqueline Primer.
 Good evening everyone. I'm a little slow here. I spoke on April 6th on the homeless people here in Rockford. And you know, when I was just wanted a homeless one and I sat here through the meeting here tonight and I know my check-in time, I have to be in before 7 o'clock at the Women's Crisis Center. But I did bring my lifeline, my bag of medications, left it out this morning. But you know,
 I've been seeing a lot of homeless people getting the help that they need from the 555. And I just want to say too, I got blessed on Friday when I went to the unemployment office and checked my status for the Section 8 and I'm number one for Blackhall, for me and my daughter. And I'm just really, you know, grateful and glad, you know, because
 I can't afford all these bills, you know, because when I was down there a couple of times, I had the grandma's seizures down there. And those medical bills are very high for the paramedics to come out. And I can't afford it. You know, in Springfield, the only income I did have was back child support that my children's dad was paying me. Springfield taking my money from me. So I had nothing. So I want these back, the Benjamins. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, our next speaker is Prophet Eustace. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 1 Peter, the 5th chapter, the 5th verse, it says, And be clothed with humility, for God resisted the proud and gave grace to the humble.
 What I want to speak about tonight, LGDF, is a goldmine, which stands for Local Government Distribute Fund. It's a state fund into which a portion of state income tax revenue is deposited annually. Cities and counties currently receive 8% of total state income tax revenue through this fund. LGDF supports core service and helps keep local taxes low. Since 1969, Illinois Municipal.
 policies have partnered with the state to fund core municipal service such as police, fire, roads, sidewalks, planning and zoning, public safety, water and sewer, public works and snow plowing. This funded partnership is made possible by revenue from the local government distributed fund. In addition to funding core everyday service to Illinois citizens, LGDF distribution plays a role in keeping the local tax
 burden low. Without LGDF, communities across Illinois would need to explore increases to local taxes. This includes property taxes. It is widely believed that Illinois has a high property tax burden and this would undoubtedly be worsened if LGDF funds were reduced or eliminated. LGDF funding has already been reduced. Until January of 2011, 10% of total
 were deposited to LGDF funds for distribution to cities and counties. Distribution occurred on a per capita basis. The percentage share of state income tax revenue was reduced from 10% to 6%. Following the enactment of the temporary income tax increase in 2011, the percentage were decreased because the state opted
 to keep all the new increased revenues for itself. When the income tax rate declined in January 2015, the LGDF share increased to 8% of total collection. In the absence of any statutory changes, this percentage will remain the same until 2025 when it returns to 10% of total state income tax collection. LGDF provides outstanding value for Illinois taxpayer. Illinois has collected $20,850,000
 $15,946,115.18 in state income tax revenue during municipal fiscal year 24. The 14, the amount of revenue deposited into LGDF for this period was only 1,025,200,100.80. Good management at the local level make LGDF dollars the best revenue on investment that taxpayer will ever get. And it's a direct return of their dollars to their community.
 additional LGDF revenue could be used to help offset the growing costs incurred from unfunded state mandates, the most notable of which includes paying for pension benefits that were increased by the state. And I've been wanting to tell Alderman Beck this for a long time, and I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you. I love you. You can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday, and I wish you many more. God bless you and your family. That was perfect timing. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 This is a very important day. And this meeting that happened earlier, which is relating to what I'm going to talk about tonight. First of all, I want to say good evening, Mayor Marcy Ogleman, Oglewoman and citizen Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verse 25 say,
 Fear of peoples can hammer everything you try to do in a strange form. It can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear of God, respect, revenge, trust is liberating. Why fear of peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear of God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word.
 This Saturday we got the great America cleaning up and we're going to be concentrating on fairgrounds. But tomorrow is extremely important because you stand up against racism. I'm going to take out two points and I'm going to bring up this one lady named Stacy that worked for Lion Life
 care what stacy have done was taken from the poor to give to the rich i'm going to give you an example we have uh several youth that i work with their parents one of the cases on ridley and and when the school system wanted to increase their doses the parent said no but what the uh the system said well if you don't go along with what we're going to say we're going to cut your public
 So in order to feed the rest of her kids, the mother went along with increasing a seven-year-old dose, which I use the word Ritalin, that the kid don't really need Ritalin. I take 48 kids on Fairgrounds, 90 percent of them is on some type of prescription medication. They don't need to be on this prescription medication. I'm going to bring up the
 One other study that's extremely important. This one mom taking care of her mother 24 hours a day. She was getting 60 hours a week working. The system came in. The door system decided to say, well, hey, we're taking 22 of the hours away from you where you only can get 38 hours for your mom. Now she agreed with that. But then they came back and said, well, listen, we want to take –
 two days away from you and put your mom in a daycare facility where you're not getting paid. Well, she told them, you know, F you and what have you. I'm not putting my mom in no daycare.
 What Stacey did from Lyme Life, she told Springfield that this mother didn't want to agree with her. So they suspended her for 30 days. So what happened is her rent get cut, her life, I mean her rent is in jeopardy. She got a five day notice today. Her light and gas is
 is going up. Before she got into the DOORS program, she was getting SSI. She was able to take care of her and her mom. She stopped getting SSI to get this DOORS, thinking this DOORS was going to help her family. This is only one
 family that Stacy is hurting who works for life, who works for Lion Life Care. Now the battle is on against Black on Black Crime and Domestic Violence. She's not helping us. What you're doing, if you want to transfer Rockley, you got to help the people
 They're trying to help themselves. What you're doing is you've got 1,900 people in the homeless program. You've got 1,900 kids in the homeless program. You've got 26 people that's homeless. If you put this family out that's trying to do something for themselves, they become homeless. You're not helping the system. The Republicans probably— I need to interrupt you. I just want to let you know that your buzzer time is up. You may not have heard it. I had it too quiet, I think. But if you could just wrap up.
 Okay, I'm going to wrap up by saying this. Abraham Lincoln said they promised us 40 acres and a mule, but they assassinated Abraham Lincoln, so we never got that 40 acres and a mule. Then Linda mentioned it best when she stated the fact that they're taking from the poor to get to the rich. It's not our fault that the legislators that was in office stole the money and misused the money and took it from the pension, but now they want to make the poor people rich.
 pay for their mistakes, that's wrong. That's dead wrong. And that's something that when tomorrow, when I got more than three minutes to talk about, I'm going to talk about that when we have our minds and stand up against racism. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John. I'm sorry, our next speaker is Toby Haldeman. Mr. Haldeman here. I want to thank all of our speakers this evening. One last call for Mr. Haldeman.
 Thank you all of our speakers that joined us this evening. Proclamations. Those guests that are here this evening, I have several proclamations to read. I just invite our folks who will be receiving them to come join me where they can be presented with a proclamation. Our first proclamation, our own Mark Stockman will receive. This is on behalf of Arbor Day. And Mr. Stockman, if you want to come up with any other members of our committee that are with us.
 Whereas on January 4th, 1872, Jay Sterling Norton proposed a tree planting event to be called Arbor Day. And in his words, while other holidays repose upon the past, Arbor Day proposes for the future. Whereas Arbor Day is now observed throughout the nation and the world, and whereas trees in our city
 are helpful for property values, enhancing the economic vitality of our business areas, and beautify our community. And whereas trees can also reduce erosion on our precious topsoil by wind and water, they can cut heating and cooling costs, moderate tree, or moderate temperatures, and clean the air, produce life-giving oxygen, and provide a habitat for wildlife.
 And whereas trees, wherever they are planted, are a source of joy and spiritual renewal. And whereas Rockford is the recipient of the 2014 Tree City USA and Growth Award from the National Arbor Day Foundation. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim Friday, April 24th to be Arbor Day. And we urge citizens to take supportive efforts to protect our environment, support our city's urban forestry program, which is an ongoing process of renewal and investment that improves and continues throughout the years.
 Thank you, Mayor Morrissey. Thank you, Alderman. This is the seventh year I've accepted the Arbor Day Proclamation. I didn't think time could go that fast, but it really has.
 This year we're actually celebrating Arbor Day on the 21st, which is tomorrow, 10 a.m., Julia Lathrop School. That's kind of unconventional for us because typically we would have done this on Friday, which would be the 24th. However, we had to move it for the sake of the Ingersoll project this year. We didn't want to upstage them. So at any rate,
 This year we'll be holding the Arbor Day celebration again tomorrow morning, 10 a.m., Julia Lathrop School, which is just off of Ogilby Road on Clover Avenue. And we will be kind of doing a multifaceted presentation tomorrow in that we're not only going to plant trees, but we're also going to be involving children.
 and several classes from the school will be coming out and helping us actually plant a tree, which kind of goes along with what I heard at the Earth Day luncheon the other day regarding getting children involved in nature and how it seems to help them psychologically, physically, and mentally. So at any rate, we will also be pushing our tree replacement program.
 very heavily this year. We need response to this. There are plenty of spaces out there on public parkways where we can still plant trees, but we need the citizens to come forward and make us aware of their locations and aware that they will actually buy into the program and water the tree for a period of two or three years. Again, I thank you for supporting us
 If they're interested in the tree planting program, please call the street forestry department. Unfortunately, I'm going to have to try and get this number right because they've just changed. It's area code 779-348-7260. And we will take your information, inspect your site, and hopefully we'll be able to get a tree in the ground for you yet this year. Again, thank you for supporting me in this effort, and we hope to see as many of you as possible tomorrow. Thank you.
 In the spirit of continuing to support the environment, our next proclamation is coincidentally for the Great American Cleanup Month and I invite Frank Manzullo and other members that may be here from Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, please come forward and accept the proclamation. Is Mr. Manzullo here? Well I'm going to read this in his absence. Anybody else here from Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful? Come on up. Our own Joan Sage. Come on up Joan. Joan are you pulling double duty tonight too? Yes.
 Great, come on up, we'll get you here for two of them. We'll start with Great American Cleanup Month. Whereas as a nationally organized anti-littering campaign, the Great American Cleanup has grown to become a catalyst for real change for community beautification, becoming the nation's single largest community improvement program.
 And whereas Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful is a local nonprofit dedicated to preserving our environment through education, community involvement and public awareness. And whereas on April 25th, hundreds of volunteers from neighborhood groups will adopt a street and a highway and serve organizations that gather to clean up and green our community. And whereas this year, Keep Northern Illinois Beautiful, the City of Rockford and Winnebago Counties announced the 27th Annual Great American Cleanup.
 scheduled for the 25th from 8 a.m. to 12 p.m. Whereas the city of Rockford is proud of its natural resources and our neighborhoods, and we seek to protect them to improve our community through actions of our citizens, our government, and our businesses working together. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 2015 to be Great American Cleanup Month and call upon our citizens to join in these efforts to clean up our community April 25, 2015.
 Thank you so much, Mayor and Councilmembers. This is a wonderful event that has been going on for many years, and we usually have between 1,000 and 1,200 volunteers out there all over the city cleaning up. So if you haven't already signed up, you can please join us to clean up your neighborhood and the rest of the city as well. Thank you so much. Thank you. Now accepting Joan Sage, also here for Comcast Care Day.
 Whereas Comcast remains an active, committed, and engaged member of the Rockford community, supporting the American values of volunteerism through partnerships, grants, and volunteer activities.
 New Orleans Comcast Cares is a celebration of service, becoming one of the nation's largest single-day corporate volunteer efforts, bringing employees, families, friends, and community partners together for a common purpose and mission. New Orleans Comcast celebrates its 14th National Comcast Day of Cares Day, reaching an important milestone of three million volunteer hours and a half a million volunteers since they first started in 2001. New Orleans Comcast Cares Day promotes the spirit of corporate responsibility,
 and is appreciative of the hard work, dedication, and service of volunteers working this year at the Washington Park Community Center, Riverview Park at the Riverview Ice House, and the Northern Illinois Food Bank this month on April 2nd. Now, therefore...
 I, Lawrence Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 25th, 2015 to be Comcast Cares Day. We urge our citizens to recognize Comcast for their 14 years of service and support in our community. Thank you so much. Once again, thank you. As Comcast Cares Day is this Saturday, we'd love to have you join us with that as well. At Washington Park, we will be doing a clean up that fits in with the American cleanup.
 and then at the Northern Illinois Food Bank we'll be packing cans. So we're going to have two welcomes, one at 930 at Washington Park if you'd like to join us there and then at 1015 at the Food Bank which is now located on Research Parkway in the Comcast building in fact.
 so if you can join us for that that would be wonderful the riverview project we had to cancel with the logistics didn't come quite together but I do have some sheets of paper that I will pass to the council if that is okay and it does have the addresses and times so thank you very much one last thing I'd like to mention our internet essentials
 program where we provide high speed internet to low income families for $9.95 a month. In the third year it was supposed to end is continuing on because we have connected 1.8 million people in the United States which is more than 12 states in the United States
 fifth in line with the cities with the largest population. So we're pretty excited about that. So thank you very much. Thank you, Joan. As Joan is passing up information, thank you very much. We have one final proclamation this evening. Excuse me, this is regarding Medical Laboratory Professionals Week. Accepting this year on behalf of the organization is Ray Ortiz from Rockford Memorial Hospital, Melanie Schroeder, Keith
 Harth and Jeremy Nordbrock from Swedish American and Tiffany Smith and Amy Berger from OSF Hospital, St. Anthony's Hospital. I'd ask those individuals, if they are here, to please come forward to accept the proclamation.
 Whereas medical laboratory professionals work in hospitals, research laboratories, research institutions, public health departments, and university health centers. And whereas these professionals are responsible for providing critical lab results to physicians in order to make informed decisions regarding patient care and treatment.
 Whereas in performing and interrupting more than 10 billion, interpreting rather, 10 billion laboratory tests annually, laboratory professionals are indeed frontline responders. Whereas since the entire laboratory team often works behind the scenes with few people knowing that the critical testing they perform every day to correctly detect, diagnose and treat diseases saves lives, reduces morbidity and helps control the cost of care.
 where as appropriately titled, the theme of this year's event is National Medical Laboratory Professionals Week. Laboratory professionals get results. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim April 19th through the 25th to be Medical Laboratory Professionals Week. And we urge our citizens to recognize the critical role that medical lab professionals in our community play in the continuum of health care in our community. Thank you.
 Just like to say thank you for everybody for having us here and for recognizing the great work that our lab professionals do. Approximately 70% of all clinical decisions that physicians make is based off of the work that our lab professionals do, yet it's unrecognized. People don't really realize what's going on. So I'd like to just thank you for taking the time to realize that there are lab professionals out here and realize that the work that we do is very important. Thank you.
 Thank you to all those that were here to accept proclamations this evening. We'll move back to the rest of our agenda. Reports of committees. Petitions and communications. I'm sorry. Petitions and communications. Thank you. My bad. Petitions and communications over here. Thank you.
 I have one item. It's from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator in Community and Economic Development Department. It's a proposed development agreement with Brett Hughes of Northwest Quarterly for the rehab of the building located at 227th, I'm sorry, 222 7th Street in the 11th Ward. This matter will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you. The matter will be referred to the relations of all the Montreal.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on April 21, 2015, and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on April 27, 2015.
 I have the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on April 21st, 2015 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on April 27th, 2015. I have a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughn, assistant city attorney regarding 707 Fulton Avenue Ingersoll Milling Machine Remediation Site Groundwater Ordinance.
 I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events. The Miracle Mile Kentucky Derby Party, May 2nd, 2015. The Biggest Loser Run Walk, June 20th, 2015. And I also have a memorandum from Alderman John Beck.
 It is an amendment to section 2-27, time of regular meetings, change of meeting times for the City Council regular meetings at 5.30 p.m. And all those items are on the report to the Code and Regulations Committee. Thank you, Madam Speaker. Thank you.
 and then from finance personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an intergovernmental agreement for the city of Rockford, Rockford Public School District 205, the Winnebago County State's Attorney for the annual extension of the youth court process. And I also have a memo from Matt Vittner, City Engineering, regarding the city of Rockford and the state of Illinois jurisdiction transfer agreement.
 for Wyman Street from Cedar Street to Chestnut Street. These two items will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you. Those are referred. Any further petitions and communications? Any committee reports? Cardinal LeDuc. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a committee report recommending the approval of Lyons Consulting Group LLC and 4940 East 8th Street LLC.
 of those spring creek development group the east state mo for tip redevelopment agreement for building renovation and leasing five thousand six hundred seventy eight square foot office
 a 5678 square foot office located at 4940 East State Street. Legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance and so we suspend rules and passes. Second. There's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on room 5A1 which is the agreement
 At the property 4940 East 8th Street. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, aye. The rules will be suspended. I think you're right, I would place this up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please come on the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? No. Hill? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Beck?
 McNeely surely have a nice to know your honor thank you for their planning all committees most regulations on the trail thank you your honor I have a committee report recommending the approval of South Court Street right of way dedication plan that the committee report recommending every approval of the tentative plat of Z act subdivision subject to conditions
 I have a committee report recommending approval of the acquisition of real property located at 1034 Mulberry Street for the purpose of police substation number one. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 before as a committee report recommend sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store in a seat to limited commercial zoning district and a seat 3 general commercial zoning district at 2013 McFarland Road the Myers is the applicant subject to conditions the legal director show prepare the appropriate ordinance
 And number five is a committee report recommending sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District and the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2011 North Perryville Road. Myers is the applicant subject to conditions and the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 your honor I moved to suspend the rules on these five reports right thank you there's been a motion second to spend rules on the following new committee reports five B one two three four five the motion second spend the rules also favorably say aye no I say I withdraw we just spend it you're on I place those committee reports up for passage the reports are for passages there any discussion hearing none clerk there's no roll Durkee aye Getschers aye
 Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hill? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? No, I'm 3-I and hearing any. Cirelli? Aye. Roman numeral 5B3, 12 ayes, 1 no. The remainder 13 ayes, 0 no. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you. All in favor?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a committee, I'm sorry, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,587,299.53. I have another approval for a fine reduction request at 1209 North Main Street to $1,000 upon completion of repairs. I have a fine reduction request at 1536 Myatt Avenue to $500 since the violations have been abated.
 I have a fine reduction request at 2107 Kishwaukee Street to $5,000 since violations have been abated. I have a memorandum of understanding with the State of Illinois for South Main Street two-way conversion. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I have the memorandum of understanding with 4500 Kishwaukee LLC for maintenance landscape agreement for Global Trade Park. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 I have a commercial private road crossing interagency agreement with Union Pacific Railroad for the downtown sports complex. The total city cost will be $58,395. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Intergovernmental agreement between the county of Winnebago and the city of Rockford for the lease, demolition and transfer of the public safety building. And the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'm sorry, I move for suspension of rules on these eight items. Thank you. There's been a motion to set the rules on program rule 5C1 through 8.
 I'm sorry, there's been a motion to suspend the rules on those items. Almost a favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I say aye. That place is up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion. All in favor? Nay. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And item number seven, the city cost of $58,395. Exactly what is that for? All in favor? Aye.
 I can start and if she needs more we can have staff but that's to create a connection between the upper parking lots and the lower building. We have to get across the railroad track in order to do that. So actually from what I heard from staff that was a very good price when you're considering what it typically costs to try to get railroad crossings. Thank you. Thank you Annie for the discussion. Just I was able to see some of the
 meeting on television last week. Just so there are no questions, 2107 Kishwaukee, that's the old counselor scale building. I am in favor of the reduction. The owner of the building has done an amazing job. They're actually tough pointing, blowing up the building, and
 The front of the building, it was literally falling apart. They bought it when it was condemned and we were actually looking for the money to demolish it. And I was very disappointed. So this has gone from them using a blow torch to repair the roof when there was no running water. And having a porta potty outside to replacing windows and really.
 improving the look of the corridor. They're doing a lot of excavating right now, so I thank them for that effort and that investment, and I would encourage people to support the reduction. Thank you. Thank you. Yes, and just to add on to that, Your Honor, not only did they meet the requirements to get out of the trouble with the city, but they're also going above and beyond, so it's commendable, and we appreciate that. Thank you for the discussion, all the members.
 Thank you. I just have a question. Number three, the 1536 Miami Avenue, the fine is being reduced to $500 and Kishwaukee 2107 Kishwaukee to $5,000. The original fines that both of those properties had was the same amount, $75,000, correct? Okay. One of them is a residential and
 The other was the commercial, but the staff had to put a lot more time into that property, so that's why the fines amount was larger, even though they both have remedied the issues. So, as Seth Summer explained last week, they base their primary, a lot of what their decisions are and what to reduce the fines to is how much staff time went into getting them to comply.
 I understand that but the 2107 Kishwaukee Street property they have put so much money into that property and my you know I'm going to support it but I think they're fine should be lost and that's just my own opinion thank you
 I looked at that and I choked a little bit too. I went out there probably three times with the fire department myself. Our staff really had to put a lot into it because there were people working in the building without the fire suppression, without plumbing. There were some real life safety issues.
 fire department staff, Matt Knott in particular, had to keep going out and checking to make sure that people were safe because there was some blatant noncompliance for a while. And I think there wasn't a Morgan element here, but it wasn't just a residential property that was blinded, it also put people at risk and really cost our staff quite a bit of time
 And I don't think they objected to the $5,000 if I'm not mistaken. Mr. Summers said they were not upset with that. I'm sorry. Yes. Do you want to repeat that? I'm thinking I'm committee chair and not the – you're still running the meeting. I apologize. That's all right. That's all right. Yes. And from what Mr. Summers said, that they were not just – were upset with that fine. So they were pleased. Thank you. There was another hand up, but I think I missed it on the side of all the meeting. Thank you, Hunter.
 Some of the discussion at the committee also was to staff, you know, how they're identifying the amount of time they spent, how are they tracking that. But another comment that was made is it would be nice perhaps if that fine could be lowered, the fine part of it, and the balance of it put back in the building. I mean, unless they can demonstrate that we really used up $5,000 of the staff time.
 we had to figure out what staff time really was and the balance of it uh put back into landscaping or other other ways that you could prove the building i don't know if staff wants to comment on that at all thank you your honor as mentioned by the chairman
 Historically, when we've looked at residential properties, we've gone with a proposal of $500 that the property's brought to compliance prior to it coming for consideration of the reduction or $1,000 for residential properties when it's not in compliance, but they have
 they state that they will bring it into compliance with a certain set number of days. We've done an analysis, and we know the minimum cost to get a property to the code hearing process is just over $500. That again, that's the minimum cost. Now, a number of these properties have been to code hearing multiple times.
 And additionally, when it's not brought into compliance, we have some follow-up that needs to be completed to perfect the code compliance and the ultimate fine reduction. Additionally, when we review...
 of policy related to fine reduction with the Finance and Personnel Committee some time ago in earlier 2014. There was a concern in regards to having significant reduction in some of the commercial industrial properties. So those have been reviewed on a case-by-case basis. And it has been a review of not only some of the penalties that are set forth in our ordinance, but also how much time it takes to bring the property through enforcement over the course of the years of the condemnation and the penalties.
 Thank you. Any further discussion? Very none. Again, we're calling for a roll call vote. Roll call 5, C, and a support. 8. No further discussion. Jerky. Getchis. McNamara. Frost. Kirby. Hill. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Bec. McNeely. Shirely.
 Roman numeral 5C, number 7, Levinize 101, abstain the remainder of 13.0. We have a few items to address this evening. Number one, you should have received a copy of a committee assignment preference form. I will be out next Monday. If you could try to get these back over the next two weeks, I will try to get my
 recommendations out early part of May hopefully for our first meeting next I have two recommendations for appointments to boards the first is a recommendation for Historic Preservation Commission with your approval the lay over mr. Jeffrey T Kirk's appointment for a three-year term expiring June of 2016 again that'll lay over pursuant to council rule and next I have a
 memorandum with regard to an appointment of Mr. Seneca Gordon for the Community Action Advise Agency Board. This he was elected by the Head Start Policy Council to replace a vacant position in the client sector position for the Community Action Board. Again, this will lay over pursuant to council rule. Next, I just wanted to reference that this Friday, as I think somebody alluded to earlier in the meeting, is the
 They're calling the tip-off for the downtown sports complex, our Ingersoll facility. Again, I want to just mention how much we appreciate all the partnerships and all the support that it's taken to get to this point. As we know, construction is underway. This will be our official sort of, they call it a tip-off instead of a groundbreaking. But we'd encourage certainly all of our council members and community members to join us. And it's gonna be this Friday, 3 p.m., at the indoor sports complex.
 And I just also wanted to mention, like I referenced earlier, I'm going to be gone next week, so I think this might be my last official meeting right now with Alderman Hill. And Alderman Hill, I just want to thank you for your service in the council. It was my honor to be able to point you to the position. I think you have served incredibly well for your constituents, and I appreciate your service. And I've made a great friend, and I look forward to continuing to keep that friendship. God bless you. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Thank you.
 I just want to remind people that Saturday is the Great American Cleanup and the Ninth Ward could use anybody that has two or three hours that they'd like to come out and pick up trash with their alderman. We are meeting at nine o'clock at Good Shepherd Church on Rockton Avenue and if you haven't signed up, it's not too late. And I would suggest
 I urge everyone in any ward to, if you have a place to sign up, let's clean Rockford up. It doesn't take a lot. It's two or three hours, and let's make it look better. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion to report this? Thank you, Mayor.
 Three items. One, I'm not going to be in attendance. Unfortunately, I'll be out of town during the Downtown Sports Complex to offer groundbreaking. I just want to say thank you to the aldermen, yourself, Mayor, and the staff for the tremendous amount of work that's went into this, and all of the community partners. Pretty upset that I'll be missing it, and I think it'll be a great event. I'm looking forward to having the Sports Complex in downtown Rockford. Two other items. One is,
 Can we get an update, or could I get an update, on Eden or Rockford Community Partners with the leaving of the director, just how it's going to be facilitated from what I've heard is the current director or facilitator is going to continue to manage that from Colorado, and I just would like to see if we can potentially bring that back in-house because I think she's done a tremendous amount of good work, and she's laid groundwork
 good ground for us. And I think with the committees that are there, we have a potential to save a little money and still get the tremendous work done that needs to be done. And then lastly, when it comes to, I know recently we had a developer pull out and I know from looking at some of these older structures to rehab and I know from our conversations at the legislative and lobbying,
 that there is work being done to extend the historic tax credits, but is there anything else that we can be doing to prepare these buildings to take advantage of these last 16, 18 months that we have the tax credits? Thank you. And just a quick response to your second part of your question. I'll follow up with staff on the first question, but with regard to the second one, you know,
 All I can tell you is the work that we're doing right now at the old watch factory hopefully will simplify the ability of anybody to get in there and access it. The Chick Hotel building, I'm not sure, and the other property, I'm not sure. The one thing from a technical standpoint, we have to follow the reason that was cited within the
 letter that we received from the Franz firm that had been looking at it had to do with some state law that governs our ability to transfer properties that were acquired by having a domain. So I can certainly follow up with staff and see if there's anything that we can do to help expedite that process, but offhand, I don't know.
 Just in response to that, one of the things we talked about was some of our older buildings, especially in residential areas. The need to have code, building codes, especially for renovations that recognized
 the sheer cost of renovating these older buildings. I know there's, I don't know if it's called the International Building Code. There's some committees that are gonna be looking at some things. I don't have that kind of expertise, but one of the things that I hope our staff will do, consider some of our older neighborhoods, especially those that have some of these corner grocery stores and from days gone by when businesses were much more localized,
 I've got two empty buildings because the cost to renovate them after a fire, they have to put in new bathrooms. Todd and his staff were great, but some of these are state laws. And
 It literally cost twice the person's insurance, and they had good insurance, because of the sheer expense of redoing the building. So they just walked away. And I had to advise them, no, I wouldn't tell you to do it. You're going to take on $150,000 debt for a 125- or 30-year-old building that
 you know, sustains you in terms of income, but it's not going to be a huge moneymaker. So we've got to start to address some of our older areas and some of the unique needs. You have to have safety. You have to do it right. But we've got to really look at our codes and find ways to accommodate reconstruction and rehabilitation of some of those buildings. Thank you. And if I could just ask, before you go, just Mr. Cagnotti, give us a quick update on the status of the
 multi-jurisdiction review of the building codes. Thank you, Your Honor. So this week we're starting with a number of committees with an effort to evaluate the international building code family with an emphasis on adopting or proposing a regional-wide building code, which would include
 through multiple jurisdictions. We feel that that will allow for contractors and developers to have a level playing field and for the other municipalities to have a level playing field with one another. One of the critical components of that would be the adoption of the existing building code.
 code but it recognizes existing conditions and may not have the full stringent requirements of for example a new construction. In addition to the process of moving forward with the regional building code we have been working with a small group of stakeholders, developers, architects as well as the Winnebago County to help evaluate ways in which we can encourage the investment within existing buildings.
 to break down some of those issues that you referenced. You are correct. I would predict as we go through this process, we're going to recognize that there are some codes, such as the State of Illinois Plumbing Code, which is not adopted locally but on a statewide level. That has created some hurdles when we redevelop property, so we may want to identify some of those for our legislative list of review. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Unfinished business? Yes.
 I believe it's I'm sorry you had your hand up you want to comment on an officer's report That's all I was going to do, I thought I already said that Alright, sorry Any further officer's reports to get unfinished business? All of them are dirty Thank you, Your Honor I have one item This is a committee report that recommends approval of the development agreement with Dine Capron Holdings LLC
 Also with the first Midwest group for the demolition redevelopment of 6122 Mulford Village Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to offer first to amend the committee report under section 2E, the last sentence which reads, any reduction in increment during the term of this agreement due to a protest by the tenant or the developer shall be reimbursed by the developer to the city.
 and I would like to offer an amendment that that sentence be deleted. So you're just asking that the last sentence in paragraph 2e in the development agreement be deleted? Yes sir. So that would be seconded. So the motion is as follows.
 The under promulgation 7A1, the development agreement, the Dine-Capron-Bowlings first Midwest group for demolition and redevelopment of 6122 Balfour Village Drive amended to eliminate the following. Any reduction in increment during the term of disagreement due to protest by a tenant and developer shall be reimbursed by the developer of the city. This motion in second would eliminate that sentence.
 second discussion. Hearing none all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. Ayes have it. Edmund Carey. Thank you your honor. Then I would place the first I guess we have to suspend rules again. So I would ask that the amended committee report be
 have rules suspended. We don't need a rule suspension. Oh wait, that's right, it was held open. Right. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would ask that the amended Planning and Development Committee report be up for passage. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please fill the roll. I'm sorry, I didn't catch that. I'll go ahead and pick the other one. Mr. Mayor, so that I want to make sure that I'm voting correctly, according to my opinion,
 Is this the one where the tenant wants to be able to protest the real estate tax for the property? Mr. Hayes? This would, the item as amended would allow the tenant to apportion or all of the subject property to challenge the assessed value of the property thereby removing that increment from recovery by the city.
 I'm sorry I could not hear the last few words that would reduce the city's increment to prime primarily to the tip from which the incentives are being paid so that money might be reduced the amount of money that would be received from the property in the future might be reduced thank you thank you so again just to make sure it's clear that can correct
 would still require that if the developer, that the developer not protest their taxes, but it would not regulate a tenant from doing so. Is that accurate? That's correct, Chair. Thank you. Any further discussion, all of you? Yeah, thank you, Your Honor. I passed out a gap analysis and some financial projections for the TIF. It's on the last page of the development agreement.
 We all want to take reference to that and see what the cash flow is, the projected cash flow is of the building. I believe some of the determinants were from comparables such as Olive Garden and other buildings in the area. Thank you all. So is this going to include the provision that the developer would have to make it up, or are we taking all of that out altogether? It's not a question.
 I've got an amendment here that was on my desk that makes it look like the tenant can protest it but the developer has to make up the difference. That suggested amendment from last week has not been added to the agreement. So now the city's protection and the clawback are being removed. Okay, because mine is dated April 20th. I prepared that considering that.
 I was unaware of Alderman Durkee's intended amendment until this evening, just a few minutes ago. This was prepared for the committee meeting, and the portion that didn't get acted on last week was reformatted into this memo. Okay, so essentially we're going to allow developments in TIF where the developer will agree not to protest...
 their valuation, but every tenant in the development can do so, reduce the value and the property tax increment that's coming into the city, including the increment that's going into the TIF, and we're just off the hook for that, I just think it's bad policy. And if we're doing it for one, I don't understand why we're not going to do it for all, and that's just disastrous for a TIF, especially a TIF in an area as rich as this one.
 It absolutely makes no sense to me. And I know people disagree with me as to whether this tip is blighted or rich, but it is. And to allow this kind of reduction and exception is, I think, reprehensible. But enough. Any further discussion? If there are none, clerk, please come and roll. Durkee? Aye. Getses? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Hill?
 Odo Newberg Beach Ellie a back with me Lee Shirely Apologize that's right. I'm done. I
 I move the appointment to the housing board of Ms. Liz Galacio who will serve a one year term and then I have an appointment to the housing board of Ms. Kathy McClure will serve a two-year term my place is Upper Passage has suspension rule 18. There's been a motion second to spend rule 18 so that these appointments can be heard and rule out tonight these are for two appointments the first is the housing board Ms. Liz Galacio
 The other is Ms. Kathy McClure. There's been a motion and a second to suspend Rule 18. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. I say aye. And just the reason we're moving this quickly is we want to make sure that we have a full housing board in place, and we've got some important meetings coming up with the Runners Association. We want to make sure that that process went as best as possible. Thank you.
 Any further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor of the appointments please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. Vice-Chairman, thank you. Motions and resolutions? Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a request for assistance from the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency to perform environmental assessment work at sites recommended by the City of Rockford. Place that up for passage.
 I think the resolution passes on the road to line A1 is regarding assistance for the fire analysis and sites recommended by the city is there discussion available Thank you Mr. Mayor I would just like to know do we know how many different sites and where Let's address that Mr. Cagnone what was the question
 I really asked how many sites that covered I believe was your question. And where? Thank you. And what would the locations be with Clemio? If not, Mr. Mayor, if not, we can just email it to you. No, we have a, we're your colleges. There was a resolution and a list of properties that were privatized at committee last week in Yolo.
 The total list of properties, we may not get the entire list of properties so we rank them one, two, three. We rank the number one being the Robert Coleman sites, the South Main Rail Yards and Secret Street sites and those associated properties and then we add some of the State Street sites as well. I think in your iPad we have the entire list documented.
 I believe you're on that we amended that last week and added I believe the watch factory site as well. Thank you for the discussion. I have one more paper to say aye. Aye. Thank you your honor. I have a special event permit and liquor permit for consumption of liquor outdoors on private property S license.
 Cinco de Mayo Festival, the festival will be held on Sunday, May 3rd, 2015, at 803 South Central Avenue, Rockford, Illinois, from 2 p.m. to 10 p.m.
 I have a special event permit for the Memorial Day Parade to be held on Monday, May 25, 2015. The parade time is 8.30 a.m. to 12 p.m. noon. The parade will follow the traditional downtown route, 7th Street to East 8th Street, North Main Street to Haskell Park.
 the city council of the city of rockford requesting permission from the illinois department of transportation for temporary street and land closures from memorial day parade to be held on monday may 25th 2015 along with the traditional downtown parade route
 We have a special event permit for the 2015 Bowtie March for Men's Cancer Awareness. The event will be held on Saturday, June 6, 2015 from 6.45 a.m. to 12 p.m. noon at Home Depot, 6930 Argus Drive, Rockford, Illinois.
 I have a special event permit for the Rockford Fire 911 3K Run to be held on Saturday, June 6, 2015 from 7 a.m. to 9.30 a.m. at Midway Village, 6799 Guilford Road, Midway Village Bike Path beginning and ending at Station 5, 391 Trainer Road. I have a special event
 and liquor permit SP license for the Rockford Air Fest 2015. The event will be held on the following dates, Friday, June 5th, 2015, Saturday, June 6th, 2015, and Sunday, June 7th, 2015, from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. each day located at the Greater Rockford Airport, 60 Airport Drive, Rockford, Illinois. Place these items up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you for passage. The resolutions.
 B, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6, all codes and regulations related. Is there discussion? If there is, Madam Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Hill. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13-A is right on there. That is passed. Thank you. Finance and Personnel. I'm sorry. Hold the call. Okay.
 S main relocation for Harrison Avenue reconstruction from 9th Street to 20th Street for a cost of $154,209.09. Have award of a joint purchasing contract with the state of Illinois for police mobile computer equipment with CDS Office Technologies of Springfield, Illinois for an amount not to exceed $100,000 annually.
 I have a resolution to take bids for a brush chipper for the forestry division, funding source street division capital budget. I have an engineering agreement for construction inspection for 7th Street Lighting and West State Streets streetscape to Crawford, Murphy and Tilly of Rockford, Illinois for not to exceed amount of $178,971.67.
 And I have an engineering agreement for East 8th Street roadway lighting, Fairview Avenue to Alpine Road with Hanson Engineering of Rockford, Illinois for not to exceed amount of $73,890. And I place it up for passage. Thank you. Over to the passings and our financing resolutions. Roll number 9, C1234567. And as our passage is their discussion, Newbury Vandal, you know, the new building.
 Thank you, sir. Number six, on the brush chipper, I meant to ask this last week and didn't. Is that machinery going to be shared with county or township?
 Mayor, no, this is one of our chippers that has been around since 1998. It's lived its life. We can't fix it anymore. I think we've got a bid on the scrap for about $300, but it would cost us more to fix it
 instead of just buying a new one and we're anticipating you know we're going to purchase a chipper this year as part of our our capital program for buying equipment and we're looking for some support to get it a little bit earlier since we need it for our operation No what I asked was is this chipper being used with the county or the township at all I mean when we purchase this
 Have you looked into sharing and helping with the cost at all? With this, no. We use four chippers every day. We don't share that. We share a striper with the county. There's other small equipment that we use with the county and the township, but not in this case. We use it so often. I think that's the issue. We do share other equipment, though.
 Go ahead. I knew that, but I got many calls that that's what we should do, so I wanted to publicly know why we're purchasing our own. Thank you. Thank you. I'll let Patrick. Thank you, Mayor. Are you saying that that chipper is as old as Alderman Durkee's 98 Volvo? The difference is his Volvo still works. I don't know how many miles. There's an equivalent tree to mile ratio or something.
 Probably. Any further discussion on the items? Thank you very much. And the first four, five items, it doesn't list the source where the funding is for those items. And then I'd like to know, and not necessarily to my can email me, I'd like to know the breakdown of how much the streetlights for item number seven, the streetlights for 7th Street
 and the streetlights for West State Street. The breakdown of that $178,000, you can just email me. Thank you. Let's take those, Director. Mayor, this is just the design for the Miracle Mile area between Fairview up to Alpine at this point, but it's only for the engineering to get to that point. We don't have a cost for what that would be yet. No, no. We have to get the cost. We have to do the design before we know what we want. You're talking about item seven? Number seven.
 You're on number eight, I think, maybe. Okay, the question on 7th Street and a West State Street streetscape. The West State streetscape is the area between Wyman and Church that we're doing this summer. So it's just an engineering inspection for those two together. We combine them both together because we've got a good price for that. So between the two of them, it's a little over $2 million, and we got it for $178,000, so it's about 9%. Thank you very much. The question was?
 right now but it's fine I swear I think you I just need to know the other the first five items any other question was the first what's the source of funding for items one through I think five is listed I you know if Matt put it in the memo the number two is out of
 number three is sales tax and number four is out of the STU funds that we're doing along with the one that we support as you've been assuming is general fund but I can't remember yes yes ma'am thank you for the discussion on the items thank you very much hearing none
 Aye. Aye. Aye. That is passed. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. This will be under resolutions under the legislative lobbying committee. I would ask for a motion to take the resolution concerning...
 the local government in power and reform from the Legislative Lobby Committee to the full council for tonight. Is there a second? Second. We're going to motion second to the resolution in support of the turnaround agenda for the local government to the council floor. Is there a discussion? If there are none, all those in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. No. Nice to have it. May I sit on the floor for discussion I assume? Thank you. Is there any further discussion?
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Again, I would just like to encourage my colleagues to not support this item. I don't think it's beneficial to the city overall. So I would ask that, and I intend to vote no. Thank you for the discussion. Thank you.
 I would like to ask my fellow council members to support this. It is a start. It isn't a 100% perfect paper. Let's get it done. Let's get it down. Let's get some of the control back to local government. Thank you. Thank you. Just very quickly, I would like to ask for council members to support this also, both for the benefit of our state and our local government.
 I drive up and down the streets and I look at the people working on our projects and I want to see more of them from my community. I want to see more of them from the City of Rockford. I want to see more competition within our city and I believe by relaxing prevailing
 By having more cost-effective ways to conduct businesses and build businesses in the city, we're all going to benefit more and see a lower cost for the things that we need the most for our city. Roads, construction projects, new businesses, things that will generate taxes and reduce our property taxes. And I think those are going to benefit our workers in the long run. I think the more people who can start their own businesses,
 push entrepreneurship
 and the more people who have access to some of our union jobs and our projects that take place within the city is going to benefit our neighborhoods as a whole. So I would ask people to give their support even if things need to be tweaked. This is a resolution, not an ordinance and not a law. It's going to provide direction to the state and I believe that direction is going to be important in helping Rockford set a new path. Thank you.
 sure really that thank you your honor I agree with them call them herby and this is not an ordinance this is not we're being asked to endorse these ideas
 on this piece of paper. And I look at this piece of paper and I say that Transform Rockford two years ago brought out the brutal facts. These are some of the brutal facts that we have to address in this state. And I hope that the state legislators can come to agreement on a lot of these things. I am not happy with a lot of this language, but we need to send a message down to Springfield that something needs to be done.
 Hopefully this conversation that's been taking place here tonight was a start. And I appreciate Governor Rauner for starting this conversation. They're tough calls that have to be made here. And, again, I am not happy with a lot of this stuff, but I believe the conversation needs to be had. And in alignment with Transform Rockford and the brutal facts, we need to talk about these things. Appreciate it. Thank you, Annie, for the discussion.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I would make a motion that we lay this item over until the next council meeting. Second. It's been moved and seconded to lay the matter over. Is there any discussion? Clerk, call the roll on the motion to lay the matter over. No. Aye. The motion fails. The matter is still on the floor. Is there any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. No. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Hill. Otto. Newberg. Aye.
 Beech Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker Becker
 I was thinking of trying to count and talk at the same time. Yes. If I could take the first item. Yes. The direct action. And this is the HUD Section 108 public offering to refinance $570,000 balance on note. It's executed for September 2003 for South Main Shopping Center. And I ask for suspension of Rule 15. Thank you. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules.
 The section 108 public offering refinance $507,000 in balance and a delivery executed September 2003 from the South Main Shopping Center. All those in favor, spend the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Motion to approve. All those in favor?
 And just to remind everyone, Your Honor, this is simply refinancing an existing note that we have. It allows us to save about $79,000 over the life of the note. Well, in fact, I don't know if you were staffed when this came up. All of a sudden, we just got notified by the next website.
 Right, it has to be done by May 5th. Mr. Hayes, do you want to explain that real quick? Sure. HUD's been working with us on a number of 108 projects. There's another one that's traveling through council now. They pointed out that there's a refunding opportunity for us. They sent us the package on April 13th.
 indicated that they needed it in the email by the 15th of May. But when I opened up the letters on last Tuesday, I saw that they really need it by the 5th of May and they need to have it in hand.
 By suspending rules and passing this now, we'll be in line to save upwards of $79,000 of interest without expanding the payment schedule. So this is strictly a refinance of existing debt. We're not taking on more debt. Our interest rates are likely to go lower. They estimate that we'll save that amount, and we're hopeful we'll save that amount. Thank you. Thank you for this, Governor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Why do we need to extend shop for this shopping center?
 Is it because we changed hands several times? Ms. Chase? So this is a South Main Shopping Center original debt that we took on and under our structure have been paying, you know, through our support of that project. And obviously the project has had some fits and starts, but it's operating now and it –
 The debt evidences the city's commitment to that groceries facility for that part of town and was sorely needed and remains sorely needed. That was done back in 2003 was when this debt was taken on. Thank you. No, really. You can throw these away from us. Durkee? Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hill? Aye.
 Ali a fact I'm Nick Neely I surely I 12 I surrender I would like under Roman numeral 10 letter B number two We have a developer contacted the type tag known he would like to hold that out for the next council meeting and
 So there's two items under B. Right. Do you want to take? Yeah, B, I would like to hold out under Roman numeral 10B2, hold that out. And then under Roman numeral 10B1, I place up for passage the development agreement with Dine-Caperin Holdings, LLC, a first Midwest group, for the demolition and redevelopment of 6122 Mulford Village Drive. First, I'd like to suspend it.
 Thank you. There's been a motion and second to spend the rule with regard to 10b. 10b.2 is going to be held. 10b.1, a motion to spend the rules. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Aye, 7. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would like to place up for passage the item under 10b.1. 10b.1 of passage is their discussion. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye.
 frost hill auto newberg beach le a back pick me Lee surely love a nice one no you're on business regulations committee all the trail thank you your honor the codes and regulations committee is authorizing eminent domain to acquire real estate property located at 1034 Mulberry Street
 and said property is necessary, useful, advantageous and desirable to construct a police substation. The Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the grocery store in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District and a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2013 McFarland Road, the Myers application, subject to conditions,
 liquor tobacco advisory board recommends approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station convenience store and the seat to limited commercial zoning district in the seat three general commercial zoning district at twenty eleven north perryville road my your applicants subject to conditions and I moved to suspend the rules your honor thank you there's been a motion six federal standard and see almost everything is the
 No. I say. Your Honor, I place those ordinances up for passage. Those ordinances are up for passage as they're discussed. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hill. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No. Shirely. Aye. Roman numeral 10C111. I say 1-0. The remainder 12-0. No. Pass. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one is being held out. Item two is a memorandum of understanding with State of Illinois for South Main Street two-way conversion. Item three is a memorandum of understanding with 4500 Kishwaukee LLC for a maintenance landscape agreement for a global trade park.
 Item 4 is a commercial private road crossing agreement with the Union Pacific Railroad Company for the downtown sports complex. The total cost will be $58,395. And item 5 is an intergovernmental agreement between the county of Winnebago and the city of Rockford for the lease, demolition, and transfer of a public safety building. I place items 2 through 5 up for passage. I'm sorry, suspension of rules. Thank you. There's been a motion. Thank you, Mr. President.
 I'll also favor to say aye. Aye. No, sir. No. Next item, the rule of the state. And then I'll place them for passage. Yes, sir, for passage. It's a discussion. Thank you, Mayor. Excluding, first I want to say thank you to city staff and county staff for working on the agreement, the intergovernmental agreement number five. But excluding the substructure, how many square feet will the city in total be operating out of?
 The PSP, yes. Excluding the substructure? How much square footage? We'll have the majority of the second floor and probably the same amount of square footage on the first floor as we have today. I'm looking at Chief Pan, but about the same. Is that like 37,000? I would say it's around 40,000 square feet. Thanks for the discussion. Thank you.
 Thank you. Number four, the total city cost will be $15,395,000. What about the annual maintenance and upkeep of this area? Does that go with the sports corps, or is that still the city responsibility? So you're talking about just the railway right away? Yes.
 this is only for the construction of the railroad crossing you know from that point on is it's a U P crossing they will maintain their own property thank you thank you thank you for the discussion thank you Mr. Mayor item number one I missed this under committee report city of Rockford human service department oh okay so maybe that's why I missed it thank you
 Any further discussion on the items 2, 3, 4? Hearing none, clerk, please come to roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Hill. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Aye. And the remainder? McNeely. Shirely. Roman numeral 10D4, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Roman numeral 10D5, 11 ayes, 1 no. The remainder, 12 ayes, 0 no. Thank you. The matter is called passed.
 For the business, was there a motion to go into closed session to discuss litigation matter? Is there a second? Motion is second to go into closed session for the purposes of discussing pending litigation or proposed litigation. Any discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee, Getchis, McNamara, Frost, Hill, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, McNeely,