They say that there wasn't any Mexicans in Vietnam to get the Medal of Honor. That's a lie. There were 17 Mexicans.
 I'm going to name them tonight. Number one, Jose Jamez, Marine Corps. Number two, Miguel Keith, Marine Corps. Number three, Carlos Lozada, Army. Number four, Alfred Raskin, Army. Number five, Luis Rocco, Army. Number six, Rupes Rubio, Army. Number seven, John Becker, Army. Number eight, Roy Benavides, Army. Number nine, Emilio Garcia, Marine Corps. Number 10, Ralph Dias, Marine Corps.
 number 11 Daniel Fernandez Army, number 12 Alfred Gonzalez Marine Corps, number 13 Hector Collins Army, number 14 Emilio Rodriguez Army, number 15 JR Rodgers Marine Corps, number 16 Hubert Vazquez Army, number 17 Meskin Mosquillo Yaviz Army. Meskins, Latinos, you don't have no reason to have your head down. Sign up and speak up for the things your people did
 And the man Rob made of fetus, I know him very well. We call him the Greyhound Man. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mr. Archie. Robert 17, verses 27 and 28 highlights.
 Some of the benefits are keep it quiet. It's the best policy if you have enough to work wild at the state. It allows you the opportunity to envision an environment to give you something in common with those who may be black in the region. Make sure it's a pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you have something important to say. A Mexican historian, Trump needs to give all of his freedom sentences for give up Texas and his distance southwest. Is a Mexican historian who's trying to be a historian
 and recently wrote in the New York Times that his country maintained the claim to the land taken during the 19th century Mexican-American War, and now it's time for President Donald Trump to pay up. Following the end of World War, of the war in 1848, the Treaty of Gapoli gave the U.S. territory of California, Texas, as well as part of Arizona and Mexico. But according to the historian,
 uh... uh...
 made us many promises, but he only kept one. He promised to take our land, and he didn't. This country was founded and built on immigration. The only people that are not immigrants are the natives of America, that you call Indians, and African American people who came here on the slave road. So what did that have to do with property?
 and Donald Trump policy has been on the front page and deeply divides this country. Rockford, the former Immigration Detention Center, spurred a debate. The Winnebago County Sheriff's Department is interested in contracting with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to establish an Immigration Detention Center in a vacant part of the Winnebago County.
 Winnipeg County jail. The Winnipeg County Department is interested in contact with the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to establish an immigration detention
 in the one of the local counties, Yale. If it is to prove, detainees will be housed in the sheltered rock middle of the North. This late immigrant attorney, Mason Love Fox, a Latin immigrant, legal and illegal, has been visiting in fear since Donald Trump became president. Trump has promised to build a massive border wall and crack down on illegal immigrants. And his administration is demanding that multiple authorities and local laws are going to be born to assist in the enforcement of immigration law
 I believe I share a good intention she said but I don't believe you understand the climax. There is definitely a legitimate fear. I for one agree with her 100%. I don't agree with her 100% but I do agree with the mayor that's in the game they're here for. That one or three percent sale tax is built to build a jail because the old woman was overcrowded and the inmates filed an lawsuit and won. That was the biggest reason
 building a new jail and part of their sales tax was to provide. People say they've been working to build a trust in the immigration community with the Latin, Tino, the Mexicans, and every day that this has been in the news, we lose trust with all these groups, plus that includes us. I know for a fact that many in the community would stop reporting crime out of fear of mistrust. Thank you. I'll be back. All right. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Maria Mendia. I'm American, first generation, and all of us here as descendants of this great immigrant country can share stories of how a family member got here, struggled and sacrificed to have a better life and become mainstream. I was an illegal alien, true. After leaving Kansas 30 years ago with my daughter, I arrived in an alien state, Illinois.
 rephrasing, not alien, strange because alien isn't a warm ET feeling. As I started my assimilation, I learned to say Illinois.
 Becoming a good citizen, it took many years to become a good citizen. My main goal was to make a better life for my daughter. I was a new illegal resident without an Illinois driver's license or proper documentation like many undocumented residents. I held three jobs and with legitimate fears became invisible.
 Then, go the neighbor to a night shift. Now, on Keshawake Street, late at night, shopping for bread with my daughter. For undocumented residents, family is first. Fear when a police officer stopped in the store. My invisibility worked. I was safe. But I don't have dark skin like many undocumented residents. March 2017 statistics show that under Trump, only 5% of deportees commit crime.
 This proves the silent majority perception that most are breaking the law. 95% do work, two jobs, producing goods and services, odd schedules, little free time, washing dishes, back-breaking labor, cooking burns, rashes from cleaning equipment injuries without insurance, low wages, all to buy essentials, educate their kids, and pay taxes. They do what good citizens do. They should be called undocumented citizens.
 Putting a detention center in our city would damage family. My brother, a Mexican, a Vietnam vet, my mother, an American citizen at age 82. I am shocked at the possible vision that my or anyone's mother in an orange suit, handcuffed, excuse me, really, homes without fathers, no matter what their documentation status,
 Family confusion will have a negative effect on our community. Winnebago County Sheriff Coriana attempted to assure the residents that he, not ICE, will call the shots. But with $80 per enemy daily and an open door to ICE, can he guarantee no expedited removal? And how dishonorable to negotiate budget relief at the expense of vulnerable families. Just who is committing a moral crime? I thank Chief O'Shea for building trust in Latino Muslim communities.
 An ICE detention center would undermine that trust. Mr. McNamara, thank you for Sanctuary City. Call the Sheriff's Department, 815-319-6921. Say no detention center. Transform Rockford, 815-319-6921. Thank you.
 Thank you to each of our public speakers this evening. Wanted to give council members a chance to do officers' reports at this point in time. If there would be any items they want to report on, I'll let them hurry. Thank you, Your Honor. This Thursday, the Fifth Ward meeting will be at the Montague Branch Library at 6 o'clock p.m. But also, I want to thank the Auburn Key Club. I forgot to bring all the members' names with me. They...
 worked with us on South Main Street. And if anybody gets a chance who saw South Main Street, the before and the after, the Barbara Coleman building looks like it could be inhabited. Just joking, but it is beautiful. We picked up 22 bags of trash just along the fence row there at Barbara Coleman and on the two outlocks.
 And I could barely walk for the rest of the day. The kids were in much better shape, but I do want to thank them. And the Key Club at Auburn, they work with the Ethnic Heritage Museum. They come over frequently and just pick up paper and trash along South Main Street. They plant flowers. They do all kinds of things. And I want to issue a challenge to our churches in the Fifth Ward community. We've got one.
 every few blocks it seems. And I'm going to be sending a letter out to everyone asking people to do just one simple thing. You don't have to clean up all of Barbara Coleman or anything of that sort. But if each church would adopt the block that their church sits on, help clean out the grates to keep them from getting clogged, pick up the paper that blows up against some of the fences,
 And let's beautify the place. Let's keep it from looking trashy. If everybody could just adopt one. So I'm going to send the letters out and ask especially that they get our young people involved. I think it will give them something very positive to do. But thanks to Auburn. Thank you. All of a new work. Thank you. It's time for my spring message. I noticed on my weekly service reports that
 There were three calls of people that called into the city to come out to clean their storm sewer. It had leaves on top. Guess what, folks? For the last four years, I've carried a rake in my car, and Public Works makes fun of me. So when we get one of those calls, I drive down there with my trusty rake, and you know what? I just take the rake and take the stuff off and put it in the people's yard.
 Let's clean out our storm sewers. It takes maybe five minutes to do. And I think it's a waste of public service or public works time to send a person out to do that. It may belong to the city, but it's part of our property. So please, folks, let's get our rakes out. I'm not gonna be around with my rake in the car to do this for you, so you're on your own now. Thank you.
 Thank you. Further officer's reports? Alderman Beck? Thank you. I just, colleagues in the room here, yesterday was Scott Capovella's birthday, so I brought some sandwiches in his honor. So, there in the back room, help yourselves. Thank you, Alderman Beck, for your honoring Mr. Capovella and yourself. Further officer's reports? So, we have just a couple items of business in the special counsel meeting. We'll move on to that. Under new committee reports,
 Who wants to take this? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral two, new committee reports, the Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of an economic incentive agreement with Napleton Auto Group. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to suspend rules on this item first. Aha. We no longer need our... Oh, that's bench the rules. Yes. All right. Under the new Getches rule,
 Will forever be known as the Getchis Rule. Now, so the current rule, I'm trying to remember now, I'm dating myself, but as Mr. Partridge reminded me this morning, we still have the state law that allows for, since this is the first time it's up for passage, any alderman who gets a second, it would automatically lay over, but we don't need the suspension of the rules to begin the discussion. All right. Is there discussion? No discussion on the matter?
 I did have one. The drawings that were attached all had Love's Park, and my question is why. I don't know if that was an old building or something, but why do they have Love's Park on them if it's a Rockford store? And was that design, is that design going to be the same, or was it made for a different lot and different grade and style?
 Mr. Cagnone, can you take that? Yes, Your Honor, thank you. The design is proposed for the lot
 to be constructed in Rockford. They currently have a Loves Park address, so I think that was the confusion when they were working through the designs, but it is a Rockford facility, and it's built for that site. Okay, and then I guess the second part, the alderman discount on the Land Rover and the Jags? You see that in the package, so... So I may give that one to Mr. Partridge. Or the loaner. I'll take either one.
 Just kidding. Wait, I better put that on record. All right. Sounds good. Any further discussion? The humor was noted by Mr. Pratchett. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Murphy? Aye. Gatches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Beck? McNeely? I'm sorry? Yeah. Sorry. Torelli? Aye.
 13 ays you're on. Matter passes, thank you. Motions and resolutions. Thank you, your honor. There is one item under Roman numeral three, motions and resolutions. The HUD compliance review, voluntary compliance agreement with the city of Rockford. Please set up for vote. The under Roman numeral three, item one, the HUD compliance review, voluntary compliance agreement with the city of Rockford is up for passage as their discussion.
 Hearing none clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Natchez? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Topsom? Kelly? Aye. Odo? Newberg? Beach? McNeely? Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item, the ordinance approving an economic incentive agreement with Napleton Auto Group. Please set up for passage. Thank you. For passage, the ordinance that corresponds with the committee report that we just passed. There's a discussion on that. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durfee? Aye. Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Culley? Otto? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye.
 Sure. 13 ayes, your honor. The matter passes. Thank you. Is there any further business before this special council meeting? Seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn? Second. There's a motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Thank you.