Here. Here. Getches. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Here. Connell. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach.
 Thank you. I have a new committee report this evening. The committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Advisory Board's approval of the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and gaming facility with an outdoor seating area and a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 1132 Auburn Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I move to suspend the rules on this committee report. Second. Any further discussion from earlier? Alderman McNamara? Thank you.
 Oh, this is on the, okay. Thank you. I just wanted to thank Attorney Hammer as well as Attorney Hayes for putting this together at the last minute. I sincerely appreciate the amount of time that you put into it the last several days. This business is a stalwart in the northwest end of our community, and I would appreciate your approval. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I again would like to thank you.
 express my support for both the staff and the Duraskiller restaurant, which many people may not know is, I believe, the longest continuously open restaurant in the city of Rockford, going back in that particular building on Auburn Street to 1931. I've had the pleasure and privilege to go there on many occasions with a group of lawyers I used to meet there. I had a friend from out of town that always stopped there on his way home from work and
 We've enjoyed the many German beers and food there as well as they have a special German liqueur called the Apple Corn, which I believe is the only place in the state of Illinois you can actually buy that beverage. And I suggest that everyone on the council go in there at least once to try it. Thank you. Do we remember those? Alderman McNeely? Madam Pro-Chair. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 Madam, Mayor Pearlton, thank you, got tongue-tied there. I just wanted to know how much Alderman Frost got paid for that commercial. Alderman Newman, Newburgh. Thank you. Though it's not in my ward, it's next to my ward, and we've spent many times there, and I don't think Alderman got paid for that because it is a good drink and everyone should try it at least once. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Hervey. Well, in all my years in Rockford and back in Rockford, I have never been to Der Raskiller. Oh, shoot me. However, I will take Alderman Frost up, and I will insist that he accompany me there for dinner and whatever that drink is so I can make sure that it is everything that he says it is. So I will look forward to that in the next week or two. Any further discussion? No.
 All those in favor say aye. Any opposed say nay. Is that on the rules distinction? Alderman Oro. One quick question. If Kevin's going to accompany Vanita, can we go as a group? I'll continue to act. I placed that item up for passage. Any further discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? No.
 It passes? You want to do roll call? Clerk, will you call roll? No. Oh, okay. That's right. That was approved. So, Your Honor, under new business, Roman numeral 3, I would like to suspend the rules on the ordinance. Second. Voice call? Vote. Clerk, could you please take a vote? Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. The rules are suspended. Your Honor, I place that ordinance up for passage. So now I can just ask for a roll call? Roll call. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. So it passes. Any further? Motion to adjourn. Very good.