Thank you Mr. Mayor. Would you bow your heads and hearts in prayer? Gracious God, I choose to be a Christian but there are many religious traditions and expressions in our community. We are grateful for everyone. Everyone who works for peace and strength brings harmony to our world. We are grateful for the work they have. We ask that you might grant this council and these city leaders with wisdom and strength and hope as they receive the complex problems that are placed before them.
 We are like any other city, that we have different problems and different obstacles, but we are not like any other city in the sense that we have good people that work together to bring about wisdom and hope and justice to all people. We ask that you might bless us in all things, and that you might watch over us on this evening. And we offer this in your name. Amen.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Here.
 Beck? Harris. Shirelli? Smith. Ten present. Excellent. We have a quorum. This evening we have five public speakers. I'll just remind each speaker that you have three minutes, and there's microphones in the back right and back left. First public speaker we have is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 103rd chapter, the second verse, it says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget none of his benefits. What I want to speak about tonight, the five causes of human traffic and the five solutions to this problem.
 Likened to modern slavery, human trafficking is driven mostly by similar motivations to those of slavery. The Department of Homeland Security defines human trafficking as the legal trade of humans for exploitation or commercial gain. Exploitation frequently involves forcing victims into prostitution or slavery. According to a 2012 International Labor Organization report, 21 million people are victims of forced labor. The Asian Pacific region accounts for the largest number of forced labor in the world with 11.7 million victims.
 56% of the global total, followed by Africa with 3.7 million, 18%, and Latin America with 1.8 million victims. According to the Houston Post, approximately 80% of human trafficking and slavery is for sex. The rest are forced labor slaves such as agriculture and construction.
 5,544 cases of human traffic were reported, as stated in a study by the National Human Traffic Resource Center. Human traffic can be separated to sex traffic and labor traffic. Though they have different purpose, they are general trends that explain the overall root causes of human traffic.
 Here are the five main causes of human trafficking. One, poverty, war, natural disaster, and a search for a better life. Traffickers look for people who are susceptible to and forced into human trafficking. Those people tend to be migrants fleeing their homes, either because of economic hardship, natural disaster, conflict, or political instability. The displacement of population increases individual emotional volubility, and frequently they do not have the financial support to protect themselves. This makes them subject to abuse and trafficking.
 Two, women and children are targets. In some societies, the evaluation of women and children make them far more valuable to trafficking than men.
 traditional attitudes and practice. Early marriage and lack of birth registration further increase the susceptibility of women and children. They are also targeted because of the demand for women in sex trafficking. A report by Equality Now states that 20.9 million adults and children are bought and sold worldwide to commercial sexual servitude, forced labor, and bonded labor. Women and girls make up 98% of the victims. Traffic for sexual exploitation. Three, demand for cheap labor. The service industry, particularly restaurants and kitchens,
 common exporter of human trafficking. There's also a demand for cheap domestic and agricultural labor. Employers are often initially promised a safe work space and a steady salary only to later find that they are paid less than minimum wage and work on. Business owners guilty of this behavior continue to practice this illegal because the victims of trafficking can rarely protect themselves and they have very few alternatives. Human trafficking generates a huge profit.
 $150,975,640,215 victims of human trafficking arise because victims are well hidden. If you come down hard like the military do, you can stop this human trafficking in the United States. Thank you. Next public speaker we have is Mr. John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our Alderman, Alderman and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, God wants us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restarted positive. Those who open their eyes to the poor, people who would be blessed if we help others
 When they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does to other people. What can you do today to help supply someone's need? The power of the party precinct commitment cannot be underestimated. This past Saturday at the S&M and FF club, we DJ a birthday party for four generations, 90 year old, 60 year old, 30 year old, a four and a six year old birthday party.
 I was blown away by the fact that they only wanted to hear old school music and R&B. That was right up my alley. A few of the family members asked and talked to me about, they see what I'm doing in the community and asked how could they help. Well, guess what? They're going to bless Renewal Turning Point during the Mother's Day dinner. They're going to bless us with six of them gift wraps.
 in there and a mother's day dinner is going uh we have the first 40 moms will be receiving a rose the uh the name of the event is going to be based on domestic violence and and trafficking that and we'll have all the moms the moms have got a teenage father a a a
 I mean, a teenage son, a husband or boyfriend, they were catered to. Those moms who don't have that 3-1, we're gonna look at the mayor, we're gonna look at the other arguments, other male figures to be there at this here event to cater to these single moms.
 and the kids gonna be outside. We gonna start it off with the park district. They gonna come in and do a survey for the park. When last year we had over 238 people at my event, so it's gonna be great to do it at the park. We gonna have the firemen,
 is going to have a vehicle there. We're going to have the police. It's going to have their showmobiles there. The power district and the Boys and Girls Club are going to cater to the little ones outside. On the menu, it's going to be either pork steak or pork chops. If they don't eat pork, we're going to have baby back ribs or pork chops.
 or country state, I mean country ribs, country spare ribs, with the trimming around the side of it. The panel's gonna be able to intervene. So that's the reason why we wanna have the kids outside because this subject is gonna be very,
 sensitive last year. R. H. A. Had a table for us and they uh and they provided for the park district. But this year R. H. A. Is not gonna uh uh help me with a table. They're gonna cater to Blackhawk and Orton keys. So I'm gonna have to raise $200 so we'd be able to participate in the Rockford football training camp and and also the park district. The
 10 youth that i bring two of them will be able to participate in the football of uh for your child and last before i go she wanted me to bring you this uh she's gonna be here on the uh third thank you you know about that and i'm gonna leave it right there alderman frost will make sure i get it oh okay thank you next public speaker we have this evening is mr rudy valdez good evening everyone
 I'm here in support of the three downtown development projects. The former Handley building, or Handley location, the Talcott building and the CA flats. I concur with the mayor with his statement to the register star that the proposals show that downtown is a viable and in demand place to live. The projects total $21 million with over $8 million in subsidies from the city. This is through 100% TIF reimbursement of the tax increment generated by the projects.
 I think this is a really good thing, except for one exception. As a taxpayer, I do not believe that the agreement for the former Hanley location should include the $530,000 owed by the developer to the City. According to the agreement, the developer will reimburse the City from tax increment subsidies at a rate of up to $52,000 per year starting in 2021. This means that at best,
 the $530,000 will be an interest-free loan through 2030. And there are provisions in there that could actually extend it to 2041. So this 13 to 24 years of payback after the fire and subsequent demolition of the building, I don't think is acceptable. All this could have been really avoided if the developer had insurance in the buildings that he owns.
 I believe that there are other potential uses for half a million dollars in the development opportunities on the west side besides downtown. One is the possibility of luring schnooks with this type of incentive. I think it was in the paper that they are closing two of them. One of them is in Loves Park. And we do have a need on the west side for a good grocery store. Or perhaps we could use the $530,000 payment for public safety needs.
 The development is a good thing for downtown. However, the city council should consider removing the $530,000 from the agreement and get the liability paid much sooner. The city should not wait for that incremental increase to get paid back over a 13 to 24-year period. Thank you. Next public speaker that we have this evening is Nancy Godowski. Good evening. Good evening.
 This council will be voting tonight on the urban equity projects, the Burn Down Hanley Building, Talcott Transformation, and CA Flats. There are so many intricacies in this agreement that it is very hard to decipher. Urban equity's total investment in these three new projects will be about $21 million. But at what price do the taxpayers of the city have to pay? Thank you.
 The city would enforce a standard pay-as-you-go TIF agreement, but also advance urban equities $743,000. But they would repay the advancement from the tax increment and be liable for shortfalls in the projected increment, according to the Rock River Times. My understanding is urban equities already has benefited from TIFs for the Talcott building and now wants more money to fix it up.
 Also, Urban Equity is talking about a bridge going from the Talcott Building to the West State Street parking deck. Who pays for the bridge? The City or Urban Equities? Also, the City gave this very same company, the Valencia Apartments, at least a year ago. Why is so much given to this company when they didn't even bother to carry insurance on the Hanley Building? Putting out that fire and cleanup came out of taxpayers' money.
 What company owns properties and carries no insurance? And you trust them with three major projects of this magnitude? You need to redo this agreement and make them show that they have paid up insurance every three months in writing from the insurance company. The city not only spent over half a million dollars on putting out this fire and clean up, but they lost the interest on this money.
 Is urban equity going to reimburse the city plus interest, the city taxpayers' loss, and not from the tax increment? This is the same government that complained about lift fees for nursing homes. And by the way, I want to add something from Alderman Durkee. You owe me $1,000 in fines. Thank you. Next public speaker this evening is Troy Flynn. Is Troy Flynn here?
 Would either Alderman Beach or Alderman Toonberg like to step in to promote what Mr. Flynn was going to be promoting? I think we can do that together. You've got three minutes. No, I'm joking. Three and three are six. Three and three are six. Better let Frank talk. Well, we had a report at our last RAVE meeting about good things that were happening.
 was kind of decided that perhaps we should say something tonight but that further look at it we said why not have Troy come over here who's really put a lot of energy and effort into bringing success here to Rockford and I don't know why he's not here he agreed to be here something must have come up I hope it's not serious for him but I've been around on the rave board thanks to the city allowing me to be there for a number of years and I've seen all
 some dark times. I've seen our subsidies in the millions to try to make that thing work. And I see today we're probably just a little bit less than a half a million dollars in subsidy. It's quite possible that by the year's end, there might not be any subsidy needed, at least through this budget year. Now, if you want to finish it off in terms of the number of people that are coming from away from the city, I'll sit down and give my floor to you, Alderman.
 Again, Frank and I sit on the Rave board meeting and had a very interesting meeting this last time. It was last Friday. Friday of last week was a playoff game against our arch rival Chicago Wolves. The atmosphere was electric. It was fantastic. They found out about 50% of the people at the BMO for that game were outside of the Rockford area.
 That were coming in and and a good percentage of those were coming in from the Chicago area I just found out a little bit ago talking about the the game where Rockford went and played at Chicago played the Wolves and They said about 90% of the people there were wearing Blackhawks jersey And it was a lot of Chicago people rooting on the Rockford Icehogs we have a gem here and that
 In the playoffs, we're going to be playing Manitoba now, and even the Blackhawks organization have stepped up and are going to help the Ice Hogs with their traveling costs because it will include air this time, not bus. But the point is that we really have a gem of an organization here that's not owned by the Blackhawks. One board member pointed out that,
 in recent conversations with our citizens that I think most people here, in fact he said probably nine out of ten people, don't realize the Ice Hogs are owned by you, the taxpayers.
 So the more we support them and get out, it is, I spent some time in Chicago at an event a week ago, and when people found out I was from Rockford, they immediately brought up the Ice Hogs. So the Blackhawks are not in the playoffs, but the Rockford Ice Hogs are. So let's get out there and root them on. I would encourage everyone, it's a great time, and the schedule is coming out for our games against Manitoba.
 So thank you. Any questions? Frank will be more than happy to. Excellent, thank you. Next up we have a new committee report and under code and regulations committee, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, your honor. First I want to thank you, your honor, and your staff for allowing this meeting to take place tonight. I know your staff worked over the weekend to prepare all these documents.
 for the council members so i really appreciate that it's in line with the doing in business rockford committee that moving these businesses forward these applications so they can open and i really appreciate that i know the rights committee appreciates that also your honor
 So moving forward under Roman numeral 3B1, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station at 913 Kilburn Avenue. Going forward, I'm going to say the LTAB instead of Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board, Your Honor. So number two is the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store.
 At 1955 Elmwood Avenue. Number three, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, music venue and coffee bar at 1402 North Main Street.
 Number four, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of a sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store at 2338 Charles Street. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board recommends approval for the sale of drink products.
 Sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern nightclub gaming facility in an outdoor seating area and part B of that is The L tab recommends approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and nightclub at 513 East State Street. Hope that was clear your honor. I
 Number six the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant gaming facility at 2627 Sanhutton Avenue the seventh committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the banquet hall bar in an outdoor roof seating area at 214 East State Street and
 Number eight the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant At 308 West State Street the legal director shall prepare all the appropriate ordinances I place those eight items up for passage your honor. Thank you alderman Is there any questions or concerns discussion on the IDA eight items before us? Seeing none clerk. Will you please call the roll? Logoman Toomer
 Frost. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. One, two, five, six, and eight. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Items one, two, ten ayes, one no. Items three, four, eleven ayes. Items five, six, ten ayes, one no. Items seven, eleven ayes. Item eight, ten ayes, one no.
 Thank you. The appointment that's on the agenda is laid over until after May 16th. Is there any additional officers' reports that you have pressing? Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank You mayor, I just want to give a quick report out on Rockford housing I don't know what's made it into the press yet or not because I've been out of town But at this time we are withdrawing the request for the demolition and rebuilding of fairgrounds phases two and three one of the reasons is that the developer did not provide plans to us and rather than have our request revoked we have chosen to withdraw it and
 The other thing that we're going through right now is getting a new CEO. And for those of you who don't know, we've turned over about 39 positions at Rockford Housing. So we're waiting to get stabilized. But it is our intent to submit a new RAD application for this project later this year, once IDA has finalized its application dates for 2019. And that has to do with financing.
 The interim we will be working to refine the financing plan for all remaining phases of the project The other thing you should know is that our board chairman has stepped down as of June 1st And we will be looking for another member to join our board And one of the things I want to bring up and this is kind of new is that we are asking that board members be willing to go to training and
 and go to conferences so that we actually know what they're talking about when we are in our meetings. So there is hope that most people will be willing to go to anywhere from two to four out-of-town meetings a year. So we need to present that to people. We just really think we should be trained. Okay. Okay.
 Thank you. And Alderman Thunberg, did you have your hand raised? Yeah, thanks. For officers' reports, correct? Yep. Thank you, Mayor. We were just notified, Frank, Alderman Beach was just notified that Troy unfortunately had a death in the family, and so he's been dealing with that and was gone out of town for a portion of this week. So I wanted to relay that to everyone and keep his family in our prayers.
 uh also in in relation very quickly to that is with the ice hogs uh playoffs coming up to rockford not only encouraging everyone to go down and enjoy the festivities and enjoy the ice hogs but also the businesses downtown really count on uh this as um you know for
 for some revenue and so I'd like to see everyone frequent some of the businesses downtown while they enjoy the quality hockey that's available. Today I'd like to thank the the law enforcement or police here in Rockford and also the
 Our neighborhood standards department here at the city did a fantastic job. I spoke with the mayor earlier about this and he's completely supportive of this endeavor. We did a kind of a neighborhood sweep with Swedes putting in $130 million into their campus. I think it warrants us as a city to try to do our best in cleaning up some of the area around there as well.
 I think that's part of our duty. So we went up and down Revell from Longwood to Summit. Also hit Benton and Crosby. Really went after some of these out of town landlords and some tenants that really aren't really doing the job they should be in our, and help keep our community clean and such.
 Just want to thank those two entities the police department neighborhood standards boy, they did a fantastic job and helping me out today and it was just it was a great day for the city of Rockford and and it was great meeting some of the neighbors and they were absolutely supportive of what was going on and Really like to see us out there And so we hopefully get them behind us in this endeavor as well and I'd like to thank Swedes and
 Swedish-American for putting that kind of investment in our community as well. So thank you, Mayor, for the time. Wonderful. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 I just wanted to talk about a few things going on in the ninth ward. First, I wanted to thank Jason Thompson. He does a lot of the maintenance along Huffman Boulevard and putting in the flowers there. And if you get a chance to check out the boulevard, the flowers are blooming there. It always looks pretty around this time of year. And it's because of Jason and a lot of the people that he gets to volunteer to work on that project.
 i've also had a lot of questions regarding uh the schnooks building the business leaving uh the ninth ward and um been talking with mark williams from our economic development office about uh ways we can address that issue um and it is a little bit different from the other schnooks buildings leaving it's it's my understanding that there is no uh non-compete
 um issue there so we're hoping to try and get some kind of business to to replace that loss for our community and um it's something that i'm going to be working diligently on so and i know the mayor is too so um i wanted to touch on those two issues real quick so thank you alderman quinones yeah something happened uh last week in my ward and i want to recognize the uh
 the people that did a good job. So I want to thank Dan Petrie, founder of the Fatherhood Encouragement Project, Comcast Cares, who adopted the project, and all the volunteers who helped out, and Officer Delke in the Rockford Police Department. So they did a very good job. We got a lot of good calls on the cleanup they did. Wonderful. Any other comments? Alderman McNeely. Let's try. Thank you. I just wanted to say
 share with with the alderman regarding the grocery store chinooks on rockton that i received several phone calls as well regarding the grocery store a number of elderly people that said that that's the closest store to them they really hate to see it go
 One gentleman called, wanted to know if there was a petition going around because he certainly want to be able to sign it on behalf of his son. His son, I believe, is handicapped. So just to let the city know, your office, Mr. Mayor, as well as other aldermen here, that that's going to be a big effect.
 On the community not just in the ninth ward, but within that part of the city and I know there are a number of other stores there but Going six blocks as opposed to one or two blocks makes makes a difference So if there's anything we can do certainly we want to be able to do it. Thank you Thank you that rocked in stores where we do quite a bit of our own grocery shopping so it's certainly gonna be a hit to the entire West Side and
 Seeing no other comments, we'll move forward under new business. Alderman Shirely for codes and regulations. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new business ordinances, the first item is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor.
 In conjunction with the gas station at 913 Kilburn Avenue. The second in ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station convenience store, 1955 Elmwood. Third is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant, music venue and coffee bar at 1402 North Main Street. The fourth is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store, 2338 Charles Street.
 The fifth is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern, nightclub, gaming facility, and outdoor seating area at 513 East State Street. The sixth is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the tavern and nightclub at 513 East State Street. The seventh is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and gaming facility at 2627 Sand Hutton Avenue.
 Is an ordinance proving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the banquet hall bar and outdoor roof seating area? At 2 14 East State Street and the 9th is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant At 308 West State Street place those ordinances up for passage your honor. Thank you Does any one have any questions or comments a discussion regarding the ordinances in front of us seeing none clerk? Will you please call the roll?
 Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. No. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 10 ayes, 1 no. Items 3, 4, 11 ayes. Items 5, 6, 7, 10 ayes, 1 no. Item 8, 11 ayes. Item 9, 10 ayes, 1 no.
 Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli, do you have any additional information for us this evening? Yes, I do, Your Honor. I move, I hate to say this, but I do move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. Second. Thank you. So we have a motion and a second to go into closed session. I'll just remind those who are in the audience viewing this meeting and those who are at home, it should be a fairly brief.
 closed session and then we will come back and have updates on the domestic violence and human trafficking office as well as the status on the financial task force recommendations and a water division presentation. So stay tuned. We can stay tuned once we have the clerk call the roll for us to go into closed session. Hogeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Cross. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely.
 11 eyes here Logamon, Toomber, Frost, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Beck, Shirely, 10 present. Excellent. Is there a motion out there to adjourn the special city council meeting? All those in favor say aye. Those opposed. Okay. Now we are going to switch gears and we will open our strategic plan