Good evening and welcome to the City Council meeting in the city of Rockford, Illinois. The date is May 4, 2015. The invocation this evening will be from Farm Police Chaplain Calvin Culpepper from Court Street United Methodist Church. Let us pray.
 Almighty God, we thank you so much for the opportunity to be here in this wonderful place together, the people of Rockford. We've been blessed with this wonderful city to live in, and we pray to the Lord that we will be open to your discernment, your direction, and also the distribution of all the resources we have for the common good of all people.
 We pray that you will direct our hearts, we'll open them up for you and you'll come in and you'll change our minds in areas where we need to be changed and you'll strengthen us where we need to be fortified. Bless us for the common good of the city and be with us as we discern and take care of the business of this city. Amen. The United States of America is here to provide for the needs of liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, please call the roll. Getchis? Here. McNamara? Here.
 Thompson, Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, McNeely, Shirely. Ten present, Your Honor. Thank you very much, we do. We have a special action that needs to take place this evening. Tonight our legal director, in just a moment, will be administering the pose of office to our new sixth ward alderman, elect Pam Connell.
 And we invite Ms. Cowell to please come forward with any members of her family that may be here to accept the administration of the oath of office, which will be presented by Mr. Hayes, our legal director. You raise your right hand and repeat after me. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear.
 That I will support the Constitution of the United States That I will support the Constitution of the United States And the Constitution of the State of Illinois And the Constitution of the State of Illinois And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of office And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of office Of 6th Ward Alderman Of 6th Ward Alderman Of the City of Rockford, Illinois Of the City of Rockford, Illinois According to the battle
 according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. Our new less-than-six-word alderman has declined the opportunity to speak now. She says she's got some issues on the agenda for later. She wants to help. But according to procedure, we will now ask the clerk to... Mr. Hayes, we don't need to dismiss... Okay, we just need to make a new roll call.
 I'll ask our clerk to call a roll. Let's get with our new council member present. She'll take the roll, by the way, over the entire council. Clerk? Gatchas? Aye. McNamara? Frost? Here. Hervey? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Otto? Newberg? Here. Beach? Here. McNeely? Here. Ciavelli? 11 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have one more. And now I would ask for a motion to approve the journal. I give a motion and a second to approve the journal under any amendments or changes.
 Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7, general. Which is approved. No public hearing scheduled for this evening. We have several speakers signed up for public participation. Again, I'll remind our speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If their time is up, when it's up, you'll hear a buzzer. And I will ask you to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 37th chapter, the 23rd verse, the psalmist says, the steps of a righteous man is ordered by the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, who cares about the poor among us?
 All of this talk about the middle class leaves me wondering what politicians, tacticians think about the poor in the United States. All of the conversation and concentration on the middle class, of course the upper class is well taken care of and according to folks like Paul Ryan, it's only significant when
 people get freebies from the government, not Wall Street bankers and major corporations. Mitt Romney's assertion about the poor having a safety net, therefore he was not worried about them, paints a very sad picture of the United States of America. Who was it that said we should be judged on how we as a nation treat the least among us? I wonder if the folks in charge think that by ignoring the poor they will just go away. We will hear much about the middle class and how both parties are not going to be able to get a lot of money
 plan to help that group of people. But I'd like to know what their plans are for the poor and homeless in the United States. Some of them who were pushed out of the middle class because of loss of jobs, housing foreclosure, or reduction in the value of their homes. A story in USA Today in September 2011, headline, typical United States family got
 poor than the past 10 years. The share of people living in poverty hit 15.1%, the highest level since 1993, and 2.6 million more people move into poverty. The most since it began keeping track in 1959. The article went on to say medium incomes of black households fell 3.2% to $32,068.21. The term unhappy is a term that is used to describe the
 Media points to the seriousness of the problem facing the United States, especially among black and poor people. And right now, no one is addressing this ever-expanding group of citizens. President Obama won't say anything in support of black people, and Mitt Romney doesn't care about the poor. Where does that leave us? Well, it's huge. It leaves many of us on the sidelines, watching the game and even cheering for one side or the other. In spite of our unhappy state of affairs, we're not doing anything.
 as for that safety net, true or misstated by the Center on Budget and Policy Prides. While the increase in poverty primarily reflects developments in the economy, weakness in the safety net, particularly in the temporary federal unemployment benefit program, also contributed criminologists say 95% of crime in the United States emanates from an economic position.
 Only when we have seen enough killing in the United States among young folks who are willing to get money or things they value by any means necessary, we will see a significant change in how we address the issue of poverty and homelessness. Statistics and rhetoric will not solve the problem. Determined medium household income and net worth are growing exercise for the statistician, economist, and politician.
 But to those at the bottom of the economic spectrum, things are in a most unhappy state. Regardless of what happens in November, we will wake up the next morning and find ourselves in the same situation, and it will persist until we decide we have had enough of this stupidity. Then only then will black economic empowerment move to the forefront of our psyche and take the percentage it deserves and should have had. I'm sick and tired of hearing about people in Mexico got jobs. I'm tired of hearing about people in India got jobs. I'm tired of hearing about people in India and
 Mexico got a job. And I'm tired of hearing about robots got a job. I want to hear about the people in the United States having jobs. Thank you. Our next speaker is Tim Watkins. Good evening, everybody. And thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak to you this evening. And welcome to Alderman Connell. Here to talk about the vote that happened two weeks ago on the Governor-in-Arts turnaround agenda that was brought up and discussed briefly and then passed.
 Obviously, you probably know my position that I don't agree with that, but that's okay. I understand the enormous pressure that's on every member of this body, every member of our local government, both from constituents, from the state, from federal government, all over the place. I understand that pressure. However, and healthy policy disagreements, those are okay. The thing that concerned me with the vote two weeks ago wasn't the policies, it was the process which way it was enacted and voted upon.
 Every member, barring you Alderman Connell, who took part in that at various points throughout the evening said things to the extent of, you know, I don't support necessarily everything that's a part of this resolution, but I like it because it starts a conversation, which that's great. That's kind of, you know, conversation is good.
 Voting on the resolution as it did, it seems that the conversation ended right there. I haven't seen anything on any of the agendas for tonight to discuss it further, to discuss what policies we want to get behind. Didn't see it on any of the agendas for committee meetings last week. Again, I don't see that the conversation is continuing, and that's what concerns me. So I'm here tonight to ask you to restart that conversation. I know that there's nothing on the agenda this evening, but over the next couple weeks,
 you have the opportunity, if the weather is nice, and get outside, it'd be great if every member here could engage with their constituents, really find out what the will of the people is, because I think you may be surprised at the level of support or not support that exists in the community. So that's what we're asking for, is just,
 that you will take this time to really engage with the constituents, understanding that times are tough, there's a lot of fiscal stress, and that needs to be addressed. But we would like to work with city council and the rest of the community to find those solutions that are right for Rockford rather than those that are just handed down from on high. So, thank you. You need Mayor Marcy Augment and all the women of Rockford, Illinois, and our citizens that sit here and downstairs.
 Ecclesiastes 6, verses 10-18. The armor of God, ten thousand, be strong in the Lord and his mighty power. Put on the full armor of God so that you can stand against the devil's sting.
 Take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God, and pray in the Spirit on all occasions with all kinds of prayers and requests. With this in mind, be alert and always keep on praying for the eternal Lord of peace.
 So let's take a look right here at Rafferty. This year we are focused on education, training, and jobs, and going head up with black on black crime and domestic violence. This week and this weekend was a good example. I'm going to go to look at Willie Lynch. Still have a hold on African Americans right here in the United States. I can say and do the same thing that a person that is white or got a job is doing.
 but guess what i would yell black sisters and brothers are going to go against each other and myself just to inflict pain for the hell of it this past week i saw a clear path and a high road that we are going to transform rockford we have people that are sitting at the table but they are not there to help transform rockford but they are there to find a way to slow it down or stop it altogether
 to do, really to look at what I'm going through and those who are trying to pull up a brick wall and trying to stop me. I know when I took on this battle to fight against black on black crime and domestic violence that I was going to face some stiff opposition.
 Guess what? The devil is a lie. Just like Joe in the Bible, he was tested by the devil and he made it through. I faced my true Bible this past weekend. But nevertheless, that decision that was made, and I won't go into detail, but we only have three minutes.
 The only, I only have a negative thing, they only have negative things to say about transforming Rockford. This will be a long war against black-on-black crime and domestic violence. And I'm in it for the long haul. And by the way, we had a big meeting at the Salvation Army about running programs at the Center for the Youth and Adult and the Fairgrounds and Ellis Heights area. And guess what? Everybody signed in and signed in on the sign-in sheet, even the director.
 We need to work together. This is not going to happen overnight. Then we can start working on transforming Rockford. Once again, Rockford Metro Enforcement banned a family member that was visiting her cousin with her white boyfriend. They called the police on Metro Enforcement for harassing him. Plus, Metro banned them from RHA.
 The Rockford police were disappointed at the fact that Rockford Metro Enforcement is abusing their power and a lot of residents in Rockford housing and the family site have a deep hatred for Rockford Metro Enforcement. This is what we call an other form of institutional racism. We see what happened in Baltimore and other cities across the United States of America.
 Do we want to wait and see it happen here by the use of the power and abuse of Asteroid? Murder among charges filed against six Baltimore cops in the death of Freddie Gay. No one is above the law. Baltimore top prosecutors announced charges.
 against the six officers in the arrest of the black man whose neck was broken in police custody. A decision that come among outrage across the country and over police brutality against African Americans. And I also want to thank, I know I'm up, I want to congratulate Chief Epperson for winning that head.
 hearing and we in the police union and need to work with chief epperson because the people in the community is behind chief epperson and the and the police can't stop the crime by themselves they need to help other communities and if you neglect us or treat us like serapim with being yeah we get the same response but you don't want to get this happening in baltimore thank you thank you thank you our next speaker is uh derek reverend eric shelby matthew chapter 45
 3, 34, 41. Then shall the king say unto them on the right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Verse 41. Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his anger. I want to speak from the subject tonight. What you going to tell Jesus?
 Point number one, the devil. Point number two, preparation for hell. I went to the hearing too with the chief. He won hands down. He should have won. He did a good thing and they tried to make it bad. And then, you know, six or seven cops came up here, or I should say police, to support the union president. And one of them, they had a little break in the hearing, so we'd go outside and sit. I was sitting there. And this one man, cop, policeman,
 He had on some cargo shorts with the pocket on the side, tennis shoes, dress casual. And he turned sideways, turned toward me, and I looked over and he had a devil tattoo on his leg. And he turned all the way around and I listened. He had the whole image, the face of the devil, on his leg. And he mentioned, I presume he was trying to intimidate me, and listen, this man don't sow his soul to the devil. Hello?
 He has sold his soul to the devil. What is he going to tell Jesus? Every one of us on this planet has to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. What you going to tell Jesus? What you going to tell Jesus? The preparation for hell is real, y'all. You either go to heaven, the Lord say, come ye, blessed are my father. He say, depart from me, you cursed, in the everlasting fire. And whatever hell is, you ain't going to get out. You're going to be stuck there forever.
 The man done sold his soul to the devil. Hitler sold his soul. This young black kid that killed them two kids, he hadn't sold his soul, but that night the wicked one was using him. Had the whole city grieving. Murdered them two babies and them two people. Never, don't get too deep.
 I don't see, they talk about black on black crime, but nobody talks about white on white crime, Mexican on Mexican crime, Arab on Arab crime, Asian on Asian crime. They're all barbaric. The little white baby killed the baby, the kids up in the school up there in Newtown. He had the whole nation grieving. The devil was in that little boy. It grieved me for the little boy.
 Listen, you've got to look at, everybody's going to meet Jesus. So whatever you're doing, you better know you're going to get brought to the right hand or the left hand. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Elder. Our final speaker this evening is Roland Posca. Thank you. It took me 46 years to write this stupid book. I suppose I'll spend the rest of my trying to figure out how much of a waste of time it really was. If you know of anyone...
 who should get a copy of it, let me know. Here is my business card. I am a fishy whale, Roland Posca, 815-608-8186. Do the impossible with us, all fishy whales, and keep doing it, the impossible. End war in 63 years, stop revenge. Achieve respect for all, end prejudice, end violence, expand thinking,
 and expand the money supply. It's real easy. Abraham Lincoln did it. He paid off the Civil War with the money supplied in the Constitution of the United States. It's still there. The money supply is still there. Just have to figure out how to use it. So keep doing it, the impossible, forever.
 Thank you to all of our speakers. Before we move on, I just wanted to acknowledge Representative Leticia Wallace, who is here, state representative. Thank you for joining us tonight. We have a very busy legislative session down in Springfield, so your presence is appreciated here tonight and appreciate all you're doing to support our community's agenda. Thank you. Petitions and communications, Alderman Tubbs Kelley.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have some communication of a request from an organization for the Moda Own. I'd like to refer this to Community Development as well as Public Works. Thank you, Madam. Be referred to the Public Trust. Thank you, Your Honor. There's a memorandum from Angela Hammer, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a memorandum of understanding between the Northwest Home Star and the City of Rockford. And this will be referred to the Planning and Development Committee.
 Additionally, Your Honor, there is a memorandum from Todd Cagnoni for authorization for funding for the demolition of 1417 11th Street, which was previously known as the Tokyo Health Spa, in partnership with Winnebago County. And lastly, Your Honor, there is a Gorman Development Agreement that we'd like to refer the matter of the amendment of the development agreement between the City of Rockford and Gorman and Company, the Committee on Planning and Development. Thank you. Thank you.
 for their positions and communications thank you your honor they have a traffic commission agenda for the meeting to be held on May thirteen twenty fifteen referring that to the traffic commission I have a memorandum from Angela hammer assistant city attorney regarding an amendment to the residential quality support ordinance section seventeen dash forty two that would be referred to the codes and regulations committee
 I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events. PetSmart National Adoption Event, that would be on 5-16-2015. I have the same Wind Riders Pig Roast on 6-12-2015. I have the Rockford First Car Show at 6-12-2015.
 The Fourth of July Parade and Fireworks, 7-4-2015. I Have a Party on the Deck at 7-22-2015. The Swedish American State Street Mile, 8-1-2015. St. Stanislaw Polish Fest, 8-16-2015. The Ramp Run Walk Wheelathon at 9-5-2015. Those will refer to the Codes and Regulations Committee.
 I also have a memorandum from La Ficaria S Vaughn, assistant city attorney regarding 715 North Madison Street chemical processing ink facility site groundwater ordinance. I also have a memorandum from Mark Rose, land acquisition officer regarding Harrison Avenue project, 1311 Harrison Avenue. That would also be sent to the Coals and Regulations Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Further petitions and communications?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items tonight. The first is the matter of a lease of city-owned space in the Wyman Street parking deck at 211 Elm Street, Section A. That will be referred to finance and personnel. And the second is the 2014 Rockford Water Utility Annual Report, in which Mr. Tim Holderman will be making a presentation during the committee meeting next week, May 11. Thank you. Thank you.
 for the petitions and communications. Next we have proclamations. We have several proclamations this evening and then one special presentation. We'll do the proclamations first. Our first proclamation, and I'll invite all those who are going to be receiving a proclamation to please come over next to me to accept. Our first proclamation is regarding Salvation Army Week. Would Dolly Kozel and other members that are here on behalf of the Salvation Army Week proclamation please come forward to accept?
 Whereas the Salvation Army celebrates more than 128 years of service to our community, and although the Salvation Army is being recognized this week, their work continues throughout the year, with one hand reaching to God and the other reaching to man, as seen through its community centers, its family stores, and adult rehabilitation centers and other community work.
 Whereas the Salvation Army is especially appreciative of the thousands of volunteers who help in providing meals, clothing and ministry services for the needy and underprivileged. Whereas the Salvation Army is honored to be the recipient of funding through the generosity of community donors, businesses, foundations and members of the local United Way.
 And whereas due to a love of God and a desire to help others, they are motivated behind the men and women of the Salvation Army to offer help to all people in need without regard of race, color, creed, sex, or age. Now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrisey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 11, 2015 to be Salvation Army Week. And we urge our citizens to recognize and appreciate the dedication and commitment of Salvation Army volunteers and their organization.
 that they provide to our community. On behalf of the Salvation Army, I'd like to thank the city of Rockford for your continued support. With your help, it makes it easier for us to serve those who are less fortunate, so thank you. Thank you. Our next proclamation is regarding Drinking Water Week. Accepting on behalf of the proclamation is Water Superintendent Tim Holdeman, Water Quality Supervisor Nadine Miller, and Water Quality Technicians Lauren Carlson and Matt
 Bellargon. Did I get it? Matt? Whereas water is our most valuable natural resource in our community and throughout the nation, whereas only tap water delivers public health protection, fire protection, support for our economy and quality of life that all of us enjoy, whereas any measure of a successful society
 including low mortality rates, economic growth and diversity, productivity and public safety are in some way related to access to safe water. And whereas we are all stewards of our water infrastructure upon which future generations depend, and whereas each citizen in our city is called upon to help protect our water sources from pollution, to protect water conservation,
 and to get informed and involved in local water issues now therefore i lawrence j morrissey is mayor of the city of rockford who hear about proclaim the week of may 3rd through the 9th
 to be drinking water weak, and we encourage our citizens to join together in recognizing the vital role that water plays in our daily lives. And I want to just say thank you directly to all of our water system support staff. This is something that's beneath the ground, but if we don't get clean water out of our tap, if it's not available for all of our industrial needs in this community, we'd be in major trouble. So, Mr. Holtman, thank you to you and your team. I'd ask you to share a little bit more about Water Quality Week.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, everyone. We want to take this opportunity to just encourage everyone to celebrate. Although this is a national celebration, we have a lot to celebrate right here in Rockford. Beginning with the abundant groundwater that we have beneath our city, to the infrastructure of wells and pipes that we have that deliver it to our citizens,
 to the people who are serving our customers every day. And I brought Nadine Miller here today. She's the supervisor of the water quality department, responsible for all the water quality of all the water that goes out. And I would ask her to say a couple words.
 Thank you, Tim. First of all, I'd like to reintroduce Lauren Carlson and Matt Belargen. They're our water quality technicians, and without them and their daily dedication, we couldn't accomplish this huge, huge goal. National Drinking Water Week.
 It tends to, it reminds us of the vital resource that water plays in our lives. Over one billion people in the world do not have access to safe drinking water. It's a pretty scary thing. And it's a lot of people, and we tend to take it for granted here in Rockford.
 The Rockford Environmental Laboratory is proud to protect this water source, and we perform over 35,000 tests annually to ensure that our customers, both residential and commercial, get safe, reliable drinking water continuously.
 We really don't recognize the value of our water resources until service is interrupted. And with that, I'll close with a phrase from Benjamin Franklin who said that when the well runs dry, we realize the value of water. So thank you, Mayor, and we will continue to provide the citizens with safe water. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Our next proclamation is regarding Mental Health Month. And accepting on behalf of Mental Health Month will be several recipients, Jean Morrow and John Burns from the National Alliance on Mental Health Illness and Dick Kunert of the Mental Health Association. And any other members that you might have here to accept the proclamation, please come forward. Thank you.
 Whereas mental health is essential to everyone's overall health and well-being, and whereas all Rockfortians experience times of difficulty and stress in their lives, and whereas prevention is an effective way to reduce the burden of mental health conditions, and whereas there is a strong body of research that supports specific tools that anyone can use to better handle challenges and protect their health and well-being, and whereas with early and effective treatment, those individuals with mental health conditions can recover and lead full, productive lives,
 Whereas each business, school, government agency, healthcare provider organizations, and citizens share the burdens of mental health problems,
 and they have a responsibility to promote mental health, wellness, and support prevention efforts. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2015 to be Mental Health Month, and we encourage our citizens, government agencies, our public and private institutions, businesses, and schools to recommit to our community, increasing awareness and understanding of mental health issues in our community. Thanks.
 Thank you all for the proclamation. I'm a representative of the Mental Health Association, Jean Morrow and a group are here for NAMI. Our message is really twofold. One, there is no health without mental health. And so rather than making it divisive with some of the incidents that happen, certain things happen in our society,
 We have to keep on with the positive hopefulness of what happens when people come together. I cite for you the research that was done in the United States Air Force. They halved their suicide rate in the United States Air Force by coming together, paying attention to people, respecting people,
 acknowledging dignity. And so, again, this is what we would like to promote within Rockford because we love this city, and this fits with Transform Rockford. And so thank you very much. Please be kind to all the people around you, even if they're a bit different. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Our next proclamation is regarding the Rockford Auburn High School Mini Maker Fair Day. And accepting is Tim Bertina of Auburn High School. He's a teacher at Auburn. And any other members of his group that might be here, please come forward. Whereas the Maker Fair is the greatest show and tell on earth, a family-friendly showcase of invention,
 creativity and resourcefulness in a celebration of the maker movement. Whereas makers range from tech enthusiasts to crafters to homesteaders to scientists and garage tinkerers. Whereas the original Maker Faire event was held in San Mateo, California and in 2013 celebrated its eighth annual show with some 900 makers and 120,000 people in attendance.
 Whereas the Maker Network in Rockford has been embraced by educators and students in our local schools, and by the Discovery Center, our national youth museum for science and the arts. Whereas on May 9th, 2015, a mini Maker Fair will be held at Auburn High School Field House from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Whereas our youth are Rockford's makers, artists, scientists, and entrepreneurs of tomorrow, and hold the key to a strong economic future for our community.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 9th, 2015 to be Rockford-Auburn Mini Maker Faire Day, and we encourage our citizens to attend the Mini Maker Faire and support the creative and passionate makers of our schools and our community. Tim? What we try to do with our Mini Maker Faire is to instill in our students and people in the community this idea that everyone can make something.
 You don't have to be an expert craftsman, but at least if you're trying, you're giving an opportunity to maybe come up with something new that someone hasn't thought of. And if we have any hope of growing our manufacturing base in Rockford, a lot of it's going to have to come from individuals with new ideas, and the best way to do this is to stimulate the
 our youth in coming up with these ideas. If they go off to college, we need to be able to bring them back to our community and be able to have the support for them to pursue these ideas that can hopefully grow into companies that will produce jobs. So by attending the Maker Faire this Saturday at Auburn High School, you'll be able to see what some of our young citizens are doing. And we also have a
 people in the community that are making contributions too. So some of it can be high technology, some of it is regular craft work, and all of it seems to be pretty interesting. Thank you. Thank you very much. I'll just give another quick commercial for Tim and his work at Auburn. Tim, you may have read in the newspapers he's been involved with an I want to make sure I get this right, Tim, aquaponics program? So they are growing tilapia?
 So you're growing food, right? Yeah. And they incorporate that into his sociology coursework. So doing a lot of inventive things in Rockford schools, and we just appreciate your enthusiasm bringing this out and supporting entrepreneurs and makers in our communities. He's also a member of the Rockford Maker Network, so thank you. Thank you.
 Finally, we have a presentation I'd invite to come forward. And Diane, if you can help, and Susan, I think you're with our group. We have middle school students here tonight from West Middle School, Kappa sixth grade honors readers, Miss Lori Beach, daughter of our own Alderman Frank Beach, and Mr. James Grass that are here. Please come forward.
 If you want to maybe just over on the side there on this, if you want to just line up right around here. As you're filing in, I'll just read a little bit more. Mr. Grass wrote a song in response to the tragic killings that occurred at Sandy Hook Elementary School.
 He recently performed his song to Mrs. Beach's West Middle School CAPA program, CAPA again is the Creative and Performing Arts, they're sixth grade honors readers. The students were so touched by the words and the meaning of the song that they asked to write a verse of their own and they're sharing that with us tonight by way of video. Would you like to share a little bit more as we get started? We've got some things to say, are you ready?
 Thank you for allowing us, Kappa 6th grade honors readers, to come to City Council tonight and present our musical gift to our city. This song was written by James Grass when the shootings at Sandy Hook happened. When he shared his song with our class, we wanted to add our own verse. Our verse is about how worried we are about our own city and the violence we hear about and see every day.
 With the help of Mr. Alan Leon, this wonderful video was born. We hope that through this song about working toward a better, brighter day right here in Rockford, that we will all find our own peace of mind and play it forward. Okay, let's scoot down so we can see the screen. For a good night, so the poor sonny, to church he's plowed away, to God.
 Looking for a better Try to be a better Do the right thing today We're gonna make The future behind Gonna lay a helping hand To my fellow man We're gonna find A peace of mind Music
 Thank you.
 Mr. Mayor, we would like to present this to you. This is the verse that the kids wrote. We'll fight for a change to get a better range. Join hands and stand up with me. Erase the bullet wounds and pain. Bring down the barricades. Use our symbol as hope for better days. So when you drive past our symbol, please remember, every time you see it, there is hope here in Rockford. There is hope for change. Thank you.
 This is for you. Here is the copy of this for you. Thank you. Thank you so much. Great job. Thank you very much. And to all those students, congratulations. You've got some great teachers and some great leaders, and you're an inspiration for all of us. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. As our students are exiting, I'm going to give a notice in advance. We've got one more proclamation that, unfortunately,
 It's, there it is. I think we've got it. We had a little bit of a mix up logistically, but we've got it. We'll get the fancy folder later on. But I invite members of the Rockford Police Department and area law enforcement that are here to accept a proclamation regarding National Police Week to please come forward.
 Whereas Congress and the President of the United States have designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the week in which May 15th falls as National Police Week,
 And whereas law enforcement officers are guardians of life and property, defenders of individual rights to be free people, they are partners with our citizens in efforts to lower crime, dedicated to the preservation of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and willing to make ultimate sacrifice of their own personal safety to serve our citizens. Whereas our community desires to honor the valor, service, and dedication of its own police officers, to express our thanks to the men and women who help us to leave our homes and families in safety each day,
 and to guard our loved ones' property and government against all those who would violate the law. And whereas our community desires to honor fallen officers who have, over many years, given the ultimate sacrifice of their own lives to protect our citizens and our community, now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 10th through the 16th, 2015, to be National Police Week.
 And we urge our citizens to honor and show our sincere appreciation for our police officers and our community by deed, remark, and our attitude. I'd like to share a little bit more. Honorable Mayor, aldermen, alderwomen, department heads, men and women of the community, I ask that we take a moment and we bow our heads, a moment of silence and recognition and remembrance of the fallen officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice of our community as well as their families and loved ones. Thank you.
 My name is Lieutenant Daniel Watten from the Rockford City Police Department. I stand here before you today also representing the Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week and as the president and the commander of the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard. I would like to first say thank you for the proclamation.
 Today in the United States, some 900,000 law enforcement officers put their life on the line for the safety and the protection of others. They serve with valor and distinction and with great success. Federal statistics show that violent and property crime rates in the United States are at historic lows, thanks in large to the measures of the dedicated men and women of law enforcement. That protection comes at a price, however.
 Each year there are approximately 60,000 assaults on law enforcement officers resulting in nearly 16,000 injuries. Sadly over the last decade on an average 150 officers a year have been killed in the line of duty. And throughout U.S. history more than 20,000 law enforcement officers had made the ultimate sacrifice.
 In 2014, 126 officers were killed in the line of duty, and the National Law Enforcement Memorial Association will be recognizing and honoring these individuals in Washington, D.C. Of these, one was from Illinois. This is a 23% increase from last year.
 Illinois currently has the fifth highest amount of law enforcement officers killed in a line of duty throughout the nation, with a record total of 1,021 officers. The National Memorial in Washington, D.C. features bronze lions, two male and two female, each watching over a pair of the lion's cubs. Below each lion is carved a different quote.
 The first quote is, it's not how these officers died that made them heroes, it's how they lived. Second one is, in valor there is hope. The third one is, the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as a lion. And the last one is my personal favorite,
 And it comes from George W. Bush, President of the United States. Carved on these walls is the story of America, of continuing quest to preserve both democracy and decency, and to protect a national treasure that we call the American Dream. These quotations,
 represent those that have given the ultimate sacrifice and also those that still dedicate their lives protecting our communities. The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee was established in 1980, five years before the creation of the National Peace Officers Memorial Events.
 The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee represents six different counties, including Boone, DeKalb, McHenry, Ogle, Stevenson, and Winnebago. Each year, this committee, along with the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard, hosts events to remember, honor, and recognize those 31 officers from the six different counties that we represent. A hero remembered never died, never dies. Honor, recognition, and memory.
 Thank you. Just to let you know, we are going to be out at the mall again this year, the Cherryvale Mall. We'll be there Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, May 15th, 16th, and 17th. We have the child fingerprinting during the daytime. We also have the Minute to Win It game, which I do for the kids, which is a lot of fun. We like to get...
 adult participation. So please come out and take part in that. That's at 1.30. Got a lot of displays out this year, a lot of canine demonstrations. We've got a bomb demonstration, got some face painting, a lot of different things. And I want to thank everyone for giving us this moment to recognize. I think it's very important for these families that attend these services for them to understand that we will never forget those lives that have been taken.
 Here's some of our 35th Annual 2015 scheduled events. On Monday, May 11th, the Cathedral of St. Peter, 1243 North Church. At 12 noon, the Blue Mass Church Service, sponsored by the Rockford Police Department Chaplains Division. On Thursday, May 14th, at 7 p.m., we have a memorial service. This will be held at the Court Street Methodist Church. That's 215 North Court Street in Rockford.
 This is sponsored by the Rockford Police Department Chaplains Division again, along with the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard. On Friday, May 15th, at 8 o'clock in the morning, we will have a breakfast. That will be held at the Tavala Shrine Center located at 7910 Wooverd Road. I'd like to invite the City Council Alderman and Women. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you and thank you to all of those that were here to accept proclamations. We have a lot going on in our community. We're very blessed to have such a vibrant and active community. Reports of committees. Alden Frost. Thank you. Under Roman Rule 5A1, the Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the 2020 Comprehensive Plan Amendment for the proposed Plan Element 14, Implementation Plan 2015 through 2019.
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends approval of proposed development agreement between the City of Rockford and 2227th Street LLC, Branch Hughes, Northwest Quarterly, for the building rehabilitation of 2227th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'll second. We'll allow for a vote. For a vote.
 Thank you. There's been a motion to suspend the rules. Second. Motion has been moved and seconded to suspend the rules so we can vote on that. Those two items, aye. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Vice-Habit, the two items up under Rule 5A1 and 2 are for passage as their discussion. Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo.
 Newberg, Beach, McNeely, Shirely, Romanural 5A1, 9 ayes, 1 no, the remainder 10 ayes, 0 no. That's passed, thank you. Further reports of committee settlement? Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 B1 is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish no parking any time except paratransit on the east side of Woodland Avenue from 75 feet south of Ashland Avenue to 95 feet south of Ashland Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 2 is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a yield control at the intersection of Kenyon Road and Foley Street.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to take no action on the following. Amendment to chapter 16, section 136 of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, emergency caused by snowfall, snow removal, and depositing of snow on the streets. Your Honor, I'd like to refer that item back to the committee for further discussion. What number is that again?
 Item number four is the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of a special use permit for a communication tower 100 feet in height in a light industrial zoning district at 4xx, 411, 413, 415 South Central Avenue, 17xx Green Street and 26xx Preston Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number five is the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval of the modification of a special use permit 27-14 for a professional office in a c1 limited office zoning district and an r3 multifamily residential zoning district at 75 89 75 xx 75 25 Blair Moore Drive 75 xx Royal Troon Drive 75 xx Western Gales Drive and
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six, this committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the hotel in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 7542 Coliseum Drive.
 Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to section 2-27, time of regular meetings of the code of ordinances of the city of Rockford. Change will reflect the regular meetings of the city council shall commence at 5.30 p.m. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight.
 8. The committee recommends approval of the proposed ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 707 Fulton Avenue, which is the Ingersoll Milling Machine Remediation Site. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number nine is the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval of the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the grocery store at 320 North Court Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number 10 is a committee recommends approval of the amendments to the code of ordinances chapter 109 flood hazard reduction The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number 11 the committee recommends reversing the zoning Board of Appeals approval thus denying a special use permit for an auto mechanical repair service and a c4 urban mix use zoning district at 1621 Broadway and
 Number 12 is a committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals Deniable of a variation to increase the maximum allowable business identification wall signs from 2 to 3 variation to increase the maximum allow business identification wall sign square footage from 240 square feet to 464 460 square feet and a c3 general commercial zoning district at 62 70 East State Street and
 number 13 around it will be addressing under unfinished businesses start new business ordinances later in the evening so I moved to suspend the rules and all those other items thank you there's been a motion to suspend the rules and the room 5 the 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 and 12
 Is there a motion to second the rules on those items? All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules be suspended on those items. Your Honor, I place those items up for passage. Those items are for passage. Is there discussion? All in favor? I just want to clarify with regard to number 11 that a yes vote is a vote to deny the special use permit. There wasn't for the reversal, correct? Correct. Okay, thank you.
 so district so the CBA originally took a decision 11 proven the application because regulations committee believe tonight so we have both in favor is it both favorite tonight especially as permanent 16 what brought to get that right this race yes you are thank you thank you mayor
 I'd urge the, or I'd ask the council to support item number 13. That's not up right now. Oh, I'm sorry. Never mind. Never mind. Yes, I have a question on, I apologize, it's on the liquor license, and the hours of that are 530 to 7 p.m., an hour and a half. Which item? I'm...
 Number six. Number six. Thank you. Number six, that the hours of operation are 5.30 p.m. to 7 p.m. Mr. and Mrs. Cahoney, do you have that? Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, that's correct. The motel would like to have a happy hour per se. Just wanted to verify. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion on any of the items that are up for passage? If there are none, please call the roll. Getches, McNamara, Frost, Hervey. No, I'm for. I am.
 Connell. Thompson, Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Feech. No on 4, 6, and 11. Aye on the rest. McNeely. No on 9. Shirelli. Okay. Roman numeral 5B, 6, 9, and 12. 10 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 5B, 4, 9 ayes, 2 no. Roman numeral 5B, 11. 8 ayes, 3 no. The remainder, 11 ayes, 0 no.
 I'll pass, thank you. And I believe you moved for sending item three under B, row number five, back to committee. We'll take that just to make sure we're clear on it as a motion to send the item back to committee. Is there a second? Second. I move and second. Any discussion on that? Hearing none, all those in favor please say aye. Ayes have it. And then the final item, 13, we'll cover later.
 Next we have winter reports, finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have just two items tonight. The first is a committee report recommending approval of the jurisdictional transfer between the State of Illinois and the City of Rockford for rerouting of the northbound Illinois Route 2, Wyman Street between Cedar and Chestnut Streets on an interim basis to South Main Street between Cedar and Chestnut. The legal director will prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 the second is vouchers in the amount of four million eight hundred twenty nine thousand four hundred six dollars and sixty six cents as approved by the finance and personnel committee meeting on April twenty seven two thousand fifteen both items up for passage thank you for passage and we need a motion to spend I'm sorry I'm sorry yeah would move to suspend the rules the motion second spend the rules on program number five see items one and two
 Aye. Opposed no. Yes. She's being sneaky. Thank you. Thank you. We're good. Thank you for the catch note. Thank you. So we are good. There's been a motion second. The rule's been suspended. Is there discussion on these items? All of them in front. If you got number one, you're out of this jurisdictional transfer. Is that having to do with the Gorman Hotel development? It does. I'll ask you then Mr. Hanson to come up.
 Yeah, this is part of the Amrock Gorman project and we have to vacate Whiteman Street as part of the agreement to go over to South Main over there. We'll take over those two blocks between Cedar and Chestnut. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the discussion. The items are not clear. Please call the roll. Gensches? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Aye.
 Newberg, Beach, McNeely, Shirely, 10 ayes, 1 no, your honor. Thank you, the matter is passed. Any further committee reports? Officers reports? I have a few items this evening. One, I'm placing up for reappointment. Alderman Thompson-Kelley, please note that I got it this year.
 Our, in pursuance of city ordinance section 2-91 terms of office for appointees placing up for reappointment are directors of our municipal departments. I'd ask for a vote at our next council meeting on those if there's any questions especially for our, from our newest council member Alderman Connell please feel free to follow up with myself. Also,
 Just a couple items that I want to mention again. Welcome to Alderman Connell on joining us from the 6th Ward. If you've had a chance, I know you and I had a chat a little bit and meet some of our staff. And please feel free, any additional questions that you have as you get acclimated to the city organization, please feel free to let us know. A couple items I just wanted to note. First of all,
 Obviously, I think everyone in the country is aware of the riots and the tragedies that have befallen the city of Baltimore. I happen to be in Maryland and in the city of Baltimore on last Monday, a week from today, when the unrest broke out. I was not in the heart of it. I was at the airport, in and out, and I had been invited to speak at the Maryland Economic Development Association annual conference and meeting.
 But I couldn't help but notice the challenge and the irony as this conference was going on in a really nice part of the state of Maryland. This conversation about police use of force and the conversation about violence in our neighborhoods simply can't be an independent conversation from the conversation about economic development and opportunity.
 And certainly that's been a, I think, a growing part of the commentary nationally, but it's also part of the commentary locally. Last week we got, from my standpoint, obviously good news that the charges that had been made against Chief Epperson had been ruled in his favor unanimously by the Fire and Police Commission. It's my sincere hope that we can move forward from this point in time recognizing
 yes, that we have work to do, but also recognizing that we've come a long way. And it's not just my word and the Chief's word for it. When you look at the data involving our officers' use of force since 2009, we've cut the total number of incidents in half. The number of complaints against our department for excessive force have been dramatically reduced. In fact, only one complaint last year when in past years they have been in double digits.
 That doesn't happen by magic or accident. It happens because of a lot of hard work. A lot of hard work bringing transformation and change within the department would not be possible without the leadership of Chief Epperson and the support that he's received from this council and from our community. I applaud the work of the chief. I know our work is, we've got a lot more work ahead of us.
 But we need to also reach out to our police union and let them know that this success wouldn't be happening without their members. It's the rank and file members of the department and who also, yes, are union members that are out doing great work each and every day. And it's a function of training, it's a function of monitoring, and it's a function of management. We have a lot to be grateful for in Rockford, Illinois, and frankly, I think we have a lot that we could lend to this national conversation about police use of force
 One of the things we know is that body cameras, cameras alone will not solve the problem. In fact, they may capture on film poor police work that ends in tragedy. The real work has to happen long before an officer takes the street, when they're equipped with good training, good background, good experiences that support them doing the very best they can, and knowing that they've got a community supporting them in the very difficult, challenging positions that they're in.
 So I want to thank the Chief again for your leadership. It's been an honor and privilege to be able to work with you. For my 10 years in office, you've been the finest leader that I could ever have hoped to have, and I appreciate that. And I want to thank all of the members of the department for doing the work that they have to do each and every day.
 We're privileged tonight that we had an honor that we can give for Police Memorial Week and the festivities that will happen in celebrating all of our officers. And I think it's appropriate that we also call to mind the fact that they do and they are doing work potentially even now under more stress than they've ever been in. I applaud them and thank them for the work to keep my family safe and families safe throughout the city.
 And just know we want to do everything we can to support them, be the best officers they can, so they can go home to their families and that all of our families are safe in our community. So thank you, and we look forward to our continued work together and open now to further officers' reports. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. And thank you for the memorandum on your reappointments, but thank you for being on time.
 I would like to see the salaries for the appointments of these department heads. Certainly. Thank you. I greatly appreciate that. I also would like to thank...
 Lorraine Logan, Henrietta Dotson-Williams, and Maurice West Sr. For all the work that they've done, I don't think individuals realize the hours that they put in interviewing police officers, firefighters, and going through this trial. So I want to thank them for their
 sacrifice and their dedication to this community because it did take a lot. Thank you. And while we're on the subject of police, I understand that staff is moving forward with a planning stage of the three locations for our police locations.
 I would like to be included, if possible, in those meetings. I would like to know the planning behind it. There were some questions that I had on the information that we did receive, and my understanding is that some of those are changing, and changing for good reason. I don't want to micromanage, but I do want to be informed on what's going to be put before me that will be voted on.
 I also want to thank Allamand Hutchison as well as staff, the legal department, for the residential quality support ordinance meeting that we had.
 I don't know by Jamie, but I've received a lot of phone calls since then. And I think that staff did a wonderful job presenting the evidence and understanding what the ordinance needs in order for us to move forward and be a better community with that ordinance.
 And I do appreciate the hard work that the legal department has done on it. And I will be supporting the legal department on their requests. And if any alderman has any questions, please, please contact the legal department and get it clarified. Because this is something that does move our city and is an improvement in our community. Thank you. Thank you. Further officer reports? Alderman Odom. I'm thinking here, Ann Arbor.
 I understand if I am correct that we are still in negotiations with fire and so what I would like is an update on that and I would also like to see proposals that have come across I'd like to be involved in it although I can't go to all the sessions I'm not going to be
 due to scheduling but I would like to be informed of that and see that so I could see where we're headed and what's been happening certainly thank you yeah obviously I just make a point any alderman could ask to go into closed session I don't know that we plan one tonight but we certainly could if council so desires otherwise if you want to do it next week or the following week we can certainly do that yeah I'd like next week Monday if we can
 for a closed session. Yeah. Closed session. Alderman McNamara next. Thank you. Thank you Mayor.
 Two notes, one on a sadder side, but pretty hopeful, is former alderman Doug Mark suffered a stroke this past week, and I've heard he is in great health now, doing well, had a procedure today. His regular jovial self, but if everyone could keep his family and their thoughts and prayers, he would certainly instill as a strong advocate for the city and the ward. On a more positive note,
 Rockford Sheriff us in the RACPB today had their downtown beautification kick off and
 It was just a great event. And just wanted to make the citizens aware that May 29th through June 6th, there'll be three different times each day that you can volunteer, from 8 to 12, 1 to 5, and then 6 to 9 every day. So one of those time slots should work for most folks. And they're hoping to have more than 1,000 people come down and volunteer their time. So it was a good press conference and just a tremendous and kind of a great event.
 humbling experience to see that folks from Sharefest and the amount of time and energy that they're putting into resurrecting and beautifying our downtown. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And thank you for the words that you said regarding the police department, the officers. And certainly glad that that whole issue is finalized.
 I didn't attend, but I did read about the young people that had a march yesterday, on Sunday, wanting their voices to be heard as part of a national conversation of what went on in Baltimore and other places throughout this country. Some of the comments were that
 They needed, we needed to hear their voices and to know that they could stand up and do certain things and I am so proud of them and I hope that they will continue to be involved civically. I was very proud of the individuals that were here today, the various unions that came today against the resolution that was passed two weeks ago, the Governor Rahner's resolution.
 I know that they were upset because of the timing of them not being able to sign up to speak, but they certainly made a good impression today. And it was nice to see Representative Leticia Wallace here as well in support of them. I would just like to briefly, they gave to all of us Project First Rate, gave to all of us baggage.
 And inside that package are some of the issues that I think I expressed at that time why we should not support that resolution. And I still believe we shouldn't. But I think that they point out some ballot points, some of them that I expressed, some of them that I didn't express. But I'm very glad they did show up. I'm proud of them. And I hope that
 they won't let this issue just fall by the wayside, even though we had the vote on it. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. A question several people have asked. Is it on the agenda for this legislative session, is the extension of the
 River Edge redevelopment zones or the historic preservation tax credits for the state of Illinois. Is it on the agenda? Well, I don't know if that's the proper language to use, but I'll communicate it the way it's been explained to me. There's been a bill, the bill's drafted. It's been in
 In the Senate, I'm not sure if it's still the executive committee, Mr. Hayes may recall, but generally what's been explained to me is any bill having to do with revenue is likely to be part of a final budget deal because of the just general reluctance of what's considered revenue, potentially revenue impactful to the state. So it's been a, for
 Procedurally, I'm not sure exactly where it is, but they've told what's been explained to us is, you know, wait till the end. All of the five River Edge communities and their delegations seem to be in strong support of it. So hopefully they'll hold out any votes or support for a budget deal until we can get support for this River Edge extension. And that's certainly something I know Senator Stoudman and I have talked a little bit, that he would like to see.
 Obviously, I think that's the reason holding the hearing here, as much support as we can for this so that he's able to bring that to his leadership and ask his fellow senators to vote for it. I think the same in the House. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Alderman Newberg. Thank you, sir. This is a public service announcement. It's gotten to be spring. Our trees are budding. Some are dying. Some are being cut down. We've got potholes in the town.
 If you would please just call the public number and report that address of a tree, a pothole, if there's a problem. If you call your alderman, that's not going to get it done any sooner. I don't have any more pull than Joe Blow that calls, and I don't want any more pull.
 If they've called two weeks ago about a pothole and the alderman calls, I don't want that pothole fixed because of the alderman called. Our men and women are doing a terrific job. I talk to them weekly and watch them. They're very conscientious and they're methodical on filling. But there is a number. And get a pencil and paper ready because I'm going to give you the number to call folks.
 It is 779-348-7620. That is the number if you have a tree, if you have a pothole, if you have a storm sewer, I think. If not, they'll tell you who to call. Again, the number is 779-348-7620. Please help our...
 Men and women that are fixing up Rockford know where they should be at. Call and report where the pothole is and the problem. Thank you. Thank you, . As a takeoff on that, I would ask Director Hayes, not Hayes, I'm sorry, Hanson, I was giving you potholes in the legal department. Are we doing proactive patching again this year?
 I mean, I know some areas, you know, they were there last year, they're there this year until we redo the streets. So will the crews be out by Quadrant or area?
 Yeah, we're very proactive. Actually most of the requests are internal at this point. So we're actually in a very good shape this spring. The pothole season didn't show up like we thought it would. I think it's because we're getting a lot of the bad roads that are on the CAP are getting completed and they're getting less and less. But we're sitting on about 45 requests right now for potholes. At this time of year it's usually 600-700. So we're in very good shape.
 Comments? Alderman Frost. Thank you. Speaking of Alderman Newberg, you mentioned about phone calls and phone numbers. About two years ago, we all went to a workshop at Nicholas Conservatory where we were given a great three-ring binder from the city that had all of the important numbers that were important for aldermen to have so when a constituent calls us, we would have the right number to pass it on to our constituents. About three weeks ago, I asked for an update on that and for some new phone numbers, and
 from, I don't even know who I received it from, but it was less than adequate. So I would ask that the city provide the alderman with an updated version of the new phone numbers of department heads and other important phone numbers so we can have that information at our fingertips when we receive
 phone calls from constituents because when they call they don't want me to say, the city just got a new phone system and I don't have all the right numbers yet. So I would implore whoever, if they want to borrow my book so they know the proper book to have, it sits right on my desk and I use it very frequently. So, thank you. So the two comments on that, number one, yes, we'll get you an update on your phone numbers, but two,
 The Alderman Beach will remember going to Elgin, I think it was, and a couple other aldermen when we paid a visit to see the 311 Center. The fact that an alderman has to remember or have had their access dozens of different phone numbers is a little archaic given the alternatives that are out there today. So I would ask Ms. Valdez, who's been managing this project, to maybe by our next couple meetings give us an update on what's the status of the 311 project.
 And we can get rid of it before that because, or at least take a look at moving forward on that, because it's one thing that I would love to be able to have the ability to be able to do. And, Mr. Trommels, between you and other staff, can you work on getting that directory of phone numbers? Thank you. Other hands? Holden Thompson, Cali, Golden Beach. Awesome. Thank you. Awesome.
 I'm confused. Do you want an update on the 311? We didn't budget for the 311. We didn't approve it either. That's why I want an update on it. We didn't approve anything on it other than the project that we approved last year which was to come back to the council with an analysis.
 whether we're doing it this year or next year, we've done work. It's time we get an update to the council on what the status is. I've not gotten one myself, and I'd like to get it. We did a bunch of late work last year, and I'd like to see the update. Paul Beach. Yes, I just want to speak also about the phones. One thing that I don't like when I call different numbers is to, first of all, be put on hold. Second of all, once I waited to find out I called the wrong number. And I think that each of us...
 have our own ways in which we deal with our constituents. But personally, I feel that when someone takes the time to call my home for whatever reason, I'm not going to give them a number.
 Tell them you're on your own. I'll take that request and move it forward and never expect any more than what they would expect if they moved it forward. I want to thank Tim Hanson especially because I use my cell phone quite often. And I get emails from the constituents. They say we have a problem here, a problem there. I just go ahead and send that forward.
 right back with their name on it to whatever department has to say thank you for your no please review and offer a solution and often than I get reports come back from the department as whoever might be this is what we will do thank you very much everybody's happy the losers the whole loop is closed in a matter of maybe hours even though the work may not be scheduled for days or weeks so I just throw that from.
 the way I want to be treated, I call someone else. Thank you. Thank you. Any further officers' reports? Unfinished business? Under planning development, Your Honor, there is the redevelopment agreement between Lions Consulting Group LLC and 4940E State Street LLC, which is Spring Creek Development Group, in the City of Rockford regarding
 Building renovations and leasing of 5,678 square feet of office space located at 4940 East 8th Street. And this matter is up for vote. The matter is up for passage. Since it's already been up before, we don't need any motion to suspend the rules. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, I'm sorry, on the beach. Thank you. There's just one thing that I'm not clear on completely, and I did talk to Mark Williams today and to you, Mayor Morrissey,
 is if in fact they need to get out of there before they're five years, there's a cancellation clause in there. Are we on the hook for that clause? That's what I want to find out for sure. I think the number they threw around before was like $130,000. And I just want to know if in fact they have to leave for legitimate reasons and they can't locate for legitimate reasons, relocate, whether we're on the hook.
 And for that $130,000, lease cancellation. That's what I'd like to know. Mr. Scandale. Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, there is a cancellation clause within the proposed development agreement, which states that we would provide the developer $130,000. But there are some qualifying factors that need to be satisfied.
 for that payment to be made. One, they need to expand their operation in the city. They need to prove that they are unable to expand at the proposed location, which is 4940 East 8th Street. And they need to relocate within one of the following Rockford TIF districts, River District North, West State Kilburn, South Rockford, 7th Street, Midtown, Auburn Street, or the Broadway TIF districts. So they would need to meet all those criteria
 has set forth within a development agreement to receive that cancellation fee. May I follow up on that? So let me understand then that if this were to happen, let's say three years down the road, if they were presented options to go in these other areas that you've just outlined and everything else was met and they refused to go into those areas, they wouldn't get the $130,000 cancellation fee paid for them? That is correct.
 if they did not meet all three of those criteria they would not be eligible for the cancellation fee now keep in mind that's in year three i understand the other page you go i understand that the annual payments would not be made so if they were to say well i don't like a building in one of these other chip areas wherever it might be but there is a building there for people into we don't have to be on the hook for that hundred thirty thousand dollars
 Correct. They need to satisfy those three criteria. Okay. I'll then maximize that all across. If they are eligible for the cancellation fee, will that come before council again for us to vote on? It's not directed within the development agreement that it would come before city council. So if they satisfy the terms as outlined within this development agreement,
 Well, any expenditure would always come before us through the vouchers. So, I mean, that's just in order to approve and authorize check rating. So I guess any less of a mistake on that, Mr. Hayes? That's correct. And in addition, I would imagine that if they're relocating in one of those other TIF districts, that we'd be doing some sort of development agreement with them on that as well. But you're correct that the...
 The element of that obligation is something the council is voting on now. Mr. Frost. I sat down too soon with regard to this matter. This development agreement has been modified to restrict the developer owner from protesting the tax assessment on the property without consent of the city during the period of time the city is providing benefits under the agreement. Therefore, Your Honor, I would move to modify the development agreement approved by the City Council on April 20, 2015 as follows.
 I move to modify the development agreement at section 2 point open parentheses E close parentheses by adding the phrase quote during any tax year in which abatement is being paid to the developer under section 3 here end end of quote after the address of the property comma 4940 East State Street comma and by striking the phrase quote the initial term of the state and welfare tax increment financing district
 final levy date as of December 31, 2034. And in section four, by striking the phrase, quote, shall survive the agreement, end of quote. Thank you. It's been moved. Is there a second? There's been a motion and a second to modify the development agreement in section 2E by adding the phrase, quote, during any tax year in which the increment is being paid to the developer under section three here, end of close quote, after the address of the property 4940 East State Street
 And by striking the phrase quote the initial term of the state mall for tax increment financing district final levy date of 1231 2034 close quote and section 4 by striking the phrase quote shall survive the agreement close quote that's been moved and seconded it is up for discussion is there discussion all those in favor please say aye. Aye's have it thank you. The amended item is still in passage for discussion. Any further discussion? Thank you. I'm sorry.
 What, Mr. Mayor, would someone please tell me what this is? Mr. Cagnotti, you want to discuss? Thank you, Your Honor. This proposed development agreement is a three-party agreement with Lions Consulting Group and Spring Creek Development Group.
 They are currently located within the Iger Lab facility and have 21 existing employees. These are approximately 90,000 plus annual salary positions. We were approached by Lyme's consulting group as a result of the eviction notice that they had received, or revised terms for their lease agreement.
 from Iger Lab, which resulted in them seeking an alternative location. We went through a competitive evaluation process with Lyons Consulting Group, as well as other municipalities that were competing to have this business locate within their area.
 municipality. As we went through this process, we determined that there was a cost differential location that they had identified as their preferred location within the city of Rockford in our competition, which was Beloit, Wisconsin. So in accordance with our TIF policy, we had done a cost analysis and identified what that gap was, which is generally representative of these developments. We partnered with the county of Winnebago, which agreed to pay for
 50% of that cost differential, which is an annual payment of TIF dollars from the Mulford and East State Street TIF, an amount of $13,000 approximately a year for up to five years. The city would be paying $13,000 and the county would be paying $13,000.
 should they stay at that location for a full five years and then go into the 66th month, there would be one additional payment of $14,000. So the total value from the state and MUL for TIF would be approximately $80,000. There's performance criteria set forth within the development agreement that they need to retain those 21 jobs at the proposed location of 4940 East 8th Street. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you.
 Is there further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Aye. Mr. Hayes, procedurally, we need eight votes. It requires eight votes to pass an ordinance, so there aren't eight votes in the chamber, apparently. Pardon me? Even if you voted, there wouldn't be eight votes. No, that's what I thought. That's why I just didn't hear you. So the motion fails, the matter fails. For lack of the required votes, we need at least seven. Somebody would have to change their vote in the winning side.
 for to be reconsidered all of a note I'm I'd like to change my vote to a yes so Mr Hayes procedurally do I take that as a post reconsider that would be the appropriate motion here I saw the all the road was moved reconsider she was in the Victoria side so she's that's appropriate it's been seconded by all the catches so the matters up for reconsideration is there any further discussion should take a vote on that oh sorry we need to have a
 that's correct appreciate that we first need a vote on the motion reconsider to move it second appropriately all those in favor reconsidering that increasing the five are saying aye opposed no aye seven thank you that is now appropriately back before the council on the floor on the motion reconsidered is there discussion on the task held point of clarification your honor are we reconsidering the item or are we can reconsidering the vote
 I don't believe there's a difference. The item is up for passage. The underlying vote, it failed the first time, so it was appropriately moved for reconsideration. My hope would be, obviously, that it passes, but it needs a minimum of seven votes. I could vote to get it up to eight, but it would need seven affirmative votes to pass it in the chamber. Mr. Hayes, did I get that right? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you very much. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll.
 Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes,
 special event permanent liquor liquor permit for consumption of liquor outdoors SP license for the Kentucky Derby party on May 2nd 2015 at 4 0 4 0 0 7 East State Street from 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. honor this item has already taken place but we need procedure to have this on the on the floor tonight
 So just for a point of information, I don't take anybody's questions. I don't know what happened procedurally on this, but the event has already taken place. You're not misreading it.
 Mr. Hayes, when I asked whether this is really a moot item at this point, he advised that should it come into question whether they were operating inappropriately or appropriately, there was every expectation we'd approve this in the past. Somehow it didn't get approved, so it would, for the record, be appropriate to take an action on it to show our approval or sent to it. Alderman Beach, and then I'll have, there's a number of questions. Well, thank you, Your Honor. I guess there's another issue on tonight's agenda for a special event.
 That's going to take place before we vote again. So this could happen from time to time. I was wondering if we should put some kind of process in place to help deal with that. Not that we wouldn't want to approve it, but we already have another one coming up this evening. It's on Paul, it's coming up on 5-16 and we won't be here until 5-18. And so we won't be able to vote, they already have their activity. So your situation that you're seeing tonight, this council would have approved that.
 But it's over.
 So we gotta have some process in place to deal with this kind of thing. Ms. Valdez would like to say something. Ms. Valdez? So both of these events, the Kentucky Derby and the event that's on tonight that is happening on May 14th, these are both long-time event holders, so we're trying to push them off of their last-minute planning processes that sometimes occur. The new ordinance draft that's out there does require 90 days and does allow us to find people if they come in late.
 Something to keep in mind though and something that event staff is still working through is we have added a week to the approval process. It used to be your event went through committee one night and was approved at council that night so there's a little bit of a learning curve too with event staff that they have to remember. It's really now a three-week process as opposed to being read in the week before and then everything is taken care of the following week, it's now read in, you know, then it
 depending on where it falls in a calendar. So they're going through a little bit of a learning curve on scheduling themselves. Thanks, Governor. In response to that, will that same tolerance be 
 available to new groups too that would come? Yeah. Because you did say these are normal groups that come every year. Yeah, we always, we try to work, event organizers are not always known for their timeliness. Okay. They're usually volunteers and busy people. So we try our hardest to work with them, to get them, at least get them approved, get them in the door.
 And both of these events are establishments with liquor licenses already, and they're doing the food also, so they don't have to go to the state to get a separate liquor license. Thank you. That was my question, that this involved a liquor license. Where that was last Saturday, and they did not have a permit from the city, so where would the police department stand on that?
 Don't look at him. He's going to look at me. Well, I'm... He's going to look at me since I'm the liquor commissioner and you're on board too, aren't you? So he's going to look at both of us. I would just say this. I don't like this because it's not the way we should be doing it. If there's a way for us, we've done in the past, if we have to get something done in advance or at the last minute, I'd rather do it that way so that we can make sure that when the council's had a chance to look at it. I would say we're operating under some grace just because of these.
 have been long time events, but I don't want to continue to do this. I'd like to figure out if we even have to, number one, I kind of like the suggestion if we have to do something last minute, that there's somebody, I don't want to reward bad behavior, but at least have to pay a fine or something so that they hopefully won't do it the next year. If the lead time is a little bit longer, then somebody, let's get everybody programmed in. If they don't need, if they need a state license, then they have to a much longer time.
 you got to get first this all this and these are folks that have established the licenses so it's not as big a stretch but I don't like doing this so hopefully we'll be able to get it resolved now yes follow up you know if we get a council meeting every Monday night this probably wouldn't happen just observation thank you thank you very much for your observation appreciate it for calling my time Skylar question I have
 Are we notifying the individuals that normally would take out the organizers? Because I can think of an event that's taking place that I'm in planning right now, if you've added on time for that application, it's going to be late.
 I'm sorry, but I didn't hear the front part of your question. She said she's wondering if we have advised those of the longer time period that are traditional event organizers that we send out information about the time period.
 Yeah, well, when we started the update to the event ordinance process, we sent that to every event organizer that we have an email address for. We've posted it publicly, we've called them, we've talked to them. We would then, once the ordinance does pass, once we do define what our ordinance is going to be and it does pass, we would then offer a training session. So we'd invite everybody back in to say- But currently, our process has already changed, I guess is what the point is.
 in terms of the time simply because of our change in our meeting structure. So if there's a way to get information out to
 Just as a, you know, to continue to get the information out, certainly you can do that. But what is the status of the ordinance that you're referencing? It was supposed to be in committee last week and it was held over. Right. All the ordinance is doing is codifying what we've always requested. But we were requesting deadlines. If it's not in the ordinance, people sometimes push them. So we put them in the ordinance. The permit very clearly says 90 days before. Okay.
 So because this was still a problem, we put in the ordinance the very clear definition of when everything has to be turned in. We know most of our event organizers, and we reach out proactively to them. If we see that, you know what, this event happens every year, we don't have a permit yet, Kelly will call them and ask them for their permit. In this case, they just didn't get it in until the 11th hour. Paula Herman.
 Two things. One, I would ask that as we look at the future ordinance, we publish a calendar kind of like ZBA and, you know, if you don't get your items for variance or special use permit in by the ZBA cutoff, you're not on the agenda.
 That's just it. We can do that. I think we should do the same thing. I would ask instead of voting on this that we change it or modify it to ratify. I believe just from a legal sense it would be better if we ratified the event that's already taken place. But then my last question, could we not do a prayer of the petitioner?
 tonight for or at committee next week? No, not at committee. Couldn't we do a prayer of the petitioner tonight for the one that Alderman Beach mentioned that's going to occur before our next council meeting? You know, that is certainly, I was going to suggest next week that if we could do, if there was anything we could do to approve it next week so that the event actually has their permit.
 I've been told, and I'm not a legal expert, I've been told that Prayer of the Petitioner was something we made up just to get events through in the 11th hour. Yes, we did. So... It worked. It worked. If that's what works for you, it can work some more, but...
 You know, either that or I was going to ask if there was any way we could go into council very quickly next week after the committee meeting and venture approval. I would suggest that also if we could have a special council meeting on the agenda. Right. And we'll keep pushing our event organizers to get things in. So we don't make Director Hayes dyspeptic or something. Yeah. We keep making stuff up. I'll take all of them. And Hervey's request is a motion.
 to amend 8 a wonder flood that is actually a ratification as opposed to our approval moved and seconded Mr Hayes any procedural advice on that covered alright so it's been moved and seconded to change that language to reflect that it is a ratification as opposed to an approval
 Any discussion on that? Hearing none, all those in favor of that amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. So it's now as amended and reflecting that it's a ratification. Any further discussion on the item? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it, thank you. Thank you. And again, just so we close the ballot as a procedural item.
 I would take advice from Mr. Hayes in the next few days, even if he said it next week, as our early petitioner or some other procedure related. So if there's an event that we're anticipating we would otherwise miss, let's get it in front of the council for discussion next week. Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.
 I think you're I have eight items tonight the first is an award of bid for city wide sidewalk and eighty repairs this is package number three for 2015 award to Stenstrom construction of rockford for their bid of thirty eight thousand six hundred seventy two dollars and forty cents
 The second is an award of bid for City Yards Roof Repairs to Freeport Industrial Roofing of Freeport, Illinois for their bid of $123,900. The third is an award of bid for Harrison Avenue Demolition Package B to Northern Illinois Service of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $65,875.
 Item 4 is approval of the sale of a surplus snow cloud equipment, a 2005 International Tandem Axle Snow Cloud to Burritt Township, Illinois in the amount of $40,000.
 Item 5 is an engineering agreement. This is for the South Alpine Box Covert Replacement, Keith Creek South to Fairgram & Associates LLC of Rockford for an amount not to exceed $135,716.
 Item 6 is an engineering agreement for the North Alpine Box Covert Replacement, this is Keith Creek North, to Hanson Professional Services of Rockford for an amount not to exceed $171,060.
 Item 7 is an engineering agreement for Springbrook Road resurfacing and citywide street repairs. Group number 2 for commercial and industrial for 2015 to Chastain & Associates of Rockford for an amount not to exceed $96,590. And item 8 is an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford,
 public school district number 205 and the one about big old county state's attorney for the annual extension of the youth court process and I would place those eight items up for approval thank you for passage and Roman world emotions and resolutions the discussion
 Thank you, Mayor. On item number four, the tandem axle snowplow that we're going to be selling to Burrett Township, would we make more money by putting it out to auction, or have we looked at that and decided that we'd get more money from Burrett Township? Mayor, usually in these circumstances, we have these small townships that can't afford new vehicles. This type of vehicle last year went out to auction, came in a little under, I think, $45,000.00.
 This year went through another season, another tough season. The appreciation on this vehicle, we're thinking it may come in about $35,000 to $40,000 at the auction. So this is, I think in our regards, was a winner. So we went with solitism, and it helps out Township. Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Mary Nunn, clerk, please call the roll. Getchis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Irving? Aye. Cattle? Thompson-Kelly? Aye.
 Odo, Newberg, Beach, McNeely, Shirely, Levinize, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thank you. All those matters passed. Thank you. New business. Alderman Frost, is that yours? Committee, Your Honor. Number 1, the 2020 Comprehensive Plan Amendment for the proposed plan, Element 14, the implementation plan 2015 to 2019. And I'd ask this matter be laid over.
 Number two is the development agreement between the City of Rockford and 222 7th Street, LLC, Brent Hughes, Northwest Quarterly, for the building rehabilitation of 222 7th Street. And I would ask that the rules be suspended under Rule 11 and take a vote on this. Second. Thank you. So item A1 will be held out.
 Which is the development agreement between the city of Rockford and 222 7th Street right used for Northwest Quarterly It's been moved and seconded all those in favor of suspending rules on that please signify by saying aye Aye Opposed no Ayes to have it the rules be suspended Is that up for passage is there discussion very none clerk please call the roll Duchess Aye McNamara Aye Frost Aye Hervey Aye Connell Thompson-Kelley Odoe O'Reilly O'Reilly aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye aye
 Newberg Beach McNeely Shirely tonight's one knowing that passes thank you because regulations in business of control thank you your honor their code regulations committee new business ordinances number one and two are traffic related ordinances your honor
 Number three is an ordinance recommending the approval of a special use permit for a communication tower of 100 feet in height in a light industrial zoning district at 4x X 411 413 415 South Central Avenue and 17 X X Green Street and 26 X X Preston Street subject to conditions number four is an ordinance recommending approval of the modification of a special use permit for
 027-14 for a professional office in a C1 limited office zoning district and an R3 multifamily residential zoning district at 7589, 75XX, 7525 Blair Moore Drive, 75XX Royal Troon Drive, 75XX Western Gales Drive, subject to conditions.
 Number five is an ordinance recommending approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a hotel and a C3 general commercial zoning district at 7542 Coliseum Drive, subject to conditions.
 Number six is an amendment to section 2-27 Time of regular meetings of the code of ordinances of the city of Rockford The change will reflect the regular meetings of the City Council shall commence at 530 p.m Number seven is an ordinance prohibiting the use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 707 Fulton Avenue Rockford, Illinois, which is the Ingersoll milling machine remediation site and
 Number eight is an ordinance recommending approval for the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the grocery store at 320 North Court Street subject to conditions number nine is amendments of the code of ordinances chapter 109 flood flood hazard reduction number 10 your honor we have everyone should have in front of them the new language.
 item number 10 which is an ordinance approving a variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for freestanding signs along East State Street and Charles Street
 from 64 feet to 129.5 square feet. The variation to increase the maximum allowable height for business identification landmark style freestanding signs along East State Street and Charles Street from eight feet to 16 feet. The variation to increase the maximum allowable square footage for directional freestanding sign along East State Street from 10 square feet to 72 square feet.
 A variation to increase the maximum allowable height for a directional freestanding sign along East State Street from 6 feet to 8 feet in a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 1303 and 1401 East State Street and 14XX Charles Street. Approval is subject to the following conditions. Meeting all building and fire codes. Submittal of building and signs permits for staff's review and approval.
 must develop site in accordance with landscaping plans Exhibit E approved by staff. Signs and structure must be developed in accordance with elevations approved by staff, inclusive of the revised elevation submitted 4-30-2015. No. All conditions must be met prior to established use. Your Honor, I move to suspense rules nine and 11. Second. On item number 13.
 That's correct. Item number 10. I believe item number 10 is suspend rules on 9 and 11. The rest are suspend rule number 11. Thank you. Aye. Your Honor, I place those items up for passage. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson. Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. McNeely. No, I'm eight. Aye. Levinet.
 Shirely? Aye. Roman numeral 9B 5 and 8. 10 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 9B 3. 9 ayes, 2 no. The remainder, 11 ayes, 0 no. That is passed. Thank you. I'll come back to item 10. Your Honor, I move to suspend rule number 9 and 11 for item number 10. Second. Thank you for the motion. Second rule 2, suspend rules 9 and 11. Item all is in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have it. I just want to make sure I've got it procedurally, how this was before the council. What all the minister read, is that an amendment to that item? Or was that the item as it was presented on the agenda?
 Your Honor, the item was on the agenda in an alternative way. As you may recall, last week this was a committee and laid over. This is a language that was agended from what was before the council at the time the committee met, and that was what was on the agenda. Late last week, our community and economic development director struck out
 set of compromises with Swedish American hospitals representative and that's reflected in the language that was distributed to all the aldermen. There's a slight variance from the language in the agenda, reducing the square footage slightly, and so that different, there was also some different language in the conditions
 I just need to know procedurally do we need to take that as a motion to amend? No, because committee didn't take action on the matter. Rule 9 requires matters, ordinances be gone through a committee first. We're suspending that rule as it relates to this ordinance. So as it got it in was the first? So it's been read before council as directly as the ordinance.
 As Alderman Shirely had read, it does before the council and properly before discussion given our suspension of the two rules. Is there discussion on the proposal? Alderman Hervey. I just wanted to acknowledge and extend a thank you to Swedes for being willing to compromise on some of the size and height. It's tough with all the competing interests that we have in trying to enforce the signed ordinance, and that was one of my big concerns.
 extent to which we grant variations and I just want to acknowledge and thank the folks there for being willing to make those modifications. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman Ebert. Thank you, sir. I also want to echo what Alderman Kirby has said. I give my thanks to the city staff and to the hospital staff for coming up with a very,
 plausible plan that I can support wholeheartedly. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, the clerk please call the roll. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. Levinizer. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just one final item for the night. This is for a jurisdictional transfer between the State of Illinois and the City of Rockford for the rerouting of northbound Illinois Route 2, that's Wyman Street between Cedar Street and Chestnut on an interim basis to South Main Street between Cedar Street and Chestnut. And I would place that item up for approval. For passage.
 under Roman numeral nine C one. The jurisdictional transfer item is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beatt, McNeely, Cirelli, Levinizer on it. Matter passes, thank you.
 So no further business before the council's motion. Move to adjourn. There's been a motion and a second to adjourn. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes, seven. Thank you. Ms. Jardin. You're welcome.