I will do my best. Troyann Papopoulos, thank you very much and please
 God of all creation, we thank you for this day and the many blessings we have received. We thank you for the people with whom we have been in contact, our family, friends, strangers and coworkers. We thank you for the ability to use our minds to discern your will and work to create a strong and healthy community.
 We ask that you will bless this community and all who serve it as elected officials, our mayor, council members, and as well our first responders. We ask that you keep our police officers and firefighters safe and out of danger. We pray for those who teach and for those who clean and those who repair.
 We remember those who work in parks and those who work on roads. We ask you to be with those who plan and those who make the plans happen. Let us all live into the best example of what it means to be a citizen. We thank you for our community and for all who work to make it a better city.
 As this meeting begins this evening, I pray for each person here. Give each person clarity of mind, creativity, compassion, due diligence, integrity, and a sense of humor. Give them listening ears and thoughtful words. Give them presence of mind and an open heart. We pray this knowing that the divine hears and answers our prayers. Amen.
 And by the way, Reverend Papopoulos is from Emmanuel Lutheran Church? Yes, sir. Thank you for being here. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Here. Frost. Here. Hervey.
 Thompson-Kelley? Here. Odo? Newberg? Here. Beach? Here. Elliott? Here. Beck? Here. McNeely? Here. Chiarelli? Here. 12 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do inform. Is there a motion to accept? We have two journals. We're seeking motions to approve April 18th and April 25th. So moved. Moved and seconded to approve each of those journals. Are there amendments or changes to either? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Thank you.
 I'm sorry. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Thank you. We have several speakers signed up for public participation this evening. As a reminder, our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Three minutes to make their comments. Our first speaker is Delbert William Brown. Mr. Brown here.
 Our next speaker, appreciate the offer, but we will see if Mr. Brown makes it before the end of a lot of time. The next speaker is Brian Linden. Mr. Linden? I probably started at the Rockwood Human Service Department. You know, if you could pull the microphone over and talk directly. I qualified for a water heater and was asked to get three low beds from plumbers and I
 Then I was told that Total Plumbing and Heating would put a water heater in for $15 less than my lowest bid. And the funny thing is, when I was doing the bidding, Total Plumbing came in at $1,000. Anyways Total Plumbing put the water heater in, but the cast line was way out of being plumb.
 I told the installer about the out of plumness, but he did nothing about it. The city inspector the next day didn't seem to bother with that. In fact, he didn't regard our city slogan of excellence everywhere.
 So I called this Joe, a supervisor at Total Plumbing, but he told me that he would not correct the sloppy installation. So then I wrote a letter to Jennifer Yeager at the Rockford Human Services, which I thought she was dead, which I guess she wasn't.
 got an organizational chart and now I'm the city found out that mister Ryan is a over rockford human service department so I went to the mayor's office and talked to a lady with artificial blonde hair and I told her of my problem then she got a name and a long distance phone number and I told her I for
 For cost reasons, I couldn't use the long-distance phone number, but she refused to get an address. She said to go get that on the computer online. I told her Mr. Ryan is the person I really wanted to see because he's on my organizational
 She told me that Mr. Ryan and Nora, the mayor, were in. I was there on lunchtime. Then I asked for an appointment to see Ryan or the mayor, and she told me that I could not have an appointment with either one. I was somewhat shocked. I wanted to make sure I was hearing this correct. So I asked her again, and she says,
 that I can't see either one at any time in the future. So she told me that I could see either one of them, that I couldn't see either one.
 shocked again by what she said. She said that I should leave or she would call security. And I was really shocked because I didn't do anything that I thought was out of the ordinary outside of asking for appointments. So, anyways, in final conclusion, I would wish someone here may have the ability to
 see that this situation is corrected in my home because I have this misaligned gas line which is interfering with the shelving that I was going to put in. So I could probably do it within maybe 10 or 15 minutes, but I think the person I put it in should do it. Thank you, Mr. Linden. Your time is up. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman.
 This actually happened and will be especially interesting to the attorneys who are present. Mayor Morrissey, City Attorney Patrick Hayes, Alderman Frost, Alderman Hervey, and any other attorneys that are here or watching at home. Last week, the electrical power was turned off on our block. The reason? They were taking down the trees around the Turner Building, the site of our soon-to-be police station on Broadway. Okay.
 I talked to all of my neighbors and none of them were notified that we would be without power. No knock on the door, no notice attached to the front door, no notice mailed to the homes, and lastly, no reverse 911 call to those who would be without power. I talked to the man in charge of the tree trimming and he said they were only required to notify the businesses that would be affected, not residents. So imagine this.
 Someone on a breathing machine now has no power. Another person who is using an at-home kidney dialysis machine now has no power or any other medical need. What could have happened with no notification? Can you say lawsuit?
 The city sure dodged a bullet with that one. Can anyone here say incompetence? And is this what the city should be doing, dodging bullets? It's bad enough that the citizens are dodging bullets. Congratulations and welcome to Rockford Police Chief O'Shea.
 As anyone here can and will tell you, I am the voice of Broadway. Prostitutes, pimps, drug dealings, public urination, and more. Stay tuned. Saturday, shortly after 9 a.m., attempted robbery at the Western Ware on Broadway. Seven hours later, a man was mugged by two men, Broadway and Arbor Court. We need boots on the ground. A dedicated team to walk the mean streets of Broadway.
 Just today, my neighbor who lives on 10th Street, across from our soon-to-be police station, stated that he was mowing his lawn. A truck pulled up in front of his house. A prostitute got in the truck. Approximately 20 minutes later, the truck came back. The prostitute got out and started waving at more cars. Update. Gary Pickett has finally removed the illegal trailer from his property on Broadway. And it only took, what, six, seven...
 Eight months? Still no street light in front of liquor store on Broadway. City admits it never should have come down, waiting almost a year now for ComEd. City will purchase car lot from Gary Pickett for use parking for the Broadway police station. This property has many cancer-causing contaminants on it and around it.
 Pay Mr. Pickett $1 for this property only after he cleans it up. The people of Rockford should not be held liable for the cleanup of this contaminated property. This is Motorcycle Awareness Month. A-BATE, a brotherhood aimed towards education. Look twice, save a life. Start seeing motorcycles.
 Thank you. Stop the violence. End the silence. Call Crime Stoppers. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Luke, the 18th chapter, the 27th verse, it says, The things which are impossible with men.
 Apostle with God. What I want to speak about tonight, still forgotten, still abandoned. While preparing to give a recent talk to the Association of Black Sociologists in Chicago, I read the American Meal Stone, a 30-year-old award-winning series by the Chicago Tribune. What struck me is I viewed the subtitle as traps, society, crime, education, jobs, etc. Thirty years later, so many of these issues are still the same or worse. I was at St. Sabina in the Auburn-Grasher neighborhood 30 years ago, but must admit,
 that this has probably been the neighborhood's most difficult time. Thirty years ago, I saw this Southside community struggle with poor schools, high unemployment rates, violence, drugs, and the availability of few business opportunities. People were fighting to hold on to their homes, to keep their families intact, and to find meaningful employment. The community was wrestling with the white flight of the 1970s. There were some glimpses of hope, but too many residents could not shake the feeling that their neighborhood was indeed forgotten and abandoned. What's painful,
 today as I walk down the same streets is that things seem to be getting worse. I see more boarded up homes and vacant lots, more people who have been in prison aren't given any options or job opportunities so they don't return to prison. Poverty remains on the rise. The unemployment rate is at a frightening level for adults and young people. When I hear that the jobless rate in America is at 5.1%, it tells me that I don't live in America on 7th and 8th and Ray C. I see communities that have gotten worse since the economic fall
 of 2008. Neighborhoods on the south and west sides didn't realize the economic recovery promised by the Reagan triple down theory and President Barack Obama rising tide trend also hadn't worked. What makes the condition even worse is that the government has closed its eyes and resourced to the poor. Quality and funding of education still depend on your zip code and economic class. Social programs that were the life support to the most vulnerable have been curtailed or ended. So many of the programs that once helped prevent violence
 have been ended. Jails and prisons continue to rise. Guns have become part of American social fabric. They are easy to obtain now, homicides and shooting are rising. The tragedy is so many of these, unemployment, poverty, violence, education remain rooted in America's mostly-none sin, racism. Today, there is a paralyzing sense of hopelessness and despair.
 Much of the fighting spirit seems to be fractured and divided. We seem immune to the continued economic and social devastation. I fear America has decided that not everyone is going to make it, and in order for some to have more, others will have less. It seems that entire communities are still being treated as nothing. Chicago America and Americans still lack the courage and creativity to help the underclass. Brothers and sisters,
 I'm tired of hearing a teenager from Englewood wonder, does anybody care about us? I'm tired of asking children what they want to be when they grow up and they're asking us to be alive. I'm tired of young brothers on the streets saying with tears in their eyes, all I want is a chance, a job, an opportunity. I'm tired of sirens and helicopters
 being the sounds of the neighborhood and yellow police tape and teddy bears being landmarks. Most of all, I'm tired of seeing innocent children murdered and the cops getting smaller and smaller, courage and brains getting grinded and milled into dust. The question is whether we have the courage and brains in America. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next speaker is Roland Posca. May 2, 2016, Rockford City Council. I, Roland Posca, am a fishy whale.
 I am not trying to change anything. We must keep adding to the great things that are happening. What would happen if everyone in the world would add a religion to their true beliefs? Would viewpoints expand? Would thinking expand? Is truth narrow or wide?
 Don't forget the July 4th 2 noon meeting at the river. And Abraham Lincoln's money supply is still there. Thank you to each of our speakers. Let me do one more request. Is Mr. Brown here? Delbert Brown? You can sign up for the next week then. Thank you. Petitions and communications. Alden Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a memorandum from Todd Cagnone, Director of Community and Economic Development, regarding a proposed redevelopment agreement with transfer of property, which will include a request for alternative proposals regarding Valencia Apartments, located at 500, 518, and 532 Fisher Avenue, PIN numbers 1123107006,
 1123107024 and 1123107007. These will be referred to Planning and Development. Matters will be referred. Thank you. For the positions and communications, Ollivant Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on May 11th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on May 23rd. I have a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator regarding final plat of DNR1 Family Limited Partnership Subdivision. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events.
 which include the two block party, Rockford First Car and Truck Show, Seasons Produce, Outdoor Market, Churchill Grove Civil War Memorial, and Picnic in River District 12. All those items will be referred to the Cozen Ricks Committee.
 Thank you, Matt. It should be referred to the petitions and communications. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Matthew Vintner, City Engineer, regarding city, county, and governmental agreement for intersection improvements at Forest Hills Road and Pepper Drive, and I refer that to finance and personnel. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred to the petitions and communications. Alderman McNeely.
 Ms. Romero, I actually, it's not under there, but I do want to recognize the three Auburn seniors here tonight, Delisha, Fritz, Taiji, Benjamin, and Ravina Bolton, all from Auburn High School, here to observe us. Thank you for allowing me to do that. You're very welcome, and welcome to our meeting for the positions and communications proclamations.
 We have three proclamations this evening. Our first proclamation, and I invite our recipients to come forward with whichever guests they may also be joining them. Our first proclamation is regarding Salvation Army Week, and I invite Major Steve Merritt from the Salvation Army and others that may be accompanying him to please come forward to accept the proclamation. Thank you.
 Whereas the Salvation Army celebrates more than 129 years of service to our community. And although the Salvation Army is being recognized this week, their work continues each day of the year around the world, with one hand reaching to God and the other to man. As seen through its community centers, its family stores, its adult rehabilitation centers, summer camps, and after-school programs for children.
 Whereas the Salvation Army is especially appreciative of the thousands of volunteers who help in providing meals, clothing, and ministry for the needy and the underprivileged. Whereas the Salvation Army is honored to be the recipient of funding through the generosity of community donors, businesses, foundations, and members of the local United Way.
 And whereas a love of God and desire to help others is the motivation behind the men and women of the Salvation Army, offering help to all people in need without regard to race, color, creed, sex, or age. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 9th, the week of May 9th, 2016, to be Salvation Army Week. And we urge citizens to recognize and appreciate the dedication and commitment of the Salvation Army to our community.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to share a couple things the Salvation Army is doing. We've already been mentioned Broadway this evening. Salvation Army is out. It's called Friday Night Patrol. We're out at Broadway and on Winnebago Street every Friday evening of the year.
 All 52 weeks we serve roughly 150 meals on Broadway, about 200 on Winnebago. And regardless of whether we're collecting the food, we get it right back out to individuals that are in need. There's no qualifiers for that. There's families standing in line, so it's just another meal that can supplement the family schedule.
 Also on Salvation Army Week, as been mentioned on that Saturday before Mother's Day, the 14th, we'll have our postal carriers food drive. That's one of our largest food drives outside of the Christmas season. All of the food collected by the Salvation Army with volunteers come back to
 416 South Madison Street, Salvation Army site, we divided out equally for all pantries in town to be able to collect food and supplement their pantries at this time. So again, on behalf of the Salvation Army, I thank the mayor, the city council, and the community for its support. Thank you. Our next proclamation is regarding Motorcycle Awareness Week.
 And I invite Kathy Davenport and other members that are here to accept the proclamation to please come forward. All right. Thanks for joining us. It's been a nice time. Thanks for joining us. Yeah. Thank you for coming. Great to be here. Thank you very much. Thank you. All right, we're going to be looking into that camera right over there. So who should I hand this to? Is this free? That's great. Okay.
 All right. Whereas safety is the highest priority for the highways and streets of our city and state, and whereas the great state of Illinois is proud to be a national leader in motorcycle safety, education, and awareness, and whereas motorcycles are a common economical means of transportation, reducing fuel consumption and road wear, and contributing in a significant way to the relief of traffic and parking congestion, and whereas the members of Abate, Illinois, a brotherhood aimed toward education,
 continually promote motorcycle safety, education and awareness programs, and driver's education programs and to the general public. BAPE programs have had over 100,000 participants in Illinois over the past years. Whereas motorcyclists of Illinois have contributed extensively to volunteerism and money to national and community charitable organizations.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2016 to be Motorcycle Awareness Month. In recognition of 30 years of Abate, Illinois, and 650,000 registered motorcyclists statewide, and we urge motorists to join in our efforts to improve safety and awareness of our roadways.
 On behalf of Kishwaukee Valley Abate, I'd like to thank the mayor, the city council, and this community for recognizing Motorcycle Awareness Month. I personally ride. Everybody behind me obviously rides. I'm one of the officers of the Kishwaukee Valley Abate. I do all the public relations, so I'm out in the public. I come to these events. I actually have many this month to go to. It's exciting that we're recognized, that May is recognized as Motorcycle Awareness Month.
 We want Motorcycle Awareness Month proclamations and the safety and education classes our organizations present to local schools are all done for one purpose. The safe and durable shareway of the road. If one life is saved because of May Awareness Proclamations, all my hard work is worth it and all of ours is. It takes a lot of time, energy, and dedication to continue with the mission of ABATE. However, this area is blessed with a great chapter and excellent community support and we truly appreciate it.
 Statistics show that more than half of the motorcycle accidents are caused by a car or truck driver who said they just did not see the motorcycle. And that's one of the hardest things. We've had many people that we've known close to us been hit, and they just say, we didn't see them. And yes, we're hard to see. So all that we ask you is when you're out there to look twice before changing lanes, to look twice before turning across the lanes. Motorcycles can stop much faster than a car can, so don't follow us too close.
 We always say tailgating a car is dangerous, well tailgating a motorcycle is twice as dangerous. Keep in mind that motorcycles ride to one side of the lane to avoid the slick spot of oil. Some cars drip oil when it goes down the middle. We ride to one side or the other to keep ourselves safe. Above all, please be aware motorcycles are everywhere. Help our motorcycles have a safe motorcycle riding season and look twice and please save a life.
 Oh, and May 14th is our motorcycle awareness parade that goes down Perryville Road. Some of you may have been caught in the traffic before with the cops that stop. We leave the Carlson Arctic Ice Arena and go to Cagle's. So it's a short run. We do 30 miles an hour. But it's just to make everybody aware we're out there. We're on the roads and just to watch for us. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Again, our final proclamation this evening is regarding National Police Week. I'd invite Rockford Police Lieutenant Dan Watton and Rockford Police Rockford Park District Officer Lisa Limbruni and other members of our local law enforcement that might be with them to come forward.
 Whereas Congress and the President of the United States have designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day, and the week in which May 15th falls as National Police Week, and whereas law enforcement officers are guardians of life and property, defenders of individual rights to be free,
 partners with our citizens in efforts to lower crime, dedicated to the preservation of life, liberty, and pursuit of happiness, and willing to make the ultimate sacrifice of their own personal safety for our community and our citizens. Whereas our community desires to honor the valor, service, and dedication of its own police officers, to express our thanks to the men and women who help us leave our homes and families in safety each day, guard our loved ones, property, and government against all those who would violate the law,
 And whereas our community desires to honor fallen officers who have over many years given the ultimate sacrifice of their own lives to protect our citizens and our community. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 7th through the 15th, 2016, to be National Police Week. And we urge our community, our citizens, to honor and show their sincere appreciation for our police officers in our community by deed, remark, and attitude.
 Honorable Mayor, aldermen, alderwomen, men and women from the community, I ask that we take a moment and we bow our heads to remember the officers who have given the fallen or paid the ultimate sacrifice for our community. Thank you.
 Thank you. My name is Lieutenant Daniel Watton from the Rockford City Police Department. I stand here before you today also representing the Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week in the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard as the president and the commander of the organization. I'd like to first say thank you for the proclamation. Most years I've stood before you and provided statistical information. This year is about to change. As most of you know, I like talking.
 Throughout my career, I have received many questions about the representation of the Law Enforcement Memorial thin blue line flag, which is flown at my house. This year, I'd like to explain the actual meaning behind the phrase thin blue line. You have probably seen the symbol, a solid blue horizontal line.
 or bar bordered on the top and bottom by black rectangles. They're on the front of license plates of cars and trucks, stickers on rear windows, t-shirts, websites, profile pictures, and even some have tattoos. You may be wondering though, what does a thin blue line emblem mean? The thin blue line is a symbol used by law enforcement originating in the United Kingdom.
 but now prevalent in the United States and Canada, to commemorate fallen law enforcement officers and to symbolize the relationship of law enforcement officers in the community as the protector of fellow civilians from the criminal elements. The simple-looking emblem has multiple meanings, all arising from the same concept. Police officers stand as the thin line that protects society from the good.
 and evil, chaos and disorder. The blue is derived from the traditional color of the police uniforms. Most municipal police still wear blue, and blue has long been associated with law enforcement throughout the history of modern policing. The black simply serves as a stark contrast for the blue. The color itself is neutral and simply emphasizes the blue line. So what does this actually mean? The thin blue line represents
 the police officers who walk daily between life and death. The thin blue line represents the police officers' role in separating the good from the bad while creating order from chaos. The thin blue line on the black is a memorial or a connection or memory between the officers killed in the line of duty and those who continue with their duties in the present.
 The symbol represents those that have given the ultimate sacrifice and also those that still dedicate their lives protecting our communities. The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee was established in 1980, five years prior to the creation of the National Peace Officer Memorial Events. The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee represents six different counties including Boone, DeKalb, McHenry, Ogle, Stevenson, and Winnebago.
 Each year the committee along with the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard host events to remember, honor and recognize. Unfortunately, we had to add a name to the plaque this year. 32 officers from six different counties who have died in the line of duty given the ultimate sacrifice in an attempt to keep their communities safe. A hero remembered never dies. Honor, recognition and memory. Now I'm going to give the microphone to Lisa so she can sing the national anthem for you.
 Okay. Back to the agenda. However, if you would like to hear me sing, please attend our police memorial service, okay? That's going to be May 12th. And this year, we're going to be at the Old Stone Church on 101 East Union Street.
 And that way you guys can have the opportunity to also show the families of these officers who have already made that sacrifice. Now, some of you might not be aware of this, but Deputy Mike Mayborn's killer was released from prison. So this is recent, and now the family is dealing with this.
 We also have several events. We also would like to invite you guys to come to the Cherry Bowl this Saturday for some fun times with us from 7 to 10. We're raising money for our multi-jurisdictional honor guard. It's a lot that we do with our detail, a lot of different things that we have to go to, being funerals, one of our major things that we do participate in.
 This does help us be able to get officers uniformed like we are. It is a cost. So hopefully you can come out and have some fun for that. We also are going to have a blue mass, and that will be May 10th, Tuesday. That's going to be at St. Bernadette's Catholic Church over on Bell Avenue, and that will be at 10 a.m.
 For you Alderman and Mayor, we'd like to invite you to our breakfast. We have it each and every year. We look forward to seeing you. You should have a copy of all these, the itinerary that I'm speaking of, in your email, so that way you'll have an agenda. So we'll be at the mall.
 And the mall is for everybody. That's for the public. So from May 13th through the 15th. So I hope each and every one of you will take the time of reflection because this is a time of remembrance of this dedication, of these officers that come out and they do this job each and every day to show respect to their family because the fallen should never be forgotten. I'll turn it over to our chief. Thank you.
 It's nice to have a chief to stand with us. I can't tell you what this means to me as an officer to have someone to stand. It matters. Thank you. Chief defers to the fine officers who did a great job this evening. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And just to punctuate, every year the
 Police Week events are really produced well. I've been able to attend a number of them over the years, and just thank you, Dan, and the rest of your team for all the great work you do. Thank you. Committee reports. Is there any P&D committee report on Durkee?
 Codes and regulations, Alderman Tirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. There are room number five of new committee reports. The first thing I'd like to do tonight is hold out item number three until the next council meeting, Your Honor. That's the 89XX Lilac Lane. All right. Request to do that. And then the second thing is I'd like to suspend the rules. His microphone is on, Alderman Tirelli. Can you hear me?
 Let's try to speak louder. Item number three, Lyle and Lane, for the next council meeting. And the rest of them, items number 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. Your Honor, I'd like to suspend the rules. Second. Motion second to suspend the rules on enrollment number 5B, items 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13. Thank you.
 Been moved. Was there a second? Yes. There's a motion and a second to suspend the rules on those items. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please say aye. Aye. Those no. Ayes have. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. No. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye.
 Beech? Aye. Elian? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Items 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 13 ayes, 1 no. Matters passed, thank you. Thank you. Ellen Beck? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5C, I have items 1 through 8, I'm sorry, 1 through 6.
 I ask for suspension of rules on those items. There's been a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5C, items 1 through 6. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Placement for passage. That is up for passage. There's no discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye.
 Odom, Newberg, Beach, Elliott, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli, Forty and I. Thank you, the matter is passed. The reports, officers' reports, I'll just do my officer's report from my chair. It's going to be very brief. Just one item, actually two items. First is that Public Works is getting ready to move forward on State Street.
 The State Street Bridge traffic calming, which they did last year. I would just encourage any aldermen who have input for staff for public works to address that with Mr. Vittner. Also wanted to mention today we had a retirement from the City of Rockford. Jane Tapia, who's been with the department for a short 44 years,
 and doing an incredible job. And I honestly had, so she was two when, I was two when she started. And I couldn't believe, because she's just so, she's got such a great nature after 44 years. You know, this place could be a little rough, but it was a great little celebration for her today. I just want to commend her on her retirement. Thank you for her many years of service. Thank you.
 One final point, there was an article, extensive articles over the weekend on a number of city issues. The one I'll comment on tonight, but just invite any aldermen who want to discuss any of those items with me or the relevant personnel within the organization, let me know. The one that we will be following up directly on, since it impacts our budget work heavily, is the challenges within property values in the city.
 It is a systemic problem, whether we're talking about someone needing a commercial loan or just a homeowner trying to sell a home, buy a home. It's what we've been working on with some of the incentive programs, for example, that we recently passed. That's one that's going to keep coming back. You may have heard I mentioned in the article and during my State of the City address that I have a goal of putting together a citizen advisory group.
 to support our work on this. I'd like to reach out to council members before that. I'd come back with any kind of formal list. If you've got people in mind, we don't want to make the group too large or else it's difficult to get anything done. But I would just say if there's experts in the community you'd like to lean on, please feel free to make recommendations to me.
 These will ultimately be open meetings so all of us can ultimately participate. But if, I've talked to a couple of aldermen about having a couple of formal designees from council to serve. It essentially would be an ad hoc committee of the council that would have a relatively short period of time. We'd ask them to come back with some recommendations. We've done this in the past in various issues whether it's been our TIF districts or
 years ago when we had another budget finance advisory group. But I just wanted to mention that tonight and follow up with council members and invite your input. Further officer's reports, Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I would like to make a request, a couple of requests really. One of them is that we get an update on our next strategy planning session, which will be the 29th of August, and on that agenda that we would have get an update on the HUD situation and progress, whatever situation we're in with it.
 The other one is I'd like to request a meeting with myself, Alderman McNeely, as well as Public Works and the legal department in regards to the schedule and the progress on West State Street or the lack of progress. I would definitely like to have a conversation with legal and also Mr. Ryan as well. Thank you. Thank you. Happy to do that. Mr. Hayes?
 Just in our calendar, the next strategic meeting is actually May 31st. It's Tuesday. After that holiday, that's the fifth Monday. I just wanted you to be aware that there is one before August, but that I'm certain that the mayor and the city administrator are developing an agenda for that. So I'm assuming you want to do it earlier if we can. Schedule permits, I don't have a problem. Thank you. And I'll follow up with you on that, too.
 Thank you. Thank you. I want to go in order just as I see the hands up. Alderman Oroz next. Thank you. This week, Monica Box lost her life to domestic violence. She was a resident in my ward. The rate of domestic violence in the state line is overwhelming. Remini's has a 24-hour hotline, and that number is 815-962-6102.
 Every nine seconds, a woman is beaten. Sixty percent of domestic violence happens at home. Thirty-three million children witness violence against their mothers. And 40 to 60 percent of men who abuse women also abuse children. Forty to 70 percent of female murder victims who were killed by their husband or boyfriends are in an ongoing abusive relationship.
 we have to address this like we address every other crime. And because of that, I will be working with our police department, Remedies, to hold quarterly meetings at Flynn Middle School to make women and men aware of domestic violence. I will make sure that I provide a safe place for somebody to report domestic violence abuse, whether it is a child or a mother or even a father within the school.
 But it is important because a mother, a daughter, a sister, and a friend lost her life senselessly. So my heart goes out to Monica Box and her family and her daughter. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. Saturday, it was a little rainy, but my 10-year-old grandson and I participated in the Great American Cleanup again.
 In one area that is about the size of the city of Rockford emblem, we got seven bags of garbage. And this was along Riverside. This is stuff that people threw out their windows. It's very irritating.
 There weren't a lot of metal cans there. Somebody must have picked them up. But I want to say thank you to all of the people that came out in a cold, dreary, rainy day and cleaned up Rockford and the areas of garbage people are throwing out their windows or dropping as they're walking. We've got to do better, folks.
 The other thing is that I also, Friday morning, participated in the Arbor Day celebration that was at Conklin School. The city of Rockford, Mark Stockman, the tree man, and Mitch Leatherby planted four nice-looking trees along the promenade in front of Conklin.
 I will tell you, there were 400 students from K through fourth there. And for the first time in a long time, because I don't have any kids in school, all of these little kids were so excited, but they put their hand up, the teachers did, and you saw these little hands go up, and as the hands went up, everybody's mouth closed. It was so neat. We hear so much bad about the youth in Rockford. There are 95%
 of Rockford are good citizens. We have to promote this more. Conklin is a Northwest school. A lot of the children are bused in, so they've come from all over Rockford to this location to learn. And I want to see the news media, both television, paper, we've got to start
 advertising that we've still got good people that live in Rockford. And I know there's somebody upstairs that's gonna say there's that eternal optimist going again. But we have to promote the good things in Rockford, not always the bad. Thank you. Thank you very much. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman McNamara and myself had the privilege of being over to the Pitney Place dedication this past week.
 And I just wanted to comment about how grateful I am for the cooperation the city was involved in helping this thing become a reality. I remember the quote of the late Dr. Bill Bright, founder of Campus Crusade for Christ. He said, love is the greatest force in the whole world. And that's how I kind of see Pitney Place over there, a building, a facility filled with love and hope.
 for men and women and families and children that have lost their ways. But a building also filled with the spirit of the living God. So I just say congratulations again to Sherry Pitney, the board of directors over there, and the many volunteers. I appreciate all of the McNamara getting over there. I missed the ribbon cutting by about five minutes. Sorry about that. But it was a wonderful, I think it must have been maybe 500 volunteers.
 all together came over for that opening. So I wanted to say thank you to you as well, Your Honor, for the city's cooperation. Thank you. Further officers' reports, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I received a letter regarding the celebration of 100 years of Booker Washington Center, and that's going to be held in...
 together with the Black Family Reunion this coming July from the 15th through the 17th. And I would encourage individuals to contact the Booker Washington Center if you have questions. The time periods are varying, so I would hope that people would show up. Again, it's July 15th to the 17th. So put it on your calendar and get there.
 Angela, I think. Thank you. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. Just to follow up a little bit, Alderman Thompson-Kelly was asking for information about West State Street and what's going on with West State Street. I kind of want to chime in a little bit with what's been going on on South Main. And...
 I hope the same thing doesn't happen on North Main. I told residents because it was what I was told and it was what I believed that South Main Street would be completed this year and have now found out that South Main Street is slated to be completed in 2017. Your Honor, I know you went down to Springfield to...
 try to persuade some action. I don't know if there's still hope for getting that completed this year, but I think it's an abomination that both West State and South Main are going through this. It is a huge inconvenience. It's a safety issue for people.
 But tomorrow, IDOT staff will be at the Zeke Georgie building from 3.30 to 6.30 p.m. Just got notice of this on Friday, by the way. 3.30 to 6.30. The Georgie Center is at 200 South Wyman Street. And it's an open house format. They're going to be talking about the South Main Street project.
 what's going to be happening with this year's construction, and apparently slated to be completed in late 2017 because they've run into some rock. And let me be clear. I know they ran into things that they weren't expecting. It's the oldest part of the city. I'm sure, just like my house, you open up a wall or you open up a street, and you're going to find stuff that nobody knew was there.
 probably bodies, but just a lot of things. But I know the project and they had some trouble with utilities and getting some work done. But I have been asked by people in the ward to convey their happiness that the street is getting fixed because it was in horrific shape, but absolute displeasure in the way that this project has been handled.
 The detour route, which takes you in that little stretch of abandoned street between South Main and Rock Street, dead ends at Barbara Coleman, is almost impassable. And for those of you who have called me screaming, I screamed in turn. It is going to be overlaid either Wednesday or Thursday, depending on how the rain goes. And I want to thank Matt Vintner, who listened to me and helped me push this.
 We shouldn't have to go through this to have a roadway project done in a professional way. And I've been honest with IDOT, I don't think it would have happened if it was in a different part of the city. And I know they're angry at me for saying that and I'm not gonna stop saying it because I think West State Street is experiencing some of the same things. It is unforgivable that there was no planning
 to plan that detour so that people could actually drive on that roadway. You can't believe the ruts and potholes that are there. We abandoned the street. Nobody's gonna pay for it. Nobody uses it. But that's the major detour route. And when a semi tries to turn, all of the traffic has to stop by about a half a block up so the semi can make a turn on a street this wide. There were just so many things that weren't done.
 And I will be there tomorrow for at least part of the day to see exactly what's going to happen for the rest of the year. But it's 3.30 to 6.30 at the Zeke Georgie building. And I do hope, even on short notice, that people from the city, because I'm having calls about South Main from all over the city, and people are sympathetic, and I appreciate that.
 So I hope they can take a few minutes to come down and ask IDOT what's going to be done and let them know how we feel about how this project has been managed. Thank you. You're quite welcome, and I would just chime in. I did meet with the Secretary of Transportation, Randy Blankenhorn, expressing our frustration on South Maine and West State, hoping that North Maine wouldn't follow the same fate.
 My direct, I was under the same impression you were that all but potentially a very small amount of work in the center lane would be complete by the end of this year. And to hear that that wasn't the case and to hear that we fully ended next year was shocking to me, disappointing to me. I, my staff, our staff knows my concerns.
 We're also raised the point that last year, remember we had a project that we got out to bid later in the year and we did a smaller section of rebuilding completely South Main. Got it done, had all the same issues of age and everything else and utilities, but we got it done. So we're concerned about the project management, we're concerned about the delays and the routing and the traffic.
 detours that same points you raised. I know Mr. Vittner has been trying to work with IDA staff on that, so I'd encourage everyone to continue to support those conversations and our staff to continue those conversations to let them know all these issues that we're concerned about. Yes? Just very quickly, I want to recognize not only Matt Vittner, but the name that always comes up is Harry Noble and the staff.
 I wave at them as they're out there with those asphalt trucks trying to get it done. And every time I've called within the next day, they're out there patching those holes over and over and over again and trying to do the best job they can.
 and the other piece too, the asphalt plant, just so that residents know that their voices do make a difference. The asphalt plant opens tomorrow, and South Main is on the schedule for Wednesday morning if it doesn't rain. So all of you who called, and I relayed your message, and I said I've got 50 people calling, I've got 60 people calling, it does make a difference when you stand up.
 Thank you. Alderman Tempst-Kelley? If Alderman Hervey and yourself didn't mind, and if the structure of the A floor can handle Alderman McNeely, myself, and Alderman Hervey at the same time, she can be included in on that meeting when we can just include South Main as well. Sure. Alderman Connell?
 I just want to say this past Saturday at the Rockford Airport we did our tri-annual disaster drill, and I want to thank all the volunteers, the hospitals, fire department, and all the local law enforcement that come out and participate in that every three years. It's a simulated mock aircraft accident.
 And it was very, very cold, but we had 100 volunteers to act as actors as if they were hurt, and for the hospitals to try out their system to see how it worked. They're all working on computerized systems now for scanning and stuff. But just thank you to everyone for participating in that, even though it was so cold at 7 o'clock in the morning. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Elliott.
 I would like to recognize Officer William White in the audience. He's with the Illinois Commerce Commission, and he has been a resource for me in fighting some of the crime and blight in my neighborhood at a state level. And he has informed me that he will be retiring and has asked if the council would permit him to speak for two minutes. If there's no objection from the council, is...
 Motion and second all those in favor? Opposed no. I just have it. Officer. Thank you for allowing me to address this body. I came to this community at the request of Winnebago County to help resolve the issues with towing that was a predatory nature where your community and your visitors coming to this community were being targeted for towing from private property. That was one of the greatest problems.
 I had left 15 years of active duty in the United States Marine Corps to take this position as a police officer with the state of Illinois. I drove out here for almost three years because we had a home in Grays Lake and my wife was there with our five children.
 And it was well worth it. You know, I really enjoyed getting to know some of the issues that were going on here and then addressing them because one of the things I did in the Marine Corps was to help to protect our nation, especially from people who would choose to do harm to those who are innocent.
 Bringing my family here in 2011 came with a lot of difficulties and a lot of challenges. But I just wanted to thank this gentleman because you were very encouraging what you just said, speaking about the living God that we serve.
 And my faith community here came alongside my wife and my children and I, and it got more difficult before it got better. But I just want to say briefly that it was the city of Rockford that helped my family through that difficult time. It was the church communities. It was, you know, Harvest Bible Chapel, and it was Heartland Community Church and the Celebrate Recovery program that helped my teenagers through their drug issues.
 And it was, you know, the people over at St. Bridget's and Holy Family, the church community that I grew up in, that came alongside my family. And we were able to heal, you know, through the difficulty. We were able to do what many police officers can't do, and that was we were able to reconcile in our marriage and our family.
 And so tomorrow I will no longer be an employee of the state of Illinois. It's not something that I choose, but it's something that's going to happen. I am applying to become the chief of police of our police department as they terminated our chief of police last month.
 And I hope that if the governor so chooses, that they would accept me and my experience as a Marine and as a former chief of police in southern Illinois, that what I did to help this community, I could help many communities in the state of Illinois to stop this practice of predatory towing
 so that people can park their cars and know that when they come out that their car will still be there. And if by some chance they made the mistake of parking in the wrong place, then they will reasonably be able to get their car back and not be taken advantage of.
 You know, I want to congratulate the city of Rockford for standing up against this crime that was going on in your community and for the courage that you took. Many communities don't do that. They give into it. And, sir, if you don't mind me addressing you for a moment,
 I ran into you with my family back in 2013, 2014 over at the Children's Discovery Center Museum and we talked for a few minutes. And I don't know if you remember that because you meet thousands of people. But one thing that you said to me is you said, God bless you. And you said it three times. And it was interesting because I have been blessed. And then when our former chief of police of the city of Rockford
 when he was over at the Blue Mass at the Cathedral. Earlier that day, I stopped by there and I brought a picture that I had received from the Boone County Sheriff's Department from the memorial that's in Washington, D.C. And I brought it to the cathedral and I asked them, I said, can we put this up in the entrance so that the officers can be encouraged as they come in here? And if I remember correctly, it talks about how
 how people will run when there's nobody pursuing them, but the bold stand strong as a lion.
 And when the ceremony was over, I had a chance to say hello to Bishop Malloy. And the bishop looked at me, and I was in my police uniform, and he said, Officer White, you look like you mean business. And I said, We do, sir. We're here to protect this community. And I walked back inside the cathedral, and I got that picture off of the easel, and I brought it to Chief Epperson. And I said, Chief, I just would like to present this to you if you'd like to have this.
 And you see, the chief was one of the first persons who welcomed me back when I came back to work. And I was over at the Port Claire Convent during a funeral, and the chief stepped out in the aisle, and I'd stopped by there during my lunch break, and he looked at me and he said, it's good to see you. And I said, chief, it's good to be seen. So, you know, we all have difficulties in our life, but it's my faith in God that's kept me strong as a man, as a Marine, and as a police officer.
 And whatever God's will is in this, I'm trusting him with the future, what happens after tomorrow. And I just want to thank you, sir, for your leadership. Thank you very much. Thank you. God bless you too. God bless you. Thank you. Further officers' reports, motions, and resolutions. Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under Roman numeral 7A. Number one, it's an inducement resolution to evaluate the creation of a TIF district for the redevelopment of a former Essex manufacturing complex located at 2816 North Main Street and a commitment to enter into good faith negotiations of a redevelopment agreement with the developer of the said property. I place this up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 7A1. Is there discussion? Yes.
 Alderman Hervey. Quick question. With both the exploratory work for the TIF and the good faith negotiations of a development agreement, that good faith doesn't extend to any kind of acceptance or adoption, I'm assuming. It's just that the city staff will work with them to put one together. I guess what I'm concerned about is,
 Again, it's a huge project, very little information. We know we're sort of on the bubble with the number of TIFs that we have, and I just want to make sure that there's no binding,
 items out there that will bind city council or the city to any action or any liability in the event that we do not move forward with this. I will speak first and then I'll ask Mr. Cagnonia and Mr. Hayes to
 at any detail the necessary but first answers you correct does not commit us to a development agreement that simply to enter into the good faith negotiations ultimately that would be subject to council required council approval on terms of the evaluation of the TIF district I think we would be moving forward and some elements on that but I'd asked Mr. Cagnone and Mr. Hayes to any detail your honor if I could
 My light went on, so I'm sorry. I put them both on. Go ahead. Thank you, Your Honor.
 You are correct, it is not a binding agreement, it's good faith negotiation to move forward both the review of a TIF district as well as a redevelopment agreement. The developer proposes to engage S.V. Freedman which is a financial analysis planner as well as a TIF consultant to help them with the work moving forward so the developer will be taking on the expense associated with that.
 However, as part of our process, you know, we'll be needing to cooperate with them on the evaluation and participate as we move forward through the evaluation. Mr. Hayes, anything else? Your Honor, the issue of whether a TIF is created and the issue of whether any incentives are approved are left at the discretion of the City Council under the terms of the resolution. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I think that's...
 one of the questions that i had had too from this discussion at the committee level was not really clear at that time at least wasn't clear to me that if in fact the council doesn't go forward with it are we still obligated to pay those upfront costs i wasn't sure of that answer um and so this tonight doesn't this is not the place to to voice our concerns about what it might be that could be at another time the correct
 Well, you will definitely have another time before we're obligated to pay anything. All right, sir. Thank you. This would simply allow the developer, should we later on approve a deal, they could recoup those costs when we give the rebate. The costs incurred would qualify as being appropriate for the project. Sure. Mr. Hayes? Yes.
 So the issue is if we're promising only to engage in good faith negotiations and we're saying that the ultimate decision, whether to create a TIF or to do any incentive agreement, is still discretionary, why are we doing a resolution? That's correct. The reason for that is that the expenses that the developer engages in from today forward 
 would be reimbursable under any future TIF agreement. Because a TIF hasn't been created in this area, but for this resolution, the expenses that the developer engages in before the TIF is created would not be eligible under the TIF Act.
 This is why we do inducement resolutions, so that the developer can show their good faith and get started to prove a toss through their consultants whether it's a good idea or not and whether their program deserves merit and engage in expenses with the knowledge that if they're successful in that persuasive activity, then those expenses engaged after this resolution is entered into would be reimbursable under the TIF Act. That's why we're asking for it. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. There are consultants as well.
 The cities agreed to cooperate with the consultants that we've identified to them. They are retaining the consultants and absorbing those costs. If a TIF agreement is entered into, and if the city council includes this as part of that agreement, then those expenses may well be reimbursed out of any TIF agreement in the future. But at the first course today and going forward, those expenses are solely the obligation of the developer unless and until they become part of a TIF agreement in the future.
 Thank you. Thank you. Any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Berkey. Aye. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13. Matter passes. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Rumble, Rumble, Rumble. 7. Rumble, Rumble.
 B, 1 through 10, I place up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Up for passage, under motions and resolutions, Roman numeral 7B, items 1 through 10, those matters are up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Aye. Goetjes. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 Thank you. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Frost. Aye. Oto. Aye. Fortin. Aye, Your Honor. Thank you, Madam. Matters passed. Thank you. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman Rule 7, items, I'm sorry, C, items 1 through 6, I replace that for passage.
 Thank you for passage. Romanum 7, motions and resolutions 7C, items 1 through 6, are up for passage as they're discussed. Alderman McNamara. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak. I wanted to speak on item C4. This additional funds, there was a lot of discussion at committee last week. We have spent...
 State dollars in the amount of about 1.3 million dollars to demolish the prior deck put in the new pavilion and new structure that is there a lot of work has went into this a lot of good work from city staff as well as outside groups and I just wanted to emphasize a couple of things that I
 It was mentioned that it's a simple parking lot in discussion, and we talk about it a lot as a parking lot. But there's a subgrantee agreement with another organization to help program that space, so it's not just a parking lot. There's a pavilion that we don't put on, a whole host of other surface lots in our city, so to me it's not a parking lot.
 There's special lighting, there's water, there's electricity for hookups, for special events, for not just a city market on Fridays, but hopefully, and now they do a market on Saturdays, but hopefully more and more events to come. So to me, it's not just a parking lot. It's actually an event space that is also used as a parking lot.
 It has a dual purpose. We would never have spent that kind of money on a simple parking lot. So I would ask council members to please consider the $25,000 or so expenditure to help really complete that project. Again, the money that's invested in it today is an incredible amount of money, but it's not our 
 It was all state funds. I believe these will be the first dollars that the city puts towards it, and I think it will have a great impact, not just for the market, but hopefully to get more and more events to come down to that space. Thank you. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. My objection wasn't to improving it. My objection was to the source of the money, of the funding. If we're taking it out of inlets, right,
 Those are necessary services. It's not, you know, development or some kind of, you know, reserve fund or something. And I had asked for how many inlets is that going to impact? How many were we planning to do this year? Because some of us have inlets that have caved, and we have a barricade sitting over them for a year or two years or whatever it takes because our public works budget is small.
 stretch to the hill. So if we're going to take inlet money for that, what's going to be the impact on, or what are going to be the foregone projects? And that's what I want to know before we just vote and take that money out. Alderman Frost?
 I'm in support of the project. I had a chance to see a video showing the rainwater there and all McNamara talked quite a bit about it. It really is, it's for the benefit of the city market use and I don't have a problem saying that. It brings a lot of people down there and with all of the money that we've already spent, it's been spent on it, I shouldn't use the term we, but there's been a great deal of money spent on it to fix this particular
 I think is a good investment. The only thing I have a problem with is that it's to a change order to our downtown sports complex site development. And that's, I understand that the contractors are going to do us a favor by coming down the street. The only thing I would ask is if whenever we get the invoice for this particular project, that it removes any and all mention of anything about the downtown sports complex because it's not germane to the issue. It has nothing to do with the drainage.
 in this particular parking lot. It's a completely separate project. It's the city market project. And I just wouldn't want people to sometime down the road look at it and see that we amended an original contract for the downtown sports complex to fix another particular piece of property. So that's the only thing I would maybe suggest or that we actually modify the invoice or how we vote on it so that it's financed the same way and paid for the same way, but I don't think it should be related to the downtown sports complex
 development as I expressed to Mr. Vittner last week. Thank you. If we could maybe staff either finance or public works or legal comment on any of the issues that have been raised either about the inlets or about the description of the change order. Mr. Vittner. The, so I heard what you were saying about the association with the, the
 Ingersoll Sports Factory parking lot and we'll put that cost, it's just being grouped because the contractor is doing like work, we'll put that cost under a different account number, a different project number. So it won't be attached to that sports factory project at all. And also if it pleases the Alderman, I mean I can take this money not from Inlet's, I just chose the Inlet account as a general.
 funding pool of money that we had programmed in the CIP because it is an inlet, but I could also use it for where we have more general account for miscellaneous work called the Downtown City Center where we have I think $300,000 that we go around and capture things as they come up downtown with different things if that would please you. I can move it to
 location. It would. And again, it's not, I have a lot of support for downtown, but you've got a special fund for downtown. We don't have special funds for the rest of our inlets and drainages and everything else we have in our wards. And you know, sometimes some of us feel like if it's downtown, it gets it. If it's the rest of us, we have to wait.
 I'm not willing to wait on this one. Not when we're going to take as many as 12 or 13 inlets and put them on the back burner. Thank you. Thank you. All the time, Kelly. Does the market turn a profit? Do they turn a profit? Because it seems like every time something needs to be done, the city always puts up the dollar. I understand we own the dirt and everything, but we don't.
 I'm talking about the wrong issue. Sorry. Well, the city market is run by a nonprofit, the Rock River Development Partnership, for which we have an IGA, I think it would be technically referred to. As a nonprofit, they don't technically turn a profit, but, you know, they get sponsorship, and I know they don't want to lose money beyond what they take in, but I don't personally have any direct knowledge on their, you know,
 You know how they're doing with financial. We actually have a contract with them. I don't know if staff, Mr. Hayes or Mr. Cagnone or Alderman McNamara, any details on the terms of it? I can't recall right now. I don't have the terms, Your Honor. We'd have to check. I can't recall what the terms are. Ms. Valdez, do you have any of that background information?
 I'm sorry, I didn't catch that, Ms. Fetlitz. I can see if I can pull the contract up. All right. We will try to get some additional detail on that while we're here. Alderman Elliott. So just for clarification, we're adding more inlets in there to alleviate the flooding that happens when it rains? Is that what this is for? There will be a long inlet that will be cut into the...
 surface that'll catch the flood water, rain water as it comes down to alleviate the flooding that was occurring. So my question is have we recognized where the, you know, where did we go wrong in the initial design? I mean the first time I saw that finished product I figured it would probably flood.
 So was it a poor design or, you know, where does the responsibility lie, why we have to go back in and fix it, and how do we address that in the future with other projects? I see a lot of projects that we do where it, water runoff doesn't seem like it's really fully thought through. Ms. Friedner? Well, the project was designed appropriately
 for its primary use being the parking lot, and the original intent was to put shade sails up there, and then the scope of the design grew into a pavilion at some point. So the scope and purpose of the project was to provide a shaded area, not necessarily a weatherproof environment for the market. Most of the market is actually outside of the pavilion during market days, but if
 When we looked at the considerations for the water, you had a 50-year rain event that came that day. The water wouldn't even make it into the inlets fast enough. That's why it was pooling up and racing down. Even this trench drain that we're going to put in, that same type of rain event would just probably overwhelm the system no matter what because our storm sewer system is only designed to take a 10-year storm event. So if there's too much water that comes down at once, it's going to have that effect.
 But I was out there on Friday taking a look at it. 95% of the lot was dry. That was a normal rainstorm. It rained most of the day and the water just kind of filtered right along the edge, along the curb and into the inlet. And nobody would have even gotten their feet wet normally. But so if you want to blame somebody for the design, that would be me because I was leading the design team on that. And the parking lot turned out.
 the way it did with a lot of stakeholder engagement and we tried to economize, it went over the budget slightly. I mean, if we designed it and had these inlets in there and now, we would have spent this $25,000 then, or a little less because it would have been in the margin of the project. But it's just one of those things, sometimes
 you don't foresee the ultimate thing. And it's just, I don't think it's a mistake myself. I just think it was a choice that was made at the time. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. The organization that oversees the marketplace is a non-for-profit. The individuals that participate in the market, are they, they're all for-profit? They all pay sales tax?
 Yes, the majority. There may be a few nonprofits scattered in there, but the majority of the folks that are selling products are paying sales tax and are for-profit. So do they pay a fee to the non-for-profit to be there? They do. And all of that money is needed for that nonprofit to maintain whatever it is that they do and not chip in and pay for the drainage? Yes.
 So we have not asked them to contribute to the direct cost of these improvements since we're the owner of the property and we use it.
 You know, the vast majority of the time, as Mr. Vittner alluded to, it's not being used for the market. It's being used for city services. But I don't believe we've asked them for additional contributions beyond the benefit that they provide to the community by operating the market as an activity.
 The data that they produced, and I don't know if we've separately analyzed it, but from what I recall offhand, when we look at the economic output in terms of the sales tax generated, it is a pretty considerable amount that they've brought in, which is considered a very positive cash flow for the city. I can't recall what those numbers are offhand, but they've done some analysis on that. Somebody else may remember what the specific numbers were. Yes, go ahead. Well, then...
 If the sales tax that came directly from the vendors was significant, could we not set aside some of that sales tax for that purpose then to maintain that? Essentially, for us, when we put money in, like is being proposed right now, I believe it's coming from our CIP sales tax. So essentially, one could argue that it is.
 because the CIP sales tax is the sales tax we're talking about, and that's generated when goods are sold at places like the market. Is that a fair assessment? I believe it is. Any further discussion on the item? Thank you. Mr. Hayes? Thank you.
 There is no financial remuneration to the city. It's never been anticipated that the market would pay the city a rent or anything for that. The whole construct going through the sub-grantee agreement and all the permutations and conversations have been that the market is not going to remunerate anything
 the city would by way of rent the issue is they operate a concession that drives thousands of people in there downtown every Friday evening when the weather permits and that creates increment for all over downtown restaurants and amenities that's where we make
 the revenue. Every entity at the market is required to pay sales taxes as well, unless they are not-for-profits. So there's a couple of high school, like, band-type revenue raisers. They'll sell, you know, secondhand-type things. But for the most part, those retail entities do provide increment. I think we could develop perhaps some reports on that. It's tough to get
 specific information out on specific retailers, but we can try to develop some information on what we think the market impact is directly. So we don't recover rent. That's never been part of the discussion or expectation to date, but we do recover all the permit fees and revenues off the activity. I don't mind putting out my offer. I'll let Tom Scala.
 I understand that and I think that's wonderful that it's successful. But if you take that 1% and the dollars that we've taken out of the CIP and the budget to get this established for them to create the 1% back to the CIP and sales tax,
 I think we need to revisit that contract because I think I don't think rent should be paid, but I think the cost of them doing business, they should maintain it themselves instead of the taxpayers continue to do so. There should be some type of maintenance fee for them to maintain in order to keep operating.
 I honestly, I do not feel that it's fair to the residents of this community to take money to clean out their inlets to put it downtown when we know the dollars are there and it's generated through this event in order to take care of that financial responsibility. And I don't,
 think for one minute, and it's been successful. Our investment has been very successful. I wish they all were like this. I totally agree with it.
 And I am totally glad that this council made the decision to make an investment into a market in this community. But there's got to be time when the market has to support itself and the taxpayers get cut off, weighing from supporting it. Especially if they're making the dollars to do so. And I think we need to revisit that agreement. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll again. What's up for passage is,
 Roman rule 7c items 1 through 6 clerk. Please call the roll Getches McNamara frost Kirby Thompson Kelly Oto no one for Newberg Beach Elliot back. Hi McNeely Chiarelli
 Items 1, 2, 3, and 6, 14 ayes. Item number 4, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Item number 5, 12 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. The matter is passed. New business. Alderman Shirelli. Your Honor, under new business, just to remind the council that item number 2 has been held out until the next council meeting.
 But item one and then three through 12, I move to suspend the rules, Your Honor. Thank you, there's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral VIII B, items one, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10, 11, and 12. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it, the rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those items up for passage. That is up for passage, is there discussion?
 Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I know it was discussed before, but on item B1, the setback is going from 6 feet to 0.2 feet. Is that setback on the street or alley side or adjacent where we're losing complete? Who wants to take that? Mr. Cagnone.
 Unless all of the chairmen are going to answer it, I can try and provide the clarity. I'm looking at the site plan to confirm whether it's off the street or the alley, but the setback was existing because there was an existing house and an existing detached garage, and they provided an addition that connected the two.
 We have different setback standards for detached structures versus the principal structure of the house. So that's the reason for the variation, if that makes sense. No. All right. Thank you. Any further discussion on the items? Yes.
 Hold me to her. One. Previously, there was item three under the ordinances. I voted no on the one before, and I read it incorrectly. That was for the gas station with the liquor license and tobacco, and I read it incorrectly. So I will vote for it this time just so the owners know there was nothing personal. Thank you. Further discussion on the items? Hearing none, please call the roll. Thank you.
 No on the remainder, B is a B, 12, I am the last. Getschis, McNamara, Aye. Frost, Aye. Hervey, No on 12, I on the remainder. Connell, No on 12, I. Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Aye. Newberg, Aye. Beach, No on 3 and 12, I. Elliott, Beck, Aye. McNeely, Aye. Chiarelli, Aye.
 Items number 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 ayes. Item number 3, 13 ayes, 1 no. Item number 12, 10 ayes, 4 noes. Matters passed. Thank you. Thank you. All in back. Yes, Your Honor. Given. I'm waiting for my light to turn on. Done. Should be done. Oh, is it? Oh, okay. Thank you.
 All right, Roman . . . You can see it if you want to chat. Yeah. Roman 8C, I have items 1 through 4 that I match with suspension rules. The motion second to suspend the rules on Roman 8C, items 1 through 4. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules be suspended. Please come up for passage. Matters over passage. It's a discussion. Alderman Newberg.
 Thank you. Number three, this is an agreement between the City of Rockford, Winnebago County, and RAVE. Has the Winnebago County approved this yet? Mr. Ryan? And if not, when is it up for the vote? Mr. Ryan or Mr. Hayes, I don't know who wants to? Thank you, Your Honor. So last fall, the county approved a version of this that was different than the version we had approved the week before.
 Because of my capacities, it has taken me months to get to the point where we now have an agreement that both staffs have presented to their boards. We'll be first to approve it. This hasn't even been on the county committee yet, but it's supposed to go to the county committee this week. So they have not had an opportunity to see the revised material. Their staff, however, believes that the language is appropriate. We have the support of the chairman.
 But I have not polled nor do I typically attempt to poll the county board members about matters like this. So I don't have a prediction. So this would be up theoretically on their next board meeting this month? Assuming that the committee makes a favorable recommendation, it's my understanding that it will pass along to the county board for consideration this month.
 Can we find out when it is up for committee then? If someone would let me know, please. It's my understanding the committee meets later this week. I don't know the precise evening. I did have that question of their attorney, and she was going to get back to me as soon as she did. Seeing as how I'm on rave and on the city council, I think I would like to know when that's up, because I will be at that committee meeting. Thank you.
 Yes, sir. I'd like to know, too, where both of you are together. Go for it. Durkee. Getschis. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 14 ayes, Your Honor.