I'd be appreciated. Durkee. Here. Yes, Marini. Here. Schoenberg. Here. Ross. Here. Herbie. Here. Urban. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Kenona. Here. St. Mealy. Here. St. John. Here. St. John. Here.
 Chair? Chair. 13 present. Thank you. So we have a quorum. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 20, 2020? So moved. Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Park, will you please?
 Actually, all those in favor, say aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye
 This public notice has been given to provide a hearing for the City of Rockford, Winnebago and Ogle Counties. We'll hold a public hearing today, May 4, 2020.
 at the city of rockford the purpose of the hearing will be to receive public comments on the proposal to sell general obligation all through alternate revenue bonds of the city and the aggregate principal amount of not to exceed 11 million 300
 For the purpose of paying amounts due by the city related to settlements of litigation against the city and to pay bond discount, bond interest, bond reserve account funding, legal financing, and administrative expense.
 At this time, I'm going to ask Glenn if he has any one down in council chambers that has any participation that they'd like to have. Mayor, there is no one present in city council to offer comment.
 Okay, so I don't see that we have any public comment this evening regarding this public hearing for the 2020 general obligation alternate revenue bonds. Without seeing any public comment, I'm going to close the public hearing. We're going to move forward. We do not have...
 We do not have any proclamations this evening. And with your permission, I'll just read in the petitions and communication. Uh,
 Code and regulations. Memorandum from Mike Atkinson, Land Tracks Transaction Officer, regarding the request for authorization to place city-owned parcel located at 1811 Crosby Street up for sale. This has been referred. Memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding the approval of a lease for 315 North Main Street for the Family Peace Center. This item has been referred as well to the Code and Regulation Committee.
 Finance and Personnel Committee. Memorandum from Carrie Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement with RAID has been referred. Memorandum from Chad Baker, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the request for release of the demolition lien on 432 Brook Road to facilitate the transfer of the property from the Winnebago County Trustee to Rock River Water Reformation District.
 This item has been referred. Memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing and Program Manager regarding the Illinois Housing Development Authority Single Family Rehabilitation Program grant. This item has also been referred to finance and personnel. At this time, I'm gonna go to public speakers. I believe this evening we have two public speakers.
 The first is Mr. John Tack Brantley, and I will provide Mr. Meyer the notice I do to all folks just to remind you, Mr. Meyer, so you have three minutes to speak and you will hear the alarm when you are done.
 Did we miss B3, Your Honor? Did we miss B3? I'm sorry, I don't have a B3 on my agenda. Oh, okay. This was an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Housing Authority for an environmental review bill. That's what I've got here. That's correct. I don't have that item. So if someone wants to bring that up to me, that would be awesome. All right. Thank you, sir. Nick, do you want to go forward with public comment and then go back to petitions and communication? Yes, sir.
 Well, if you could make a note of the record of the name of that item, then the story of that would be. Okay, here it is. Memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director regarding an Intergovernmental Agreement with Rockford Housing Authority for the Environmental Review. So this item is for you, sir. Okay. I can name whatever you want, Mr. Mayor. You can begin. Thank you.
 Alright, this is from John Cash Bentley, David Clark, 420. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the men and women in the city of Rockville, Illinois. Top of the 27, God wants us to identify with the meeting, not ignore them. The second part of the problem could be received positively. Those who look in their eyes, the poor people will be blessed.
 But we help others when they are in trouble and we will do whatever they can to return the favor. God promises that God will supply all our needs. He even does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply some of these needs? Power of the precincts, community, should not be underestimated. It is a sad day that so many people are living in fear because of the COVID-19 virus that set out in 2018.
 we really need our library back open a lot of our young mothers do not have the skills to do homeschool by the way we already know a lot of time is not just our youth i hate to say one of our young mothers that lives in san fran seven month old baby died on sunday we will not know until we will not know why until future i will also be i will be so glad however whenever we
 By the way, life will never be the same. This is the new world order. We will be doing something for Monday and Thursday, and we're going to do it for Mother's. This will be a new 10-year, 12-year agreement.
 uh contributing to the jump in the u.s
 the number two official at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. We still didn't recognize the serious, serious infections that were happening. The coronavirus was first reported last year in China, the initial epicenter of the global pandemic, but the U.S. has since become the hardest-hit nation with about 4,000 new disease cases and more than a third of the deaths.
 The CDC outside its public article was backed on the U.S. response recapping some of the major decisions and events of the last few months. It suggested that the nation's top public health authorities see this opportunity as a threat. Some public health experts saw it as an important assessment by one of the nation's most respected public health doctors.
 The CDC is responsible for recognizing, tracking, and preventing a breath-supporting disease. But the agency has had a little profile during the pandemic, and has been working with all the politicians in the community in leading those steps with it. Uh, we're still here in charge of the game, which the CDC's health practices can further measure. So the myth is that the most striking and effective and helpful aspect of a federal government is response.
 that business is thank you for your participation this evening i believe we have a second public speaker this evening nancy star
 All right. So I'm Anthony Starr. I'm a lifelong resident of Rockford. I'm ready to voice my opinion regarding the plan to have an all-purpose path put on high-tech roads. I am a advocate for many reasons. Road property value, walking the church season, land season, privacy, et cetera, are primarily for the safety issue.
 I've lived in the house for 30 years and see that I kept going to the very dangerous streets. It was dangerous backing out and turning into my driveway. Many of those cars go much faster than the folks at Three Mile Straw. I've noticed when I'm turning into my driveway, I have to feel I will get limited because of how fast the cars are going and how close cars are to the timings.
 I'm very conscious back now of my driveway, partially because of visibility which is due to the very current and varying elevations, but primarily due to the high speed of varying elevators. I can't imagine having to walk the speeding bicycles and pedestrians too. Folks, my husband and I have been a bit proactive within a block of our house doing reckless and or speeding driving. My car was flipped over and was very scary and painful.
 The speed and record of the driver is not just the reason why I leave my car and detect my property or my personal stuff. Our property has been destroyed numerous times because of people going too fast and running into our property. Often destroying landscapes or storing trees. On one occasion, a farm landed on top of our school, 30 feet, 25 feet from the road and only a few feet from our house. I can't imagine how fast someone must have been going to let this happen.
 There's been a guardrail in the club and I've seen them in the chair. So now, students just went in... There's been a guardrail in the club and I've seen them in the chair. So now, students just end up into our cage and destroying our land completely with only ten feet from the wall.
 We do not walk on high crossroads unless it's active. We are scared for our lives. This is not the first time I have mentioned this to the officials. I'm very nervous when I'm on my sidewalk or taking care of my yard near the street. The scariest time is when my other is on the sidewalk and walks from our driveway within within 50 to 20 seconds of moving, a car slammed into our street at exactly the spot we see it standing on the second street.
 One of the things we did was stop the car because my husband was most likely to have been hit. With three or at least two more other mature states on our property, one has definitely moved to the path of himself. I do not think I just rode a safe bicycle, not the rest of it.
 Please consider the safety of the property owners that live on high-tech roads 24-7 and the safety of the pedestrians that may need this back along with any other negative aspects of this idea. There are nine sidewalks in our state, on our side of the state, for the public to use. Thank you for your time. Mr. Meyer, did an excellent job and good recovery from that call. Thank you.
 Okay, so now we're going to go to new committee reports and we'll go to planning and development. Alderman Rose, I can't find it. So if you can unmute yourself, that'd be about that. Just going back to item one real quick. Okay.
 item one under planning and development is the committee recommends approval of the extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and the rockford housing authority for the continued use of 2221 north winnebago street for the resident officer program rock house
 Item 2 is the committee recommends approval of an extension to the agreement between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago Homes Association for continued use of 1007 15th Street for the resident officer program Rock House.
 Item 3, community recommends approval of an application for better utilizing investment to leverage development build grant of Jefferson Street and Chestnut Street, Walnut Street, 1st Avenue enhancement for fiscal year 2020.
 And then item four, substantial amendment to the City of Rockford's 2019 annual action plan due to additional CDBG-CV and ESG-CV funding under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act CARES.
 Thank you Alderman Rose. So it looks like there's four items before you. And before I turn it over to see if there's any questions, I understand getting these programs out, especially through the CARES Act, can be difficult in short timing. But we just ask if you have questions about it as opposed to laying you over
 Please let's try to ask them so we can get these dollars out down the street. I've talked to dozens and dozens of these small business owners, and they feel forgotten and would like to get these dollars to use as quickly as possible. So with that, why don't we open it up. Ultimate, can you ask, do you have a question? Did you have a question? No. Oh, okay. Sorry, you're handing this up.
 Next up I have Alderman McNeely give me one second let me unmute you. There you go. Thank you. I have a question regarding the legal for my initial request to lay the item over. It was the first time so I'm not sure why we went forth with a vote on that.
 Okay, so that was the motion made it to me. The rule is there to the council rule. For a motion and a second to raise to the number of the committee report. First, the committee report has to be approved and go to council to let you apply.
 Okay, I wasn't aware of that. And I certainly understand the need to have these funds released as soon as possible. But I believe I had a legitimate reason to request that this be laid over. I realize that the comments that Auderman Thompson-Kelly made,
 would request that we do address this as soon as possible and that's what I was trying to do needing to speak with staff before voting on it thank you thank you any other uh questions concerns um
 None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Mayor, can I jump in? I apologize. Nick, correct me if I'm wrong, but this will need a suspension of the rules. Yeah, but it wasn't referred in. All that takes away is a first claim.
 Make a motion to suspend rule 15. Okay. Sorry about that, guys. Thank you, Director Cranston, for catching that. So is there a motion to suspend rule 15, Procedure Number 4? So moved. Turkey? Second. Bloomberg? If a motion and a second, is there any discussion? I see Alderman McNeil, you have your hand raised. I'm sorry. I forgot to lower it. No worries. Alderman Quinones, you have your hand raised.
 I forgot to raise it to us. Okay. I raised my hand Alderman Thompson Kelly. Did you get it? No, I don't. But Alderman Thompson Kelly? Again, one of my questions was the timeline. Could you please go over the timeline for us again while we're suspending the rules on this? Yes. Okay.
 So we did not get this referred in. We were waiting for, we had made some requests to HUD in relation to different waivers and the like that would have influenced program design. Once it was clear that those were not going to be approved, we did miss the referral line, but we wanted to get this in front of council and then out into the community as quickly as possible.
 Okay, thank you. I can't hear you. Thank you. I do not see any other hands raised. So there is a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15 on Item 4. All those in favor say aye and I'll unmute you in one second. All those in favor say aye. Aye.
 I suppose. No. So next I will go to clerk to call the roll on. If you'll please unmute yourself when your name's called. Dirky. Aye. Aye. Gasparini. Aye. Tindberg. Aye. Stoss. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Kite.
 Thompson Kelly? Aye. Kaufman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Alderman McNeely? I said no, thank you. Alderman Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. All right, items passed.
 Next up, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Dillman. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Code and Regulations Committee B1, the committee recommends approval of the request for authorization to place city-owned property located at 73-01 Auburn Street for lease. Any proposals that require city council approval? Mr. Meyer shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Your Honor, place the order.
 Thank you. So Alderman Hoffman has a question. I'm sorry. This goes back on what we just voted on, planning and development. I needed to abstain on one. I'm sorry. Clerk, have you recognized that? Thank you. Thank you. I'm sorry. No worries. Thank you.
 Okay, so now we have one item before you for code and regulation. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion on that one item, clerk, could you please call the roll? Dirkie. Aye. McFarney. Aye. Tumor. Aye. Brass. I'm sorry, Brass. Oh, aye, I'm sorry. Ruby.
 Aye. Ervin? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Did you hear me? I did not. Aye. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli? Aye. McNeely? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Alderman Schiarelli? Aye. Alderman Schiarelli? Aye. McNeely?
 13-9. Excellent. Item moves forward. Next, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Eric. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $2,361,415 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on April 27, 2020. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the updated 2020-2024 Capital Improvement Program in 2020.
 and number three the committee recommends approval of the earlier water and wastewater mutual aid and assistance agreement the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance thank you thank you alderman frost so we have three items but words is there any discussion on those three items
 I do not see anyone have their hand raised. So clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Yes, sir. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Brach. Aye. Aye.
 Kirby? Aye. Irvin? Irvin? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Crowe? Aye. Beach? Aye. Winona? Aye. St. Neely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13-9.
 Thank you. Those items passed. We'll hold officers' reports to an end and go to motions and resolutions. And we will go to Alderman Rose for planning and development.
 Let me pull that up here. So we have motions and resolutions. Item 1, the application for the 2020 Department of Commerce Economic Opportunity DCEO Zone Investment Program grant. And this is where I would read in the motion, I believe. Okay.
 So under for approval, I would move to amend the motion and saying I moved to amend the resolution under motions and resolutions.
 Roman numeral 8A, item 1, approval of an application for the 2020 Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity DCEO Zone Investment Program grant to reflect the following change. Subsection 4 shall read as follows.
 that the city of rockford does hereby commit funds from sales tax slash water replacement improvement account wria for use in conjunction with an illinois opportunity zone investment program grant such funds to equal 23.89 of the estimated project cost of 4 million 185 000 or 1 million dollars
 Thank you. So we have one item. So Mr. Meyer, you just need a motion and a second on that. He just made the motion to amend the second amendment. And second 30, we have a second. I have a question.
 Alderman Frockler, Alderman Beach. I think the Alderman Rose said that part of that was to be paid from sales tax. How do we commit even as good a program as we have if we don't know where we're going quite yet with our sales tax?
 Mr. Saunders? Yes, thank you, Mayor. Alderman Beach, the $500,000 investment that we would be looking to make out of sales tax is actually already in the updated CIP that we just approved. So we've already encumbered the resurfacing portion of this project in our future year CIPs. So, okay, thank you.
 Any other questions? We're first making a vote on the amendment. Isn't that right, Mr. Meyer? So all those in favor of the amendment say aye. Aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay, so now we'll place one item up, which is the DCEO Opportunity Zone Investment Grant Program that's been amended.
 is there any discussion on the on that no hands raised clerk will you please call the roll turkey hi johnson kelly hi
 BACHMANN? AYE. BROWS? AYE. DEECH? AYE. PINONAS? AYE. MCNEELY? AYE. CHERELY? AYE. 13-A. THANK YOU.
 Next, we will go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Shirelli. Your Honor, I have one item tonight. It's the 2020 Polish Fest, the event is scheduled for August 16, 2020, at St. Stanislaus Church, located at 201 Buckby, from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. Place it up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Thank you.
 Seeing no discussion on the item, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed, same sign.
 MOST PASSES. NEXT WE'LL GO TO FINANCING PERSONNEL, ALDERMAN FROST. THANK YOU. NUMBER ONE IS THE POLICE DEPARTMENT DONATION TO THE POLICE MUSEUM OF NEW GROVE VILLAGE OF MANY AND NUMEROUS FIREARMS THAT ARE VINTAGE. NUMBER TWO IS AN AWARD OF BID FOR THE ALPANE DANCE.
 DEM CONCRETE RELATED MAINTENANCE CONSTRUCTION TO MARTIN COMPANY OF OREGON IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,363,636. THE CONTRACT IS ESSENTIALLY COMPLETED BY NOVEMBER 30, 2020. THE FUNDING SOURCE IS SALES TAX NUMBER THREE.
 IS AN AWARDED BID FOR THE ALPINE DAN ELECTRICAL AND MECHANICAL IMPLEMENTS TO ANGLE ELECTRIC DISTORING IN THE AMOUNT OF $342,723. THE FUNDING CONTRACT IS ESTIMATED TO BE COMPLETED BY DECEMBER 18TH, 2020, THE FUNDING SOURCE OF SALES TAX. NUMBER FOUR IS AN AWARDED BID FOR THE STRAFMORE DRIVE EXTENSION END TRACK GROUP OF BUS PARK IN THE AMOUNT OF $1,974,319.37 FOR THE
 The project is estimated to be completed by June 2021. The funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number five, an award of a green agreement for construction is being prescribed for that extension. The chastity and associates are brought from the amount of $300,310. The project completion is estimated June 2021. The funding source is the motor fuel tax. Number six, an award of joint purchasing contract for dump truck bed replacements for two dump trucks.
 Operated by the Water Division to enroll equipment and enroll the stunts amount of $47,864. The funding source is the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number seven is reject bids and solicit new bids for the private land service find replacement. Staff is recommending rejection of bids received and authorizing the central services managers to solicit new bids.
 based on the bids submitted and the inconsistency amongst those bids. Specifications need to be re-evaluated and clarified. The funding source will be the Water Fund Operating Budget. Number 8 is an awarded bid for water treatment chemicals to Alexander Chemical of LaPorte, Illinois and Karis Corporation of Peru, Illinois for an annual contract amount of $130,000.
 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is through April 30th, 2021 with four possible annual extensions. The funding sources, the water fund operating budget. Number nine is an award of non-competitive contracts for polyphosphate treatment chemicals to Karis Corporation of Peru for an estimated annual contract of 120,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions. The funding sources, the water fund operating budget.
 Number 10 is an award of professional services for water loss control program 2020 to M.E. Simpson Company of the appraisal in the year and the amount of $59,500. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is a waterfront operating budget.
 And lastly, number 11 is an award, a bid for the 9th Street Reconstruction to M-TRAC Group of Wells Park, Illinois, in the amount of $1,929,892.89. The project is scheduled for completion October 30, 2020. The funding source is the CIP General Fund and the Water Replacement Improvement Account. I place the lines before you.
 Thank you. Alderman for us. So we have 11 items for you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Any discussion on those 11 items? None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 Johnson Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Enonis? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Ciavelli? Aye. 13 aye. Thank you, so those items passed. Next we'll go to new business and planning and development and Alderman Rose.
 So, we have 4 items item 1 is an ordinance approving an extension of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and rock from housing authority. For the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago street for the resident officer program rock house.
 Item 2 is an ordinance approving the extension of the agreement between the City of Rockford and the Winnebago Homes Association for continued use of the 1007 15th Street for the Resident Officer Program Rock House. Item 3 is an ordinance approving an application for better utilizing investment for leverage development build grant.
 Jefferson street and chestnut street, Walnut street 1st, Avenue enhancements for fiscal year 2020 and then item 4 and ordinance approving a substantial amendment to the city of Rockford's 2019 annual action plan due to additional CDBG. Flash CB and ESG CB.
 funding under the Coronavirus Aid Relief and Economic Security Act CARES Act. We would have to suspend Rule 9 for item 4. Excellent. Is there a motion to suspend Rule 9 for item number 4? Second, Herbie. We have a motion and a second. So we'll first take the vote on suspending Rule 9 for item number 4. Is there any discussion on that rule suspension? Seeing none,
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed, same sign. We have one no vote there. Then we will bring all four items up. Is there any discussion on the four items? Seeing no discussion on those four items, clerk, will you please call the roll?
 Turkey. Aye. Get Greeny. Aye. Timber. Aye. Brough. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Urban. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Abstain on one. Aye on the rest. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 No, on 4, aye. And the remaining? Shirelli. Aye. Item number 1, 12 ayes, 1 obscene. Items 2 and 3, 13 ayes. Item number 4, 12 ayes, 1 no. Thank you, clerk. Those items pass. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation, Alderman Shirelli.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have an ordinance approving the request for authorization to place a city-owned property located at 7301 Auburn Street up for lease. I place that ordinance for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion on that one item, clerk, could you please call the roll? Okay.
 jerky hi yes hi timber hi hi hi johnson kelly all right boston hi rose hi beach all right you know this hi hi shirely
 hi 13-9 thank you so that item passes next we're going to finance the personnel committee and often cross thank you uh number one is an ordinance approving the early water and wastewater mutual aid and assistance agreement that's it thank you so we have one item before is there any discussion on that one item so no discussion uh clerk will you please call the roll
 George. Aye. Yes, Maraney. Aye. Timber. Aye. Ross. Aye. Toby. Turkey. Aye. Urban. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Thompson-Kelly.
 Beach? Aye. Cimone? Aye. McGeeley? Aye. Cirelli? Aye. Cervini? Thank you. So that concludes council, but we'll go back to office. I'll just go through Alderman Durkee. Do you have any reports? Yes, thank you, Your Honor. Just a couple of comments.
 as we're going through this COVID deal. Just to relay that, it looks like more and more that, again, far more people are carrying this than they're not. I think some of the modeling needs to be revised, and I agree with some antibody testing to really get a handle on this. Okay.
 And I hope that we can move very, very quickly towards smart reopening within our city. I am extremely concerned about, and I know you are, and I know everybody on council is about our small businesses. What I get a little bit almost frightened at or disturbed at is when people start asking for new modeling or new data, right?
 and try to figure out this virus, they're almost shouted down by saying, you want to kill people. And that can't happen. And I think good data will help us make good decisions. And there is good science that basically says that we can open safely. The problem is when people say follow the science, that's a loaded question. Because the science is never settled.
 Science always debates itself and science basically tries to find out what's true and accurate. And I think as we go forward that truly needs to be done in our community. We see data coming out of South Korea and Sweden, some other areas that basically shows that we can approach this now smartly as more and more good data is coming available.
 Um, and yeah, I'm not saying that lightly, uh, for instance, because I have some of the risk, the risk factors. So as we open, I'm not going to be running around and hanging out in bars necessarily. So I say that with, you know, some thought back there, but to that end, I, I, uh, chief, um,
 Bergstrom, I had asked him last week, he had run out for an emergency, but I had asked him to, you know, some meaningful information would be because the whole point of what we're doing is to prevent an overload of our hospital systems. I think we need to go back to why are we sheltering in place? It wasn't to stop COVID. You can't stop a virus.
 It was not to stop people from dying, it was to minimize the death, but people will get this and unfortunately they will succumb to it like any number of viruses. And you can't stop that. It's an unfortunate fact of life when it comes to viral infections. But the reason we did this is to
 to prevent overloading our health care system so that people who do get seriously ill, the health care systems could effectively address their disease and treat them without compromise due to high volume. And so what I ask the chief, a meaningful number to me is not the percent. I really don't like when Rockford goes on these negative lists.
 And this list that we're on because we're having a higher positivity rate, that's almost arbitrary. I cannot believe that that is a good measure because you can change the denominator. You can make the percent go up simply by restricting and tailoring your screening methods. You can make it go down. I mean, we could make it go down as a city by basically saying, hey, everybody come here and get tested.
 And then that number will go down. And so it's not that great of a statistic or measure. I know it's among the things we are using. I'm not saying it's not a good thing to look at. I'm just saying some of the data that we have are not good measures. But one of the good measures we have is who's landing up in the hospital and
 Are we taxing our health care systems? And what are our ICU units and what are our hospital bed capacity looks like? That's a meaningful sort of thing to look at. And we're not – I know the numbers are there, and that's why I asked Chief Bergstrom to see if he could give us some insight as to that because I think of all the people who have –
 When it comes to health care capacity, I think he floats through all the systems. So I wanted to ask him that, if he had that data. Pearson? Yes.
 One second, let me unmute you. There you go. So the first part, Alderman Durkee, your question as far as testing, one thing that the health department really wants to do now is redo that modeling. But we have a bottleneck right now. We have over 2,000 tests that we don't have results from. They're having issues at
 with some legal arrangements as getting the information into the database for those test results to be posted and delays with other agencies throughout the community. And there are many metrics, but I will say one thing that has been really prevalent through this entire process. I know that mayor has mentioned the,
 the policy group that we meet with, with all three hospital systems, UIC and Crusader. The discussions that we've have on there have just been very enlightening to see how they have all come to work together to operate as one system for our entire region. Every morning we look at the data, how many people are in beds, how many are in ICU, some negative pressure rooms are in use, how many ventilators are being used, how many available.
 And to have that dialogue with all the three hospitals, they share that information back and forth and cooperate with each other. And we have had plans in place. If one hospital is taxed, what the other hospitals can do to help them out. And in the time that I've been in the fire department, we have never, ever seen that type of cooperation between all three hospitals. Okay.
 And it goes exactly to what you're talking about is what's the capacity they can have. And right now, even with everything going on, they're at 50% capacity with all three hospital systems. I think a lot has to do with that sheltering in place as far as what they're doing. But I think the biggest thing is to get the results from the testing, to see what percent are testing positive, and then to keep monitoring that capacity at the hospitals, which we do every single day, seven days a week.
 We get that information from the hospital systems, and that's very valuable because we can see an uptick within hours, and everyone's notified, and then we come up with a plan of how we're going to address that. And if it's something significant that we have to, or if it's just information to relay. But that's a quick overview of what you had asked, Alderman Durkee. I hope it hit on most of your points, and more than happy to follow up if I missed one.
 Thank you, Chief. And I agree. And I just want to reiterate, from modeling, it looks like there's far more people running around with this than we actually know. And I agree with you 100%. I think the mayor, yourself, the healthcare systems, the county health, I think people have really stepped up.
 to protect our community, and it's great. That's the greatest thing that's ever happened. And thanks for the information. And having only 50% is reassuring, which means we still have capacity should anything untoward happen. So thanks to everybody for all the work that they're doing.
 And then even that, just one more thing, that capacity is at their normal operating capacity. So all three hospital systems have surge plans in place.
 If they reach nearing capacity, they implement other additional plans to build out to keep them within their facility of different areas in the hospital, which I'm sure you've had some of that information you've been exposed to at the hospitals you've been at. But it is it's really enlightening to see how well all the hospitals are operating as one system over the issues we've had to face with this COVID pandemic.
 Yeah, I agree. I know what goes on at my hospital, but I'm not the hospital spokesperson. So that's why I rely on you. I'm not in that role, and I would never speak for my own hospital health system. But thanks again. Thanks for the good information and the good work. You're welcome. Alderman Gascony?
 I just want to thank Chief Berkshire and Dr. Durkee for great information. I want to thank you two and all the staff in the health department for everything you guys do. It's tough. Anything you want to disagree with is Dr. Durkee. I think your first priority is to be in the car. Thank you. Alderman Toomber.
 Thanks, guys. Yeah, I agreed with Dr. Durkee or Alderman Durkee in this case and plenty of those points. Again, there are, and I don't want to sound like a broken record, but it is...
 coming upon absolute desperation time for some of these businesses. And I just look forward to coming up with strategies, whether it's on the state level, if it continues to seem to be weighted on that versus the regional approach. You know, again, that I think with.
 more collaboration between medical professionals and business leaders at the same table. We could move forward possibly sooner than later. But I want to thank everyone. And if Durkee isn't going to be out after when this all opens up, I'm sure Nick would be happy to drink his beer. So thanks. Thank you all for your time.
 Thank you. It's not often that I get to say that I agree with Alderman Durkee, but I do like and I appreciate him adding valuable input as well as I truly appreciate the value of Chief Bergson, the mayor and all city employees on the mayor's team that are working literally around the clock to obviously address something that we've never dealt with before. And I look forward...
 hopefully sooner than later than returning on Monday nights to our great city hall building and our city council chambers and seeing everybody again. Hopefully it will be sooner than later. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, any officer's reports? Yeah, I just had to get myself unmuted. Yeah, I would like to know or have the city look into the
 How we will manage or if anyone is talking about how we'll manage your plan if. Javon day does in fact. Eliminate the, I think he only named 3, but several of the larger Medicaid plans.
 from his health system. I'm concerned about the strain that's going to have primarily on Swedish Americans, maybe some, well, more than we think, on OSF, but especially Swedish Americans. And if that should happen to coincide with the difficulties we're having with coronavirus or if there's another spike in coronavirus, then...
 Is anybody, I'm sure somebody's talking about it, but what those plans might be. Because I'm very concerned about that. And I'm getting more and more questions from people about some of the parents, very panicked. They've had difficulty even with that coverage finding support.
 doctors to take their children and for some of the specialty areas that he specifically has at his hospital. That was such a big draw, you know, to get him here. He bragged about, you know, how you won't have to go to Chicago anymore. Some of those parents are worried about not just having to go back to Chicago again, but, you know,
 Now having to find someone to take them because they depended on those services here in Rockford. So I'd like to have a discussion about that or have that communicated to us as a council. It won't hit some people. They will barely get two or three questions. Doesn't matter in some of your wards, but it does matter to many of ours. And,
 And I just hate to see it coming, but we need something to be prepared for those folks. And Crusader is not the answer. As far as I know, he's never reversed. I shouldn't say him, but well, yeah, it is him. The exclusion of Swedish-American, I'm sorry, of Crusader doctors from Swedish-American. Yeah.
 for obstetrics. So I guess if those folks are kicked off after they've left Crusader and Crusader's doctors don't have admitting privileges to Swedes, what's going to happen to those folks? Where are they going to go to have their babies? Something's got to be done. And I'd like that to be a transparent discussion. Um,
 Because people need to know, and I certainly want to know what's going on. Health care is an important part of our lives. So if there's anything going on, if you could give a brief summary. If there's not, is there likely to be? Thank you. So, yes, I've been in...
 It's actually one of the benefits of those policy group discussions that Chief Berkson mentioned earlier. I've been in direct communication with Jennifer Mayer over at Swedish American and Paula Krinsky over at OSF, you know, to prepare for the worst. I've also had conversations with some of our state elected officials regarding what can be done at the state level.
 because after all this right now, most of us still realize this is a negotiation tactic if we like it or not. But I know that there's still active communication going on at the state level. So I would say we're monitoring the state level communication and are actively speaking with the other health systems to see what types of plans would need to be put in place.
 Okay. The other part has to do maybe some of the, well, Dr. Verkey is our only solution, but maybe Chief Bergston might know also. The other concern that I got from people, and this is not an accusation of any sort, I'm not sure if it's factual or not,
 Apparently there are two different types of swabs or tests, depending on whether you go to Auburn or whether you're at Parkview. There are. The facility. So the first question, I thought this was sort of a unified system. And. And.
 I'm not talking about the antibody test. I'm talking about for exposure to COVID-19. Why is one that one that goes apparently at Auburn, the one that goes way back into your nose and is pretty uncomfortable and is administered by staff, they open it, they do it.
 And the one at Parkview, I guess, is self-administered by the patient, if I can use that term. So what is the difference and why? Yep. Chief Berkston?
 Sure. Solomon, Herve, you are correct. At the Auburn location, they're using a nasopharyngeal swab that uses a different type of testing methodology. That is the most accurate test. That is the one that goes up your nasal cavity right away back and they have to hold it there for 8 to 10 seconds. That has to be administered by an RN.
 or a doctor. The one that is being done on Pertview is just a nasal swab that you do your own that only goes up maybe an inch and a half, two inches. And that can be administered by yourself. And the reason they did that is because of staffing. It's hosted by the National Guard. So they can hand the test off to the person. They can test themselves and then hand the sample back to be processed for testing. Do they take it home?
 I'm sorry, there's one... No, no, no. Oh, no, these are all... So the one in Parkview, they hand each person, they give them the swab, they do the swab, put it back in the container, goes to the National Guard, they seal it, label it, it goes off to the lab. The one at Auburn, hosted by Crusader, an RN nurse administers a test, one in each nostril, it's sealed and sent off to the lab also.
 And just to further add to that, Chief Bergson, so the Parkview site was set up primarily for symptomatic citizens. So if you have a symptom, that is where you can go. So you actively have symptoms.
 Crusader initially wanted also just symptomatic folks, but it also can open it up to asymptomatic people. Thus, it needs to go further back and also is a little more invasive. But initially, they were both for people who were symptomatic.
 Correct. They both basically adopted the methodology that they're not going to sit and have a debate with somebody who's saying that they're symptomatic. Again, it's the National Guard, and they have screeners at both locations. Their whole philosophy is we're not going to get in a debate with somebody that they have a sore throat, something they can't see, that they have a cough, shortness of breath. They didn't want to do invasive, like taking their temperature. So they're like, we'll just test anybody that comes through. Yeah, it was just...
 It was just difficult. First, I wasn't sure if it was accurate or not, that they were different. I just wish they would have said that to people. There's two different methods that we're using. It would seem that we would use, if we were looking for people who were symptomatic initially, we would have used...
 the most accurate test on both groups, if we could, unless there was some shortage, which they didn't say there was. And then with one being fairly uncomfortable and being used at one place and not the other, that was confusing for people too, because it was like, well, wait a minute, I don't want the one that hurts. So I was like, well, go to the other place where it doesn't hurt. Well, yeah, but is one better than the other? I have no idea. Um,
 I just wish they would have said there's a different protocol at one versus the other. So if you don't want this or if you have a tendency to nosebleed, I guess one person later on had a bad nosebleed or something. Yeah.
 raised all kinds of stuff about it. I think the nosebleed is a very rare side effect. I had the one done at Auburn and it doesn't hurt. It might be a little uncomfortable, but
 Well, he had a tendency towards nosebleeds. I mean, it wasn't that it caused it. He had a tendency towards them anyway. Sure, sure. But I don't think he knew how far back that thing was going to go and that it had to remain for eight to ten seconds. I don't think it was that big of a deal, but it's just whenever you're doing something like that and there's enough fear and questions about it anyway, just get it out of your head.
 get it out there for people. And the two different tests comes up. It's hosted by two different organizations that are supplying the tests. And then, in addition, they're using different labs. So that's a reason for having different tests. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Next, we'll go to Alderman Irvin. Any report? Okay. Okay.
 Nothing? Okay. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Yes, I have a couple things. I just want to say I agree with Alderman Durkee, and I want to correct the chief. We have two hospitals. We don't have three. But my concern is with O'Shea.
 Now that the weather is getting warm and they're starting to gather at different houses and things, are we going to be utilizing our community service officers in their patrolling by hopefully bringing it to their attention? Not arresting people or harassing people, but letting them know of the gatherings that's happening. Okay.
 We are using our community service officers to still function as CSOs. However, they are also supplementing patrol. But any problem homes or businesses in their areas, they are still following up on and we'll deal with accordingly. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman, any officers' reports?
 No, thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman Mills? Yeah, just a few things. I definitely share the sentiments on people wanting to get back to work and opening businesses. You know, I received a few comments.
 um uncomfortable emails i would say from citizens saying you know why why aren't we why isn't the city pressuring the governor to reopen and like i'd just be very blunt about it um we're seeing cases rise in this area and um a lot of people who think that um
 you know, even a soft reopen is something that is good for this area. I just caution in the sense of we're not even seeing cases go down. They're continuously going up. And I have a really interesting friend on Facebook who monitors the data pretty closely. He's a calculus teacher. And
 even under the federal guidelines, these are the ones that are being issued through the White House. We're supposed to see numbers down for 14 days before even moving towards a reopen. And that just isn't, that simply just isn't happening. And, you know,
 I would love to enjoy a beer at a local establishment, probably more so than most other people. I would love to go back to work and enjoy the fact that I have a great profession and I love it. However, I value the fact that so many people have taken on this effort to support
 to stay at home and to do what's right and socially distance themselves. And I just really want to continue to caution people in the sense, not to scare them or out of fear, but, you know, getting an email from a business owner saying, you guys aren't doing enough, my response to that is, you can't run a business when you're dead.
 I mean, this is how serious this issue is. And it's a scary time. And I want to get back to work too. So I know, you know, mayor and the governor are making decisions based on the current data. And that's just what I'm going to continue to tell people because that's the truth. And I want to see,
 You know, I have family members who have asthma, who have lung issues, who have pre-existing conditions. I think the idea of having a regional approach is about as inaccurate as possible when you have half of our county working in other places and approximately 36,000 people in our county that live and work in the Chicago suburbs and in the downtown area. So, yeah.
 I guess that's a caution that I have for people. My second item is just based on Alderman Hervey's message to Vaughn Bay Hospital. I mean,
 One thing that was a selling point for the new hospital was the PICU unit. And, you know, the state board, medical board was, you know, basically thrilled to see that PICU unit come to Rockford. And now you have families that are desperate, even more so in need. And so, yeah.
 My hope is that the hospital reconsider keeping those open because I just, I don't see how you approve a hospital saying that it's going to have a pick you. And then it,
 two years later they say well sorry we're not going to do that right now um i just don't think it's fair to families in our region and i know i received some calls on that this weekend um i will end on a good note um i did want to say congratulations to a few young men in our area who went as undrafted free agents in the nfl draft
 James Robinson was taken out by the Jaguars. Nate Weeding is going to be playing for the Browns. And then local talent from Harlem High School, Anthony McKinney, is going to be playing for the Titans. So I just wanted to say congratulations to those young men. Thank you. Next, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I want to thank Alderman Durkee for his work.
 um remarks um to help us get some sense of balance because there's so much pain from these small businesses and when they call you some in tears not knowing what to do they don't have any money it's running out they're losing perhaps life's investment
 And so I'm really concerned about that. And I know we're doing what we can. I also want to say something about Carl Franson. I want to thank him for what he's done to help us get that magna building on the way. That's pretty exciting to watch and see those cranes
 Knock that thing down and know that we're going to redevelop that area for the Miracle Mile. I want to thank Paul Olson, the executive director, Arnie Jacobson, our president, for...
 sticking with it because we now have something to work with. And I know we're all excited. Our board's excited about dreaming with the city about what we can do in that area, almost nearly in the center of the city of Rockford. So I think that's all I have to say right now. I have another comment maybe next week on some other things regarding the CIP, and we can talk about that at that time. Thank you for letting me speak.
 Thank you. Alderman, can you hear us? Yes, I just got one thing to say. From one veteran to another, I want to welcome Jonathan Logerman back from his tour of duty to the city of Rockford. And I wish him that he did real good. That's all I have. Thank you. No doubt. So pleased that he's reunited with his wife and children and he's home safe.
 Alderman McNeely. Thank you Mayor. I certainly want to thank Alderman Hervey for her comments regarding the hospital, Javon Bay's hospital. I had a couple of people come up to me this weekend questioning the status of it and sharing with me one lady that works with young females shared with me that
 They're having a hard time getting out to the new hospital out by 90. And, excuse me, hoping that Mr. Bay comes up with a better solution to what he currently has for the Rockton location. Secondly, I'm sorry to hear about the party and the shooting the other day, the other night.
 which was in my ward. I had concerns about the parties being held and that's the reason why I questioned it last week. So I thank Alderman Thompson Kelly for questioning that as well. This is currently, it's not going to be, it's currently an issue. Thank God so far there was only the one party where there was just shooting that we know of
 And so I hope that we are prepared to address it. I've called in now for two weekends in a row regarding the loud music and what that loud music are, the number of cars, and it may not be a full-fledged party, but certainly more people than usual at a location. So I do hope that we will be addressing that. The second thing, Mr. Mayor, is,
 I'm concerned about, along with State's Attorney Hyatt Ross, regarding the state prison release and wondering what we're doing with that. How are we, do we know where they're at? Do we know how many were released to our city? And do we know if they were tested prior to release for COVID-19? Thank you. Is that...
 Is that the end of your report? Yes, it is. Thank you very much. Now, I'll work to address that when I speak. Next up, we have Alderman Trelle. Thank you, Your Honor. I really do appreciate all the comments and questions from the aldermen and the staff answers. It's very helpful. It is very trying to continually go through this and hear the comments.
 the stories from business owners and residents alike. Tonight I wanted to just ask a couple questions, Your Honor, that I received recently from residents. Maybe your staff could help on this because they're not getting anywhere from any other agency around. One was about the $600 unemployment payment from the CARES Act. If the city could probably help with that, putting that information out there. There seems to be confusion for residents if they're entitled to it or not entitled to it. So that was...
 number one. Number two is last week the county health department reported on the zip codes and the amount of positive cases. I did receive some calls and texts about that. It said 61108 is a large portion of the 14th ward reported a high number of positive cases and citizens that called me or texted me wanted to know why that is. Is there a large number of people being tested in this
 6-1-1-0-8 or there are any other underlying factors with that such as a nursing home or multiple nursing homes or other things going on with that. So those are the two questions that I pose for my constituents and thirdly, I hope you get up to date and respond Mayor if you can and Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers in our community and wish everybody well.
 Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to go to a couple of folks who have their hand raised again. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Mr. Mayor, for allowing me to speak again. I won't bloviate this time. Well, just that... That's something new. Just to reassure Alderman Hervey, I guess in this particular...
 question, I'll respond for Swedes. I am a physician at Swedes, in addition to being an alderman, and I am an obstetrician-gynecologist for those viewers or people who are paying attention to our council meeting. Crusader Clinic, their docs were not
 in a sense, removed from Swedish American as far as OBGYN. They chose to leave. But I will reassure Alderman Hervey and others, as a physician at Swedes, I practice there. They don't care who's the payer. I see anybody who walks in the door when I'm on labor and delivery. I see and take care of anybody.
 Swedish American has put two clinics now on the west side of the river. And one of the reasons why I really enjoy working at Swedes is because they take, as part of their mission statement, they take care of the community. And I truly believe that Swedes will step up if there is a need. I'm very, very confident in that.
 The other thing that I want to remark again about, I read in the paper today about a scaled back Fourth of July party, you know, celebration event.
 Mr. Mayor, I got to ask, you know, if we are returned back to some semblance of normal in July, I would propose that the city of Rockford, and maybe we enlist Sean Grove because he's great at this stuff, that we do a Memorial Cinco de July bash.
 On the 4th of July, if we're back, I anticipate we will be and I can't see anything better than having a big blowout for our city. So that's my positive note.
 Thank you. I'm sorry, Your Honor? Sure. If I may, I just wanted to make sure that Alderman Durkee and no one else misunderstood my comments. Swedish American is absolutely fantastic. They have repeatedly stepped into whatever void was left in medical services. Okay.
 when services were reduced at Rockton Avenue. And they have done that repeatedly. They built the first full-service medical clinic, unless I missed something, in southwest Rockford. My comments were meant to say that Crusaders doctors
 admitting privileges were taken away by Crusader Clinic. And I don't believe the doctors themselves wanted to leave and put, just put it like this, I don't think it was the doctor's choice to
 uh, that Swedes wasn't meeting their needs or something. I think it would have been far better for the entire community. Yes. Swedish America, um, crusaders, physicians, obstetricians had continued to have admitting privileges at Swedish American. So if that, if I said that in a sloppy way that made it sound like sweet, kick them out. Uh, that is absolutely not the case. Um, uh,
 I work pretty closely with Swedes on a number of community programs that I know they were very concerned about women who lived in this area having ease of access for deliveries. And yes, they take whomever comes in. And not only have they established clinics in northwest, southwest, all over the city,
 They also have, I think it's called Aunt Mary's or Martha's, Aunt Martha's, which is a federally qualified health clinic that's embedded in Swedes. So there are still some ways for women to get care. But even Swedish Americans cannot survive on Medicare, Medicaid, and Medicaid.
 who can't pay. So I hope those of us who live in the community who have medical choice will give Swedish American a real hard look. I moved all my cancer care and my medical care to Swedes and UW Wisconsin because my cancer is weird. So everybody wants a piece of it. So that was a program, our own,
 insurance company provides for rare and unusual types of certain illnesses. You can go to the regional research centers for those things. So enough of that, but I just wanted to make sure, Alderman Durkee, that if it came across as sounding like a shade towards Swedes, it was not. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman McNally, did you have your hand raised again? Yes.
 Not again, no. Sorry. It was a great recession. Keith O'Shea, do you have the number of people who have returned back to our community, and were they also tested when they came back? Sorry about that. With testing, we're not sure on the testing of COVID. I would assume they get medical before they leave. How many people came back to our community today?
 The total amount of people continues to fluctuate. The ones we focused most on were the ones that were the murderers and the serial sex offenders. We received three serial sex offenders and four murderers back to the state line area. One from Rockford, which has been in the media, and several others. The whole list, though, to your question, Alderman McNeely,
 We actually received a list prior to the state's attorney and have been fighting with the Illinois Chiefs of Police Association, trying to get more clarification on why we're letting violent offenders out from the governor's office. Obviously, the governor's office has the power to commute sentences, but we're trying to, in conjunction with the state's attorneys and the Chiefs of Police Association,
 make sure it's not violent offenders but at this point we have not had much success in that endeavor thank you so a couple of other items that were brought to our attention that i mean i forget now who all asked each one but i'll try to address as many as i can uh one regarding prisoners i think uh chief oak shade uh provided as much answer as we can i think i just said uh i think
 All of us here were pretty dismayed at the idea that. Um, murderers and serial sex offenders. Uh, we're being released into our community. I think we all understand that there were certain low level non violent offenders that could be released during the pandemic and things of that nature. If the governor wanted to go that route. But it's.
 pretty difficult to rationalize, uh, murderers and, uh, serial sex offenders. Some who have not served all that long of their sentence, uh, and quite honestly, many who have served a fair amount, but, uh, they did some pretty heinous acts and I think they deserve to spend their time. Uh, Alderman Turelli, you asked about the $600, uh,
 for unemployment so individuals receiving unemployment benefits beginning march 29th uh will receive that 600 each week above what they would receive in regular unemployment benefits and that'll go through july or i'm not i'm sorry not through july ending on july 25th uh and
 The 600 will not be retroactively applied to unemployment claims that arose prior to March 29th. So if you filed after March 29th, that looks like you would be able to qualify for those unemployment dollars. A couple of other items that were brought up. You brought up the zip codes, the hotspot zip codes. A couple of things I know...
 This was messaged out to you, but they were out walking those hot spots zip codes this past weekend. The health department was and staying at a socially distanced area, talking to folks who were out on their front porch and putting up flyers on doorknobs and things of that nature. For your specific zip code you're asking about, I would say the number one reason is five nursing homes that fall within that zip code.
 We're having a significant issue with those settings, which is spiking up some of those numbers and tragically some of those deaths. Regarding 4th of July, you know, they have reduced the fireworks show, not in half, but close to half.
 As of right now, we're seeing no gatherings. Obviously, we all hope that'll change as new information unfolds. A couple of other things regarding the pressuring of
 To reopen, I think I think we're all pretty much on the same page from the standpoint of. I haven't met a lot of people who don't eventually want us to get all open and I think the city has been pretty proactive and reaching out to the governor's office to. Get certain of these businesses open sooner than later.
 Even if it's with modifications, how we advocated and eventually were awarded through this extension to stay at home, the curbside and things of that nature, the nursery places. I think there's more to do.
 and actually have a follow-up call this evening with the governor's office to discuss what are those next phases. But I think also on the flip side, when you hear Alderman Rose and Alderman Gasparini about the number of cases and the significance, I think it is that balancing act that we certainly have to address the health concerns of today.
 while also safely, responsibly, and sustainably working towards that real. So I think I touched on many of the questions that were provided. If I didn't, I apologize. But with that, it doesn't look like anyone else's hands are raised. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Thank you. Thank you.
 If a motion is second, anyone want to discuss that? No? Great. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.