We have some special procedures that I just want to describe before we get started. First I would ask as we stand, gentlemen and ladies, to please remove your hats for the posting of the colors. We will have the color guard come in, do the Pledge of Allegiance, and then we will do the invocation afterward. Color guard, prepare to post the colors. Ready, post. Ready, fight. Present, all. All right. All right.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Order. On. Ready. Fight. Forward. On. Thank you to our Rockford Fire Department color guard. Now for our invocation, I would invite Father David Beauvais to please come forward.
 Father, you can come to the front or else you can use the microphone back. Why don't you come up? Most power has now asked the Lord to be present to our gathering this afternoon. Heavenly Father, we thank you for gathering us together today on this momentous time in the history of the city of Rockford. We thank you for the many gifts you have bestowed upon the people of this city and upon the leadership. They are signs to us of your goodness and of our fellowship together in you.
 We thank you especially now for the 12 years of the Morrissey administration, during which time Larry has given us good leadership, reminded us that we are all servants to help one another, and to realize that when we give our given gifts, we must use them for the common good. So help us to appreciate him, his family who brought him to this point, who gave him courage and strength during all his formation years,
 and his family now and his wife and children all of whom have been very supportive of him in the work that he has done we thank you for the gift of faith that he has brought to us and a reminder to us that we are all god's children and are asked to serve him so we thank you for the many gifts that he has shared with this community in his thrust to make this an excellent place to live
 So for these years, we thank you, Larry. We thank God for you, that you have continued to do what you have said you would try to do and make Rockford a place of excellence. We also pray now for our future, that this evening, where the transition of power to Tom McNamara
 to remind us that he is now called to give leadership, together with all the council members, new and old, that they might, as a leadership team, remind us of what's truly important in our community and strive to provide it to the best of their ability. We know that leadership is not easy today, and yet you call us all to be good servants and to remind us that we're all in this together, of whatever faith we might be, we come together in your spirit.
 We ask you to bless our community now with the gifts of common sense, common good, and common ground. That our leader, Tom, might continue to be the best he can be and use the virtues that you've given him, the virtues of honesty and humility, and strive to provide for all of us a sense of justice.
 We pray also for the Rockford community and all its council members that we continue now to work together peaceably, to learn how to support and help one another, and to always remind us that what we do is in your name. And give us always a good sense of humor as we do our work in service to you. And we ask this prayer now through Jesus, who is our divine teacher and our leader. He lives and reigns with you in the unity of the Holy Spirit, one God forever and ever.
 Thank you, Father. God bless you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You may be seated. And I would ask our clerk to please call the roll. Durkee. Here. Getchis. Here. McNamara. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Here. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Here. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum.
 Is there a motion to accept the Journal of Proceedings? Thank you. There's been a motion to accept the Journal of Proceedings from April 17th. Is there any amendments or changes? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the Journal, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Thank you. We have a few speakers signed up for public speaking tonight, but our first speaker, Pastor K. Edward Copeland.
 And again, as a reminder, our speakers can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. They will have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. That's dangerous. One recovering lawyer to another, I want to congratulate the new administration, those new aldermen that are coming in and our new mayor. And I wanted to take this, just a few moments to congratulate our outgoing mayor.
 for maintaining clear vision and standing firm in his convictions. Yesterday in the Rockford Register Star, they had various cartoons as well as, I guess, highlights from their perspective concerning your administration, but I'd like to share just a couple of these last remaining moments. Dr. Steve Bland told me, keep your eye on him.
 That's what he said when he introduced me to Mayor Morrissey as we were at a Winnebago County Crime Commission Task Force meeting when I first got here in 2001. I didn't know if Dr. Bland meant keep an eye on him because he's dangerous or keep an eye on him because he'll need your help, but I took it to mean that perhaps he meant try to support him as much as you could. He told me the guy is smart, he's a young lawyer, just keep your eye on him.
 I must confess that I did not do that until I came to a council meeting. There was something raucous going on. I can't remember what it was, but you had started out in this whole excellence for everyone everywhere mantra. And I came to a council meeting because something was happening, and I saw a bumper sticker that said Lynch-Larry. And it struck me that whatever this guy is doing, this making –
 some people so mad that they want to lynch him, maybe I better keep my eye on him to make sure that everything is all right. I never did find out exactly what was behind that movement, but I did come to learn that you really did mean excellence for everyone everywhere here in the city of Rockford. And I would like to add to the highlights that they apparently overlooked in the paper yesterday that in the summer of 2009 we could have easily been another Ferguson, Missourian.
 had we not taken steps to deal with our issues in a proactive way. I also saw, even though I was not there, as you stood strong in your convictions regarding how we deal with housing in this community as apoplectic citizens came and grabbed mics and shouted in your face and cussed you out and all those types of things. Sorry I wasn't there. I couldn't get in the building.
 So, I would just like to say congratulations for doing what you said you were going to do and doing it with equanimity.
 Finally, I'd like to congratulate those who are coming aboard, and I pray for you that you'll have the same type of stamina, the same type of clear vision and conviction to stand firm in your vision, and at the same time, the ability to adapt when you see that you need to adapt. God bless you, Mayor. God bless you, Mayor. I'm looking forward to great things for the City of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you, Pastor. Next we have Pastor Herbert Johnson. Good evening. I want to say...
 Again, congratulations to our incoming mayor and to our new city council members. I'm glad to be here because I came to Rockford 10 years ago, and I came here to serve as a pastor here of a local church. And I will always have to drive through downtown Rockford to get to my destination on the other side of town. And when I would drive through downtown, I must admit that at that time, downtown looked like a city.
 Horrible. And it has been a blessing to see the leadership that our mayor has given as it relates to the transformation that has transpired downtown Rafford. I'm also excited about the coming attractions and all of the developments that's taking place downtown.
 I also would like to say that excellence everywhere for everyone has been the hallmark of this administration. I'm also glad that there have been many minorities appointed to different boards throughout our city, giving minorities an opportunity to contribute and to serve our city at a much greater level.
 So again, I want to recommend Larry for doing such a wonderful job as mayor of the city of Rockford. And again, we anticipate with excitement what the future holds. God bless you. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 My name is Proctor Youssef. I'm a community activist and 20 year veteran of the United States Navy. I did 19 years, lived my 29 days, went out 10 minutes, 15 seconds. I did three tours in Vietnam. I'm a proud River Rat and I'm a retired school teacher and truck driver. In the book of Proverbs, the 18th chapter, the 24th verse, it says, show thyself friendly.
 And there's a friend that will stick closer than a brother. What I'm going to speak about tonight, a true friend. A kind mouth, multiply friends. And gracious lips, prompt friendly greetings. Let your acquaintance be many, but one in a thousand you'll confide in.
 a friend first test him and be not too ready to trust him for one sort of friend is a friend when it suits him but he will not be with you in time or trouble another is a friend who becomes an enemy and tells of the quality of shame another is a friend a bone companion who will not be with you when sorrow comes your way when things go
 well, he is your other self and lords it over your service. But if you are brought low, he turns against you. Keep away from your enemies. Be on your guard with your friends. A faithful friend
 is a sturdy shelter. He who finds one finds a treasure. A faithful friend is beyond price. No psalm can balance his worth. A faithful friend is a life-saving remedy such as he who fears God finds. For he who fear God behaves accordingly and his friend would be like himself. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you.
 Thank you, Pastor, and thank you to all of our prophet, and thank you to our two pastors that spoke tonight, three actually, and for all of our public speaking. Petitions and communications. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I have two items for planning and development. The first is a proposed First Amendment amendment
 to the annexation agreement and development agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy, Rockford Health Systems Corporation. The second is an amendment to the agreement between the County of Winnebago, City of Loves Park, City of Rockford, Rockford Memorial Hospital Riverside, also now known as Mercy Health, regarding the City of Loves Park Riverside special assessment. These two items will be referred to Planning and Development.
 Thank you, Madam. It will be referred to Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got four items tonight. The first item is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, the land transaction officer regarding a request for Mackie Properties LTD at 802 Cedar Street to purchase a portion of the adjacent city-owned lot to cure encroachment of their shipping dock. They are asking to purchase $2,000.
 111 square feet of the Easter most parcel on the city's lot. A second item is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator regarding Plat Number 2 of Mercy Health Riverside Campus Subdivision.
 The third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding the upcoming special events which include Festa Italiana and Labor Day Parade. The fourth item is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on May 10th, 2017 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on May 8th, 2017. All four of those items will be referred to codes of regs, Your Honor. Thank you, matters will be referred.
 Alderman Connell? I'm sorry, Alderman Goetsches. Alderman Beck. Excuse me. I had a lot of sleep last night. Alderman Beck, thank you. Thank you for those compliments. Thank you very much. Thank you. I've got three items on finance and personnel memorandums. First is a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start Program and Governance and Monthly Review of Documents.
 Second is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties. And the third is a memorandum from Matt Vittner, Director of Public Works and City Engineer, regarding the City-State Agreement for the North Alpine Box Culvert. And these three items will be referred to Finance and Personnel. Thank you. Matters be referred. New Committee Reports. Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item on Roman numeral 4A. Number one, the committee recommends the approval of the redevelopment agreement with OSF St. Anthony Medical Center. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Place that up for passage. That is up for passage. Is there a discussion? Discussion?
 Alderman Durkee. Yes, Your Honor. I'd like to move to amend the committee report under new committee reports Roman numeral 4A, item 1, and that is the approval of the development agreement with OSF St. Anthony Medical Center to reflect the following changes. Number 1, in Section 3, City Obligations, Section 3.2,
 See page 5 add quote at its own cost unquote To the first sentence which will now read as follows if the developer elects not to construct the retention pond Referenced in paragraph 3.3 below and therefore is not eligible for the 1 million dollar reimbursement associated with completing such improvements as
 As well as other eligible costs the city shall at its own cost have led public street lights installed along those roadways referenced in paragraphs 3.2 a and shall consider as funds become available installing such lighting along the roadway described in 3.2b of a decorative style which the developer and the city agree upon close quote and
 Number two, in Section 3, City Obligations, Section 3.3, page 5, include, quote, and, unquote, in the second sentence in the second paragraph, which we'll now read as follows. As a result of this acknowledged...
 a public benefit and in furtherance of the city's objective to improve the East State Street corridor and to attract commercial development and tourism. If developer creates the retention pond, the city commits to reimburse the developer in addition to the $100,000 referenced in this section 3.3 and added sum of $1 million to reimburse the developer for any redevelopment projects costs allowed by the act
 which the developer incurs on any property it owns or in which it has direct or indirect ownership interest within the redevelopment project area, including but not limited to those incurred for improvements to the detention pond and or retention pond, close quote.
 Number three, this is number three in section three city obligations section 3.3 page five Amend the third sentence in the second paragraph to read as follows quote Payment will be made as a first priority obligation of the TIF funds generated from the redevelopment project area subject only to
 One, existing agreements which shall not be modified to increase the payment obligation of the city without the developer's consent. And two, future redevelopment increment, close quote. Number four, in Section 3, city obligations, Section 3.3, pages 5 through 6, include the following at the end of the paragraph. Quote, future redeveloper increment increased.
 shall mean that tax increment paid to third party developers pursuant to potential future redevelopment agreements to the extent the tax increment is generated by the TIF from increases in the assessed values of the parcels from that which exists as of the date of this agreement as a result of improvements made by said third party developers, notwithstanding the foregoing
 Future redeveloper increment will not include any increment associated with property which is a part of parcel identification number 12-28-176-012. I place this amendment up for passage. Is there a second? Second. There's been a motion and a second to amend item 4-1.
 A1 based on all of a dirty what I'm dirty read in and will second their discussion on the amendment Allamand Newburgh, thank you and number one it says if the developer elects not to construct the region tension pond Does that means that if the state or zoning says they have to have a retention pond? They can still elect not to do that. Correct. Mr. Cagnone. You want to take that? I
 Thank you, Your Honor. So currently there is not a requirement from the state or the city to construct a retention pond that's being proposed. OSF would like to add it as a feature on their property for aesthetics as well as for detention purposes. So I don't anticipate that the
 there's not a requirement coming from the state to construct it. The question at hand is, will the state allow it to be constructed based on the existing creekway that's there? Should they not, then the developer could elect to move forward with the LED lighting as an alternative. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor of the amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. The amendment has been approved. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Then I would place this amended committee report up for passage. Thank you. The amended committee report, Romanum of 4A1, is up for passage. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Abstain. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 12 ayes, 1 abstain. Thank you. The matter passes. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 4B, 1 through 7, I place those items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage under Roman numeral 4, item B, numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 are up for passage. Is there a discussion?
 Hearing none, please call the roll. I'm sorry, let's hold off. Alderman Hervey. I'm sorry, Your Honor. With regard to number three, the solar farm, does that require any permit or anything by the state or EPA? Someone called and asked me that question. I have no idea. Mr. Cagnoli. Okay.
 I don't believe it will require a permit by the state or the EPA, but I can't say that with certainty. Alderman Hervey? Alderman Hervey, go ahead. Then the second part, I wanted to just comment on item number four, the committee report. This is the one for rural on tap that's asking for a modification of the existing liquor license. We talked about this a little bit in committee, and while I understand and I got an understanding
 Not a lot of calls, but I got about four calls regarding this. None of the people who live in my ward. But the request that people had, these were people who were opposed to the issuance of the liquor license when this came up several years ago and are asking, wanted me to ask,
 that city council consider the agreement that was made between the neighbors who were opposed. And I see I have on my desk here a copy of some of the petitions. I think there were over, this was from 2014, I think there were
 almost 240-some signatures from the neighbors who were opposed to a bar-like atmosphere and were very concerned about several things. The music slash DJ. I don't remember if packaged liquor was on there or not, but certainly video gaming was one. They were worried about traffic, parking, congestion, just a whole host of things.
 And one of the agreements that was attached to that was, I believe, a seven-year hiatus on video gaming. I don't remember all the rest of the conditions that were there, but certainly that was one. I don't remember packaged liquor, but I thought packaged liquor was a concern also. And I understand and appreciate their concern.
 When we voted on that and we put those restrictions on the permit, we did that based on their agreement. I did, at least, with the neighbors and the residents of the area. And I think it's problematic when people can't rely on city council to...
 required that people live up to their agreements that they made when they were granted a permit or a license by this group. I'm opposed to it. I understand that these folks have done some great things. They've done some charitable events. They've run a good establishment, but that's not the issue for me. The issue is you told the people who live there that you were going to live by a set of terms for
 whether it's six years or seven years, and to come back and modify it with significant things that do kind of turn it into more of a bar, I think is unfair to the residents, and I think it's unfair for us not to uphold the promise that we made to them, too. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion, Alderman McNeely.
 I'll briefly, with my very soft voice, comment as well. I agree with Alderman Hervey. This is not my ward, but I do remember when this came before us before in the agreements that were made and the struggle that some aldermen had with the first application. And I cannot ignore over 200, Alderman Hervey, signatures on a petition.
 My election was just under 700 individuals voting. So when you have a petition for any part of the city, that's over 200 signatures. I think we have to acknowledge them. So I won't be supporting this either. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alden Newberg.
 thank you I remember three or four meetings where there were many many people I did receive this original in 2014 this original petition with this 240 some people that said we the undersigned do not want any bar located at 1710 rural street this came up again in zoning last month within the last two months
 These 240 people must be satisfied with what's going on there now because they did not come forward. I received three emails on this, two from the same gentleman.
 So, I think this establishment has proven that it's a good establishment in that area and the neighbors have accepted it. And if they did not feel this was something they still did not want, they would have shown us in force because they did it once before. So I am supporting this.
 Thank you, Alderman Goetz. Thank you. Once again, I live four blocks from this establishment. And just to echo what Alderman Newberg said, I think that in this country, you've got a right to convince people. People have a right to change their mind. And I think that the neighborhood was very nervous when this bar was coming in. Hence, in 2014, the dates on the petitions are very important. 2014, 200 signatures. 2017, no petition.
 2014, the LTAP meeting lasting until past 10 o'clock at night.
 I've received several emails of support, particularly from the president of the neighborhood association that this falls in. I think that, like I said to that committee last week, they've earned my trust. I think that businesses, you come out and say, here's a certain set of parameters, and I think they should have an opportunity to change people's minds. They change mine.
 I would request my colleagues to support them in their application. I'll be voting yes. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getses. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. I'm sorry, I'm not sure. Townall. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Bec. Aye.
 McNeely? None. Hoare, aye. Chiarrelli? Aye. Items 1, 3, 6, 7, 13 ayes. Item number 2, 12 ayes, 1 no. Item number 4, 8 ayes, 5 noes. Item number 5, 12 ayes, 1 no. Senators, I'll pass. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just wanted to recognize someone who I didn't notice until after the meeting got started. We have a special guest, Representative Wallace that is here this evening. I want to thank her for being here. Given the challenges in Springfield right now, a special blessing and prayers for you. Thank you. For the Reports Committee's Alderman Beck. Get it right this time. Thank you. Good job. Thank you. I have five items under Roman numeral four.
 see one through five and I play some upper passage thank you for passing room number four see items one two three four and five as our passage is it I don't think we did a motion we don't need a second doing so there's no motion they just up for pass especially as our discussion
 You must not have gotten any sleep either, Mr. Partridge. So the matter is out for passage. Hearing no further discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Alderman Durkee, I apologize. I didn't see you waving. So relaying to number five on the committee report, with addition of the bargaining units, the three members of the bargaining units on this budget advisory committee, I'm a little troubled by that.
 and torn with a vote. I'm actually currently against this, and I'll tell you why. Before people bring out the pitchforks and the torches, I am not opposed to unions.
 I grew up in the Chicago area and I think every good Chicago area kid read Upton Sinclair's The Jungle. I understand the historic importance of unions. I understand how they managed to change federal and state law and put the protections that labor now enjoys because of their hard efforts. And I get it. My daughter is a member of the union. However, what troubles me in the state of Illinois, we have a climate of unionism.
 And that is unions interject themselves in places where sometimes they don't belong. And unionism sometimes means that I will get what I need to get, sometimes at the expense of others. I'll give you an example. And we will continue to have some very serious budget challenges coming up in the city of Rockford. In the state of Illinois, collective bargaining units enjoy distinct advantage over taxpayers. They just do.
 This condition of our state and some of the things that go on prove this. The other thing is, in most unions and unionism, how it works is a house divided against itself can't stand. The union will never bargain against itself. Unionism never gives anything up. Historically, our collective bargaining units, in serious times of economic downturn, have...
 In my mind, the audacity to ask for a raise. When the citizens of Rockford are taking it in the chops, only a public sector union does that. And that, it troubles me when we see that sort of mentality. Now, do I appreciate the members of the, yeah, I do. And I'm trying to make a distinction between unionism and what a union does. And it's a very important distinction.
 And I think that we suffer from that a little bit. The other is, in many of these collective bargaining units, the members do not even live in Rockford. And that troubles me as well. And given the advantages that we have in interest arbitration, given the advantages that they enjoy in the state of Illinois with labor law and things, I think it troubles me that if we're going to really take a hard look at our budget,
 I don't know that those are the right members. Somebody may make a case and explain it to me to change my mind. I have an open mind. But, again, I'm making a very specific distinction between a union member and unionism and some of those influences that I just think aren't correct. So right now I would be opposed to this.
 Roman numeral five this report. Thank you for the discussion any of those items on Beach Thank Your Honor My concern is a similar to what we just heard but I remember that when All the Megaman are first talked about this issue one of the things that we were talking about is perhaps outside accountants or CPA firms that aren't familiar with what we do every day and
 Their eyes aren't on it. They've not made up their minds. If they were the ones that would come in and help basically dissect these numbers and come back with recommendations. So while I support the advisory committee, I'm just concerned that we're not going to have those fresh eyes that aren't used to what the answers are always given. Thank you.
 And I think we need that now with the numbers that have been given us going forward and the shortfalls that we're seeing lay before us over the next several years. So I just want to hope that perhaps as we move forward that professional firms such as many of the CPA firms you're familiar with can be either a part of this or can come alongside of it and give us another look. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you for the discussion. Alderman McNamara. CHAIRMAN MACMILLAN.
 I guess to address a couple of these concerns, I think they're valid concerns for, to address Alderman Beach's concern, the legislation we drafted together, Alderman Beach calls for five citizens. And so about eight weeks ago,
 Mayor Morrissey and the finance director asked us for input onto that. I believe there's still a little bit of time to get your names into that as we discuss this weekend, but it's not to hire a firm. It's not what the legislation said. It was to hire individuals and not even to hire, it's to get volunteers who will, and
 who will volunteer their time and their talents towards working to find efficiencies in areas that we can save money in our budget. As it relates to bringing
 the unions into the discussion. I think this is something I proposed. I don't know if I'll change your mind, Alderman Durkee. I don't know if it's really my intent to do that tonight, but what I would say is I think we have significant budget issues over the next four years to the tune of over $30 million projected deficit over the next four years.
 We are not going to do that with the current mantra that it's us versus them. They are part of our city and do a tremendous service for our city and I think we are better off when we're all sitting at the table taking a look at all of the facts and trying to create solutions together. Thank you for the discussion on any of those items. So again, Alderman Hervey. Yeah, one more.
 And I apologize for this, but last week I couldn't pull up my committee reports. This lease agreement with Ozinga Ready Mix Concrete, I'm not – it looks like the city is going to be acquiring land. It's just kind of confusing because they're going to buy it. They're going to be leasing the property at 423 Madison from the current owner and then transferring the property to the city.
 in as is, where is condition, I have no idea what that condition is, then the city, it sounds like, is going to demolish some of the structures and they're going to lease it from us for a dollar a year? Again, I'm a little behind the eight ball because I haven't seen the lease because I couldn't access my reports. But what is this for and why are we doing it? Mr. Cagnona, you want to take that? Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 So the nature of the lease is much of what you stated, Alderman Hervey. You know, the proposal is for Ozinga to secure the property at 423 South Madison Street, in which they have interest in, and deed that property to the City of Rockford. The City would then have ownership of the property and be responsible for the demolition of the existing structures.
 although Ozinga has agreed to cooperate with us related to the demolition as well as dismantling some of the equipment that is on site. In exchange for securing and transferring the property to the City of Rockford, the City would provide
 a lease to Ozinga for a term of 20 years at 500 South Independence Avenue, otherwise known as the city yards, for their operations. It would go towards the rear of the property that is not currently in use. Upon the expiration of the 20-year term, Ozinga then would pay 50 cents per square foot, or a monthly amount of $2,900.
 after the 20-year terms. Did you have a follow-up? Go ahead. Yes, the second question, sort of why. We're taking property off the tax rolls, it sounds like, on Madison, which makes no sense for the city to be acquiring property. What structures are on there, and what is the estimated demolition cost
 for those structures. And again, I apologize that I couldn't access this so I could ask more targeted questions before, but this is a significant, I thought it was just leasing some land. This is not just leasing land. This is much more complex, and I think I need definitely time to review this further. But I guess my question is, why are we doing this?
 So I'll ask Mr. Kegnell, you need to follow up on that. Thank you again, Your Honor. So the long-term strategy was to discontinue long-standing industrial use on South Madison, understanding the investment that the city and the community has made.
 related to the UW Sports Factory. And by removing the industrial use, we would then have additional opportunity to expand the overall footprint in and around the UW Sports Factory. You are correct in that we would be taking property off the tax rolls at 423 South Madison Street, but alternatively, we will be putting property back onto the tax rolls related to the area in which we'll be leasing
 to Ozinga down to City Yards, which is approximately the same amount of acreage. Mr. Cagnone, could you also just add a little detail on the, if my memory serves me correct, the area, it would be heavy industrial use as a concrete batch plant? That is correct, Your Honor. And so there's been some dispute over the
 the zoning related to that use and whether they've been grandfathered in. But ultimately this was thought of as a solution to achieve what council had said when we changed the zoning on that area to not no longer permit. If you remember we had heavy industry in many areas along the riverfront. We've made some strategic decisions as we've moved to things like the UW Health Sports Factory and others.
 to move away from that. And so this is, in essence, carrying out on some of the strategy, if I have captured that correct. You are correct. We've had discussions with Ozinga representatives and their legal counsel, as well as discussions related to what legal non-conforming rights remain on the property. You know, through those discussions, we
 we advance the cooperative discussion in ways in which we could potentially cooperate on a relocation and securing the property for the long-term growth of the city. Alderman Frost and then Alderman Mackler. I think the easiest solution right now is I would make a motion to lay this matter over. Second. It will automatically lay over because of the, say, law on that. It might suggest to me if staff or maybe the new administration can get us,
 a little bit more detail on what the short term and long term plan is. I would second that, absolutely. Thank you. I think they will do an outstanding job. Thank you very much. So that matter number four will lay over pursuant to state law as an automatic layover. So up for passage, Roman numeral 4C items 1, 2, 3, and 5. Is there any further discussion on those items?
 Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Thurkey. Aye. Getsis. No, I'm five on the roll. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No, I'm five. Aye on the remainder. Connell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Cheerily. Aye. Items 1, 2, 3, 12 ayes. Item number 5, 9 ayes, 4 noes. That is all passed. Thank you.
 Officers reports. I'm just going to make a couple of suggestions. We have I will not be giving any officers report this evening. I'm going to defer my remarks to Roman numeral eight, which is the inauguration component of our agenda this evening. So I just recommend if council members would like to make.
 broad remarks about being sworn in or about leaving the council I'd recommend we'll have all of an opportunity to make it then. If you have remarks to make about other city business this would certainly be appropriate to do at this point. Alderman Beck. Thank you your honor. Just really quick
 It's an exciting time in the 12th Ward right now because we're getting a major road totally reconstructed with awesome new look, new means of transportation, but getting there is pretty painful and I know Alderman Hervey went through this with South Main and Alderman McNeely with West State. So I would just ask the citizens of Rockford to please keep in mind the businesses that are located along there.
 Trying to do their best to make some money while there's massive road reconstructions going on. I know they're really suffering. So if people can keep in mind and just maybe go up there a few more times than they normally do or not stop going there just because it's maybe a little bit more inconvenient, I know they'd really appreciate it. So thanks. Thank you. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I'm sorry, Mayor, but I'm going to.
 speak now. Okay. I think we departing council members should be able to speak during our council meeting and not defer to another time. I want to say thank you to the city staff that has worked with me for the last four years. I appreciate all you've done. You are all hardworking people and I want to say thank you to the 9th Ward constituents that let me.
 We have the privilege of being their alderman for four years. Thank you. Alderman Connell.
 Yes, I'd like to remind everyone that this Thursday, May 4th, is the annual National Day of Prayer. This year it will be held at the First Free Church on 2223 North Malford Road. It's an all-day prayer service. You can go whenever you want to. The schedule is online on their Facebook page, National Day of Prayer, Rockford IL. It starts at 8 a.m. in the morning and ends at 9 p.m. There's all different levels of prayer.
 uh praying such as at noon is praying for the government so i think we should all attend that one but it's also at 7 00 p.m so we'll pray that you have a an excellent four years thank you thank you all in a hurry thank you your honor i mentioned to um i think director cagnoni or um rob willamy in in code enforcement with summer coming up i'm wondering if we can put
 without additional cost, flyers in our water bills to remind people of some of the things that cause problems in the summer. Outside noise and amplification. We've got people who have bands that play in the driveways till midnight.
 It runs our police officers because they have to respond to these complaints. Grass height and how to file a complaint if there's a vacant lot or high grass. Garage sales. You know, some people have them every weekend. And it becomes a nuisance to their neighbors. So I'm wondering if we could establish something, and maybe I'll defer that to the next administration, where we could...
 He's so happy. He's sitting there. He's talking. Seriously, that we could put those flyers into our water bills because we've got to come up with a better way to let people know about these things. It just ruins the summer season for some of us in certain neighborhoods, maybe not everywhere, but it becomes a source of –
 anger and unneighborliness. So I would hope that staff could maybe work with me. I'm willing to help with it and some other people. One a month, I don't think it would cost us anything else because I think you can mail up to four sheets of paper under first class without going over the one ounce weight. For what it's worth, I think it's an excellent idea. And I think the new administration will be very responsive to you, so.
 We expect a report by Thursday, Your Honor. I think that's a wonderful idea as well. Further officers' reports?
 All in favor? Thank you, Your Honor. Here's another idea that we can put on the new administration. I like to thank the Chief of Police O'Shea and also Assistant Deputy Chief Carla Redd for our new community officers. They've hit the ground running and gone to some neighborhood watch meetings and been accepted very well. I do appreciate you putting in place those positions as quick as you did.
 Thank you. Alderman Huber. Thank you for letting me speak again. I also want to remind people that our first resident officer is going to have a block party at 2021 North Winnebago Wednesday from 4 to 7. I have been asked to speak there. I am so glad to see this happening. We have a young female officer that is all of our officers are good, but I'm glad to see you did a good choice, Chief.
 And please, come and welcome her to the neighborhood. It's the start of a new tradition for the Rockford Police. Thank you. Thank you. Further officers' reports, motions, and resolutions. Alderman Durkee, do you have any? I don't think you do. Alderman Shrelle. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 6B1 through 4, the first item is Churchill Grove Garage Sales. That will be May 5th and May 6th.
 The second is Shop the Blocks. That will be June 2nd, July 7th, August 4th, and September 1st. The third is Same Wind Riders Annual Pig Roast. That's Friday, June 9th and June 10th. The fourth is River District 12, which is Saturday, June 24th. I place those items up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman Rural 6B, items one, two, three, and four, is there discussion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you. Alden Beck. Yes. Under Roman numeral 6C, items 1 through 13, I place them up for passage. Thank you. Roman numeral 6C, items 1 through 13 are up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Jerky. Catches. Actually, did we have the...
 Ozinga and Meador, is that in there? Does it need to be taken out? Aye. Right. All right, thank you. Go ahead. McNamara. Brost. Furby. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. Ims 1, 2, 3...
 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 13 eyes Item number 4 and 5 12 eyes 1 no Item number 6 8 eyes 5 nose that is all pass On that last item number 6 it was 7 eyes 5 nose 1 abstain That are so passes thinking new business over turkey. Oh
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under Roman numeral 7A1, Planning and Development Committee, an ordinance approving the redevelopment agreement with OSF St. Anthony Medical Center as amended. Place that up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 7A1. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk please follow up. Durkee. Abstain. Getses. Aye. Vanden Heuvel. Aye. Vanden Heuvel. Aye. Vanden Heuvel.
 McNamara Frost Hervey Connell Thompson-Kelly Odo Newberg Beach Beck Aye McNeely Chiarelli Aye 12 ayes, 1 abstain The matter passes, thank you. Alderman Shirelli Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 7B1-6, these ordinances I place up for passage. Thank you. Up for passage, Roman numeral 7B, items 1-6. Good discussion. Thank you.
 Hearing none clerk, please. Call the roll Durkee. Aye. Guttis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelley, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Beck. Aye. McNeely Tierilly. Aye.
 I'm just one two five six thirteen eyes item number three eleven eyes to knows and I remember for twelve eyes one that is past thank you thank you I'm back thank your honor from seven C items one through three I place up for passage so item of two yes items one and three so
 Roman numeral 7C, items 1 and 3 are for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Brost. Herbie. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Matter passes. Matters passed. Thank you.
 Mr. Partridge, do you want to tell the council what you just whispered into my ear about the one item under the resolution? Yes, Your Honor. Pursuant to the state statute, it requires eight votes to pass a resolution. Since there were seven votes of the city council, you can vote to- What number was that?
 I didn't want three of the no item for no three sorry you with him just a second woman world six see item six four and six is that the comment writer you to show me as a yes thank you thank you matter past so we are at Roman world eight which is our inauguration component of the meeting this evening at the moment I will get up give get up
 and give my remarks, but I would like to give the media a chance, they had requested, as long as there's no objection, to move behind our department leadership over to my right to get a clearer view of those who will be making their comments. If you want to take just a moment to move your gear. And as they're doing that, I would just remind our council members, those who will be newly inaugurated, as well as our community members watching,
 After I give my remarks, we will have our interim legal director, Terry Partridge, will give the oath to reelected aldermen. After that, I will call upon our departing aldermen for an opportunity to give their farewell remarks. I will then introduce the newly elected aldermen who will take their oath of office and have a chance to make some remarks and, again, the
 interim legal director will be administering those oaths, and they will have the chance to give their speeches up here. And then I will introduce Mayor-elect McNamara, who will take his oath of office and give his acceptance speech. Then we will be adjourning the current council, and the newly elected council will take their seats and complete the evening's activities. I would also just mention if there's any concerns
 members of the current council or the council members that are about to be sworn in, if you have family members that weren't able to find a space here in the council, certainly as you get prepared to make your remarks and take on your oath of office, please invite your family members to come forward and to join you. Actually, while I'm at it, I don't know if my gang wants to join me up here, but you're welcome to. Stacey, you want to stay there with the kids?
 You stay there. You're in good shape, I guess. They've been pretty quiet. Dad, you can stay there too. My father, who is a military veteran who doesn't get around very well, he was ready to get up here and make the charge. So God bless you. It looks like Sophia and Dylan are coming up, so that's fine. She's the one you'll have to look out for. Who said about look out for someone, Pastor? Right, this is the one you're going to have to look out for up here. Oh, and little brother, AJ.
 So just as a reminder, this is Dylan, AJ, Sophia, and this is of course, mom, Stacy. We do Wrangler. Alright, so she's also the Wrangler in chief. To my dear friends, my beloved family, fellow council members, to our city staff, our city employees, our citizens of Rockford. As you know, I've never had a problem filling up time and space with lots of words.
 Anybody who's been to one of my State of the City speeches know that I could go on and on talking about ideas. But tonight, as I close out my 12 years in public office, amid the flurry of activity of the last few months and the blur of activity in the last few days, I will not spend time recanting the work of 12 years and the few moments I have left in this position. Indeed, to do so would not do justice to the extensive work we have done,
 It would take up far too much time than we have, and I would undoubtedly fail to recognize certain projects and the people who made them happen. So tonight instead, my mission is short and simple, to say thank you. Tonight I'm filled with a profound sense of gratitude for the incredible privilege, the incredible privilege it has been each Monday night to take this chair on behalf of our citizens to be in a position of leadership.
 in my hometown to the best job that I could given the gifts that God had given me and the support that he gave me to try to move our community forward. Tonight I say thank you to my family, to my friends and supporters, to current and past city council members, to our incredibly dedicated staff leadership team and to each of our employees, to our many public and private partners, and again to my God for my faith.
 and to our citizens for giving me the opportunity of a lifetime to lead this community throughout 12 years of challenges and opportunities, of hopes and fears, of setbacks and achievements. And I'd be remiss if I didn't also thank some of the members of our team over that 12-year period who aren't in the room tonight. We've lost great friends over the years.
 Some of them have left for other jobs. I think of Jim Ryan, Patrick Hayes, Tim Hanson, former Chief Chet Epperson, Julia Valdez, Chris Black. Also thought of some of the folks that have passed away. Former Alderman and Fire Chief Bill Robertson comes to mind. So many that have given their lives in dedication and support for our community. For all of their gifts, all that they have given, I am incredibly, incredibly thankful. I leave tonight...
 Incredibly proud of the work we have done to pursue a standard of excellence everywhere for everyone. To have done so with a commitment to our values, including what has been, at least for me, the most important core value that we speak of, which is the commitment to never give up. The things we've achieved, we've done so by pushing boldly. The setbacks we've suffered and the lessons we've learned were the inevitable result of trying to do something.
 As my father always taught me growing up and still today, better to try something even if it doesn't work than to do nothing and be certain of the result. And by trying, we've driven many positive changes, but we know there is much more work to do. So I wish Godspeed to you, Mayor-elect McNamara, and the future Rockford City Council members that will be sworn in shortly. You have an incredible mandate of support from this community. The support of the community is behind you.
 Indeed, I deeply believe that this community will support you on the path ahead. With the many challenges we face, you can't be expected to be perfect. Certainly no one is. But we can all expect one another and make the commitment to one another that when we do our best work together, we can do things that we could never do alone. In that sense, I think running a city is a lot like being part of a family. For my wife, Stacey, and I, for our five children,
 Sienna, Sophia, Dylan, AJ, and our little angel Michael Joseph. We try to live our lives with a commitment to acceptance, forgiveness, love, and gratitude. And so as I leave office, I do so with those values in mind, with gratitude and not resentment, with acceptance and not regret, with consolation and not injury, and with love, not fear. So to everyone tonight, let me finish by quoting the familiar words of my friend, Prophet Yusuf.
 I don't like you, I love you, and you can't do anything about it. God's blessings always on this city. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I now invite our interim legal director, Carrie Partridge, to please come forward.
 Mr. Partridge will be giving the oath of office to our re-elected alderman. And I will hand the microphone over to you. If the alderman would like to come up in front, that's fine as well, rather than sitting at your desk. Could you all rise, please? Raise your right hand. Aye. Not yet. I'm sorry. I didn't see you. He's the re-elected alderman.
 I'm pausing after I so you can state your name. I do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office
 of aldermen of the city of Rockford, Illinois, according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. So Mr. Partridge is going to stay up there while I invite comments from, we'll first take comments from those who were just sworn in. If you'd like to make comments, any of the aldermen that were just sworn in. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I'd like to say thank you. You're eight years serving with you. Eight? Yeah. Twelve. Jesus. See how time flies? They say time flies when you're having fun, but... I want to thank you for challenging me, pushing me, and making me think outside the box. We would have not accomplished a lot of the things that we did without you doing that as a leader in this community.
 Yes, I did disagree on occasions. I often thought he's got to be adopted because such beautiful parents as he had in this community, known him for years, such beautiful people, you have to be adopted. But they owned you, as always.
 But I want to thank you for your leadership, and I want to thank you for the service that you've given to this wonderful community. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Harvey. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I want to thank the people, again, of the Fifth Ward for giving me another four years or sentencing me to another four years, as the case may be.
 When I supported your first campaign, I came in after your first term. A lot of people asked me why. One of my favorite cousins said, he's a Republican. And I said, you know what? I don't care whether he is. I fully believe that if he's not elected, South Main will never happen. And if it does happen, it'll be just a street. It'll be just a road. And South Main did happen.
 And I still believe that if you had not been sitting in that chair, the work that has been accomplished on South Main, on West State Street, I mean, Barbara Coleman has a shot. It may be a small shot, but it has a shot. Many, many things, I believe, would have remained stagnant. When you said excellence everywhere, I'm not saying excellence everywhere.
 I really felt that you meant that. And I can tell you that in Southwest Rockford and other parts of our city where we sometimes felt neglected, disenfranchised, invisible, all of those things, you brought back a certain verve to those areas. And I think people, whether it's perfect, whether there's still a heck of a lot of work to do, I think you helped establish a mindset that said it's not okay to
 have one part of our city that decays. That's not the way to live and it doesn't help with progress. And if there's anything
 that we could have total disagreement, total agreement about, it had to be that. Despite some of the latter disagreements, everybody can diverge from time to time. For that, I will always thank you, because I think it made a huge difference to the momentum that we have in Southwest Rockford, and I don't think it's gonna be easy to let that die. So my thanks to you, and on behalf of many people. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. I'd just like to thank the folks of the Fourth Ward for entrusting me with four more years. Everyone in the Fourth Ward cares deeply, obviously, about where they live, but more importantly they care about the entire community of Rockford. So it's been a pleasure to work with the aldermen. Some of them are leaving tonight to work on issues throughout the entire city of Rockford. So for that I'm very thankful and proud.
 I met a guy in law school named Larry Morrissey. And one of the first things he did is he put on this festival called Larrypalooza. And I was like, who is this guy? I mean, I don't really know him that well. I got to know Larry. We had a couple of classes together.
 And Larry and I both ended up being on a DART team together our third year. And we both talked then about the same vision statement that Larry and I have today. And we were both committed that we wanted to come back to Rockford. And it's a pleasure, Larry, that both of us came back and both of us got a chance to work together again. And I want to thank you for all your work and effort.
 You know, people probably know that Larry and I are good friends, but there are definitely times around this well when we've had our disagreements. And I can scatter off a whole bunch of issues. But Larry was smart. Whenever he really needed a vote, he always put me on the committee. And that way then he would know that I couldn't back down. That was pretty smart, Larry. But Larry, you've always had big ideas for Rockford, bold visions, and you've never been deterred by that.
 And I want to thank you for that because it was always me kind of jabbing a little bit at that. But in the end, you accomplished many great things. And you always put, Larry, you always put the interests, not your self-interest, not the interest of you politically, you always put the interests of the city of Rockford first. And for that, I'm forever grateful. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Believe it or not, in law school, we didn't throw the darts at each other as much as we threw them at the board. But thank you, Kevin, and thank you for the wonderful comments from all of you. Other comments? I'll let him get you. No, I'm sorry. I'll let Dirk. Did you have any? Sure. Thank you, Renner. I wanted to also thank the citizens of the First Ward. First Ward, I think, in Rockford is, for me, it's an honor to serve them because they're an engaged and informed citizenry.
 The residents there, they read, they pay attention, they know what's going on, they're well-informed people. And it's actually humbling that they would actually put me in office. I do have a simple philosophy that I'd like to read. Democracy demands that little men should not take the big ones seriously.
 It dies when it's full of little men who think they are big themselves. That's sometimes the curse that it's sort of born. We have to be careful to be always servant leaders. And so it is an honor to serve people in the city of Rockford. I actually started as an alderman as an appointee. I got in through the back door.
 I remember when Alderman Ciesnowski had resigned, I had known him. He told me about the opening position and Mayor Morrissey had interviewed a number of candidates. And it actually was one of the better conversations that I've had with him in Katie's Cup. Because what I learned to appreciate about Mayor Morrissey's vision.
 that he had a sense of where the city needed to go. And we actually shared that. I have some parallel experiences growing up in the Chicago area, watching different neighborhoods in Chicago be reclaimed and thinking that this should happen here. There's no reason why it can't happen here. And it has. And I remember reading papers, the newspaper, of the label Downtown Larry.
 downtown Leary as being a negative. It's not. It's not. Look at downtown and look at the progress that it's made. And I think if I were to stand up, Your Honor, and take a simple, you know, what do I see different? City pride. City pride. It's back, and you helped bring it here. Thank you. So good luck to you. Thank you. God bless. Thank you. Thank you.
 Why don't we go around this way, starting with Alderman Beck. Well, I thought those were great comments, Alderman Durkee. It's been a great journey, Larry. I saw Tim choking up, too. I didn't see anybody cry anymore. I started crying myself. It's part of getting old, I guess.
 I'm still grateful to be here and be a part of this. I'm really proud of what's been accomplished in your 12 years. It is amazing if you think back and look at all the successes given the fact of the challenges that we had. Year after year of cuts.
 pain and you know having to let people go in the early years and you know just the struggle to do the best we could with the resources we had. I think we've done a pretty good job and I really appreciate your willingness to take on the tough issues, to ask the tough questions, to not just go the way you think the popular way to go is but what you think is going to be the best for the city.
 I was glad to be a part of it. Looking forward to the new era with Alderman McNamara. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you, John. Alderman Shrelle. Thank you, Your Honor. Well, I appreciate all the words from Alderman Frost about going to college. I didn't go to college, and I didn't go to school with you either, Alderman.
 Mayor Morrissey, but I did go to school with your brother Bill, and I used to go to your house all the time, with your parents' house, and I have wonderful memories there, so I appreciate that. I wanted to say thank you to you for allowing me to be chairman of the codes and regs for the past three years. It's been an honor to serve on that committee and to serve you in that capacity, and also for the members of the city council that I just served four years with.
 that are still here. Thank you for teaching me and putting up with me and having me be on this council with you as a friend and as a colleague. I also want to thank my wife and my son, Vince, back here. If you guys could stand up. If it wasn't for these two, I probably wouldn't be here.
 Thank you for the 14th ward and the constituency that I've gotten to know, to become family with a lot of them and friends with a lot of them. I appreciate your vote and confidence in me and also to your staff. You guys do a wonderful job and you respect the city, you respect this council, you respect the seat of the mayor and appreciate all your hard work to all you guys. And I look forward to another four years serving with the new council and the new Mayor McNamara. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman McNeely.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I want to thank all of my constituents that came out and supported me. Every year I say this was not my race, but it was God's race and God's grace that has brought me back here for another four years. I certainly have enjoyed working with individuals that
 will not be here and certainly enjoy working with the individuals that are returning. And I look forward to working with the individuals that have just elected. And I want to encourage all the young people. I stated before, this will be my last term, and I stated before I really do want some young people to step up and become members of this council.
 Mr. Mayor, what can I say? Another no. As a farewell, a friendly no. I certainly have enjoyed working with you. We haven't seen I-TIE, but that doesn't mean that we dislike one another. We are both fighting for the same thing, for the best for this city. I certainly had a particular interest for the ward that I represent.
 and I'll have that going forward, Mr. McNamara. But I wish you the very best. I don't know what your intentions are, but I wish you the very best, you and your family. Thank you very much. Thank you. Alden Beach? Well, first of all, I must confess that I am hopelessly in love with this community called Rockford. And I want to say to you, Your Honor, I appreciate through the years getting to know you beyond your position as mayor,
 I know you love your family. I appreciate a few talks that we've had from time to time. It's not to do with the business, but to one another. Those are times that I'll really remember. And I appreciate your focus and never giving up on what you think is right for this community. And I want to say that to you. I also want to recognize
 After 36 years my family that's here is put up beside me for 36 years and answered a lot of calls Sonia Laurie and Jody Their husbands wherever they may be. Thank you It's a rare privilege to serve as an alderman Affordance a few people and I don't take that for granted I want to thank the people at the 10th Ward for letting me come back again I hope to work as hard as I have and
 I'll tell you how I look at things. You can't be an alderman yesterday, and you can't be one tomorrow, but you can be one today. We have to focus day by day by day of serving the wonderful people of this community. So before I sit down, I quoted a verse that I learned in Sunday school years ago. It goes something like this. Whatsoever you do in word and deed, do all to the honor and glory of the Lord Jesus Christ, to whom I serve.
 And you've heard that tonight with the mayor and many other councilmen, and I count it a rare privilege to represent him as I represent you in this community. Thank you, sir. Thank you. Just before we move on to the next phase, I just wanted to – it's incredibly humbling to hear the incredibly kind remarks, and I just want to echo back anything that we've done, anything that we've done,
 We've done by working together. I only vote if there's a tie, right? So the work of the mayor is impossible without the support and the leadership of the city council and our incredible staff. Another point I just want to make is I heard a baby crying. I would be remiss if I didn't... We've had quite a few babies born during the 12 years that I've been in office. My family covered quite a few of them.
 But being able to work with folks who prioritize the family and struggle at times to balance that, it's incredibly humbling. I've had some great mentors and some great words of advice. I made a lot of mistakes along the way. But as my wife reminded me when we were on our honeymoon and we had the flood, it's a good thing I stayed on the honeymoon, right? Because the job of the city was in great hands and –
 If I had come back, it would have been, I'm just happy I didn't come back. I'm still married, so thank you, baby. So next we will have the departing alderman with an opportunity to give farewell remarks. Alderman Goetzes. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got a few things I'd like to say. Starting off and most importantly, I'd like to thank my wife, my wife, Ann Marie, call me a law guard, and my two sons,
 All your sacrifices for the next Monday for the first time in his life. I'll get to put my son William to bed on Monday. So I'm looking forward to that.
 I would like to thank the citizens of the Second Ward for giving me the privilege of serving on the City Council for four years. It's been a great honor to be a small part of the City of Rockford's history, and I'm proud of the work I was able to do. I'd also like to thank the citizens of the Second Ward for coming out and saying,
 Jamie, I think we need to make a change. I'd like to welcome our incoming alderman, Jonathan Logman. Wish you the best. Jonathan, you're going to be representing a fantastic part of our city. I look forward to seeing you put the same energy into this office that you had in your campaign. And I truly do wish you and your family the best. There's two points I would like to make as I leave. The first, having a chance to serve in an elected office is something that not everybody gets to do.
 I get to see the city from a different perspective. And the biggest thing that surprises me is how many people, day in, day out, wake up and try to make our city a better place.
 Starting out in the second ward, you've got the people who will call me up if there's a problem, send me an email if there's an issue. There's four fantastic neighborhood groups, starting off with the Keith Creek Neighborhood Association. There's the South Highland Neighborhood Association, North Highland Neighborhood Association, and the Jackson Oaks Neighborhood Association.
 All very different parts of the ward, all of the very different flavor, all of the very dedicated citizens who sacrificed their time not just at neighborhood meetings but throughout the week trying to make their neighborhood better. Coming into this building, city staff, my heartfelt thanks because I wouldn't have been able to have done the things that I've done without your support. From the department heads who actually...
 negotiate and put together all the items that we vote on. The management staff that supports them, our engineers, our purchasing directors, our supervisors are out on public works crews at 2 o'clock in the morning turning off water means.
 Our workers who are approving block parties who are actually hands-on valves, stopping the water from leaking into our streets, who are going out and inspecting properties and issuing code violations. For our police and fire who are there keeping us safe. Then you come into this room and the 13 people I've gotten to serve with,
 There's been times I've absolutely felt like we're all in a foxhole together. And I'll tell you, there's no 13 other people I'd rather have in a foxhole with me. I haven't seen, you know, we work together, it's, you know, people talk about political parties, those have not existed on this council. You know, we have ideas, we work, we talk together, and I truly feel supported by each and every one of my colleagues, and it's been a real honor.
 And then as far as someone who's waking up every day trying to make the city a greater place, obviously Mayor Morrissey. And one piece of national history that I think got, that hasn't been mentioned tonight, is in your first term, if I'm doing the math right, is when the Great Recession broke out.
 All right, everybody thinks how seriously that was nationwide, and then how much more serious it was for us in Rockford. And Mayor, you asked to do the job again and again, and a lesser person would not have done that. So thank you. That is truly amazing. Thank you. And then the second point I'd like to make,
 just about our city as a whole. One of the last neighborhood meetings I was at was one of the ones you don't like to go to because it was called because there was a rash of crime in the neighborhood. So the citizen said, hey, look, we want to have a meeting. Let's get the police together. Jamie, can you come on out? And at that meeting, a young mother asked me, is there hope? And I want to say, yes, there is hope. I work at the nuclear power plant in Byron.
 I commute 35 minutes every day so I can live in Rockford. And I do it because I live in a great neighborhood, because I've got a great police force keeping me safe, I've got a great fire department,
 that's ready to respond. My kids are going to go to great schools, and I'm going to be living in a community with great people. So I'm looking forward to where our city's going. I think we're in a great direction. And I'll say to everybody, sometimes we tend to focus on the negative. Please,
 focus on the positive. There are literally thousands of people trying to make this city better. Join them. Keep it going. You truly deserve to live in a great city. And even though I won't be sitting here, I will be working to help make that happen. Are there any of the other departing aldermen? I think they've given remarks already. So I will be doing this one at a time, right? One at a time. And I was wondering if
 Yeah. So I will be introducing the newly elected aldermen. I invite them to come forward as their name is called. Please feel free to invite your family members to come with you. And then after you're sworn in, again, we'll do one at a time, I invite you to make some remarks. Our first newly elected alderman is Alderman-elect Lagerman. If you want to please come forward. Yeah, bring your family if you'd like. Thank you.
 I, Jonathan K. Logeman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois.
 And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Of aldermen of the city of Rockford, Illinois. Of aldermen of the city of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Congratulations. What's that? I'm sorry, Mark. I'll do that right.
 Yeah, I was just thinking real quick in the audience that, you know, I spent my whole life in the Rust Belt, and I know Chuck Sweeney doesn't like the term Rust Belt, but I wear that as a badge of honor, and I'm very proud to tell people that I'm from the Midwest, that I'm from Rockford, and I take great pride in being part of the government, the city of Rockford right now as we try to make our city and our future better for us. So thank you. Thank you.
 Next, I invite Alderman-elect Tunberger to please come forward to accept the oath of office. And again, please feel free to bring your family. Thank you.
 Raise your right hand, please. I, Chad A. Thunberg, do solemnly swear... I, Chad A. Thunberg, do solemnly swear... That I will support the Constitution of the United States... That I will support the Constitution of the United States... And the Constitution of the State of Illinois... And the Constitution of the State of Illinois...
 And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Of alderman of the city of Rockford, Illinois. Of alderman of the city of Rockford, Illinois. To the best of my ability. To the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Thank you all. I want to thank the citizens and the voters of the Third Ward for allowing me to serve them as well as the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. I look forward to working with everyone here at the Horseshoe and to the staff of the city. Chose to come back to Rockford and we have a lot of great things going for it and we look forward to continuing those.
 I think we should all remember, too, that in Ephesians, or the Philippians, it says, don't worry about anything. Instead, pray about everything. And I think we, some of us, need to worry a little less and pray a little bit more. So I look forward to serving you on city council. Thank you.
 We next invite Alderman-elect Irvins to please come forward to accept the oath of office and to come up with your family.
 Raise your right hand, please. I, Natavious L. Irvins, do solemnly swear. I, Natavious L. Irvins, do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And I will faithfully discharge the duties of...
 Illinois. Of the office. Of the office. I'm sorry. Of Alderman. Of Alderman. Of the city of Rockford, Illinois. Of the city of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. You did it. I'm just I mean I'm happy that he added on to the best of my ability. I'm excited to serve
 my community, my people. I understand and it's really just dawning on me on how great of an opportunity this is and it's not something that everybody is able to obtain. And so I just want to thank all those in the Sixth Ward and all those that helped to get me here and I take another vow before the Lord that I'll serve according to the scriptures like Christ served his church. You know, you know,
 I don't know. I'm overwhelmed right now. I really look forward to it. And if I could just, I guess, I don't know, I'm thinking of scriptures. He used a scripture. I want to use a scripture. I don't know. Something that's always led me was no weapon formed against us shall prosper.
 And I believe that there's many things that's been held against us as far as being Rockfordian. I'm not from Rockford, but this is where I've settled, and this is where me and my wife has decided to put our roots in. And if there's weapons formed against us and I'm here, I'm going to tell you right now, it's not going to prosper because we're standing on the scriptures and we're standing on the promises of God. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Next, I would invite Alderman-elect Hoffman to please come forward. And please feel free to bring family members to accept the oath of office.
 I, Karen Kay Hoffman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois
 And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Of aldermen of the city of Rockford, Illinois. Of aldermen of the city of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my abilities. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 I just want to really thank all of the supporters that I had that helped me to get here tonight and to give me the opportunity to support them.
 To those who did not, I hope I earn your trust. To all of the people in Ward 8, I want to thank you for coming together as neighbors. We're working very hard on that, not just to be a ward, but to be people who know each other, love each other, and are working to take care of each other. And I thank you for the honor of giving me this chance to represent you and the city of Rockford. Thank you. Applause
 Next, I'd invite Alderman-elect Rose to please come forward to accept the oath of office. And again, feel free to bring family members with you. Raise your right hand, please.
 I, William L. Rose, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois.
 Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. I just want to take a moment to thank the people of the 9th Ward for supporting me in my campaign.
 I really ran for a few reasons, but the main one is my motto of my campaign was Neighborhoods First, of making sure that we continue to build on that servant leadership idea of putting our neighborhoods, our people first. I think that most people on the city council would agree that the greatest asset that we have in Rockford is the citizens of Rockford. Thank you.
 Next, Alderman-elect Quinonez, and I would invite him to please come forward to accept the oath of office and to invite any family members that may be with him. Okay. Ready to go. Could you raise your right hand, please? Aye. Aye. Chilo. Chilo.
 M. Quinones Dilo Flo M. Quinones do solemnly swear do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge I will faithfully discharge the office of
 The office of? Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Let's see, what was I going to do? Let me get my paper out here. Get me started here. Well, I'm not a speech maker, but my parents taught me how to say thank you, and that's what I'm about to do right now.
 I want to recognize my father, World War II veteran, just sitting down now, and my mother who's looking at me from above. And two other ex-Alderman here that really pushed me, and I want to mention their names. One was 5th Ward Alderman Fuzzy Falzone, and the other one was my favorite Alderman, a Republican. I don't know how many people know him. His favorite saying was, fish with a fish rat. That's Davy Johnson.
 But I just want to get that off my mind, but I know they're looking at me now too. But, well, like I said, I want to thank the people at the 11th Ward. If you ever want to go around the world, don't know where to go, stop in my 11th Ward, because I think we got every part of the world in the 11th Ward. I went from one language to the next. I think I can speak about 10 different languages now. But I want to thank all them people and all the businessmen and the veterans
 I didn't know I had that many veterans in my ward, I mean. But, and, that's it. That's why I just want to thank everybody. And the people that didn't vote for me, I'm their alderman, too. So I'm just a phone call away. Don't be afraid to call me. That's it. Now it is my distinct pleasure to invite...
 Mayor-elect McNamara to please come forward to accept the oath of office and to give his acceptance speech. Treasurer, a hand, please. I, Thomas P. McNamara. I, Thomas P. McNamara. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear.
 That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the state of Illinois. And the state of Illinois. And that I will faithfully discharge. And I will faithfully discharge. The duties of the office. The duties of the office. Of mayor of the city of Rockford, Illinois. Of mayor of the city of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'm incredibly honored and humbled to take this office. I first want to thank Mayor Morrissey. I offer my thanks to you and your family.
 For 12 years of dedicated service to the great city of Rockford, very few people understand the pressures and sacrifices that you have had to make over the years due to your commitment to our community, and your commitment has been tireless. So thank you and your wife, Stacey, and your entire family for all the time and energy that you've put into the city.
 And to my family, thank you so much for being here this evening and for the support that you've always given me from day one. I've learned so much from all of my family, from my father and mother to all my brothers and sisters, about the importance of giving back and serving your community. And it's with that foundation that I'll begin my service as mayor. So thank you so much.
 And finally, to my beautiful wife, Sarah, and my wonderful daughter, Olympia Rose. Sarah and I made this decision together, and there's no way I could have accomplished what we were able to accomplish over the last 10, 12 months without her support, her advice, her counsel, and her love. She and Olympia and our baby boy arriving this Friday, I think there's something with this office. Laughter
 as I said this Friday, have been my inspiration since we began this campaign last July. My biggest job over the last 12 months was to make Sarah and Olympia proud of us and the campaign that we ran, and I think we've succeeded in that effort. So thank you, Sarah, and thank you, Olympia. To our new alderman, I know you joined me in recognizing the importance of the job that we have ahead of us.
 And to the returning aldermen, it's been my pleasure to serve with you since 2013. I've learned so much from working with you, and I look forward to continuing to work for you and with you as your mayor. The job ahead of us is a difficult one. I don't think any of us ran for public office because we thought this was going to be easy. We have significant challenges facing our community, challenges with public safety and domestic violence.
 infrastructure and with our neighborhoods, with growing our economy, and with truly appreciating and welcoming the diversity that makes up the city of Rockford. And of course, we have tremendous budget challenges. Challenges that will make us think and act differently. But we must be more collaborative in our approach, to work more closely with our friends across the region so that we can design creative solutions to address our problems.
 Those challenges will require us to make tough decisions, decisions that will make us unpopular during necessary times. I'm sorry, will make us unpopular, but we will need those necessary in the short term as well as the long term for the viability of our community.
 However, with challenges, there comes tremendous opportunity. We can look around our community for sign to progress everywhere. We have a thriving downtown. We have health facilities that have invested millions of dollars in all parts of our city. We have a thriving sports tourism that is bringing thousands of individuals to our community every week. We have a public school system that's already making progress to be the school of choice for all of our citizens.
 and it's with that positive momentum we can build upon together. We'll have many tough conversations over the next four years about how to allocate our city resources. Those conversations will inspire some passion, some excitement, and most likely a little bit of disagreement. However, what is most important is that we remember at the heart of all those decisions, at the heart of all that debate,
 is our people and that all of our decisions that we base here in this horseshoe should be reflective of having our people and focus first. I knew when I ran for office how great our city was and that we had wonderful people, but I didn't realize how passionate they were for change and for progressing forward. To move our community forward, we must keep those people, again, at the center of our focus of every single one of those decisions that we make here together.
 You've heard me talk a lot about that Rockford needs a healthy dose of self-confidence. To move forward as a community, we need to bring that pride back that Alderman Durkee was talking about this evening. We've had a great start to that, so thank you again. And we need to continue to instill
 And our community has sensed that together. No matter what we want to do, we can accomplish it as long as we're working together. We can stimulate that small business growth, reduce unnecessary regulations, grow our business districts, not just downtown, but throughout our entire city. We can create new jobs and retain new jobs, as well as attract new citizens to move into our city.
 We can end the culture of crime that's been running rampant in the city of Rockford. We can continue to fight domestic violence and invest in our police, as well as become a model for police and community relations. We can invest and strengthen our neighborhoods, which truly are the heart and soul of our great city. We can raise the level of dialogue in our city. And this, I think, is a wonderful opportunity right now. We can learn to disagree without being disagreeable.
 We can have passionate discussions but also have confidence that in the end of the day, all of us have Rockford's best interests at heart. We're forming a really talented team that's eager to work for you and with you over the next four years. Together, we can make Rockford a more vibrant city, a safer community, a more thriving community. But we're going to be asking a lot, not just of the leaders in this room, but of the people sitting in the seats in the back and also watching on TV tonight.
 I want them to go back and think this evening, what can they do to bring, what can they do to benefit Rockford? How do they want to help out Rockford? Do they want to serve on a committee? Do they want to work at their local school? Do they want to serve their city in some capacity? It's going to take all of us, not just the 14 aldermen and myself, not just our staff.
 A local leader once told me that he boiled down his organization's mission into three words. People serving people. It's a simple statement, but it's a powerful statement. People serving people. The city of Rockford staff, the police and fire departments, the city council, the mayor, we are here just simply to serve the people when you boil it down at the end of the day.
 I'm honored to serve with all of you, and I'm looking forward to the great progress that we have to come in the future. So thank you so much for this opportunity. One more. So with that, I would ask one of our current aldermen to make a motion to adjourn the meeting sine diem.
 It's been moved and seconded. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Congratulations. Okay. We will call to order the Rockford City Council meeting for May 1, 2017. And I will ask that we take a call for all the votes. President. Gary. President. Gary. Okay.
 Wonderful. Well, this is an exciting time. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. All right. Thank you. Have a wonderful evening.