call to order the city of Rockford's regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, May 2nd, 2022. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Here. Toomber. Here. Tarina. Hoffman. Rose. Present. Beach. Here. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. Here. Nine present.
 Excellent. We have a quorum this evening, and we are honored with an invocation from Pastor Ernest Evans from Pilgrim Baptist Church. And, Pastor, there's a microphone right back there, and I'll just say on behalf of City Council, thank you, one, for being here, but also thank you for the revival that you guys did last week, the three days. It was beautiful. Thank you. Well, Mayor has elevated me. I'm a minister, associate minister of Pilgrim Baptist Church. Thank you anyway, Mayor.
 It's an honor and a privilege to be here tonight with you greetings in the master's name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ our Lord And I again want to thank the mayor's office for giving me the honor to be here tonight And I just wanted to ask you guys to be in prayer as I pray for you our father who art in heaven Hallowed be thy name thy kingdom come father you are holy and you are righteous And you are worthy to be praised
 Heavenly Father, we ask that you be with this meeting tonight, Heavenly Father. We pray that you be with the mayor. We pray that you be with the city council. And we pray that you be with all the speakers tonight, Heavenly Father. And let everything that is done be done decent and in order. And we thank you, Heavenly Father, for all the wonderful things that you've already done. We thank you for protecting us over the weekend, the storm that passed through. And we pray for your continued protection.
 And once again, we pray that everything is done, Heavenly Father, and that your will is accomplished in this meeting tonight, Heavenly Father. Bless all the decision makers, Heavenly Father. We also thank you for the city leaders that are here today, Heavenly Father, and we pray a blessing upon them as well. And we pray that when all is said and done, Heavenly Father, that you bless and protect each and every one of us as we go our separate ways to our respective homes. These things and more we pray in your precious son, Jesus Christ's name. Amen. Amen.
 of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands. Under God, the kingdom is yours, and the kingdom of God. Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on March 21, 2022? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Thank you.
 Next, we'll go to public hearing. This evening, we have a public hearing, and I'll turn that public hearing over to Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. A public hearing is being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statutes, 511-15.1-3, for the agreement to annex.
 for the following property at 920 North Mulford Road. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on April 15, 2022. This notice informs citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday, May 2, 2022 at 5.30 p.m. in Council Chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall located at 425 East State Street, Rockford, Illinois, for the consideration of a proposed annexation agreement
 for 920 North Mulford Road. Are there any comments or questions from the council members on the annexation? Are there any other questions or comments from the public? Seeing none, after all questions and comments, this hearing is now closed. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll move to proclamations.
 Our first proclamation this evening is for Asthma Awareness Month and Kendall Sherman Day. I believe we have Tamika Fricks and John Jaworski with us. And if you have anyone else who would like to come up with you, they can. Come on up if you want. Nervous. Don't be nervous. Good job. Can you go over there and stand up? Or you can get an eye. Awesome. Awesome.
 Okay, and if you have you can you can come in and take a photo up in here just follow Jody. She knows exactly what's going on Ready? All right
 Whereas, over 25 million people in the United States suffer from asthma along with medical, social and economic burdens that are attached to the disease. And whereas, asthma causes more than 100 million days of restricted activity annually. And the number of hospitalizations and deaths from asthma are increasing.
 And whereas over six million children in the United States suffer from asthma, making it one of the most common chronic illnesses of childhood. And whereas the Kendall Sherman Foundation, a grassroots asthma awareness nonprofit based here in Rockford, was formed in 2016 to educate the state line.
 And whereas Kendall Sherman was a bright student at Swan Hill Elementary and never let her daily fight with asthma halt her from living life. She loved playing baseball and basketball and was hoping to start playing football when at just 10 years of age, the complications of the asthma took her life. And whereas...
 Kendall would have turned 17 years old today. She touched the hearts of hundreds and is dearly missed. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2022 to be Asthma Awareness Month and today, May 2nd, 2022, to be Kendall Sherman Day. Would you like to share a few words with us? Want John to go first? John's going to go first. All right.
 Hello everyone. On behalf of the Kendall Sherman Foundation, I wish to thank Mayor McNamara as well as the City of Rockford for designating May as Asthma Awareness Month. This is a huge accomplishment in our books as an asthma awareness nonprofit because asthma is not taken as seriously in our community as it should be.
 The Kendall Sherman Foundation strives to educate the community in hopes to provide the tools, resources, and most importantly, availability to assist the community in asthmatic health-related issues. It has been a pleasure to be here today, and we cannot wait to see what the future holds for us. Thank you all once again.
 I just want to say thank you for turning just that incredible pain into a real purpose for our community. It really is appreciated, and appreciate the strength and courage that you and your entire family have shown, and it's helping, kind of still helping so many other people in our community. So thank you. Our next proclamation this evening is for World Migratory Bird Day, and Jennifer Corota is with us from the Sinissippi Audubon. How are you? Good to see you. Good to see you too. Yeah, thanks for being here.
 Whereas migratory birds are some of the most beautiful and easily observed wildlife that share our communities. And whereas migratory birds and their habitats are declining throughout the Americas, facing a growing number of threats on their migration routes and both their summer and winter homes. And whereas public awareness and concern are crucial components of migratory bird conservation.
 And whereas, since 1993, World Migratory Bird Day has become a primary vehicle for focusing public attention on nearly 350 species that travel between nesting habitats in our communities and throughout North America and their wintering grounds in South and Central America, Mexico, the Caribbean, and the southern United States.
 And whereas World Migratory Bird Day is not only a day to foster appreciation for wild birds and to celebrate and support migratory bird conservation, but also a call to action. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 14th, 2022 to be World Migratory Bird Day. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 Thank you so much. I also want to note that Governor Pritzker will be announcing or proclaiming the same day, Saturday, May 14th, Illinois Bird Day. So it's a joint celebration really. I think Illinois Audubon worked on that initiative.
 But World Migratory Bird Day is important for us to celebrate here in Rockford. It is part of us maintaining the designation of Bird City, Illinois, which was achieved in December and awarded to the city of Rockford. And we will have several events that Mississippi Audubon is hosting, and I hope that –
 you would consider coming to some of those. One of them is a virtual event on May 12th, which focuses on the theme of World Migratory Bird Day and light pollution.
 And then on Friday, May 13th, we have a World Migratory Bird Day exhibit featuring the art of Guilford High School students, Alice Hargrave, who does these really cool spectrographs of bird sounds. And then local musician Mickey Rosenquist will be releasing his first album of bird songs.
 and it should be a really fun event, and the artwork from the students is absolutely incredible. So please come out and see that, and I think that's it, so thank you so much. Thank you, appreciate it. Thank you, next we will go to petitions and communications, and we'll begin with Planning and Development Committee, Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Under Planning and Development Committee, A, item number one, memorandum from Ifeanyi Mogbana, city attorney regarding a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the City of Rockford for the use of the residence located at 312 Irving Avenue as a strong house, strong neighborhood house. Refer to Planning and Development Committee.
 Then item to memorandum from if Iani Moghbana city attorney regarding a license agreement between Zion Development Corporation and the city of Rockford for the use of the residents located at 908 8th Avenue as a strong house referred to Planning and Development Committee and
 And item three, memorandum from Ifeanyi Mokbana, city attorney regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for the resident officer program, Rock House, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderwoman Meeks. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The Code and Regulation Committee, Item 1, the Traffic Commission Agenda for the meeting to be held on May 11, 2022, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 23, 2022. Item 2, the Memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager, Permits, and Special Events regarding Upcoming Special Events, which include Coleman Scholarship Reception, RPS.
 2.05 run, Pasqua Mercado and Festa Italiana. And item three, memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic and Development Engineer, regarding an honorary street name change for Concord Avenue. All three referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Number one is a memorandum from Jamie Rott, Water Superintendent, regarding an intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for pavement repairs on Bell School Road and Coliseum Drive. Number two is a memorandum from Jamie Rott again regarding an IEPA revolving loan fund application approval and authorizing ordinance...
 Number three is a memorandum from Mike Haggison, Land Transaction Officer, regarding authorization to execute a lease for city-owned property located on New Milford School Road with France Farms. And number four is a memorandum from Kerry Haggerty, Finance Director, regarding a modification to the City of Rockford Industrial Project revenue bonds for the Wesley Willis Project Series 2011. All four of these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 thank you alderman frost next up we have public speakers we have two public speakers this evening there's microphones on the back right and the back left of city council chambers you'll have three minutes to address the city council you'll you will hear uh obnoxious cell phone ring that would be to close your comments our first public speaker this evening is reverend earl dotson senior the bible come to beth-el and transgress
 At Gilgal, multiply transgressors and bring your sacrifices every morning and your tithes after three years. One purpose of worship is to facilitate the encounter with God, not so in Israel at the time. They were consumed with prosperity without righteousness. Some were getting richer while poverty abounded before the ruthless selfishness of the rich and powerful. Amos told them that God despised their worship.
 Canaanite assimilation brought about political annihilation, as all cultural assimilation does. This should be a warning to those of African descent of such perils. Congress is currently working to reconcile the American COMPETES Act with the United States Innovation Competition Act. The acts are replete with words such as inclusion,
 Equity, people of color, disinvested community, emphasizing communities, emphasizing the urgent importance of these vital communities in America's struggle to become more self-sufficient, especially in manufacturing of semiconductors. These devices are essential in this digital economy. As semiconductors operate all computers and most cars,
 And with Communist China, our vowed enemy, threatening the invasion of Taiwan a la Ukraine with Russia that produces, Taiwan does, nearly all of these devices, our economy would collapse. We are in touch with the United States Commerce Department as a lead agency in this effort. We are demanding funding to train West Side Rockford residents, especially at Church School,
 Their response has been heartening, as it will demand a commensurate response from this Hamlet called Rockford, which has a dismal record in these respects and this important national security effort. I could close with these words from the Black National Anthem. Stony the road we trod, bitter the chastening rod, felt in the days when hope unborn had died.
 With a steady beat have not our weary feet come to the place for which our fathers sighed. We have come over a way that with tears have been watered. We have come treading our path through the blood of the slaughtered. Out from the gloomy past till now we stand at last where the white gleam of our star is cast. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara. All the persons that are citizens of Rockville, Illinois. Let me make sure I put this mic up because a few times I spoke, the residents said that my mic was cut off. I'm going to start off by John chapter 10, verse 17. The thief...
 come not but for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. I come that you might have life and that you might have life and that might be having more abundantly. I am a good shepherd. Give his life for his sheep.
 This past Thursday we went to the Rock Valley College to the critical race theory and they also talked about systematic racism. I was blown away that there was over 80 people there. We had one representative from the city council, April. We had a representative from the Department of Human Resources, the director. We had precinct committee and myself.
 and then the three panels was African Americans that was speaking, all three was doctors, it was quite ironic everything they talked about I've been talking about for years but the YMCA I mean the YWCA
 and the Rock Valley College get fun talking about racism when we should be the ones addressing racism and instead I'm interested to them that why not find out what our concerns are and ask them what our concerns are our democratic party is deeply divided
 I'm going to read something right here. Well, not only I'm noticing that, but even the Hispanic is losing faith in the Democratic over inflation. At the US election, Aguero, 43, usually vote for the Democratic Party. But with inflation hitting a 40-year high in February, he has a stark warning for the Democrats. If they seek to keep control of the US Congress in November election, if the Republican Party have something better to offer?
 I would vote Republican, said Aguero. Republicans, he believed, are generally better economic stewards who can have more success in reducing the price. What's happening with the Democratic Party, they ignore the minority concern. I look at this past week.
 I was in the courtroom and when I walked in the courtroom, the courtroom was packed. The first thing the sheriff said, well I ain't seen the legend in a long time. Mr. Bentley, did you turn your phone off? Everybody in the courtroom, including the jurors turned around to see who he was talking about, the legend. What bothered me is the fact that the youth that got killed
 the liberal or the keys to a lot of you little or or the key to other to you the bill that will increase
 Brother John knew all these different family members And what happened We need to find a better way of working with our young people It's hurtful to see How many of our young people are killing each other You got 12 year olds, 13 year olds Breaking into houses Stealing cars And yet we want to blame the single moms It's not the single moms It's the system Thank you for allowing me to speak Thank you
 Next up, we will go to new committee reports. We'll go to Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number one, committee recommends approval of the tax increment financing redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and 420 North Main Properties, LLC. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Frente. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. Bonnie. 11 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission recommendation of no action on the following items. Item A, a request to repeal the existing parking restriction of no parking anytime on the west side of Packard Parkway from Carriage Lane to Conklin Drive. Item B, a request to establish terrace parking on the side of Market Street from 80 feet east of Madison Street to 175 feet east of Madison Street, thus repealing the existing ordinance of terrace parking.
 on the south side of Market Street from 75 feet east of Madison Street to 130 feet east of Madison Street. Item C, a request to establish an all-way stop at the intersection of Rockton Avenue and Locust Street, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Locust Street stopping for Rockton Avenue. Item 2.
 Committee recommends approval of the modification of special use permit number 132-94 to increase the allowable square footage for a free standing sign from 4 square feet to 8 square feet and to increase the sign height from 30 inches to 48 inches from grade in an R2 two-family residential zoning district at 1625 East State Street, thus reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals recommendation of denial. Subject to conditions...
 the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item three the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 920 north mulford road the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance the owner of the subject property has requested the annexation
 Item 4, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a zoning map amendment from County R2 to City R3 Multifamily Residential Zoning District at 920 North Mulford Road. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 5, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern, restaurant, and video gaming terminals in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 3015, 3017, and 30XX Kishwaukee Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 6, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar, restaurant, tavern, and video gaming terminals and denial of outdoor seating in an I-1 light industrial zoning district at 2315 Harrison. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 7, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a liquor and convenience store. And item B, the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a liquor and convenience store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district.
 12 of 3 7th Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance item 8 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 3848 Broadway subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 Item 9, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for A, a modification to an existing liquor license to add two officers for a liquor license by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals. And item B, a modification to an existing liquor license to add an outdoor beer garden in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3207 North Main Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item 10, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2635 11th Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And item 11, the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to Chapter 5, Division 7, Temporary Outdoor Vehicle Sales. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. That's it.
 Thank you, Alderman Rose. So we have 11 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Alderman Frost? Thank you. I have a question about number nine. I believe it's called Whiskey's Roadhouse. When I was reviewing the materials, I noticed that the beer garden's hours are Monday through Saturday from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. I was just curious if you want them earlier. Well, you know, some people...
 It said it coincides with the operating hours of their kitchen. I didn't know they were open for breakfast at 6 a.m. Thank you. Director Franzen? You're correct that those are the hours that were approved by LTAP. Other one, Meech, did you want to add about? They do open for breakfast. But this is the beer garden. Some people like to eat food outside and have a cocktail while they have their breakfast. Here.
 Mr. Cagnone, it's it's not uncommon that we have do have establishments that have alcohol Sales at 6 a.m. With restaurant services, especially for second and third shift Industries. Yes. Thank you any other Alderman Beach. Thank you. A couple of these Amy are these new machines or old machines and
 Mr. Cagnoni? These are existing establishments that have VGTs. Okay. Because I know a few weeks ago, I think we asked that any time these video machines would come up, we would put the number so we would know all the time where we are in relationship to where the end is. Is the number still on the staff reports that we put out, Mr. Meyer? No.
 Typically they are for new establishments. I'd have to confirm for existing establishments. Thank you very much. Any other questions, Alderman Thunberg? I'd just like to say for the record, Alderman Frost didn't answer your question. Is there any other discussion on the 11 items that are before us? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. No, I'm too high on that. Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Frost. No, I'm not. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, Nix, Bonnie. Item number one, 12 ayes. Item number two, 11 ayes, one no. Items three and four, 12 ayes. Items five, six, 11 ayes, one no. Items seven, eight, 12 ayes. Item number nine, 10 ayes, two nos. And item 10 and 11, 12 ayes. Thank you.
 Next, we will go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,040,518.46 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on April 25, 2022. Thank you, Counsel. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? No.
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bani. 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Unfinished Business Committee Reports Laid Over under Planning and Development Committee, Alderman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item number one, committee recommends approval of the funding and lease agreement with Rockford Area Arts Council. A, 2022 to 2024 funding agreement, and B, the lease agreement for 713 East 8th Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Council, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderman Tunberg. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 I move to amend the committee report under unfinished business. Committee reports laid over Roman numeral 7A, item 1, approval of the funding and lease agreement with the Rockford Area Arts Council to reflect the following change in the 2022 to 2024 funding agreement. Paragraph 3 shall read as follows.
 Payments. In consideration of the services provided by the RAAC, the city agrees to pay to the RAAC from its redevelopment fund up to a sum of $75,000 per year for a maximum amount of $225,000 over the three years of the agreement. The initial payment will be a lump sum payment payable at the beginning of the year upon city council approval.
 Second and third year payments shall be authorized annually by City Council, and if approved, will be lump sum payments made within 60 days to the RAAC's annual report of achievements to the city. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. So we have an amendment. There's a motion for an amendment. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion on that amendment? Alderwoman Tarina first. Yes.
 thank you mayor can you just clarify i want to make sure i understand what the amendment was that's instead of is i just want to clarify that it's instead of giving them one lump sum payment for three years it's still to give them the payment for three years but has to be approved every year for three years that's my understanding okay okay director meyer so the yes the each uh each annual uh payment would be required to be approved by city council thank you
 other discussion alderman thunberg and uh just to clarify um similar and i know uh our previous colleague ann thompson kelly was frequently doing this with quite a few of our agreements but uh it's it's really to
 it's not about the funding mechanism or aspect of it it's just to allow city council the ability to vote each year on that instead of just a three-year lock on it so thank you thank you uh alderwoman meets i just wanted to um comment on this particular item um we were coming back pretty much every year for three years for arts council because we have
 Deep commitment to the arts in this community and culture in the community So I really don't quite understand the need for this amendment And I will be voting no for this particular amendment. I Have nothing more to say sorry all the men roasts. I
 Yeah, I would second what Alderman Meeks has said. I think it's important that the Arts Council have...
 know under our rules that they have the ability to have access to that money ahead of time, especially to keep staff on so that they know that it's a longer term commitment versus a one year to year to year commitment that it allows their staff to really plan, I think more accordingly on their professional lives.
 alderman bonnie thank you mayor i'm just wondering if alderman tunberg could explain what the difference is between his amendment and simply denying this all together and and requiring the arts council to come year over year as they have been doing uh alderman to mergen i would just mention address me on those comments thank you yes thanks mayor um
 You know, as it stands right now, the
 City the council would vote on it each year And that's what it's been done in the past correct me if I'm wrong mayor Historically we brought up one at a year at a dance I'm not aware. There has been a multi-year agreement It seems as though most of our agreements that are coming up in front of us here on council are
 instead of being a three-year agreement for a project of some sort or a contract of some sort with a company it seems that we are more going the route of being able to bring that up each year for vote and so in this case it is
 it could go down as a no and then yes the city would have to go resort back to its previous way of of the way we did it all along which is vote every year for it correct
 The item is voted down tonight your amendment or the the item itself is voted down the three-year agreement is voted down and we would just go back and and Do as we have so yeah, this is just amending. It's not it's not anything to do with the dollar amount right now it
 you know if we're still approving the 75 000 we just upped at 50 last year from 20 from 50 to 75 um i think that does show by the way a commitment by the city uh along with a an office building that is rent free um i think that is showing allegiance by the city to the arts council um but
 With the funding itself, this is just really each year holding the Arts Council accountable to make sure they're allocating and correctly using the funds, and the City Council would be able to vote accordingly on that. Thank you. Mr. Cagnoni, could you touch on multi-year agreements that was raised?
 Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. So City Council approves, considers, and takes action on several different types of agreements.
 There's annual funding agreements such as this for the Arts Council. There's contract for services, which are multi-year contracts with generally private companies in which they may bid for street sweeping, for example, for multiple years.
 And it's generally in the reference to Alderman Thunberg related to Alderman Thompson-Kelly. It was generally in the contract for services realm in which she would ask for that to be reviewed on an annual basis or brought back before council on an annual basis. As it relates to arts and culture and economic development, you know, we have had multi-year agreements and currently do have multi-year agreements. Probably the two largest would be...
 RAVE, who operates the BMO facility in the Coronado. That's a multi-year agreement where we provide a significant subsidy, approximately a million dollars a year, to invest in arts and culture within our community. We also have a five-year agreement with the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau as it relates to the hotel-motel tax and for marketing and tourism, you know,
 When we as a staff were evaluating our recommendation and working with the Rockford Area Arts Council, we took into consideration a number of the comments that were made at the presentation that was made by Mary from the Executive Director of the Rockford Area Arts Council not that long ago. And what we heard from the Council was the importance of the arts and culture.
 uh... compounded with the recent economic development analysis that was done by our one regional planning council where they they noted that for every job created in the arts creates point to one jobs and other industries uh... that we also recognize
 how hard the arts culture was impacted by COVID-19. They're one of the leading industries in regards to job loss and investment, and wanted to make sure we created some predictability coming out of the pandemic over the next three years.
 And I would also note that although we did increase the funding to $75,000 last year, that was a return of the investment that was made in the Rockford Area Arts Council going back to 2013 and had been reduced for a number of years. And I believe in 2003, the city was investing $132,000 on an annual basis.
 So for a number of reasons, we felt that it made sense to move forward with our staff recommendation for three-year funding and three-year lease, understanding the success that the Rockford Area Arts Council has had over the last year and a half or so, and wanted to make sure that we made that a priority for our community going forward. Alderman Tarina, did you have your hand up? And then Alderman Bonney. Okay.
 i don't know that i have much of a question at this point because i think mr cagnotti answered it because i was just going to ask i hear my colleagues um just often talk about we we mostly do one years of and then some say we mostly do three years so it's like just trying to figure out do we lean a certain way but it sounds like based on its response that we have all types of agreements we can't really say that we have more of one than the other so thank you alderman bonnie thank you mayor so
 My understanding is the primary reason for the Arts Council requesting this is to have that to strengthen its financial base in order to strengthen its grant applications and its request for funds from other sources such as Winnebago County.
 And I guess I don't understand how the amendment doesn't simply gut the agreement and leave it as an empty shell. Therefore, it's just a way to vote no, but vote yes. So I would not support the amendment. I think that if anybody wants to not support the Arts Council, they just need to vote against the agreement.
 But I thank Mr. Cagnoni for pointing out, you know, the
 And the reason to do all of this is because the arts are economic development. It's a big part of tourism. A city that doesn't, you know, that does not have a thriving arts community is, you know, is hobbling around in attracting visitors and people to live here because it's expected of a top-notch community to have a thriving arts environment.
 Other discussion? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a clarification from Mr. Cagnoni. You said that we contribute as a city a million dollars to RAVE for arts. Mr. Cagnoni. I said that the agreement with RAVE is for approximately a million dollars on an annual basis. And yes, they are associated with arts. Certainly not the only thing they do. But yes, they are associated with arts. Just a question.
 yeah mr alderman durgan and just as a matter of you know someone liking to streamline things is there any reason why the arts council just can't be rolled into rave then just a it's a rhetorical question it has nothing to do with the amendment but it's just a suggestion so we stream we have all these agencies that do all this stuff why don't we just streamline them
 So I think rave focuses on two facilities primarily and bring arts to those two facilities I think the Arts Council focuses on a region multi-county area any other discussion any other discussion? Just alderman dirty. Yeah. Yes, right It's just a comment then if we're just if we're looking for stability and in the arts and avoiding some of this budget stuff roll it in and just I
 Just make it part of that and make it robust or whatever just something for the future. Thank you other discussion
 Alderman Tuber. Yeah, thanks, Mayor. Just to clarify on my esteemed colleague, Alderman Bonney, that I just want to make that clear that—and I don't—you weren't alluding to this, I'm sure. It just seemed to maybe come across as if you vote—if you aren't going—if you don't want to support the yards, vote no.
 And yes, I know you didn't mean that that way. I just wanted to clarify that for my esteemed colleague there. Thank you. Any other discussion? And right now we have an amendment, Alderman Thunberg's amendment. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll on the amendment? Boguman. No. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. No. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. No.
 Bonnie. Nine nos, three eyes. Okay, so we have one item before us. The item as stated by Alderman Meeks. I need discussion on the one item before us. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Logaman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. I'm sorry. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Brown.
 Meeks, Bonnie, 12 eyes. Okay, next we'll go to officers' reports. Just want to, one, thank pretty much every department in the city of Rockford. On Friday, we had our first of six neighborhood initiatives over in the Lewis Lemon neighborhood in Rockford.
 every department played a role and then about nearly 20 organizations played a role and we had some uh groups bringing 20 and 30 volunteers to help clean up uh the lewis lemon neighborhood uh rha brought eight or ten uh staff to bring up uh to help clean up youth build brought staff zion uh west church brought staff or
 volunteers it was just really wonderful to see so many different community organizations and individuals descend and care about a neighborhood and then that block party it did get cut short due to weather but the number of kids and families taking advantage of the resources that were there kids primarily taking advantage of the amazing ice cream that was there was just it was it
 Really one of the more fun days being mayor to see all these different folks Really work together on one common issue. So I wanted to thank everyone and on May 20th We will be in the Coronado Haskell neighborhood also want to thank We had about 20 21 or so I may miss one there and
 Organizations have participated in a youth program fair at Boys and Girls Club on Saturday, and we probably had between about 175 and 250 people in the three hours come through that program fair from all over. Really wonderful to see kids getting linked into programs for the summer and beyond.
 I want to thank Alderwoman Meeks and Alderwoman Prunty for also showing up and supporting that. And the last thing I would mention is we are still waiting.
 Tonight is the last day that we put out there for you to bring forward your committee prioritizations. So if you don't have it with you tonight, that's fine. Just send an email tomorrow with your response or take a photo of it and send it in if you can, if you have not yet brought it forward. And with that, I'll open it up to any officers' reports. Alderman Quinones? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you.
 I want to thank God that no one got hurt during the storm over the weekend in the 11th Ward. I also want to thank the mayor and the first responders for the great work they did after the storm. Also, Kyle Sanders and the Public Works Department for helping the residents clean up the area. And Stephanie from the Code Enforcement for helping out today and answering questions from the residents today. Working together with the residents and the city,
 We'll get this done together. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Mayor, I would really like to thank Pilgrim Baptist Church for inviting us to the revival. It was very, very pleasant, and it did give some moments of peace, so I really thank them. Absolutely. Alderman Tarina, then Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. I also want to thank Pilgrim Baptist Church for...
 I'm just hosting a prayer over elected officials. I thought that was really special. Um just to echo Alderman hoffman's comments. It was just it's just nice because we go through a lot and people don't understand that so Um, I just uh, i'm grateful that they thought about us
 My announcement is actually for Pilgrim Baptist Church. I wanted to announce that they're having a community job fair. It's going to be on Saturday, May 14th from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. They're going to have several jobs and employers on site, and some will actually be hiring on the spot. And I think what is cool is that they're going to be providing free child care. So I think that's really important to mention because that sort of just eliminates a barrier for a lot of people there.
 and there's going to be looks like free gift cards gift baskets and all kinds of fun things to register for and it looks like there's going to be temporary full-time and part-time jobs available as well so
 Pilgrim Baptist Church, 1703 South Central Avenue, May 14th, 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. Thank you so much. Thank you. And Alderman Trina, can you email me that information? I'll make sure we share it, but also get it to all the aldermen as well. Of course. Thank you. And I'm sorry, Alderman Rose.
 Yeah, I just wanted to share, if anyone gets the opportunity to head down to the West Side Showroom, there's a really cool play going on about some of the things that are going on in Russia and Ukraine. And the play is basically about a rock group that protested at one of the Orthodox churches in Russia and really taken on the...
 you know, women's rights movement and feminist movement. So if you get a chance, they're doing two more weekend shows, one this weekend and one the following weekend. But Mike Workle does a fantastic job over at the West Side Showroom. It's right off of Main Street, just south of the Roundabout. And I'm just so glad that they've set up shop there and continue to do performances there. Thank you. Alderwoman Meeks.
 So we tried to hold an event over the weekend, April 30th, for Great American Cleanup, but because of the weather, we did have to cancel that event. So I just want to kind of thank...
 the people that would have made that event spectacular that day. Teresa with the Edgewater Beautification Committee, she was going to help a lot along with Village Green to do some plant demonstrations, fire department coffee, both the police department and the fire department were signed up to come. Third Presbyterian Church opened up their doors for bathroom usage, tables and chairs.
 um disco chicken was going to come through pennons was serving hot dogs and mrs fisher's potato chips park district had so many things that they were going to do that day and also both nezna and edgewater community
 all worked really hard to to really get it together so i'm really sorry that that didn't happen we will be rescheduling this date um and bringing that to the community i want to thank keep northern illinois beautiful for still continuing to go on with the great american cleanup that day
 It was beautiful. I mean up until it wasn't right and most importantly I need to give a special thank you to Public Works, Kyle Saunders and the trees and actually also very much Mitch Leatherby because
 They still went out there from 12 to 3 right before the storm or even during the storm and got those trees, 150 trees, out into the community. So I think that that is so wonderful that they still were committed to do that. And I'm just looking forward to rescheduling and having this actual event.
 Wonderful alderman Hoffman then alderman Bonnie. Thank you mayor. I forgot to mention chief Torrance I really want to thank him. There was an incident in my neighborhood It was late in the evening but he called me anyway, and I was able to get a statement from him get on next door and
 and it calmed everything down instead of the hysterics that you normally see as to why are all these police cars here and so forth. So they got all the information, and I was able to ask people if they had any videos or anything to please call the non-emergency number. So he did a great job, and I am so appreciative because these things have exploded before into things they shouldn't be.
 So great job to Chief Torrance. Thank you. But I had a question, too. All right, now I'm going to show my ignorance. Westside Showroom, if I go on the Internet, is that what I'm going to put in? Is that what it's at? I would include the name Rockford. Rockford. Like City of Rockford, but yes, you can find it that way. Alderman Bonney and then Alderman Toomberg, I believe, had his hand raised. Then Alderman Frost. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Mayor.
 Lee Knows Restaurant in the 14th Ward is having a news conference tomorrow at 1 o'clock to announce plans to celebrate its 50th anniversary In Rockford at the same location in the 14th Ward and I don't know what they're planning to announce but I would assume that it will be publicized in social media and the news media and that everybody should Stay tuned for that
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toomberg. Thanks, Mayor. And thank you, Alderman and Alderman Tarina, for attending that event and who else attended it. I had planned on it, but I was down at Second First Church.
 acknowledging Pastor Becky has been with that church for 25 years and she does a fantastic job and Mary you had a few comments there as well so thank you for that and so wanted to say that also thanks to director Kyle on and some things that were taken care of in the third ward that needed immediate assistance also do
 boy deputy police chief eddie torrence uh i believe that's the title on deputy police chief uh assistant deputy police chief on uh just reaching out on some things uh in a prompt manner um and lastly just uh and now we can answer this off off record but uh
 I'm just inquiring on, with the North Main development that we passed tonight and some other issues with the building that is next, the Bush Construction building I know has been
 lagging in time and so I want to Encourage if we could revisit that Because I believe it was 2018 when we made that agreement and it's been four years and I realize the library's had some issues But I'd like to see something happen in there sooner than later We can certainly get an update out to the entire council. Yeah, did someone want to provide one now? It doesn't matter. I
 If I may, you know, then Dr. Fronson can add some. You know, we have been in conversations and most recently met with the library and their design team related to the ongoing instruction and remind everybody that, you know, much of the delays that we've seen both in the
 The library and the Bush development is because both projects were dependent on advancement of the remediation of the site, which because of the pandemic was set back significantly. But, you know, we have engaged Bush development and obviously the library is currently under construction and actively work to advance those projects. And Director Franzen may have more recent information than me.
 uh that's correct other than um you know from our discussions with bush we have every reason to believe that that project uh it will go forward thank you any uh other items alderman beach thank you your honor just a couple of things one uh i'd like to get an update if possible on the uh high internet lines that were going to be put all over the city how that's going i'll just see how that's
 And also, I did speak to the director of public works about the traffic situation on Saturday. It was downtown and with the two-way streets, like for example, with Church Street, the people are trying to get in the garage and people that wanted to go ahead south couldn't because they're in line. They couldn't go anyplace else. They couldn't go around to go south.
 And the same thing over with the BMO. I'm certainly happy that everyone's coming downtown for events, but the traffic was jammed. As a matter of fact, there were several cars right across West State Street. They couldn't move to the east or the west because cars were there in line to get into the parking garage. So I think we definitely need to take a good look at how we can resolve this.
 the parking situation and especially when there's events going on not only at bemo harris but the corn out at the same time we it's a great problem i'm just bringing it up not as a negative way but to say that i think we really need to get our heads together to figure out how we can solve that problem so thank you very much sir
 Thank you. Would someone like to provide a brief update on Sci-Fi? Director Saunders? Thank you, Mayor. The engineering team has been working with Sci-Fi, gosh, for nearly the last year. They've done all of the preliminary engineering at this point. The team actually just did have a follow-up email or conversation last week, so...
 The preliminary engineering is wrapped up. They have done their due diligence in identifying both the hut locations as well as the cabinets that will be installed throughout the city. Working with Sci-Fi, we have identified two pilot areas, and we're asking that Sci-Fi look at those two areas as kind of the potential installation pilots. They're in close proximity to cabinets. They're also in close proximity to large...
 density or a large dense residential area. At this point, we're looking at scheduling a permit workshop in early June, where Sci-Fi's operations and engineering team will sit down with our engineering team and just kind of walk through a permit from start to finish.
 understanding what they need, understanding what we need, and then they're hoping to break ground within 30 to 60 days of that permit workshop. So we are kind of mid to late summer for that first kind of pilot installation, and then they are anticipating about a two and a half year construction phase. So they're anxious to get started. I think we've done a lot of the legwork up to this point and excited to see it start this summer.
 Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Does that mean that like two and a half years of the whole city ought to be done? Yes. Okay. Thank you. Yep. Alderman Wendland-Prunty and then Alderman Frost.
 thank you I just wanted to thank you mayor for coming to the Jefferson Ridge neighborhood watch group I think that it was very informative and I think people from the Rockford portion left very satisfied
 Then I also wanted to thank the City of Rockford and all of the groups that came together for the youth program fair. I am just really excited about the way that the City of Rockford continues to invest in our youth. I appreciate the diversity of groups represented at the fair, and I think that, you know, the
 at least I felt as if, um, that, um, there is a lot to do for our youth and I hope that, um, uh, as many people as possible will take advantage of the opportunities that are available here in the city of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Uh, yesterday I had the privilege of attending Temple Bethel for, uh, a Holocaust remembrance ceremony, uh,
 And it was quite moving. There was a speaker there yesterday who spoke about the 6 million Jews that were murdered by the Nazis from 1941 to 1945. And thus we all know World War II. And the point of it was twofold. One was to never forget those horrendous attacks and so to eliminate hatred throughout the world. And secondly was...
 he spoke a great deal about the American
 that liberated the concentration camps throughout Germany and Austria. And it was quite moving to hear the stories of how it affected these soldiers. Most of them have passed away now. There are some still alive, but he wrote a book about that. So again, it was just a really moving event, and the title of the event couldn't be better than just to never forget what took place in the Holocaust. Thank you. Other woman, Trina.
 Just thought about something really fast I have to acknowledge the number one resident in my ward and that is Ruth Torino my mother And I want to wish her and all the rest of the mothers in our city a happy Mother's Day this week. Thank you No other reports Moving on next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman Rose. I
 Thank you, Your Honor. The Code and Regulation Committee recommends approval of the Clem Garden Fair. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 4th and Sunday, June 5th from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. each event day. The event location will be on the grounds of Clem Arboretum located at 2715 South Main Street. Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the Rockford Public Library.
 Summer Reading Challenge. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 4th from 10 a.m. To 1 p.m The event location is at 7 11 North Main Street item 3 The committee recommends approval of the Swedish American State Street mile and I dot resolution This event is scheduled for Saturday, August 6 from 4 p.m. To 8 15 p.m The one mile run will begin at 1500 East State Street near Prospect Street will end at Water Street. I
 Item 4, the committee recommends approval of the annexation agreement for 920 North Mulford Road. The annexation agreement shall run with the property and shall be 20 years from the date of its execution. Item 5, the committee recommends approval of a resolution opting out of Illinois Commerce Commission regulation of towing from private property. Item 6, the resolution authorizing the City of Rockford to intervene in the property tax appeal board case for 6090 East State Street.
 And then item seven, the resolution authorizing the city of Rockford to intervene in the property tax appeal board case for 4669 Shepherd Trail. Thank you. So we have seven items before you. Item six and seven need to suspend rule nine. Is there a motion to, if we can just separate six and seven, is there a motion to suspend rule nine for item six and seven? Second. We have a motion and we have a second. Okay.
 All those in favor of just simply suspending Rule 9 on Items 6 and 7, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay, so now we have seven items before us. Any discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I do appreciate a call from the legal department.
 Regarding this 20 years from the date of execution. I don't think I've ever seen a Time frame put on it, but I understand it is there and apparently what it really means is that Anything that the applicant needs to do to bring their property up to our codes Water utilities whatever they have 20 years to do that It's nothing to do whether the annexation falls falls off. It has to do with them and
 And I asked the question if they're right now getting water from the city and are playing three times the rate because they're not in and
 That's part of what they need to do where they still continue to pay And I guess my answer was yes, so I'm not totally I'm totally Understanding it Understanding it more than I did before but I've never seen a year attached to an annexation Mays bit maybe has been there. I haven't seen it there. Mr. Cagnone so the the 20-year term has been in every annexation agreement that I can recall and
 that I've been a part of in my tenure. That's a lot, by the way. So just a little bit. But it's not typically stated on our agendas like it is stated, so that might be the difference that makes that stand out, Alderman. Any other discussion on those seven items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman.
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Ronnie? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. First, the committee recommends approval of the award of the non-competitive contract for vacant and foreclosure property registry to property registration champions known as pro champs.
 There is no direct cost to the city for these services. The contract duration is one year with three possible one-year extensions. Number two, the committee recommends approval and award of bid for lead service line replacement program phase four to NTRK in an amount based on unit pricing not to exceed $4 million. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is the IEPA state revolving loan fund.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of a change order for the South 3rd Street, Gregory Street, and Seminary Street water main replacement to Northern Illinois Service. The funding sources, the water replacement and improvement account grant. The original amount was $1,454,622.75. The change order is for $504,684 for an amended amount of $1,959,306.75. Thank you.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, Low Income Housing Energy Assistance Program, Health and Human Services. The grant award will provide funds for approved clients' electric and or heating bills,
 energy usage education staff training payroll and administration the grant is in the amount of 1 million five hundred and twenty thousand six hundred and twenty-five dollars and does not require a cost match the grant term is from October 1 2022 to June 20 2024
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program State Supplemental. The grant award will provide funds for approved clients' electric and or heating bills,
 usage education staff training payroll administration this grant is in the amount of two million six hundred and fifteen thousand four hundred and seventy-five dollars and does not require a cost match the grant term is from July 1 2022 to June 30 2023 number six the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the weatherization Department of Energy
 The grant award will provide funds for approved clients' weatherization work order, client energy usage education, contractors, staff training, payroll, and administration. The grant is in the amount of $425,067 and does not require a cost match.
 The grant term is from July 1, 2022 to June 30, 2023. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the Department of Commerce in Economic Opportunity, Weatherization, Health, and Human Services Act.
 The grant award will provide funds for approved clients weatherization work order, energy usage education, contractors, staff training, payroll, and administration. The grant is in the amount of $699,469 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023.
 Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Weatherization State Supplemental Grant Award.
 the grant award will provide funds for approved clients weatherizations work order clients energy uses education contractors staff training payroll and administration the grant is in the amount of three hundred and four thousand one hundred and twenty five dollars and does not require a cost match the grant term is from july one twenty twenty two to september thirty twenty twenty three i placed these eight matters before you
 Thank you, Alderman. So, Council, we've got eight items before us. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a follow-up. I asked last week for items 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8, projected cost breakdown between our overhead with training, staffing, payroll, and administration. Okay.
 idea of that as opposed to how much money is actually going out and servicing the objective of the grants I may have missed it, but I didn't receive it. I thought it went out Dead do you know what time that went out or what day director Parham sent it out earlier this morning to all the the
 Alderman, which is a pretty detailed breakdown and a general summary within the body of the email. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prenti. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. 12 ayes. Aye.
 excellent next we'll go to new business planning and development committee all the woman meets thank you your honor under planning and development committee item number one and ordinance and approving the 2022 to 2024 funding agreement and lease agreement for 713 east state street with the rockford area arts council and item number two and ordinance approving the tax increment financing
 TIF, Redevelopment Agreement between the City of Rockford and 420 North Main Properties, LLC. Excellent. Thank you. There's two items before us. Is there any discussion on those two items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Bronte. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye.
 12 ayes. Excellent. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, an ordinance approving a modification of Special Use Permit 13294 to increase the allowable square footage for freestanding sign from 4 square feet to 8 square feet and to increase the sign height from 30 inches to 48 inches from grade in an R22 family residential zoning district at 1625 East State Street.
 Item 2, an ordinance approving the annexation of 920 North Mulford Road. Item 3, an ordinance approving the zoning map amendment from County R2 to City R3 Multifamily Residential Zoning District at 920 North Mulford Road. Item 4, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern, restaurant, and video gaming terminals in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 3015, 3017, and 30XX Kishwaukee Street.
 item five an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with a bar restaurant tavern and video gaming terminals and an i1 light industrial zoning district at 2315 harrison avenue item six an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a liquor and convenience store in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1203 7th street item 7 an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a liquor and convenience store in a c2 limited commercial zoning district in
 At 12037 Street, item 8, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a tobacco store in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3848 Broadway. Item 9, an ordinance approving a modification to an existing liquor license to add two officers for a liquor license by the drink in conjunction with a bar and grill and video gaming terminals and a modification to existing liquor license to add an outdoor beer garden in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 3848.
 at 3207 North Main Street. Item 10, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a convenience store in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2635 11th Street. And item 11, an ordinance approving the amendments to Chapter 5, Division 7, the temporary outdoor vehicle sales. Excellent. So we've got 11 items before you. Is there any discussion on those 11 items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky. No, I'm one. I'm done.
 Logoman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No, aye. Tarina. Prunty. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Bonney. Item number one, 11 ayes, one no. Items two and three, 12 ayes. Items four, five, 11 ayes, one no. Items six, seven, and eight, 12 ayes. Item number nine, 10 ayes, two noes. Item 10, 12 ayes.
 And item 11, 12 I see. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. We may even have a third. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.