Thank you for the invitation and thank you to the council members who rode their bikes last month and inspired my transportation tonight. Let us pray. Eternal God, in your word, you have given us a vision of that holy city to which the nations of the world bring their glory. Behold and visit, we pray, the cities of the earth, especially our city Rockford,
 renew the ties of mutual regard which form our civic life, guide us to perceive what is right, enable us to eliminate poverty, prejudice, and oppression, that peace may prevail with righteousness and justice with order, and that men and women from different cultures and with differing talents may find with one another the fulfillment of their humanity. Tonight I offer a special prayer for safety for all who bike Rockford,
 and give thanks for this way of enjoying your creation. Be with and guide us as our city seeks to be more bike-friendly. Send upon those who hold office in this city the spirit of wisdom, charity, and justice that with steadfast purpose they may faithfully serve in their offices to promote the well-being of all people. Bless them, their families, and each person here as we seek the welfare of our city
 for all who dwell in it. Amen. Amen. ... ... ... ... ... ... Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Bogeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. ...
 Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. McNeely? Shirelli? Here. 13 present, Your Honor. Thank you. And Alderman Hervey, it's great to see you back with us. We were missing you, so thanks for being back. I need a motion to approve the journal proceedings. So we have a motion and a second to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 16, 2018. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Thank you.
 Motion passes. This evening we have a number of proclamations. And our first proclamation is for St. Ambrosia Society Week is George Matisse. Mattis, would you like to come up and accept the proclamations? Come on forth. We did provide the proclamation on Friday, and then they had an event on Saturday. So we are happy to have you here, Valerie.
 So whereas St. Ambrosia Mutual Benefits Society was founded in May 1st, 1918 at a club located at 802 Montague Street in South Rockford by immigrants from a sister city of Ferentino, Italy, and is celebrating its 100th anniversary this year. And whereas the society was established to provide Rockford's community of Italian immigrants with a meeting place to preserve and continue their cultural traditions and to enjoy fellowship and assimilation assistance.
 And whereas the society was named in honor of Farentino's Reverend Patron Saint, who is codified in the ancient city's laws with official holidays and festivities, and likewise honored here in Rockford at St. Ambrosia Club's annual feast in August.
 And whereas an Americanization Hall was a school located at St. Anthony of Padua Parish that provided our early Italian immigrants with the instruction in English language and American culture and was later moved, I'll add by horse and on by horse right down the street attached to St. Ambrosia Club.
 And whereas, St. Ambrosia Club is proud to be the last remaining Italian social club in South Rockford and remains a vibrant and thriving institution with hundreds of members ranging in age from 16 to over 90 years old. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 5th, 2018, the week of May 5th, 2018, to be St. Ambrosia Society Week. Would you like to share any words? Thank you.
 Thank you very much. We appreciate this. On behalf of the early immigrants from Ferentino, including my family who's been involved with this club for over 90 years, we really appreciate the recognition and
 We're trying to help South Rockford. We're trying to stay in South Rockford. 100 years is quite a feat. Those immigrants faced a lot of discrimination, and unfortunately still Italian-Americans seem to face that. We're not where we need to be yet as a society. I know we're all trying. This is part of it. We really appreciate it. On behalf of George Mattis, the president of San Ambrosio Club, who couldn't be here tonight,
 And Debbie Zander, the president of the Ladies' Auxiliary, I want to thank you all and thank the mayor for his support and thank those council members who were here 12 years ago this week for sitting through that long city council meeting where we established Sister City with Ferentino, Italy. Thank you very much. Next up, we have Drinking Water Week, which is always important. We have Jamie Rote with us as well. How are you doing?
 Whereas water is our most valuable natural resource and whereas only tap water delivers public health protection, fire protection in support of our economy and quality of life we enjoy. Whereas any measure of a successful society, low mortality rates, economic growth and economic diversity, productivity and public safety are in some way related to the access of safe water. And whereas we are all stewards of the water infrastructure upon which future generations depend.
 Whereas each citizen of our city is called upon to help protect our source waters from pollution, to practice water conservation, and to get informed and involved in the local water issues. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 6th through May 12th, 2018 to be Drinking Water Week. Would you like to share a few words with us? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening. For those of you I have not had the privilege of meeting, I am Jamie Rote, the Deputy Water Superintendent for the City of Rockford. The City of Rockford, the American Water Works Association, and the water community across North America dedicates this week to the celebration of drinking water, recognizing the vital role tap water plays in all of our daily lives.
 As the mayor mentioned, a safe, plentiful, and desirable water source is one of the most essential elements that communities need to prosper, ensuring public health, safety, and economic prosperity for all. The Water Division, from its founding in 1875, has and always will play a pivotal role in our community's vitality, and it's great we spend this week acknowledging these contributions. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Next up, we have Teacher Appreciation Week, and we have Dawn Granath, as well as Rachel Hudson. Awesome. By the way, Dawn Granath is head of the Rockford Education Association, and Rachel, I'm pretty excited to be next to you, because Rachel is a Golden Apple winner, which is terribly exciting. So, here is that. She's not even a wrecking. I think you did a wonderful job, though.
 Whereas teachers fill vital roles as leaders, listeners, explorers, role models, motivators, and mentors. And whereas teachers open the minds of students to ideas, knowledge, and dreams. And whereas teachers spend countless hours preparing lessons and evaluating the progress of their students to prepare them for future education, the workforce, and their civic duties.
 and whereas the influence an effective teacher has on a student can last a lifetime. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 7, 2018 to be Teacher Appreciation Week.
 We'd love you to say a few words, and I just want to say I've had the wonderful opportunity over the last year to visit a number of our wonderful schools and meet with dozens of teachers. And it's just inspiring to see the work that they do every single day. So thank you both for the work that you do. Thank you. Thank you to the mayor and to the council members in the city of Rockford for acknowledging the hard work that teachers put in every day and supporting our efforts to make our city better. I second that.
 I really do like teachers, but we also have two on council that I need their votes every once in a while. Next up is National Police Week. And we have Rockford Police Lieutenant Dan Watton. And we also have Doug Passmore and Lisa Hodges. We should have had Lisa seen. That's what we should have done. How are you? Good to see you. Nice to meet you.
 Whereas the Congress and the President of the United States have designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day and the week in which May 15th falls as National Police Week,
 And whereas the law enforcement officers are guardians of life and property, defenders of the individual rights to be free people, partners with our citizens in our efforts to lower crime, dedicated to the preservation of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and willing to make the ultimate sacrifice of their own personal safety to serve our citizens.
 Whereas our community desires to honor the valor, service, and dedication of its own police officers, to express our thanks to the men and women who help us leave our homes and families in safety each day, and guard our loved ones, property, and the government against all those who would violate the law.
 And whereas our community desires to honor the fallen officers who have over many years given the ultimate sacrifice of their of their own loves lives to protect our citizens and our community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara's mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 14th through May 20th, 2018 to be National Police Week.
 Honorable Mayor, City Council members, men and women from the community, I ask that we take a moment, bow our heads for a moment of silence in recognition and remembrance of the fallen officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice in our community. Thank you. My name is Lieutenant Dan Watton from the Rockford City Police Department. I stand before you here also representing the Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee,
 As the chairman and also the president and commander of the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Inter-Guard, I would first like to say thank you for the proclamation. Today in the United States,
 Some 900,000 law enforcement officers put their lives on the line for the safety and protection of others they serve with valor and distinction. With great success, federal statistics show that violent crime rates in the United States have decreased 0.8%, thanks in large measure to the dedicated service of the men and women of law enforcement.
 That protection comes at a price. However, each year, approximately 60,000 assaults on law enforcement officers resulting in 16,000 injuries have occurred. Sadly, over the last decade, an average of 151 officers a year have been killed in the line of duty. This averages one death every 58 hours throughout U.S. history. 21,541 names of officers have made the ultimate sacrifice.
 As a stark reminder of the danger with the job, in 2017 129 officers were killed in the line of duty and the National Law Enforcement Memorial Association will be recognizing honor in these individuals in Washington, D.C. Since the beginning of this year we have already, we will already be adding 50 additional names to the wall. Six of the names engraved on the National Memorial Wall this year will come from the great state of Illinois, one of which is our own.
 In honor of the fallen officers, the President of the United States had declared through Public Act 103-322 that on May 15th of each year, the American flag is to be flown at half staff in observance of Peace Officers Memorial Day. The Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard hosts events to remember, honor, and recognize 31 officers from six different counties who have died in the line of duty given the ultimate sacrifice in an attempt to keep their communities safe.
 This year I'm saddened to say that we will add one more name to our plaque of fallen officers. On November 5th, 2017, the City of Rockford and the Rockford Police Department lost one of their own. Officer Jamie Cox was killed in line of duty while conducting a simple traffic stop within our community. Per the request of the family, we will not be honoring Jamie this year at our Police Week events. That will be occurring next year during Police Week.
 However, it is with a broken heart, Jamie's name will appear on a plaque next to 31 officers we honor. A hero remembered never dies. Honor, recognition, and memory. Officer Lisa Hodges from the Rockford Park District will now tell you about our events for the 38th Annual Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week honoring our fallen officers. Good evening, everyone. Good evening.
 We handed out some of our flyers to you, City Council staff here, and you'll have a brief itinerary of things that are up and coming. We also have a Facebook page for our Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard. You can also follow along there as well as you.
 everyone here in the community. Please follow along and hopefully you can make some of our events. And one of the exciting events that we're going to do is Saturday we're going to have a Cosmic Bowl fundraiser for our team. We are the state of Illinois ceremonial team that does the funerals for the state of Illinois.
 It is quite an undertaking sometimes financially for us, and this is what this fundraiser does help give some cost back. We have some great silent auction items. But I also want to direct your attention to something that we really like to see people attend to, and that's our church service, which will be on the 17th. And it will be up in Roscoe this year at the Roscoe United Methodist Church. The location is listed on your flyer. It starts at 7 o'clock, and it is a very,
 I'm in mental memorial service and I hope that everyone can take some time out to attend this it shows the families how much you really do care and your concern for these officers whose lives have been taken in line of duty and also gives us the support knowing that you care about us as your police officers
 So with that in mind, we also will be at the Cherryvale Mall after that, the 18th, the 19th, and 20th. So we invite you to come out at that time and take a look at some of our equipment and just have a good time and hang out with us. We're kind of fun sometimes.
 I just want to stress that we want to support the family and we're here for all the families of the officers whose lives have been taken. And we thank you for what you do for us in support of us. Thank you so much. City Council members and management staff.
 Please accept our invitation also to Tabala Shrine Temple for the Police Memorial Breakfast Honor Ceremony where we actually conduct full honor ceremony. It will be May 18th at Tabala Shrine Center. It starts at 8 a.m. Next proclamation this evening is for Bike Month, and we have Jennifer Smith and members of I Bike Rockford. Awesome. Good to see you. Awesome.
 I dig that. Hey, Josh, how are you? Pretty awesome, thank you. Now you got it. He's got me all nervous back there.
 Whereas the bicycle is an active, economical, healthy, convenient, and environmentally sound form of transportation and an excellent tool for recreation and exercise. And whereas creating a bicycling-friendly community has been shown to improve citizens' health, well-being, and quality of life, to improve traffic safety, and to reduce pollution and congestion. And whereas the City of Rockford's Road and
 road and trail system attracts bicyclists from other regions providing economic health, transportation, and tourism. And whereas throughout the month of May, the residents of Rockford and as well as visitors will experience the joys of cycling through the educational programs, commuting events, charity events, or by simply going for a ride themselves. And whereas cycling was recently named the official exercise of the state of Illinois,
 And now therefore I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford do hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Bike Month. Would you like to share some words, Jennifer? Thank you. Thank you, Mayor McNamara, and thank you to the members of council for the proclamation tonight and for joining in with cities across the country who are celebrating National Bike Month. Next week, starting with May 14th, is National Bike to Work Week, and May 18th is National Bike to Work Day. So we encourage you to participate in whatever way you see fit.
 I Bike Rockford represents people of all ages, of all biking styles. You see we've got one of the youngest members back there in the back. Not quite pedaling herself yet, but she'll get there soon. But we represent bikers of all styles and types and are working to make this –
 make it possible for more people to say I bike Rockford. And we are greatly grateful to you, the Council, and to the staff of the City of Rockford for making this not just an aspiration or a proclamation, but really making a commitment to implement budget items and projects that will make the city safer for people who are on bikes and people who walk, who use active transportation. So we invite you to participate in National Bike Month.
 We also invite you to participate in lots of rides that will be going on this summer. Every Friday night starting on May 18th, the opening of City Market, we'll join up at City Market at 8 p.m. and take a ride through the city, an easy ride. So we invite you to all come to that, and thank you so much. On a side note, Limebike actually has had over 6,500 rides now since they've been here in Rockford, so...
 Exciting news. Next up, we have Mental Health Month, and we have Danielle Angeleri from NAMI, Northern Illinois' Executive Director. We also have our very own Javier Whitford, who is a board member of NAMI. I'll get that to you.
 Whereas mental health is essential to everyone's overall health and well-being, and whereas all Rockfordians experience times of difficulty and stress in their lives, and whereas prevention is an effective way to reduce the burden of mental health conditions.
 And whereas there is a strong body of research that supports specific tools that anyone can use to better their, better handle challenges and protect their health and well-being. And whereas with early and effective treatment, those individuals with mental health conditions can recover and lead full productive lives.
 And whereas each business, school, government agency, health care provider, organization, and citizen shares the burden of mental health problems and has a responsibility to promote mental health or mental wellness and support prevention efforts. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Mental Health Month. Would you like to share a few words? All right.
 Thank you everybody. NAMI Northern Illinois is a national grassroots advocacy group representing families and people affected by mental disorders in our surrounding area. We appreciate the city recognizing May as Mental Health Month. NAMI provides services like NAMI Connection, family support groups, education and advocacy. When it comes to mental health, it's highly important to educate ourselves, be informed and get involved.
 One in five adults in the United States live with a mental health condition, and half of all lifetime mental health conditions begin by the age of 14 and 75% by the age of 24. So early intervention programs can help, and 90% of those who die by suicide had an underlying mental illness. In Winnebago County, we lost 40 last year to suicide and 45 the year before.
 NAMI believes that everyone knows someone and together we can make a difference. Winnebago County reports that there's an emergency situation with mental health disorders in our county, so we have to speak up as a community and break down barriers, improve understanding, raise expectations, and create opportunities and funding to improve our mental health treatment. Thank you again for your support, and please wear your green ribbons this month to represent Mental Health Awareness Month.
 Alderman Hervey? Yes. I wanted to ask if Judge Yarbrough could come back up, please. He doesn't know what he's in for. It's good, I promise.
 I wanted to introduce and also apologize to Judge Patrick, the Honorable Judge Patrick Yarbrough. I wasn't able to make it to yesterday's very special opening of an exhibit at the Ethnic Heritage Museum, which is honoring Judge Yarbrough for being the first African American judge appointed in Winnebago County. And I believe it was 140 years at the time that that happened.
 And he got appointed because of what he does and who he is. But even more than being a judge, you know, you see on the news sometimes where they talk about 815 civility and people who inspire. He shows up at neighborhood groups where they're planting their community gardens. He brings rakes, hoes, gloves.
 water, everything. And he just brings them and drops them off and disappears. He's never there for the honors. He's never there for the recognition. I know this is difficult for him.
 Just stand here. He is pretty uncomfortable. But you know, sometimes we have to ask you to just power through it. Because he deserves that recognition. He does a great deal. I also know that he has done a lot to try to help improve our court system, especially where some of our youth are concerned, so that that revolving door of recidivism, or I should say crime and recidivism, shuts.
 And I just had to say thank you for all that you have done for the community. And I wish you were here for another 140 years. But we thank you. Okay. Thank you very much. Next up we have petitions and communications. It doesn't look like we have anything for planning and development. So it is codes and regulations with Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor.
 First item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 15th, 2018 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration of the codes and regs committee meeting on May 29th, 2018. Second is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on May 15th, 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on May 29th, 2018.
 Third is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Economic Development Coordinator, regarding the Doing Business in Rockford Task Force report to the City Council. The fourth is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on May 9, 2018, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Codes and Regs Committee meeting on May 29, 2018. Thank you.
 The fifth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the zoning and land use administrator regarding plat of Swedish American Northwest Clinic subdivision. The sixth is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla again regarding plat of Lincoln Middle School subdivision. The seventh is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla regarding the plat number two of Pineview subdivision.
 The eighth is a memorandum from Scott Capavilla regarding the plat of East High School Subdivision. The ninth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events, which include the Rockford Peaches 75th anniversary, Midsummer Fest, Midtown Farmers Market, Baseball for All, Rosecrans Recovery Run, Rockford Starfires, Peach Orchard Classic, and Ramp River Run.
 The 10th is a memorandum from Matthew Flores assistant city attorney regarding the proposed reversions to chapter 19 of the codes of Ordinances all 10 of those will be referred to code as right your honor. Thank you next up. We have finance and personnel and alderman frost just Alderman Hervey could we ask that you read those in for us? Yes, your honor. Thank you. I
 Number one, we have a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Administrator, regarding a proposed revolving loan project for the Barbara Coleman Village site. This is the engineered barrier. Item number two is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, our Housing and Program Manager, regarding abandoned residential property, the program corporate resolution. Third is a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, our Finance Director, regarding a vehicle leasing plan.
 Turn the page. Item number four is a memorandum from Mark Williams, our Economic Development Manager, regarding an independent contractor agreement with Wayne Dust. And item five is a memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, regarding a professional services agreement with Kane, McKenna, and Associates for TIF consultation. All five items being referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey.
 Next up we have public speakers and public comment. Just want to remind all public speakers that you have three minutes. You'll hear an alarm and be asked to stop. So first we have Andrea Cox of Rockford, Illinois. Good evening, Mayor McNamara and Rockford City Council members. My name is Andrea Cox. I come here tonight to tell you my why for doing what I'm doing, taking charge of the movement to change the name of the Morgan Street Bridge to the Police Memorial Bridge.
 You probably already know the source of my inspiration began in the early hours of November 5th, 2017, in the emergency room of St. Anthony Hospital, in the presence of my family, Mayor McNamara, Chief O'Shea, and countless local police officers, as we learned that my cousin, Officer Jamie Cox, had died protecting the streets of our city and the safety of every single one of us, while we, as you Alderman Logman said in your post that morning, were asleep under the blanket of security that our police department provides.
 The same is true for most of the citizens of our city in the early hours of August 3rd, 2001, when Detective Kevin Rice, while off duty, investigated suspicious activity happening on our streets and was shot six times in his vehicle. We slept, with our safety unquestioned, in the hands of our men and women in blue. In fact, three of Rockford's seven officers that have been killed in the line of duty were off duty, still protecting our streets, protecting us.
 Like Christina Dismuk said of Officer Eric Thurmond in an interview with WREX, it's nice to know that your job goes beyond your badge and your uniform, and just because he takes that uniform off, that don't mean his job is done. He's willing to do it inside the uniform, outside the uniform. Every single day while on duty or off, these men and women are living the oath they took to protect our city. As important as all of our first responders are to us, police are the only first responders repeatedly vilified by society and the mainstream media.
 They go to work with the reality that should someone want to assault them, it's as simple as a setup call to 911 or sitting in the wrong restaurant on your dinner break. Yet to function in the safest society we can, to uphold the values and laws this country was founded on, we need them, the ones that have answered the call for something greater than themselves. Alderwoman Hoffman, you said it so well in an interview with WIFR in December. Our police are really going through some difficult times right now in communities all over the country, and we want them to know that here we support them.
 I was recently told that many of you may not be willing to put yourselves on the line politically about this matter because Jamie's investigation is not complete. With your leadership comes the power to set a standard for a community to respect the officers that hold that line, the one between the wolves and the sheep. And let me be clear, naming this bridge is about far more than the outcome of any investigation. It's about taking the lead and bridging the gap between police and citizens. It's about bringing together this community like we saw it come together in November.
 I hope we can come together on this to honor our officers that have lost their lives answering that call, like my cousin, Officer Jamie Cox, and to show support to the ones out there right now, like my brother, Officer Adam Cox, doing a job most of us would never choose to do, but thank God they do. Rockford Alderman, tonight I'm asking for a chance to meet with you, both parties at once, to discuss the Police Memorial Bridge before we ask you for a vote in the coming months. Thank you.
 Thank you. The next public speaker we have this evening is Lori Gesner of Loves Park, Illinois. Good evening, Rockford City Council. My name is Lori Gesner, and I am not only the proud citizen of this community, but I am also the proud wife of a Winnebago County deputy for the last 10 years. And for the last 10 years, everything seemed okay until it wasn't okay. At 30 years old, the dash that separates Jamie's birth date from his line of duty death is filled with countless stories of good deeds.
 Him along with his coworkers are remarkable men and women who happen to wear a badge. But it's not the uniform that makes these men and women of Rockford extraordinary, but the dash. And we have hundreds of them still living that dash. And we have too many that gave up that dash for our city, including seven Rockford police officers and six Winnebago County Sheriff deputies. There is beauty from the ashes, but there are ashes. Evil exists, monsters are real, but good men exist.
 and good men throw themselves in the thin blue line that separates civilians from these horrors. Let this bridge be not only a reminder, but a connection to bridge the gap between police and citizen. My friend Caitlin, wife of Jamie Cox, wrote these next words, and I will speak on her behalf, but I urge you to listen closely as these are the words that come from a darkness no one should endure. They are the soldiers of our city. While we are home safe and sound, they are out risking their lives to keep us that way.
 They are the ones out defending our city from crime, violence, and evil. These honorable men and women need to be remembered every day and never forgotten for their courage, bravery, and selfless work. These are the jobs the majority of us choose not to pursue. Some gave the ultimate sacrifice protecting the city we call home. Their families paid the ultimate sacrifice so that they could keep you safe. The bridge not only reminds us of this but it should also stand as a reminder that life can come to a sudden unexpected.
 and when we expect it least. Do not take anything for granted. Live life to the fullest and remember to hug your loved ones a little bit tighter. I will end with a reading from John chapter 16 verse 33. I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In this world you will have trouble but take heart I have overcome the world. I pray for peace over the Cox family. I pray for peace for our city.
 Thank you. Our next speaker is Livia Bain of Mchesnipuk. Good evening. My name is Livia Bain. I'm here speaking to you tonight as a community member in support of the Police Memorial Bridge. My question to you today is where were you when you heard of Officer Cox's passing? Some of you here today were much more intimately involved that morning than others of us. But my guess is you could all tell the story of where you heard the news.
 Also, how did you help contribute to the mourning of this community's loss? I attended Officer Cox's visitation and observed the 700 plus squad vehicles that lined our streets during his procession. These are the moments in time that most of us in this room will have ingrained in our memories forever. As an early supporter of the Police Memorial Bridge, I helped gather the now 3,000 signatures from this community in six short weeks.
 In six short weeks, more than 3,000 people expressed their support for the renaming of this bridge to the Police Memorial Bridge, a bridge that would not only commemorate the loss of those who protect us and serve our community, that would also in itself, literally and symbolically, bridge two sides of our community, that is, East, West, citizens, and police.
 In reality, the policing career faces an average of three times greater fatality rate than all other occupations. In 2016, 118 law enforcement officers were killed nationwide in the line of duty. In the same year, we lost 89 firefighters nationally. Data shows us that these individual rates of first responder fatalities remain consistent over time.
 Although both police and firefighter deaths are elevated in comparison to other first responders, the types and causes of injury and death for these two groups are quite different. The difference between fatality rates among first responders is that police deaths are mostly attributed to vehicle accidents and felony assaults. All losses are losses. No first responder loss can be minimized. I merely intend to highlight that the policing career innately faces unique obstacles.
 violence. Violence is the resounding difference among our first responder police fatalities. My home is still lit up blue, and I'm not sure when I'll feel as if it's okay to turn it back to normal. My husband, our children, and I support the Police Memorial Bridge. We support the police. We support all first responders. How will this community honor the police officers we've lost? And should the time come to honor other first responders, we will be there in support as one.
 I ask that you meet with the Police Memorial Bridge Committee to hear more about our movement and in hopes you will join us in supporting our officers. Thank you very much. Next public speaker we have this evening is Prophet Yusuf of Rockford, Illinois. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 39th chapter, the 14th verse, it says, Be pleased, O Lord, to rescue me. Make haste to help me, Lord. What I want to speak about tonight, the power of prayer.
 There was no bread in the church for breakfast. The little sister had given out the last loaf to their old people for supper Sunday night. Not even the prayers of all were intensified as they petitioned there, never fell in Pantress State, St. Joseph. They said, St. Joseph?
 St. Joseph, St. Joseph, we must have bread was their insistent supplication. Early Monday morning a nearby baker drove up to the door of the church with a truckload of freshly baked bread. He explained his arrival as such an unusual, my first bacon last night somehow got burned. Not badly but my customer won't buy it. It's all yours sister, haven't got room for it at the shop.
 God, thank God. And good St. Joseph, the sister said, and she explained to the baker that prayers for bread, well, I don't mind helping out St. Joseph once in a while, said the baker, but just tell St. Joseph not to make a habit of this.
 St. John in the book of Luke, the 18th chapter, the first verse, Christ tells his disciples that they must persevere in prayer and not lose heart. The sincere soul who prays with confidence will always be heard. The petitioner must pray with faith, persevere, and determine.
 book of James the fifth chapter the 16th verse it says the prayer of a righteous man is powerful and effective it may be days or it may be years before his prayer is great but if the request is for the best interest of the supplicant God would grant his in the book of Romans the 12th chapter the 12th verse it says be patient in tribulation persevere in prayer
 I also want to say Happy Mother's Day to all the mothers and I wish you many more and God bless you and your family. I also want to tell Ms. Nora and other ladies in the legal department this for a long time. And I'm going to get it off my chest tonight. I don't like you, I love you and you can't do nothing about it. And happy birthday my good friends and I wish you many more. And God bless you and your family.
 birthday to Sarge who was in Vietnam with me and State's Attorney Joe Bacostowicz and I wish you many more and God bless you and I also want to thank God for the gentlest Evangelist Brandon and Pastor Albert and John Bradley and all the activists for marching for peace in Rockford. Thank God for them and their family. God take care of them. Happy birthday to you.
 you happy birthday to you happy birthday to my good friends happy birthday to you thank you for allowing me to speak mr john taft brantley i do not know how you top that but you are up
 This is true. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the women and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 25 says, fear peoples can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form. It can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust, liberate.
 Why fear peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust in him and his word. We are living in a world of white privilege, racism, and dictator Donald Trump. The power of the party, preachers, and committee men
 can't be underestimated. I hear people telling me that, Brother John Tack, you're going to lose sponsors if you weigh in on this debate. I have to tell them that I represent the peoples and I'm not a shutout. Therefore, tonight I wanted to talk about Mother's Day weekend, clean up the fairgrounds on Saturday with the Fathers Against Violence, with the renewal turning point. I also wanted to talk about next week,
 Thursday, the Mother's Day dinner that we have. But I must weigh in on why are they talking about changing the name of the Morgan Street Bridge to Officer Jamie Cox? Did we miss something like for the Integrity Task Force to not finish their investigation? For
 Officer Rice was killed in Rockford and the police department did not parade him all over town. Officer Rice went to school, lived and worked right here in Rockford. No disrespect to Officer Jamie Cox and his family, but history has it right. Officer Cox lived where? McChesney Park. Why not name the streets or bridge where he lived at and raised his family at?
 Thus, the Morgan Street Bridge was built in 1916, rehabilitated in 1960, replaced in 1920, 1913. Morgan Street is named for two early Rockford sellers, I can't say his name right, Mary and Morgan. They settled in 1837, came to the United States. In 1950, the Morgan family invested over $20,000 in Rockford, which would be $6,000,
 $613,074.47 today on the east bank of the river where College Avenue is. It makes more sense to add the name of the fallen Rockford police officer Jamie Cox to the 9-11 emergency response memorial just west of the Winnebago County Criminal Justice Center. The memorial features three statues of two police officers
 of firemen and steel from what was the World Trade Center in New York. The Memorial Gallery section which featured names of fallen response and date they died could and should be explained to include pictures and short
 biography of them. They are jumping the gun before the investigation is done and it's been over six months. Here are a few quotes from my Facebook family. Plus, I agree 100%. They are, they are exciting. Now it's time for us to stop pretending that all the community is together because we are not. However, the time is now for us to work together and we are going to help to make this city great again. Now, just this past weekend, most of you know that Rockford Police Department...
 Thank you. As usual. Okay, it works. Moving along under new committee reports is planning and development committee with Alderman Durkee. Thank you, your honor. We have six items. The first is the committee recommends approval of the development agreement between the city of Rockford and UEP Jefferson LLC for the redevelopment of 327 West Jefferson into a mixed units building. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 The committee recommends approval of a development agreement between the City of Rockford and UEP 301 LLC for the development of a new mixed use building at 301 South Main Street, formerly known as the Hanley Building. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Three, the committee recommends approval of a development agreement between the City of Rockford and UEP Investments. One, LLC for the redevelopment of 321 West State Street, a Talcott building, into a mixed-use residential commercial building. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Uh-oh. Sorry, Your Honor. I touched the wrong part of my touch screen.
 We're at number four. Yes, sir. The committee recommends approval of the ground lease agreement with Rockford Solar LLC, also known as Trajectory Energy, to develop and operate a solar farm on the city-owned Horseman Quarry property located at 1166 North Horseman Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the elements...
 uh also as part of rockford community partners proposed budget and organizational work plan the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and finally number six the committee recommends an amendment to the development agreement by and between the city of rockford and sugar jones incorporated the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 I plate these up for passage and your honor there is amendment that I'd like to make to the sugar. This would be Number six on the sugar Jones agreement. Yes, sir The amendment I'd like to propose would be under section 2 e and we'll read as follows in recognition of the contribution of tax increment to the project developer agrees that for a period of five years following the final payment by the city of
 Rockford by the city of Rockford reimbursed development costs. The developer shall continue to operate their commissary and bakery cafe at the subject property. The developer shall maintain the level of employment of six jobs for the same five year period at the subject property. Failure to operate at the subject property, maintain the level of employment or pay its food and beverage sales taxes.
 either voluntarily or due to court ruling, shall result in forfeiture of the city payments provided herein. And developer agrees to return said funds within 30 days of the city's demand, subject only to the default and cure provisions of this agreement. I'd like to place that amendment up. Thank you. So we have an amendment before us. Is there a motion and a second? Thank you.
 So we have an amendment and a second. All those in favor, or well, first, is there a discussion on the amendment? Seeing no, Alderman Frost. Your Honor, maybe someone can just discuss the amendment to their development agreement and what really it means and why we're having the amendment at this time. Mr. Cagnona. Mr. Cagnona.
 Thank you, Your Honor. So it's been a number of months since we discussed the item at Planning and Development Committee, how we're working through some details of the amended development agreement.
 But the city of Rockford had provided tax increment financing to the business for the establishment and expansion of their overall operations within Miracle Mile. A number of years ago, one of the provisions also required them to operate a retail store at the rural Oaks shopping center, which was an ice cream store that they had.
 Unfortunately, they were not as successful with the ice cream store as they anticipated and chose not to pursue that business. Understanding that there was the clause within the agreement that they needed to continue to operate at Rural Oaks, the nature of the amendment when it came to Planning and Development Committee was to remove that clause and maintain the employment at their East State Street location within Numerical Mile.
 In addition within the amendment is a clause to ensure that any taxes do Food and beverage taxes are also paid Through the life of the agreement. Thank you. Is there further discussion on that amendment alderman McNeely? Thank you. Mr. Mayor In response to the directors comment the last part of that statement that they would continue to pay sales and use tax
 They would do that no matter where and they would be. So is there something there that I'm missing? Is that additional or passed or? That is not an additional tax and you are correct. That is a tax that would be applicable whether we had a development agreement or not or whether they had another, you know, a location. Thank you.
 I'm Thompson Kelly. Could you clear up something for me? I isn't this the same Organization or company that have problems retaining the jobs that they had committed to as well. I could be have the wrong one Mr. Cagnone. Thank you your honor. So I
 Not a, no, there wasn't a problem with the retainment of positions or jobs. It was the change that required the amendment when it came to committee was related to closing the operation at the Royal Oak Shopping Center. Other questions or discussion on the amendment?
 Seeing no questions clerk. Will you please call the roll on the amendment to number six? turkey logan Toomer frost Herbie Irvin Thompson Kelly, hi Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones McNeely Shirely 13 eyes. I
 Thank you. The amendment passes. So we have six items before us. Is there a discussion on any of the six items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logman. Aye. Toomberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Urbans. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye.
 items one two three five twelve eyes one no items four and six thirteen eyes thank you all those items pass uh alderman shirely for code and regulation committee thank your honor the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of a no parking anytime restriction on the south side of jefferson street from third street to second street thus removing the unrestricted parking
 The second, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of a three hour parking restriction on both sides of Market Street from Madison Street to 160 feet west of Madison Street. Thus repealing the existing two hour parking on the north side of Market Street from Madison Street to 160 feet west of Madison Street. Did you get that Mayor? Yes. Have that under control. 160 feet.
 the third the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish traffic control at the intersection of north view road and west brook drive the fourth the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish traffic control at of westbrook drive yielding for harris road
 The fifth, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the two-hour parking restriction on the east side of 8th Street from Broadway to 125 feet north of Broadway, thus reestablishing unrestricted parking. The sixth, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation that no action be taken
 be taken for the following item, establishing an all-way stop at the intersection of Chelsea Avenue and Brendan Wood Road, thus repealing the existing traffic control of Brendan Wood Road stopping for Chelsea. The seventh, the committee recommends approving the right-of-way dedication platform south
 The right away dedication plat, South Main and Cedar. The eighth, the committee recommends approval of the plat number two of Israel of God's Church subdivision. The ninth, the committee recommends approval of the plat of easement, vacation, and dedication, UW Swedish American Hospital. The tenth, the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 1515 Valencia Drive, connection to sewer water at owner's request.
 the 11th the committee recommends approving an amendment to vacation ordinance 2016-73-0 for right-of-way on the south side of ford avenue adjacent to 2500 church street
 The 12th committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development Consisting of a contractor office building with single-family apartment in the lower level of a new 12,000 square feet attached garage warehouse
 or 1200 square feet apologize your honor the warehouse for the storage of trucks small construction equipment plumbing and irrigation component components and contractor storage yard for the storage of company trucks at 828 21st street and 8xx 22nd street number 13 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for an outside storage of mulch landscape landscaping materials and trucks
 a landscaping shop at 1138 Harrison Avenue number 14 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a variation to increase the maximum allowed fence height and the front yard along John Street from 4 feet to 6 feet at 1103 and 1105 North Church Street and
 Number 15, there's been a request, Your Honor, to refer that back to the Codes and Regs Committee this evening. If there isn't any objection to that, the Chair is referring that back to committee. Number 16, the committee recommends approval of the Nuisance Business Ordinance Amendment secondhand goods. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances for all those items, Your Honor. Thank you.
 So we have items 1 through 16 except for item 15 that's been referred back to committee Is there any discussions on items 1 through 14 or number 16 seeing no discussion or alderman? I apologize and I have to remember which one it was just a question I apologize. I lost it Looking it was the one where they were gonna have the large development of
 with a single family apartment in the garage truck storage this was one at 21st and 20th street i think that number 12 that you're talking about i think it could be the evergreen relocation
 Okay. Yeah, it's number 12. I guess my question is whether there's a condition that the rental would have to be either the owner of the business or a Manager I just questioned having a person living in something that's zoned that way. Mr Cagnone Thank You Your Honor. I I
 I don't believe that there's a condition of approval on that matter, but it was presented as part of the application in the special use permit. It is actually going to be a residence for the owner of the business. Right, I understood that. And I know sometimes where they have self storage places, there are apartments that are built into them because of the need for security and sometimes 24 hour access.
 But I don't know if it's just in if it is in Rockford, but most cities have a condition that the person who lives there has to either be the owner, the owner or an employee such as a manager. In other words, they can't just rent that out to to someone. It's not I guess I'll let it go for now. But I think it's something we need to keep a check on because those cities just talked about not having rent.
 people living in industrial areas So they didn't want to get that started as a zoning permissible zoning Exception just something to think about I guess so, okay. Thank you other questions or discussion items 1 through 14 or number 16 I I also did have Never mind. I never mind. I missed it. I'm sorry Any other further discussion? Oh?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. I have to abstain at number nine. Aye. The rest? Togeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No one. Irby. 14. I have to remain. Urbans. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. No one. Aye. And I remain. Is that no one number nine? Yes. Chiarelli. Aye. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13 ayes. Item number 9, 12 ayes, 1 no. Items 10, 11, 12, I'm sorry, item number 9 was 11 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Items 10, 11, 12, 13, 13 ayes. Item number 14, 10 ayes, 3 nos. And item 16 is 13 ayes. And you are impressive. Thank you.
 All items pass. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends the approval of vouchers in the amount of $6,817,590.59 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on April 23, 2018. Number two, the committee recommends approval of establishing permitted recreational fires in residential areas. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 number three the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the city of rockford and rockford township for 2018 residential resurfacing projects
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between City of Rockford Human Services and the Rockford Township to provide emergency rental funding. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement for consolidation of environmental lab services with Winnebago County Health Department. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number six.
 The committee recommends approval of the establishment of a private led service line replacement loan program. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance of the city of Rockford, Illinois, authorizing the city to execute a loan agreement and revolving note evidencing a general obligation of the city in a principal amount of $12 million for the purpose of a general line of credit with Associated Bank National Association. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number eight.
 The committee recommends approval of a request for exception to the fine reduction policy for the property standards find at 1303 15th Avenue from $2,275 to $1,000.
 Number nine the committee recommends approval of the proposed amendment to the city of Rockford residency policy To require new employees to live within the city of Rockford the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number ten is an amended natural gas utility tax ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I
 I place those in front of you. Thank you. So we have uh 10 items before us under finance and personnel. Is there any discussion or questions? on items one through ten alderman beach Thank your honor on number seven. Is that a renewal of the line of credit? Uh that I'll let director ecklund
 Since we switched our banking services from PNC to Associated with the comprehensive RFP we completed earlier this year, this is just shifting that line of credit from PNC to Associated. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thank you. With regard to number two, I guess I would just ask the fire chief to weigh in on the proposed recreational fire ordinance. Chief Berkson.
 Sure. Do you have a particular question or? Well, I mean, I guess one of my concerns is if we go through and allow this ordinance to go forward, is what type of, is there going to be an increased number of calls relating to actually now having this with respect to, I mean, do you think,
 it's going to lead to other fires besides the Quote-unquote backyard grill type fire pit that people buy it at the stores that I guess now they may be quote-unquote try to use for cooking But if this ordinance goes through what what what ramifications you see, you know for tying up your space. So two questions one if You'll have increased number of calls and two if he's concerned about the
 Increase fires is that right? Yes chief Bergson sure So the first one we're pretty much guaranteed is gonna be the increased calls for service just because of the how aggressive we've been in The last eight years that we write NTAs for any type of open burning There's a lot of people that gain the system when we respond they'll bring out food marshmallows or hot dogs They're cooking to allow the open burning. I
 There will be a demand for service because being in an urban, densely populated area, there's going to be a lot of neighbors that are going to be complaining because the hours are from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., whether it's a nice night out, they have respiratory issues, health issues. As far as mitigating that process, there's language built in the ordinance. You have to have two separate neighbors make a complaint for that permit to be revoked. It is good for a year, so it's going to be a lot of extra workload for our staff.
 To respond to those calls, track them, then follow up with the permit process, work with legal and code enforcement.
 As far as the danger, we have that now with people that are illegally burning, open burning. The big thing is just for, I think for police and fire that we need to be cognizant of when this opens up. Because most people that have recreational fires are typically consuming alcoholic beverages, which that tends to lead to more calls for service for the police department. Just for us to track those types of calls and see what the impacts of those are on the response for police and fire.
 Okay, so we have a host. We're just going to move right around alderman Hervey. Yes In regard in line with what chief burton is saying. We already have people gaming the system to an untenable degree I've got people who have in their driveway one of the kind of the little square Weber grills that are just piled up and down with branches and
 And they try to use that to say, oh, we're cooking, got some hot dogs, got something, and they're basically burning yard brush. With no regard for the number of children who are asthmatic or have respiratory problems has increased tenfold, more than that probably, since I was a youth. I understand people's desire to.
 to have, you know, a nice fire in the autumn or something. But in urban areas, burning of any kind poses an extreme risk to other people because of those respiratory difficulties. In addition to that, I've had embers flying across my yard. My house is a 118-year-old tinderbox. I'm glad Station 3 is so close, but I'm not sure they could even get there in time.
 I just believe that open burning and recreational fires in urban areas are just asking for problems. Our folks are overloaded now between fire and police. We're asking fire to do more with fire.
 I can't remember the name of the program. My brain's not working real good here. But to help people who have chronic illnesses, some of those kinds of things. More proactive services. Now we're going to add one more thing that we already know causes a problem. I can't support it, and I would hope that we would impose a significant fine that goes on people's water bills if they violate the policy. Thank you.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelly, did you? I just wanted to say that. What education are we going to give to the community if this policy goes into effect? Because for years it took us to convince a lot of residents for open burning, with the county going back and forth with their open burning. So what type of education are you going to have to the community if this ordinance is changing?
 Chief Berkson? As far as the fire department, we've kind of came up with some template of what that would be as far as how it would go about the permit process. And really we need to hone in. And I must say that the legal department did a tremendous amount of work working with our fire investigators on developing the ordinance. But the big thing is to really...
 explain what a legal fire is, what the ramifications go with it, what the requirements are, the seasoned dried wood, how many feet from a structure. You need to have a water supply to extinguish a fire. Just a lot of that basic common sense. And, you know, that's going to be where a lot of our effort is going to be directed. It's more on the prevention side and educational component, especially because only the owner of the property can get a burn permit, can't be a tenant.
 So when they come in to get it, we're going to have them required to sit down and go over the basic parameters, go along with that before the permit is issued to them. Thank you. Alderman Beach or Alderman Rose, someone had a hand up. Alderman Beach? No? Okay. Alderman Toonberg? Thank you, Mayor. I just want to mention that homes are now, if you've ever watched those HGTV shows, like my wife seems to watch every time they're on, that homes now...
 people homeowners are sometimes building their Backyards or their patios as an extension to their homes Is an extension of their indoors parts of their homes. I should say so I think we Are seeing an increase of these outdoor Fireplaces and such I have a question for the chief in that maybe I didn't read it thoroughly enough to catch the answer and
 I'm looking at the cost savings involved if a individual has a permit and a neighbor calls on that individual, are they going to be able to see that there is a permit for that address to prevent a hook and ladder and other equipment necessary to come out and check that property?
 chief berkson so as of right now we will not have that so if we get an open burning complaint we will respond we're gonna have to find out how to integrate that into our cad software and a lot of the calls that we do get is the house next to mine or the house behind so they don't give us an exact address so we'll still have to go out and investigate it with the fire apparatus and then part of the code is that they have to have the permit on them at the time so they can't say well i can't find it if they don't have it the fire gets extinguished
 So they have to have a present with them when we arrive on scene any further discussion on any of the ten items before Seeing alderman Hoffman with the rules as they're stated. Are there really that many? inner-city
 Homes that will qualify for this open burning based on the fact that the fire must be so many feet from a structure and Many of our inner-city homes have their garages set back and will people understand that? I'm just wondering how many people this will really affect that will bring backyard burning to in the inner city. I
 That includes my neighborhood. I'm an interstate. I don't know if we have a number for you of how many people qualify or do not qualify. Because I think that's going to be something that's very important that people understand. If you've got your garage set back, then you have to count that when you're figuring out where your fireplace is. I just see a lot of fines coming up.
 Understood. Alderman Frost? The way I read the ordinance is it strictly is an ordinance that allows residents to get a permit for a recreational fire, correct? That's the way I understand it. And I mean, I guess maybe I don't know the definition, maybe it's not in the ordinance about what defines a recreational fire, but when I think of that, I only think of a fire pit, for lack of a better word. Is that fair to say?
 Chief Bergson. So, Alderman Frost, for a recreational fire, it can be, it has to be seasoned dry wood, charcoal or propane or natural gas, no larger than two feet high and three feet in diameter. It can be of a constructed material or it can be in the ground. So, it could be, you know, you could take, dig a hole, have bricks around it that meet those qualifications. That could be qualifying for a recreational fire. Okay.
 does that answer your question yeah i mean i mean folks are just talking about like people open burning or burning uh their their yard waste or burning you know uh i guess plywood or wood laying around their house that that that's still prohibited under the ordinance
 I guess I would just offer a friendly amendment because it allows it to take place between 7 AM and 11 PM at night. And the way I've always been to a party, and I guess I've been to some parties illegally in Rockford where they've had these already, the recreational fires, but there's no reason for someone to start one of these. And it wasn't at Chief Berks' house, I can attest to that.
 But I mean, there's no reason to do it in the morning or noon time. It makes no sense at all for someone to have a recreational fire pit and be burning it during daylight hours. So I mean, and maybe that would obviously reduce the calls to the fire department because if they get a call at noon that there's a fire, maybe it'll be an open fire.
 or I guess an illegal fire. So I would just suggest that if we want to, for purposes of the fall time year-round, even if we were to say only allow this to take place between 5 p.m. and 11 p.m. is a friendly amendment to the time, that may alleviate some of the burdens on the fire department sending out
 Um, so we, we have an amendment on the floor, uh, to adjust the times, uh, as opposed to having the time 7 0 AM to 11 PM. They will now, uh, be, or the proposed amendment is 5 PM to 11 PM. Uh, is there a second to that proposed amendment? We have a second, uh, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed.
 You want people to burn any time they want. Some did not vote, so we will have a roll call vote. Who the fuck's gonna- Durkee. No. Roggeman. Aye. Toonberg. No. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. No. I want someone to have a fire hand down. Thompson-Kelley. It's dark. Kaufman. No. No, I did, because that covers year round. It's all time, it's dark out. Rose. No. Who lights a fire at 3 o'clock to watch a movie? Beach.
 Quinones? That's why I said it's all black. That, I'm sorry, McNeely? Shirely? Six ayes, seven noes. Okay, that fails. Any discussion on the ten items that are before us this evening? White. Saying no further discussion, clerk, would you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost?
 All 10 items are before you, Alderman Irving. No on number 2. Irving. Irving. No on number 2. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. No on 2 items. Beach. Aye. Quinones. McNeely. On 2 items. Chiarelli. Aye. Item number 1, 13 ayes. Item number 2,
 6 ayes, 7 noes. Item 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 13 ayes. Item number 10, 12 ayes, 1 noe. So item 2 fails and all the other items pass. Excellent. Moving ahead, we have legislative and lobbying.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Yes. The Committee of Legislative and Lobby would like the approval of the agreement for lobbying services for the year 2018 for Bavarian Woods Consulting LLC in the amount of $10,000 per month. I place this up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on the item before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Aye.
 Herbie? Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 12 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. The item passes. Next up we have officers' reports. Just a couple of quick comments. One is this weekend the city of Rockford had the opportunity to host the Lincoln Academy of Illinois' invocation ceremonies.
 For those who had the opportunity to attend, I saw a couple of pretty wonderful things. One is our public works team, in conjunction with our police department, did a phenomenal job with the intake and outtake of people coming in and out of a number of facilities downtown. So a big thank you to public works and police department.
 A huge thank you to our own General Borling for the amount of time and energy he put forth into this event to bring it to Rockford for the first time in over 40 years.
 and a special recognition to two of our very own, Dave Rydell and Emily Baer, who are the newest laureates. And I believe Emily Baer is the youngest laureate in the history of this honor and recognition. And I would just say, if you,
 Don't know if they did tape there both of these individual speeches, but both were phenomenal and most well-deserving No offense to Dave Rydell, but I would say Emily bear probably Brought the house down with not only her speech, but also later on her first world premiere of her symphony that she did which was it was
 I'm not the biggest attendee of symphonies, but it was one of the most wonderful things you could ever imagine, seeing an amazing 16-year-old from Rockford up on stage just doing a phenomenal job.
 Second item was just yesterday, City of Rockford was highlighted on 60 minutes. Wanna give a special in regards to the lawsuit that many of you helped support and put forward against Mallinckrodt and the drug ACTAR.
 A special thank you to, I thought, former Mayor Larry Morris. He did a wonderful job on 60 Minutes. And a special thank you to two people in the audience today, Casey Bronze and Ryan Bronze, from Rockford Brokerage Consulting for the amount of time and energy they put in to really actually doing the research behind the project. So a big thank you to both of you and your firm for that work. With that, I will turn it over to Alderman for any officers' reports. Thank you.
 alderman herbert thank you your honor first i just wanted to say thank you um to all of my city council members um fifth ward people and then just people across the city for just being very patient and supportive during the time i've been out i'm not actually totally back yet i'm cheating a little bit um but i want i just can't
 I just couldn't keep missing city council meetings. Not that I miss you all, but just, you know, it's just a thing, you don't miss your council meetings, but especially the fifth ward residents. And just because I didn't take up your offers of help, it doesn't mean that they didn't really help
 just knowing that people were there and offering to help meant a great deal. I don't want to get into too much detail, but so many people have been calling and asking. I do feel like I have to just give a little bit of an update. It was not the scary, deadly cancer that we were worried about, so I have to thank God for that among you.
 some incredibly talented people at the University of Chicago but it was the other pesky little rascal that just won't go away and that one I'm not worried about it's been here since 2010 the same thing applies you leave me alone I leave you alone and I think we'll be doing that for another 20 years so thanks to everybody but no cause for concern so thank you
 it's good and then there was one other item too i already mentioned judge yarborough but i wanted to thank natavius irvins um ann thompson kelly uh they're probably other people but natavia stood in for me yesterday there were about five events and i knew if i went to one and not you
 another, I was going to be in trouble. So I didn't want to lose all the support and help I got. So, uh, Natavious was a doll and I'm right in the city's proclamation. And by the way, I forgot to mention that the display of judge Yarbrough's life and some of his accomplishments will be at the ethnic heritage museum two to four every Sunday, I believe through August.
 through August. So you can still go down and see it. If you haven't been to the Ethnic Heritage Museum, no matter what your ethnicity, you heard him talking about the St. Ambrosio Club today. All of the Italian social clubs were in Southwest Rockford, and some of the buildings are still there, but none is as beautiful as St. Ambrosio. And if you've not ever seen to, been to St. Anthony of Padua, you have to go and see that building. You talk about
 architectural significance in history um i think it's the most architecturally significant building in the city of rockford but i'm biased so and if you get a chance to go and see san ambrosio same thing uh it's a great place they still play is it bocce or bocce
 Bochy? Bochy, I think it's every Thursday. I mean, it's just nice to drive down the street and see people out there playing. So thank you to all the Italians who settled southwest Rockford. The brick homes that were built are still there and it's beautiful, and we need to retain those. That's another story. But thanks to the Italians who did settle southwest Rockford and brought us some of the
 really great culture that we have. It meant a lot to me growing up, to grow up with that culture. Yes, we learned how to curse first, but after that, you know, a lot of great things, but I think that's all kids when they learn a language. So thank you. Wonderful. Alderman Toonberg. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. I think you described Saturday night phenomenally. It was a great event. It was good seeing you there, Mayor, as well. I think most of the men were dressed by Joe Chiarelli, our alderman over there. Everyone looked great. But I want to thank you also, Mayor, for pointing that out. Many people were at that event.
 the many people that were at that event were from out of town i was able to talk to a few of them and they showcasing the coronado the way it was showcased uh was just beautiful and you know hats off to all the organizers of the event a few of them live in the third ward and even uh you know people that have got the award but um
 But to Friends of the Coronado and Rave also for all the work they do on that Coronado Theater. It's just beautiful, and it was great to showcase it as part of Rockford on Saturday night. I'd like to thank also Alderman Hervey on recognizing Judge Yarbrough. He is one of the most selfless individuals that I've met.
 in my lifetime and It's just been a blessing since moving back a few short years ago to get to know him pretty well And that's through the biking community and thank you for everyone's support on bike bike to or the bike month national bike month and and Rockford supporting it as well. Thank you
 thank you alderman ervin yes thank you your honor i just want to say uh again thank you to venita and yourself for allowing me the opportunity to present uh the proclamation to to the judge and uh you know as a young african-american being in the position i am i'm truly inspired and uh so the next thing i want to say is uh a
 Adopt-a-block or the fatherhood encouragement program is coming to the sixth ward. This Saturday we'll be cleaning up around Orton Keys and Brook Road. We'll be starting at 9 until noon and after that we'll be having a block party.
 I invite all of you guys to come out. I was a part of the first one. I saw Tom Neils there and we had a great time. And I guess another thing I wanna say, a while back I was promoting the kickball party for May 26th. Unfortunately, we're gonna push that back to September 1st is our date. Everybody told me that the 26th of May is a bad day. So I will be having a block party though.
 If it's approved by the council here. But that was all. Thank you. No pressure. Alderman Rose. I've been getting a lot of calls on the shirts. I'm going to continue to work with the city about what we can do to get another store out there. But I also wanted to share the importance of supporting small.
 It's a great time to be able to have some great family businesses along Main Street, West 8, Didier, Village Green. If you're doing some lawn work, it means a lot more to them to go there to purchase some of your plants and support locally owned family businesses and the big box stores.
 they're going to make their millions but to ensure that we keep those businesses here in town continue to support them the other big item is that the ice hogs are in the playoffs and you know that that's our team get a chance to get tickets that i know that they're available thank you alderman beach well i was really sorry that i could not attend the event on friday evening
 On one hand, on the other hand, my wife and I and a mother and father got to see our granddaughter walk across the stage at Southeastern College graduating with honors, and we were happy to be down there. And we're just praying that she comes back to Rockford.
 uh we just uh would like to have her here and i don't know how that works out but probably won't for now but i just wanted to say congratulations to you chelsea rose we're proud of you thank you so much wonderful alderman tumor did you have one more item thank you alderman rose for mentioning the hogs that yes uh they are in the playoffs and uh they are undefeated so far in the playoffs they're setting some records
 And seven o'clock Wednesday and seven o'clock Friday so Tickets left but boy are they fun to watch and hopefully we're going all the way. Thank you Any other officers reports seeing that we'll move forward the appointments laid over is still laid over until after May 16th at this time
 Alderman Shirely looks like he is eager to bring an announcement forward. Thank you, Your Honor. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters and labor negotiation matters. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely. Twelve ayes, one no.
 Thank you. We will recess into. Logaman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Hervey. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Rose. Beach. Here. Quinones. McNeely. Shirely. Here. 12 present. Okay, so we still have a quorum.
 Maybe only lost one person in that mix. I failed to mention something earlier, and I apologize. We do have slow down kids matter signs, as I emailed all of you, in that break room. Please take them to help aid in reducing speed in our neighborhoods. I don't know the full back history, but I do know that there was a competition with our area high school.
 Area schools I'll say and I believe the competition was won last year by I believe a group of Auburn students To help design that so they're neat signs, but need to get them out in the street. So they make a difference We are moving forward under motions and resolutions. We don't have anything under planning and development But we do have five items underneath codes and regulations all their Mitch rally. I
 the settlement of Tory Turner versus the City of Rockford in the amount of $110,000 I place those items up for passage your honor thank you Alderman Shirely so we have five items before us is there any discussion on the five items before us seeing no discussion clerk will you please call the roll Durkee Logan man Toonberg Frost Herbie Irvin Thompson Kelly Hoffman
 Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? Shirely? 13-9. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost.
 Number one is an award of bid for concrete materials 2018 to point ready mix of McHenry, Illinois based on unit pricing with an estimated annual value of $130,000. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is water and street division operating budget. Number two is an award of bid for weatherization appliance replacement to outrace appliance of Rockford for refrigerators, approximately 33 units, freezers, approximately 20 units, gas ranges, approximately nine units.
 Prices are as follows, 579 and 749 for the refrigerators, the freezers 169 and 699, and the gas ranges 449 and 549. The contract duration is one year with one year extension. The funding sources, Department of Commerce, Economic Opportunity, Federal and State grant funds. Number three is an award of
 RFP for ISO fire hydrant flow and field testing to M.E. Simpson Company of Valparaiso, Indiana, for an amount based on unit pricing of $48.75 per hydrant for an estimated contract value of approximately $48,750. The contract duration is one year. The funding source is fire department and water department operating budgets.
 Number four is an award of RFP for temporary staffing services to the workplace of Rockford for an hourly billed rates with a multiplier for clerical and program aids. The multiplier is 1.41, technical is 1.45, and direct hires are 12% of the estimated first year compensation. The contract duration is three years with two one year extensions. The funding source is the various departmental budgets.
 Number five, an award for professional services for water loss control program 2018 to Emmy Simpson of Valparaiso, Indiana for a contract amount of $76,935. The contract duration is 12 months. The funding source is the water fund. Number five is change order.
 consulting to Rockford Consulting and Brokerage in the amount of $136,146 and Data Warehouse Management Services in the amount of $75,000. The contract duration is one year with two single year renewals. The funding source is the health insurance fund.
 And number seven is an award of Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board's camera grant in the amount of $200,000 to equip vehicles or vehicles with cameras. The grant must be approved and accepted within 45 days of the award date or by June 15, 2018. Thank you. So there's a request to separate four, so we'll take items one through three, five, six, and seven first.
 Or one second, Alderman Trellis. Yeah, I move to lay item number four over this evening. Items laid over. So now we will take items one through seven without number four as it's been laid over. Is there any discussion or questions? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose.
 Beach Kenosha's McNeely Shirely 12 eyes those items passed next up. We have plenty and phone alderman Durkee. Thank your honor there are six items up for passage under a Roman numeral 9 a number one in ordinance approving development agreement between the city of Rockford and UEP Jefferson LLC for the redevelopment of 327 West Jefferson into a mixed-use building and
 The number two, an ordinance approving the development agreement between the City of Rockford and UEP 301 LLC for the development of a new mixed-use building at 301 South Main Street.
 Number three, an ordinance approving the development agreement between the City of Rockford and UEP Investments 1 LLC for the redevelopment of 321 West State Street into a mixed-use residential commercial building. Number four, an ordinance providing a ground lease agreement.
 With Rockford solar, LLC, so known as trajectory energy to develop and operate a solar farm on city on. Horseman quarry property located at 1166 North horseman street. Number 5, an ordinance approving the elements, Rockford community partners, proposed budget and organizational work plan.
 and finally number six approving the amendment to the development agreement by and between the city of rockford and sugar jones incorporated to place these six items up for passage
 Thank you. So we have six items before us. Is there any discussion or questions? Alderman Hervey. Just one item with regard to the solar, Rockford Solar LLC, to develop the solar farm at the Horseman Quarry. There was something in the news recently about funds that are required sometimes when these solar farms, if they go belly up or bust or something. And I...
 I not for this one because I think this one's too far along but for future agreements You know, we were left with a lot of rust belt buildings Barbara Coleman among them When when people leave and there's just no money for environmental cleanup or demolition These solar farms carry a pretty big risk because you can't just let them sit there so I think we should have in a future agreement that they have some kind of a
 Fund that would cover the cost of deconstruction We've got it built in that if we have to pay for it and do it they have to reimburse us, but if they go bankrupt or Something of that sort so I think with each month that we lease there should be some amount of money that's put into a fund with the city or with some kind of holding fund to make sure that we can pay for that cleanup in the event of
 They can't survive so good point alderman Thompson Kelly in regards to that. We have had conversations with the developer I guess and Community development about at that very thing this evening And we will be contacting legal to go over because we have a paragraph that is quite lengthy in just that other comments questions discussion I
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Shirley. Items 1, 2, 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 4, 12 ayes. Item 5, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 6, 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items passed.
 Next up we have codes and regulations. Alderman Shreller. Thank you. Your honor. Roman. Numero 9 B. 1 is an ordinance established in no parking. Any time restriction. On the South side of Jefferson Jefferson street from 3rd street to 2nd street. Thus, removing the restricted parking. The 2nd is an ordinance established in a 3 hour parking restriction on both sides of market street from Madison street to 160.
 Feet West of Madison street, thus repealing the existing 2 hour parking. On the North side of market street for Madison street to 160 feet West of Madison street. An ordinance establishing traffic control at the intersection of North view road and Westbrook drive.
 the fourth is an ordinance establishing traffic control at westbrook drive yielding for harris road the fifth is an ordinance repealing the two-hour parking restriction on the east side of eighth street from broadway to 125 feet north of broadway thus re-establishing the unrestricted parking the sixth is an ordinance approving the annexation of 15 15 valencia drive the seventh is an ordinance approving the amendment to a vacation
 for the right of way on the south side of Ford Avenue adjacent to 2500 Church Street. The eighth is an ordinance approving a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of contractors office buildings with a single family apartment and lower level and a new 1200 square foot attached garage, warehouse for storage trucks, small construction equipment, plumbing, irrigation components and contractor storage for the storage of company trucks.
 at 828 21st Street and 8XX 22nd Street. The ninth is an ordinance approving the special use permit for outside storage of mulch landscaping materials and trucks for a landscaping shop at 1138 Harrison Avenue. The tenth is an ordinance approving the variation to increase the maximum allow fence height and front yard. What was that? No. That failed, correct, that committee? The fires? Yes. Number 10? No.
 That failed that committee so I do not read that one incorrect. Yes, it did I thought it did fail did win by one or fail by one Past seven six the past seven said yes, sir Okay So I don't know pretend is an ordinance approving a variation to creates the maximum allow fence site in the front yard along John Street from four feet to six feet and
 at 1103 and 1105 North Church Street. Number 11 was referred back to the Codes and Rights Committee. Number 12 is an ordinance approving the nuisance business ordinance amendment secondhand goods. Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have 12 items before us. Is there a discussion on any of the 12 items before us? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye.
 Herbie, Thompson, Kelly, Hoffman, Alderman Frost, Alderman Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli, items two, I'm sorry, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 12 ayes, item number 10, six ayes, six nos, and then number 11 was held out, and item number 12 is 12 ayes.
 So you'll have to vote on no. So the vote now is 6 ayes, 7 noes. And needed. You needed 7 to pass. It was 14 to 3 out of 14. Excellent. So all the items passed. Repeat that up. You needed 8 for the ordinance, correct? Okay. So that item fails. All right. Next up, we have Alderman Frost for Finance and Personnel. Thank you.
 We'll start with number two, an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Township for 2018 residential resurfacing projects. Number three is an ordinance approving the intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services and the Rockford Township to provide emergency rental funding. Number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement for consolidation of environmental lab services with Winnebago County Health Department. Number five is an ordinance establishing a private led service line replacement loan program.
 Number six is an ordinance of the City of Rockford authorizing the City to execute a loan agreement in revolving note, evidencing a general obligation of the City in the principal amount of $12 million for the purposes of a general line of credit with the associated bank. Number seven is an ordinance approving the amendment to the City of Rockford's residency policy to require new employees to live within the City of Rockford. And number eight is an ordinance amending the natural gas utility tax ordinance.
 Thank you. So we have eight, well, seven items in front of us, correct? Correct, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of the seven items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12 ayes. Item number 8, 11 ayes, 1 no. Wonderful. They all pass. Next up, we have legislative and lobbying. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. An ordinance approving the agreement for lobbying services for 2018 to McGuire & Woods Consulting LLC for the amount of $10,000 per month. I place this up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on this item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? No.
 Durkee, Logan, Greenberg, Frost, Irving, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, McNeely, Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. That item passes. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and a second. All in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night.