Let us pray. God of all people, tend to the needs of your children. Guide the work of this council and all who seek to lead the city of Rockford with grace and hope. Comfort all who mourn the loss of Alderwoman Linda McNeely. Inspire your servants to lead by her example as they advocate for the people and work tirelessly to create a bright future for all our citizens. In your divine name we pray. Amen. Please do the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands, indivisible, with the aim of justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Here. Logerman. Here. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Prunty. Wilkins. Here. Barrios. Here. Meeks. Bonnie. Ten present. Thank you. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on March 27th, 2023? So moved. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Thank you. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on April 24th, 2023? So moved. Thank you. we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor please say aye those opposed okay next up we will move to proclamations And before I do that, I just want to make all council members aware there is a document on your desk that outlines this next cycles This next year's worth of City Council committee appointments Should be on your desk and on the back side of it will be board and commission appointments for you We do have one proclamation this evening and So this evening we are fortunate, the proclamation is for Jewish American Heritage Month, and we have Julie Reeder, Fort Combat Anti-Semitism Movement, Sherry Dreyfus, President of the Jewish Federation, Rabbi Wayne, and Goldie Bukarski with us today. And if you'd like to come forward. We're going to stand right here. Yes, Sherry, come to me. Whereas Jewish immigrants to America ever since the first arrival in the 16th century have played a central role in the creation, growth, freedom, prosperity, and strength of our country. And whereas through core Jewish beliefs, such as the creation of man in the image of God, the infinite value of every human life, the need for a weekly Sabbath, and the importance of education in the lives of children, the Jewish community has helped to define America's character and values. And whereas, following the rebirth of Zionism and the miraculous return of the Jewish people to the Jewish homeland, the United States was the first country in the world to recognize the State of Israel in 1948. And whereas the State of Israel is now celebrating the 75th anniversary of its modern founding and its emergence over the last few decades as a beacon of freedom and prosperity and a world leader in technology, agriculture, water conservation, medicine, and all manner of innovations. And whereas for 42 years, every president of the United States has declared a period of time for celebrating the contributions to our country of the Jewish community's history. heritage and culture. And since 2006, the month of May has been presidentially declared to be Jewish American Heritage Month. Now, therefore, I, Thomas B. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2023 to be Jewish American Heritage Month. Would you like to share a few words with us? I was not aware I was going to say a few words. Thank you very much, Mayor, and to all the city. We really appreciate this week. We appreciate Rockford all year long, and we appreciate really the city's care and attention and love of our tiny Jewish community here in Rockford. We feel grateful. Really like we belong and that we are a true part of Rockford and we love Rockford and are very glad to be a part Of the community and thank you very much for acknowledging this Thank you at this time I recognize legal director Nicholas Myers My understanding the mayor has got to leave early tonight So we need a motion to appoint Alderman Frost as the mayor pro tem this evening Motion is second all those in favor say aye aye Any opposed say nay. Motion passes. All right, we've completed the prayer pledge proclamation. We're going to move on to petitions and communications from Planning and Development Committee Alderman Meeks. Saunders, Public Works Director. Regarding an application and acceptance of fiscal year 23 community project funding for Think Big grant award for $1 million, refer to Planning and Development Committee. Item 2 is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, City Traffic Engineer, regarding an application for Bloomberg Asphalt Art Initiative Grant. That, too, is referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item 3 is a memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding a proposed TIF development agreement with Crusader Clinic for the acquisition and demolition of 1327th Street. This is also referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Moving on to code and regulation Alderman Trina the code and regulation committee We have one item the traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on May 10th 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 22nd 2023 referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you. And lastly finance the personnel alderman to bird I We have one item, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the release of liens on certain Winnebago County trustee parcels referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Next we have public speakers. I will have a three-minute timer. When the chime goes off, you need to – that's the end of your speech. We have, I believe, four public speakers. First we have Flossie Horty. Good evening to this body. I first would just like to take a few minutes to just remain silent in honor of Altamon Linda McNeely who served the west side of Rockford 26 years I think. She was a dedicated Altamon. She often shared with me some of the struggles she faced as an altar person of the 13th ward, but she always assured me that she was not afraid of anyone because God was her leader. So out of respect for her. Today I'm gonna speak on what I would title, if I was preaching, the justice of God. It will prevail. And why am I saying that? For years I have advocated for the west side of Rockford to invest money in programs for our youth that live on the west side, especially the ones that live out by the Concord area, housing development, which has been renamed. And no one has really, thought of anything that they could really support in putting up buildings or a program for our young people. But I read in the paper this week where the Avon Council planned for a new preschool on Avon Street and the lady, I think her name is Ms. Lewis, suggested it should be a nature environment. but she wanted to locate it behind, in front of the railroad tracks, where a creek runs, where factories are, and where the police department is located. But she wanted to call it a nature school. And then I read in the paper where there has been a proposal to do a bike path on Walnut Street. Along with that, you want to do a dock, a riverboat dock, right behind Morrissey Embassy. on the bank of Rock River. Then you want to invest money in the old Barbara Coleman building to re-veterate it. And what I'm saying is this, you can only go so far and stay so long when the hand of God's going to move. It moved for the children in Egypt when Pharaoh had them in captivity. Pharaoh and his army got drowned in the Red Sea. It moved when Moses came and warned the people if you, not Moses, Noah, came and warned the people if you don't turn and repent, you, along with your families, will be destroyed. And I stand before you today to say this, and I declare this. Rockford will not get away with the injustice perpetrated on the west side of Rockford. Time is coming, and God will be the ultimate judge. And I believe that. I stand on that. Because there's no way in the world you can tell me that you can look at the west side of Rockford, pass Avon all the way up, and say that citizens are getting their fair share of the tax dollars in this city, especially African-American people that live on the west side of Rockford, along with other ethnicity groups. Thank you. Thank you very much. Next, we have Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the first chapter, the eighth verse, it says, Listen, my son, to your father's instruction, and do not forsake your mother's teaching. They will be a garland to brace your head and a change to adorn your neck. What I'm going to speak about tonight, a poem about mothers. Every day is Mother's Day. She arrives early and returns late. She cooks clean, washes and iron. If something is lost, she tries to find. She's a doctor, nurse, and lawyer too. A referee if she has to be. She's a banker, secretary, counselor, and teacher too. Yes, mother, I'm speaking of you. She's a shoulder to lean on. A tear wiper too. She often cries along with you. She's a free ride to take you wherever you need to go. School, parties, malls, or friends, house, Bible study, or to the movie show. She's not through yet. She's a reminder of homework that's not done yet. She senses when you need to get something off your chest. She listens and tries to be precise, trying not to repeat herself twice. She's a beautician, a barber too. She curls hair and trims it too, so that you don't have to. Again, mother, I'm talking about you. Giving to others so unselfishly, never thinking about her own needs. That is a mother, and I thank God for all the mothers in the world. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next we have John Tack Brantley. I'm going back to Proverbs, highlights several benefits of keeping quiet. One, best policy if you have nothing worthwhile to say. Two, it allows you the opportunity to listen and learn. Three, it gives you something in common with those who are wiser. Make sure to pause to think and listen so that when you do speak, you will have something very important to say. We are in the midst of World War III. A news report from the National Urban League is citing what the Civil Rights and Urban Advocates Group say are some of the top threats to democracy for black Americans. Washington has strong views adopted by some local, state, and federal political leaders who try to limit what history can be taught in school and seek to undermine how black officials perform their jobs among the top threats to democracy. threat to democracy for black America, the National Everly's say, Mark, the former New Orleans mayor who leads the Civil Rights and Urban Advocate Organization, cite the most recent example, the vote this month by the Republican-controlled Tennessee House to oust two black representatives for violating a legislation rule. The pair had participated in a gun control protest inside the chamber after the shooting that killed three students and three staff members at Nashville School. We have censored and black history suppression. And now this, said Moore in an interview, is another piece of fruit of the same poison tree. The effort to suppress and contain both Tennessee lawmakers was futile. quickly reinstated by leaders in their district and went back and worked in the House and at the Uproar just spread it well beyond the state. The Urban League Annual State of Black America Report released sadly draw on the date, survey, and from a numerous organization, including the UCLA Law School, the Southern Poverty Law Center, and anti-discriminatory lead, the collection finds that reveal and increase the recent years in hate crime. The effort to change classroom curriculum, attempt to make voters more difficult and extreme views before beginning a normal politician, the government, and the military and in the law enforcement thanks to Donald Trump. Critical race theory and systematic racism is alive and well. This country is so deeply divided, we have a demigod wannabe dictator, Donald Trump, who was able to bring all the racist organizations under one umbrella. Just this past week, Rock Valley College critical race theory speaker, Dr. Tim Wise, was one of the speakers. He did a fantastic job of explaining what CRT actually means and how it affects us, especially our children who must prepare to be this world in the near future. Everything that he talked about, I've been talking about for years. Why is it okay when other ethnic groups, mainly Caucasians, get paid to talk about systematic racism, critical racism? It's okay. However, when African Americans talk about racism, we are found upon and closed ears. This Thursday, they have an event about eliminating racism, but none of us is at the board. Thank you. Next, we have Ken Dickens. Good evening. I saw the man in the hallways, so I will acknowledge his position as well as every alderman and every. When in your respective places, I will use my entire time this evening just to speak briefly to you all again, because I don't think I presented this to any of the alderman, but I've already discussed this with the mayor. I've also spoken with. Kim Adam Backey from the Rock River Valley Food Pantry I've also spoke with Leslie for risco who is the president of the Greater Rockford Pantry Coalition I was made aware that the mayor does have an initiative the mayor hunger campaign in regards to the food desert issue in Rockford Rockford has three major food deserts cited we are also at six point eight percent in regards to the national average so we are above the national average in regards to this issue so it's a very serious issue it's not an opinion it's a fact um what i bring before you all is it is not the answer to the solution but in addition to what i am um are presenting are basically vending machines a specific type of vending machine that would hold and provide um items that people would typically get at food pantries in boxes but speaking with uh miss adam bakke I was basically brought, what was brought to my attention was actually alarming when she just spoke candidly. She said the largest demographic that we turn away, she didn't say that we partially provide for. She said we turn away our males, single men without children who are not on drugs. And I said, so basically you're saying the men that live in tents in the woods. She said, yes. I said, so you're talking about the men that live in their cars and wash up in the gyms. They have a gym membership so they can wash up, live in their car because they were evicted. Now they have to get three to five months rent and a deposit to get another apartment. You're talking about men that are trying to stand on their own two feet. She said, absolutely. We turn them away. So my provision. is to provide an outlet so that these people are not invisible. It's not just men. There are women that also fall in this demographic. So what I'm spearheading And I'm just announcing this before the alderman, because I know at the moment, temporarily, you have halted the regrow grant. But I'm telling you now, I am moving forward with the $150,000 twice because of the need. It's way greater than that. I'll also be reaching out to government Pritzker to eventually make this a statewide project. Chicago is losing four Walmarts. That's devastating to those that need groceries. the clothing that Walmart provides and the pharmacy. For each one of those Walmarts, those people are losing three aspects of their community. Three aspects of their community are wiped away. So this food issue is a very real one. And to add to this, the food pantries in and of themselves do not have the capacity. And Ms. Bakke also expressed this to me. She said even with donating the food from the local farmers to the food pantries, the pantries do not have the means to distribute because of people coming to them. We still have thousands of pounds of food that go destroyed. Thank you. Again, this is not a solution, but is this this is an addition to what's already happening and I will be providing my application. Thank you New committee reports first we have There's nothing under P&D moving on to codes and regulation item number one the committee recommends approval of plat number four of Perryville promenade subdivision and Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for planned unit development consisting of a mixed-use building with an early learning center, 64 apartments, 10 courtyard duplexes, a mixed-use commercial building consisting of vertical indoor agriculture and culinary education, a six-family building, an eight- to ten-family multiplex, two side-by-side duplexes. with rear accessory accessory dwelling units and six six family residences with rear accessory dwelling units in i1 light industrial and r1 single family residential zoning district at 310 south avon street 1104 chestnut street 13xx preston street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for special special use permit For outside parking and vehicle storage in I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District at 5025 26th Avenue, subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit. for a mural and a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 702 North Madison Street and 210 North Olive Street. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 206 West State Street. Subject to conditions legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 810 East State Street Subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district 4 18 7th Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 8 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for specials for a special use permit for mural in the c3 general zoning district at 11 17 and 11 25 or second Subject to conditions legal director shop before the appropriate ordinance number 9 committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit in a mural in an RE and Rural estate and C3 general commercial zoning district at 3117 and 3120 Auburn Street subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural in a C3 general zoning district at 3534 East State Street subject to conditions. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 11 Committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c2 limited commercial and r1 single-family residential zoning district at 4800 4802 and 48 16 Auburn Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance 12 Committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards recommendation of denial For the modification of the existing tobacco license to add pipe sales in conjunction with a convenience store and a c3 general commercial zoning district 2338 Charles Street item 13 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards recommendation of denial of for the modification of an existing tobacco license to add pipe sales in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 2211 and 2207 Charles Street. Item 14, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink, class NGO, in conjunction with an event venue in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 112 North 2nd Street, subject to conditions Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number 15 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of beer and wine by the drink class WB in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals and the c2 Limited commercial zoning district at 845 South Road subject to conditions a legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and lastly item 16 committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and tobacco advisory boards approval for the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with a restaurant bar and video gaming terminals in the c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1428 North Main Street subject to amended conditions legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance While I have before your honor. Yes, I'd like to make a motion for item number two on Lay this item over for 30 days Considering there is no representation for the ward that this potential development sits in Alderwoman McNeely unfortunately was not here to make comments last week and this is quite a large development to go into a ward Where there's no current Representation so I would make the motion to lay this item over for 30 days because you're asking for a 30 layover I think we'll have to take a vote on that right voice vote work or Individual voice votes fine. Okay, all those in favor indicate by aye aye opposed Thank you that matter be laid over Okay, are there any questions on the other 15 items alderman bond Thank You mayor Yes on item 16. I would move to amend that So that condition number 15 shall be amended to read, the proposed use and facility shall be limited to five video gaming terminals. All other conditions on the liquor license already imposed remain. I think this went through, this particular item had a favorable recommendation from staff and ZBA. as well as support of the alderman for the ward and It was amended in committee based on One sentence in a security plan and for establishment that all under different owners already I believe had six VGTs. So I I don't think that that Reduction really is fair or makes sense. And so I would make that motion to amend We'll need a voice vote Yeah, you could take a voice vote on that, but you'd want to first allow discussion, obviously. Sorry? A voice vote on the amendment's appropriate. Sure. Would anyone like to speak on the motion? Sure. I would move to amend the following condition of approval. Number one, condition number 15 shall be amended to read. The proposed use and facility shall be limited to five video gaming terminals. Number two, all other conditions on the liquor license already imposed remain. Okay. So it would be the issue five rather than three. I think we should have a discussion now. Correct. All right. Okay. Alderman Toomer? Yeah, I'd like to stand corrected from last week. I think I Said it was going from five that the previous establishment had to five That this establishment is requesting actually the previous establishment had six and so this will be five and again, it's I would say again that it's it's not that we're taking five new ones and of the kitty this is almost looked at as it could be looked at almost as a transfer in a sense of Machine from old owners to new owners, but actually we're giving one back to the city. So thank you all the mix I was just wondering if the owners have they operated this business before or any business in the past grant Grant Park Tavern which they purchased which we approved within the last year Also, they had established the very first bar in Winnebago, which was a dry town. And that is a very successful business in the town of Winnebago. It does extremely well. And then he also started the successful bowling alley in Byron. And that's very successful too until he sold the his half off to his partner if I remember right So he does have experience in this. He's a firefighter by trade and Does this as well? So he does have experience in the business and has Run successful businesses. So I am also curious Is there a dress code that? Specified for this business in order to operate. Well, I don't know if we if and I would probably Rely on legal for that if just to operate I know that we have in past here on council. I don't I don't know if I'd say frequently but occasionally have past approval for establishments that have had dress codes and an attorney Meyer I would ask for your guidance on that but I know that there has been reference to dress codes in other areas that we have passed I believe the tricker for I can look that up a quicker friends and I believe was gonna step in and go ahead Thank you, Elder Woon. So the dress code that was referenced in committee last week was submitted as part of the business plan, but it is not a condition of approval as it relates to the liquor license. And so, no, it would not be – I do not believe that it would be a condition of their operation. Can I ask one last question? And so when – because I wasn't at the committee meeting, so I don't know how it was referenced when they discussed the dress code. Does anyone remember how – That was discussed for the dress code or what is the dress code? What was specified? Yeah Tito's only Monday through Friday Western where on Saturday but no, it's uh, it was referred in there as I Don't remember the exact verbage if if attorney Meyer were to bring that up but it mentioned baggy pants And, you know, for, and that, I think that was taken in a context. Also written in there was dollar, no dollar shots. So for me and experience on here with, you know, as a council approving liquor licenses And also as you know somebody that's as old as I am attending various venues and establishments over the many years You know and maybe some of us have worked at places have had dress codes and So, I mean dress codes aren't uncommon They're nothing new A private establishment, I think, has a right to establish a dress code. We know that the, I think the information is now public, what was going on at that establishment in the recent past. And one of the requirements to do a drug deal in that establishment was to buy a shot first and then you could do your drug deal. And the dealer even admitted there was up to 100 of those a day. So individuals aren't gonna be coming in there getting their dollar shots anymore and doing their drug deals So, you know, I think that that part had something to do with it But also from a standpoint from a proprietorship standpoint dollar shots, I would say encourage massive drunkenness Which we don't want those people on our roads You know inebriated with dollar shots so as a proprietor I Think he's gonna be more in line with most of the establishments in that area, which are not dollar shots So I don't think it's a matter of discouraging any individuals from coming in Because I think that may be in itself By saying that only certain individuals drink dollar shots I think can be you know could be considered offensive to some this is a matter of I Bringing this establishment more in line with others In our city for me personally I don't care to be as far as the baggy pants are concerned You know, I see it around Happening, you know, you could probably go to Target or anywhere and see it around town but for me personally, I don't care to be eating a shrimp shish kebab or Looking at somebody's tighty-whities and so, you know, there is a dress code that that is hey You know pull your pants up. Maybe I don't I don't think that is asking too much So I stand stand stand by here. It's so awesome question all the training Thank you, Your Honor. The comments that I made last week was that I felt that the language of in the proposal that the business owner made saying that they didn't want patrons with baggy pants or something about gang paraphernalia. I said that typically that feels like code language for we don't want black people here. I stand on that statement. You can have a varying opinion if you want to. I said what I said. And that was a very, it was the dress code for the environment. The other thing that I said was I attended the ZBA meeting where the owner was present, that he was very, very particular about, we are going to have a certain type of people in here, and the way that we're going to regulate that is by the type of drinks we have. We're not offering this because, again, I'm establishing whatever you wanted to establish, and that's fine. You can do that. But I did bring it up to the point that I felt the comments were unsavory, because they were. And I've been black my whole life, so... I'm allowed to feel how I feel about certain statements and certain language that's used because it's always been used in reference to people that look like me. To people that look like me, excuse me. So regardless of, that was a great chat, but that was fantastic, but I don't agree. So my thing was, typically what I know about casinos, I don't know if you've ever sat in a casino before, but it's not rich people that go into casinos. It's typically people that want dollar shots. So my statement was if you are establishing a certain type of Establishment where you want a certain type of people there I didn't feel that that constituted you needing five machines and that's why I made the motion to make it three Which was approved last week and now the sudden change. I don't know but here we are. Thank you all the rules I seconded her motion last weekend and I've worked in the bar industry. Places that have quote-unquote dress codes have them posted. They are clear. They are so clear. It's not up to security or the bar manager to say, well, you're not up to dress code because that's exactly what it is. It becomes a black code where someone's hat has turned the wrong way versus someone's pants are too baggy. That's not how you manage... Bar it just not you base your decisions based on people's activities Not the way they dress and I've worked security. I've worked in a whole bunch of different types of Situations where that's where the mistakes get made when it's left to how people are dressed because I'll just tell you there are people that Misinterpret those if they're not well written if they're not I You know, follow to a tee if they have, you know, back in the day, you used to go to certain bars and even if you were in a baggy clothes or something like that, but you knew someone, it would be, oh, come on in. I know I know you. Right. But then when it's the quote unquote gangster thug, whatever terminology that they're using to identify black people. IT'S NO, SORRY, YOU CAN'T COME IN. I'VE SEEN IT. AND SO I TRUST IN THAT. approach there, I think that this is a great conversation for Rockford because If this is a Westside bar, we want to ensure that multiple types of people can enjoy it that multiple types of people Can be a part of that fun if people want to go into there and gamble or do whatever they want to That's great. But we have to ensure that that that multiple people can share in that. And if you run a business, you can run it however you want, right? You can serve people however you want. But I'll tell you, if that's the practice, it probably isn't gonna be around for a long time, so I'll just put it out there. I think the issue before us though is the motion to amend from the three to the five. We can talk about other issues. after we take care of the motion. So does anyone have any specific comments about the motion to amend from 3 to 5? That's why we got into that conversation. And your comment was that only people that aren't wealthy use video gaming machines? No, I said more than that, Alderman. But with respect to the number of machines, that would be the germane issue? Right. Okay. Any other comments about the number of machines? Hold it on. Thank you mayor. I just you know, if again, I don't I voted against this in committee Because if we're gonna use this person somebody's perceived motivation for a dress code as a basis to Limit their number of VGTs and why would we give them three? Why would we just not deny it altogether? um, and if it was a concern is not a concern that staff or the ZBA had because They recommended it to us So I just, I don't think we should hold these licenses hostage over what we may or may not think of this dress code, if dress codes are not part, if dress codes have not been, had any bearing in the past on how we award VGTs, thank you. Alderman Durkee. I, quite frankly, don't understand the point. I'm around Rockford. I see people with baggy pants of all races. So I don't get it. Secondly, if you have a restaurant, a steakhouse, and they want you to wear a tie and a sport coat, is that racist too? I'm not quite following a lot of this. I think the guy is trying to put in a nice business in an area of town that needs them and So I quite frankly have trouble understanding laws argument all the organs Thank You Your Honor Alderman toberg stated that the owners have other establishments in Rockford Do they have other VGTs at those establishments? Does anyone know I don't know I can Grant up Grant Park tap is the only establishment he has in Rockford Does he have VGTs there believe so? I? And that is, that was from the retiring individual who I believe was about 80 years old. Husband had died and was just now just done with the business. Had had it for umpteen years and wanted to sell it to somebody that was a credible person that knows how to run businesses. And I believe they have machines there. All right, any other questions or comments on the motion? All right, seeing none, do a voice vote on the motion. All those in favor of the motion read in by Alderman Bonney with respect to the number of machines being the only item altered. All those in favor indicate by aye. Aye. Opposed? No. Why don't we do a roll call vote? Turkey. Aye. Logaman. Toomer all right frost I Tarina fronty Wilkins rose Radios meeks seven eyes four nose I'm sorry My apologies eyes four nose right the motion passes we have 15 other items does anyone have any questions or comments on that? Or motions on the remaining 15 items. Seeing none, clerk, please call the vote. Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. No, on 16, I am the rest. Brunty. Wilkins. Aye. Rose. No, on 16, I am the rest. Adios. Aye. Meeks. Bonney. No, on 5 through 11. All matters pass. Moving on to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Thunberg. This one may rival Alderman Tureen on this one, on the codes and regs. So, Finance and Personnel. We're only on C. Okay. We have two items. Yes. Number one, committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,891,943.58 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on April 24th, 2023. Number two committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement with the four river sanitation authority amendment to City well wastewater discharge ordinance staff recommends an agreement be made to include well nine well ten and well 42 into the city well wastewater discharge agreement the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Thank you all them to bring are there any questions on these two matters? I? Seeing none, clerk please call the vote. Yerkey? Aye. Logerman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Wilkins? Aye. Rose? Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Bonney? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you, the matter is passed. Next item is officer's reports. Are there any officer's reports? Alderman Rose? Thank you. I just wanted to remind residents that there are a ton of events coming up in the ninth ward. One of them is the yards and crafts sale that is scheduled for, I believe it's the 20th of May. Just need to find that on my schedule. Yes, that is the 20th of May That's going all morning in the Nezada neighborhood And they're gonna be selling plants and doing a whole bunch of different garage sales and as the neighborhood That's the area by the third Presbyterian Church off of Brown Street so if you get a chance to do that do that, please stop by and Later that evening there is the North Main Businesses Association Which is doing a large event as well So come and check out some of the events happening in the ninth word. Thank you all Rose Thank you Also a couple events happening in Ward five. I'm having a ward meeting this Thursday and at the Jenkins Resource Center where my office is located. That address is 911 Michigan Avenue. Again, the meeting is this Thursday and it's from 5.30 to 7. And we are, the Ethnic Heritage Museum is having a South Main Mercado. That event is not actually until June 17th, however, we're looking for vendors. So if anyone wants to be a part of that event, it'll be basically food, fun, sort of bringing people to South Rockford for just a good time to show people the culture. and the great things that are happening in our ward. So if you're interested in being a vendor for that event, please contact the ethnic, excuse me, the Ethnic Heritage Museum for the upcoming event on June 17th. Thank you. Alderman Vonney. Thank you, Mayor. I wanted to take a moment to reflect on the passing of Alderman McNeely, Alderwoman McNeely. I just wanted to I took a moment to remember her for what I think was the very strong courage of her convictions. I think Linda marched to the beat of her own drum, and she did and said what she thought was right without regard to her popularity or her standing among her peers or otherwise. I think those things made her authentic. I appreciated those qualities in her 25 years ago when I would report approach her as a journalist for comments on various issues before the council or across the city and For these last two years at my side at this end of the horseshoe and I will miss trading laughs and trading favors with Linda every Monday night, I also wanted to express my Sorrow over the passing of Tom Heflin who died Saturday at the age of 89. He was an East High School graduate who spent four decades as a professional artist and Probably the most well-known artist in our community. Many of us may have his work in our homes. He appeared in Who's Who in the Midwest, the New York Art Review, the Chicago Art Review. As recently as 2020, he was named among the region's 25 most interesting people by Northwest Quarterly Magazine, where he was quoted as having this advice for inspiring artists. If you have a strong enough desire, I used to call it fire in your belly, it can take you a long way. Also on April 16th, we lost Judy Pikus in Naples, Florida. She probably has not a name that you haven't heard of for a while, but she was the, served two terms on the Rockford School Board in the 1990s, including two years as president those of course were turbulent times in the Rockford School District during the Desegregation lawsuit and Judy was known in in that time Really as a model of decorum and fairness she was the first president of Temple Beth-El and the Principal at Temple Beth-El for 15 years before she was elected to the school board she It was involved in a wide variety of volunteer work in the community, was a recipient of the Marcella Harris Community Service Award and the Winnebago County Medical Society Humanitarian Award among others. I would request a moment of silence in memory of all three of these individuals. Any other reports? Alderman Schoenberg. Yeah. I'm sorry. Last week, we had a lengthy meeting and we tried not to make that happen again. I want to thank again director Haggerty for her work with With the investment fund for the city of Rockford That's something that we passed a couple years ago when we found out or we came to the realization that we had a whole bunch of cash sitting in reserves our rainy day fund etc that that was not earning pretty much a penny and So if I could have Director Haggerty, do we, we never talked about last week very briefly, just the dollar amount in interest that we've received in the past year based on these. So in our core account, we, over the last 12 months, earned $632,600. And in our short-term account, $224,058. Okay. So we're looking about over $800,000 that we've earned in interest that we would have otherwise not have done. So I want to thank everyone on council, PGM or PFM management. We've turned it over to them to manage it. I've had an opportunity to look through it all. Some of the investments, we're just waiting on some of those to come to maturity. Right now they may be underwater a little bit, but that's just due to unrealized losses, which you don't realize until it sells. But in this case, the bonds will mature, so we will realize that back. But one of the things I briefly wanted to... go over here is that We have to follow the Sustainable Investing Act, and this is kind of a soft spot with me, and I know that some of us talk about things in our day-to-day life that we sit on council, so whether it's Bonnie on the state level with stuff, or Durkee with doctoral doctor stuff, and Logeman and Rose and educational stuff, so I'm kind of going in on that on mine. But the Sustainable Investing Act was spearheaded by our treasurer, Frerichs, and signed by Pritzker, It's the Sustainable Investing Act. And we are required to bring into consideration the use of sustainability factors, and this is coming from our treasurer, the use of sustainability factors has been shown to minimize risk and maximize returns and is considered a best practice in the investment industry. Integrating these factors helps public funds better fulfill their fiduciary duty. The thing is right there, taken right off the Treasurer's website, minimize risk by using these sustainable investing, it minimizes risk and maximizes returns. That is, I would say, a long stretch. U.S. Department of Labor, number one, talks about the fiduciary responsibility, which I am a fiduciary. myself the primary responsibility fiduciaries is to run the plan solely in the interest of participants and beneficiaries and for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits and paying plan expenses fiduciaries must act prudently and must diversify the plans investments in order to minimize the risk of large losses this sustainability investing act encourages no investing in energy for the most part last year if you want to talk about What this says, according to our treasurer, sustainability factors minimize risk and maximize returns. Last year, the consumer discretionary sector, the S&P 500, was negative 35%. S&P 500 communication sector, negative 40%. S&P was down as a whole about 20%. NASDAQ was down roughly 30%. Energy, which this would encourage not to, allowing municipalities to go into, if they're following this Sustainability Investing Act, which would be required, energy was up 50% or more. So when you talk about minimizing risk and maximizing returns, you're excluding a whole sector due to this ESG, this environmental social governance thing. And so you're not diversifying, you're not lessening risk. I would say that you're increasing volatility. Okay, so just to back it up, I won't get into M2, measure of money supply and that stuff with what what the government has done, but I just want to prove this based in the in the Harvard Business Review recently how have investors fared and And I'm quoting, not that well it seems. To begin with, ESG funds certainly perform poorly in financial terms. In a recent Journal of Finance paper, University of Chicago research analyzed the Morningstar sustainability ratings of more than 20,000 mutual funds, representing over 8 trillion of investor savings. Although the highest rated funds in terms of sustainability certainly attract more capital than the lowest rated, none of the high sustainability funds outperformed any of the lowest rated funds. Researchers at Columbia University and the London School of Economics did their study. They also, and I quote, found that companies added to ESG portfolios did not subsequently improve compliance with labor or environmental regulations. This is not an isolated finding. A recent European corporate governance institute paper compared the ESG scores of companies by 684 U.S. institutional investors, signed the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment. They did not see any improvement in ESG scores of companies held by signing that. Furthermore, the financial returns were lower and the risk higher for those that signed it. There is also some evidence that companies publicly embrace ESG as a cover for poor business performance. And I quoted that. According to the University of study by the University of Northern Iowa and University of South Carolina reported that when managers underperform the earnings expectations, THEY OFTEN PUBLICLY TALKED ABOUT THEIR FOCUS ON ESG AND THAT'S WHY THEY UNDERPERFORMED. SO I QUOTE, THE CONCLUSION TO BE DRAWN FROM THIS EVIDENCE SEEMS PRETTY CLEAR. FUNDS INVESTING IN COMPANIES THAT PUBLICLY EMBRACE ESG SACRIFICE FINANCIAL RETURNS WITHOUT GAINING MUCH, IF ANYTHING, IN TERMS OF ACTUALLY FURTHERING ESG INTERESTS. Just it baffles me when I read on our state website that the use of sustainability Factors has been shown to minimize risk and maximize returns Sorry to go on that horse, but it just needed to be said because there's a lot of talk out there and I Know that as a municipality we have to follow this because of state mandates, but I think we're being hoodwinked Thanks So, Ms. Heyer, do you know approximately what percentage of the portfolio we have is in ESG funds or index? So we're not allowed under our investment policy to purchase securities. We do hold some corporate notes in our existing portfolio. We're talking the total, and I'd have to... If you don't have a no, that's fine. Yeah, I don't know off the top of my head the percent. I guess corporates are a small percent of the total. As you can imagine, the bulk of our investments are in treasuries or other government-backed securities. But we're investing in companies like Toyota, Walmart, Amazon. These are the corporate notes that we're purchasing. So. Thank you. Any other officer reports? I just said with respect to Linda as passing, it's so unfortunate. I met Linda probably back in 1998 when I worked at the city and I will say this her, her zeal for asking tough questions for putting the. I guess the interest of her award first never, that candle never went out. She, from back then until, you know, just a couple weeks ago, if she had a question for whether it was another... Alder person whether it was a staff whether it was a mayor She asked the question and I think you know, that's that's admirable. We sometimes maybe You know You mean like oh geez, you know here, you know, Linda's asking this question, but she meant it from her heart She always gave 100% I believe to the city and there were definitely times when I when people disagreed with her or I disagree with her on a particular specific issue. And we walked back into the conference room and everything was just fine. No grudge holding held, which I think is a sign of a great servant. And I think she will always be remembered as a great servant to the city of Rockford and to her ward. Thank you. All right, moving on to motions and resolutions under planning and development. All those in favor? THE COMMITTEE RECOMMENDS APPROVAL OF THE APPLICATION AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE ILLINOIS DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY, DCEO, INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS GRANT AWARD IN THE AMOUNT OF $150,000 FOR THE BROADWAY ROAD DIET. Item 2, committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, DCEO, Infrastructure Improvements Grant Award in the amount of $250,000 for the Broadway Road Diet. And item 3, the committee recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity, opportunity for Alpine Dam phase two improvements grant award in the amount of eight hundred thousand dollars thank you any question or comments on these three items all in jerky and it's really nice to see attention being directed toward that Broadway district area the business district area so kudos to them for getting the grants any other questions seeing none all those in favor make it by aye aye opposed All matters pass. Moving on to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Trina. Thank you. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. So this is coming back to us on a motion to reconsider, and I would have moved to amend the resolution instructing the zoning officer to file an application for a zoning text amendment to Section 80009D of the City of Rockford Zoning Ordinance, to state as follows all properties in our one single-family residential districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in section 50-13 a of this ordinance by November 1 2024 all properties in any other residential districts re are one you Our two, our three, and our four and commercial districts with gravel driveways and or gravel parking lots legally established shall conform to the regulations contained in Section 50-013A of this ordinance by November 1, 2023. Nothing in this provision allows illegally established nonconforming parking lots and driveways to remain. So after we had... was originally brought to us I believe by alderman Hoffman as a consideration or two essentially grandfather everybody in by eliminating the the Deadline that has been extended multiple times. I thought that another extension would be a logical compromise but in thinking it over further I feel like I landlords and business owners have already had plenty of time to come up with a plan for how to address this and They have the capacity or should have the capacity that maybe single-family homeowners do not and so I think it would be more appropriate to provide another year grace period for only people for whom there, you know, this is this property is the roof over their head and I we have talked about but never seem to move forward on offering some sort of or coming up with some sort of an assistance program for those homeowners and i'm going to be scheduling and trying to notice a meeting with staff a representative from the northwest illinois association of realtors Alderman Barrios alderman Wilkins and alderman Beach for some time the week after Mother's Day to begin trying to consider What we might do in that regard and bring it to council at some point Is there a second on the motion any discussion on the motion ultimate Ricky? This is probably the 32nd time. I voted to extend it, but it's a reasonable compromise by I I sort of swore I would never extend it again, but it's a pretty reasonable compromise, but But sooner or later we appear double-minded to the constituents when we keep doing this and so if we can get the I'm okay with this because we're getting the commercial properties in line and we're waiting on the residentials next year, but We have to be careful about how we appear in To people as being sort of indecisive and a little bit wishy-washy and how we approach these things so I would be It's a good compromise that be in support of it All right any other discussion on the motion all those in favor of the motion to keep aye aye aye opposed all right Any questions or comments overall on what now is the amendment to the? section 80 009 concerning gravel driveways the mix I just wanted to know if we had the actual numbers of how many gravel driveways would need to come into compliance and if we don't have those numbers when would we get those numbers a question and over over the past year We have been working to update our survey of gravel driveways, gravel parking lots, but we do not have a 100 percent accurate list breaking down addresses, size, all the other considerations that may go into this. The other aspect is while we may identify that a gravel driveway is present, we We have not done the background research on whether it would be legally conforming under the codes today. And so we certainly believe that over time, given that 1973 is when new gravel driveways were not permitted to be improved or established, that there are very few, with the exception of probably some recently annexed – parcels and that but we believe it to be relatively small that would be actually covered under this under this ordinance I feel like it's important to know that information before we vote on something like this I feel like it's important to know how many gravel driveways would need to come into compliance and If there is a possibility for a program of some sort to assist those individuals that need Assistance in order to do that. I think it's important to know how many we're looking at for the entire city and So I just moving forward with this. This is a little difficult for me without that information But I just wanted to kind of make that comment. Are you asking to lay it over? if I could just Remind counsel that this is not the final action at all all of the all of this is doing is recommending that the Directing the zoning officer to fill out the petition and send it to ZBA for more consideration It's going to come back to City Council, which would give us time to Do more digging in terms of how many properties we believe would be affected I think I was just focused on getting that information because I knew this wasn't over very good. Thank you Alderman Bonnie. I sure just to clarify any um conversation or attempt to develop a program that the city might offer for assistance is not part of this motion this motion strictly regards the deadlines for compliance maybe we should take the individual say turkey hi logeman frost timber terena rose various all right makes I Bonnie I 10 eyes one note. Thank you all right moving on to finance and personnel committee Alderman to relate to his own dance He's probably doing it on purpose I All right, item number one. The committee recommends approval of the award of bid City Hall Elevator Replacements to Schumacher Elevator Company of Denver, Iowa, in the amount of $717,624. The project is estimated to be completed in 2024. Funding sources, American Rescue Plan Funds. Number two, committee recommends approval of the award of bid City Hall Basement Restrooms to Larson & Larson Builders, of loves park illinois in the amount of three hundred and six thousand four hundred and forty dollars the project is estimated to be completed in 2023 funding sources arpa funds uh committee number three committee recommends approval of the award of rfp Forestry management plan and tree inventory to Great Lakes urban forestry management of Batavia, Illinois for an estimated amount of 125,000 based on pricing the contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options needed annual price adjustments for CPI considered at contract renewal only and Funding sources Street Division operating budget with a twenty five thousand dollar grant reimbursement at project completion funded through the urban community Forestry grant number four committee recommends approval of the award of bid Rockford Police District to 1410 Broadway parking lot construction phase two to stenstrom excavation of rockford illinois in the amount of 157 820.39 the project was estimated to be completed by june 30 2023 funding sources american rescue plan act funds number five committee recommends approval of the award of bid parking lot 16 2023 improvements to Stenstrom excavation of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $478,889. The project is estimated to be completed by October 15, 2023, funding sources parking fund operating budget. Number six, committee recommends approval of the award of bid. Page Park Dam spillway repairs to Martin & Company of Oregon, Illinois in the amount of $166,188. The project is estimated to be completed by June 30, 2023. Funding sources, CIP General Fund. At number 7, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid and... Well 9, temporary treatment facility improvements to Stenstrom Construction Group of Rockford, Illinois, in the amount of $1,473,000. The project is estimated to be completed by November 1, 2023. Funding sources, water replacement, improvement account. Number 8. The committee recommends approval of the award of RFP, Well and Pump Rehabilitation Services, to Lane Christensen Company of Aurora, Illinois, Water Well Solutions of Elburn, Illinois, and Municipal Well and Pump of Waupun, Wisconsin, for an estimated annual contract value of $900,000 based on unit pricing. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI considered at contract renewal only. The funding sources water replacement improvement account, Number nine committee recommends approval of the award of professional services water treatment system services to surplus management Inc of Loves Park, Illinois for an estimated annual budget of 75,000 based on hourly rates Contract duration is one year with four possible one-year extension options annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contract renewal only the funding sources water fund operating budget and Number 10, committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement corrosion control study phase one to start and be associated with the Association of Incorporated of Madison, Wisconsin in the amount of $110,700. Project is estimated to be completed by August 31st, 2023. Funding sources water replacement improvement account. Number 11, committee recommends approval of the award of professional services contract leaking underground storage tank closure assistance at 1105 North 2nd Street to Fair Graham Engineering and Environmental. Rockford, Illinois for an estimated thirty six thousand five hundred dollars based on hourly rates the contract duration Duration is estimated at 280 days the funding sources community development operating budget with full reimbursement the Illinois EPA's leaking underground storage tank cleanup fund number 12 committee recommends approval of the renewal of contract FMLA Third Party Administration to Sedgwick Claims Management Services of Memphis, Tennessee for contract amount rates $2.77 per employee per month. The total annual estimated administrative costs are $33,605. Contract duration is three years. Funding source is Human Resources Operating Budget. Number 13, committee recommends approval of the renewal of contract, operation of wellness center near site clinic with Marathon Health of Onuski, Vermont. The contract amount rates are contract fee year one, $1,172,695, a 3.75% escalator. Year two, 4% escalator. Year three, years four and five, inflation escalator based on medical CPI and cap between 3% and 5%. Contract duration is three years with two single-year renewal options. Funding sources, health insurance funds. Number 14. Committee recommends approval and acceptance of two Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity grant awards. One, LIHEAP State Supplemental Grant from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for $4,650,446. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. And number two. LIHEAP Health and Human Services grant from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for $2,480,238. The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from October 1, 2023 to June 30, 2025. LIHEAP eligible clients receive a direct vendor payment to their electronic and or heating bill. This allows clients to alleviate utility costs per number 15. Committee recommends approval and acceptance of three Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Weatherization Grant Awards. Number one, weatherization state supplemental grant from Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for $310,030. The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from July 1st, 2023 to September 30th, 2024. Number two, weatherization health and human services grant from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity for $620,410. The grant does not require a cost match and the grant term is from June 1st, 2023 to September 30th, 2024. And number three, weatherization Department of Energy. GRANT FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY FOR $553,140. THE GRANT DOES NOT REQUIRE A COST MATCH AND THE GRANT TERM IS FROM JULY 1, 2023 TO JUNE 30, 2024. WEATHERIZATION WILL ASSIST ELIGIBLE CLIENTS TO CONSERVE FUEL AND DEFRAY RISING COSTS OF ENERGY BY CLEANING AN ENERGY AUDIT OF THEIR HOME AND CREATING A WORK ORDER. THE CONTRACTOR THAT HAS WON THE BID FOR THIS GRANT WILL CARRY OUT THE WORK ORDER. Lastly, number 16, a committee recommends approval and acceptance of additional funds for low-income household water assistance program for $185,000 for a total of $1,449,333. The grant does not require a cost match, and the grant term is from September 1, 2021 to August 33. Thank you. I'd like to put those items up for passage. Take a seat. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Tooburn. Are there any questions or comments? Alderman Trena. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question for Director Saunders. I must have missed this one. Item number seven, the $1.4 million for the temporary treatment facility improvement. Could you just give me just a little bit of a description about what that is again? Because I don't remember this one. Yes. Go ahead. Please. Go ahead, sir. Thank you. Alderman Tarina, this facility has right now, we call it an NT, a non-treatment site, where we just employ kind of our typical chlorine, fluoride, and phosphate treatment here. There have been changes to the regulatory environment that requires filtration here. We do see detects of a naturally occurring contaminant called manganese here. and we've identified a potential temporary treatment opportunity where we are going to employ basically a trailer that has vertical filter vessels in it, with all of the chemical feed equipment that we need in it, These improvements will allow us to connect to that trailer. In addition, we are required in about $800,000 to $900,000 of this bid is to separate certain rooms. For instance, the chlorine room right now has both fluoride and chlorine feed equipment in it. By EPA standard, we have to actually separate those rooms. So this is a 1940s vintage building that we are coming into compliance with emerging regulations. Alderman Meeks. Thank you. My question is for well, it's related to items one and two um Can I ask how much was budgeted towards? capital improvements from the american rescue plan funds And and I guess I can ask can we can you tell me in 2023 how much was budgeted and then in 2024? And I think this is a finance question So in our first round of approval that was approved in 2021, we had a total of, sorry, just adding this stuff up here, investment in city facilities of 6.3 million, just under 6.3 million out of 10.6 million total allocated. In round two, we had a total of, and this includes emergency, you know, radio sites, parking lots, a whole variety of items. We had $13.7 million allocated. And that covers 23, 24? Yeah, this would be, completing all of this work will take several years to get finished. Okay. And for items one and two, would these be considered emergency items, reasons, emergency reasons why we need to move forward immediately? Yes, and I think Director Saunders can speak to that a little more directly. Yeah, Alderman Wim and Meeks, as part of our kind of ARPA strategy in Public Works, we looked at our facilities and namely a lot of our either backup or emergency systems or just mechanical systems that a lot of times are very expensive and are just a function of deferred maintenance. In ARPA round, in ARPA phase two, we allocated $1.3 million going towards elevator modernization, fire panel upgrades in City Hall, the emergency shelter area bathroom in the basement, and And out of that 1.3 million that we allocated in awarding those two contracts tonight the fire panel last Council we came in budget. We came in below $50,000 what that 1.3 million budget was so When you look at our funding strategy and Public Works We removed more than a million dollars worth of dilapidated buildings at City Yards that literally the roofs were caving in we've programmed investments in roof systems that historically have been preserved by bladders and hoses just taking the rainwater and kind of putting it into a storm inlet. So literally on the public works side, the ARPA allocations are going towards mechanical systems, emergency systems that otherwise just would be a function of deferred maintenance. Any other questions? Oh, that's okay. If there's, I just wanted to point out one of the approach, you know, the main approach we were taking here is we are funding capital improvements for facilities on an emergency basis, right? We'd have a roof fail, we have to replace it, HVAC system fail. So it was very, a stressful event on the general fund to have to find the funds to make those emergency repairs. So in the interest of long-term stabilization and predictability in the general fund, planning for those expenses, we're attempting to eliminate some of those capital expenses that we know will come at some point. Elevators will eventually have to be replaced. And instead of waiting until they completely fail and we're in an emergency situation in the building and pay more at that point to have them replaced, proactively addressing some of those deferred maintenance needs with this one-time infusion of cash so that we have More stable operating a capital cost in the general fund going forward any other questions See them in a quick. Please call the vote jerky boogerman Toomer frost I Tarina Prunty Wilkins Rose Radios all right me no on one two and four I am the rest funny all right I Items 1, 2, 9 ayes, 2 noes. Item 3, 10 ayes, 1 noe. Item 4, 10, I'm sorry, 9 ayes, 2 noes. The remaining 11 ayes. Next, new business under planning and development. We have none. Under code and regulation, I'll move to no. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number 1 is laid over. So moving on to item number 2. Item 3. ordinance approving a special use permit for outside parking and vehicle storage and I won light industrial zoning district at 50 25 26 Avenue number three in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 702 North Madison Street and 210 North Olive Street number four an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district and at 206 West State Street Number five, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 810 East State Street. Number six, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 418 7th Street. Number seven, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C3 general commercial zoning district at 1117 and 1125 North 2nd Street. Number eight, An ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a rural estate in C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 3117 and 3120 Auburn Street. Number nine, an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 3534 East State Street. Number ten. ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c2 limited commercial and r1 single-family residential zoning district at 4800 4802 and 4816 Auburn Street Number 11, an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class NGL in conjunction with an event venue in a C4 urban mixed use zoning district at 1112 North 2nd Street. Number 12, an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and video gaming terminals in a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 845 South Perryville Road, Suite 111. 13 an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink class l50 in conjunction with the restaurant bar and video gaming Terminals in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 1428 North Main Street. Thank you any questions or comments Seeing none please call the whole turkey Ogamon to bird frost Serena no one 13 I am the rest 20 Wilkins Rose radios Meeks? Bonnie? No, 4-10. Items 2, 3, 11 ayes. Items 4-10. 10 ayes, 1 no. Items 11 and 12, 11 ayes. And item 13, 8 ayes, 3 noes. Thank you. Under item C, Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Thunberg. Yes. One item, Mayor Pro Tem. An ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the Fort River Sanitation Authority. Amendment 2. City well wastewater discharge ordinance staff recommends that an agreement be made to include well nine Are there any questions on this one item turkey logan Tumber frost Serena fronty Wilkins Rose Adios mix Bonnie. 11 ayes. Is there a motion to adjourn? All right. All those in favor indicate by aye. Thank you. This meeting is adjourned.