We can begin with a proclamation, an invocation. Is there someone here to do the invocation tonight? Yes, thank you, sir. Let's pray. Good and gracious God, we thank you for the gift of today. Thank you for the spring and for the sunshine, for the signs of life all around us. We ask for your blessing on the business of this evening, on our council members, their families, on all of their constituencies. We ask for your blessing on the people and city of Rockford, that we would be a place of hospitality and prosperity and peace for all. We ask for your blessing on all civil servants, on public officials, first responders, teachers, firefighters, everyday citizens, that you would give us vision and unity to do the work you call us to do, and give us vision and unity to be the people you call us to be, all for the sake and the mission of love. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. First, we have an acceptance of the journal. Number one is a journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on March 25, 2024. So moved. Second. All those in favor, make it by aye. Aye. Number two is a journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on April 1, 2024. So moved. Second. All those in favor, make it by aye. Aye. Thank you. Number three is a journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on April 15, 2024. I move. Second. All right. Thank you. All those in favor, Nikki, by aye? All right. We have one proclamation tonight. It's for World Migratory Bird. Is there, accepting is Jennifer Cordora? Corota. All right. This is a proclamation. Awareness of migratory birds, observe wildlife, and share our community with migratory birds. The United States are planning to develop... Now it's on. I turned it up. I want to thank the Mayor and the City of Rockford for issuing what has become an annual proclamation for World Migratory Bird Day. This celebration is a small part of the annual requirements for Bird City Illinois recognition, which Rockford achieved as one of the pilot cities. This program has now grown to nine communities statewide, demonstrating the importance of creating and recognizing bird-friendly municipalities. The newest being St. Charles in Lake Bluff. As a result of this growth, I also reached out to the governor to issue a statewide proclamation, which I also received today. It's much larger.