Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we come tonight asking that you would bless this meeting. Lord, we know that your word says that everything should be done decently and in order. And Lord, we ask that you would help keep things that way tonight, that things would go the way that they should go for the citizens of Rockford.
 Be with the mayors who conduct this meeting. Be with all those who are here to attend this meeting. But most of all, Lord, may your blessings be upon our city tonight, for we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. Pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logoman. Logoman.
 TUMBER? HERE. FROST? HERE. HERBY? URBANS? THOMPSON-KELLEY? I'M HERE. HOFFMAN? ROSE? BEACH? YES. QUINONAS? HANLEY? MCNEILLY? 11 PRESENT. THANK YOU. WE HAVE A QUORUM THIS EVENING. IS THERE A MOTION TO APPROVE THE JOURNAL OF PROCEEDINGS FOR THE SPECIAL CITY COUNCIL MEETING HELD ON MARCH 29, 2021? SO MOVED.
 Excellent. We have a motion. We have a second since we do not have anyone with us virtually. We can do a voice vote. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on March 29, 2021? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes.
 Next we have proclamations. We don't have any proclamations this evening. I'm gonna move right to public speakers. We do have three public speakers who are signed up this evening. Wanna remind public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of the council chambers. Each public speaker is allotted three minutes to speak. You'll hear an alarm go off and I'll ask you to close your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr.
 Again, as I said last time, and I repeat again tonight, we're thinking of in terms of injustice and justices that have been visited upon the West Side people in Rockford. We have quoted scripture repeatedly. And again, I report this one part that says, as I said last week, do not be mismatched with infidels.
 For what fellowship has righteousness with iniquity, or what fellowship has light with darkness? As I said last week and I repeat again, it is darkness when the west side of Rockford is continually ignored in terms of development. Development is important, and Rockford has not been kind to its black citizens.
 As I said before and I repeat, hundreds of millions of dollars have come into this community. A lot of it through the community development block grant funds. And it's almost like that's a misnomer because if there's community development, where does it exist in terms of Westside Rockford? And that's not a good thing. And people who do that are certainly in the dark. It certainly can be in the light. That's why we are contacting the Biden administration and certainly HUD,
 certainly EDA and saying to them come to Rockford because we don't want to see a continuation of what Chuck Sweeney whom I seldom agreed with said in an article he wrote about 10 years ago the wrong side of town and he said in that article Rockford style of part height is put on the west side of Rockford a part height and we don't need that we're saying that look
 HUD, EDA, you all come here and help us erase this kind of apartheid that really is stifling the growth, not only of Rockford, but it's affecting the entire state of Illinois. And we're saying to them, come help us deliver and build our own sustainable communities with a heavy emphasis upon business ownership. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker is Brendan Langdon. Good evening everybody. I'm here because I have an issue with the Rockford Police Department. And I'm purposely doing this here because I know it's being recorded, because I need it for prosperity purposes. We all know, and we live in the real world, that if someone like Mia Lehman goes into the police department and files a complaint against a police officer, or in this case it's going to be seven, things get lost, they try to intimidate,
 And I'm not a punk. So I'm gonna tell you a story about April 20th. Got a phone call 1249 AM, it was my nephew. My nephew is 38 years old, he's over six feet tall. He called and said, ain't he? I'm on 7th Street and 18th Avenue and I'm afraid for my life. The police pulled me over and there's several cars out there. I move, I live on 21st and 5th. Took me two minutes to get there. When I got there,
 All these cops had him surrounded. Two of them had their batons like this. We already know what that means. I brought out my phone and I went Facebook Live. Now, your officers are careless because I'm not a punk, okay? And I gave it to them. And one of your officers, Scragger, he had to be the ringleader with this salt and pepper beard. They even had the canine dog.
 asked me why was I angry and I told him and I'm gonna say it to you and I'm gonna say it in front of everybody I told him yeah I'm angry I'm an angry black woman now this is right after that George Floyd verdict you just killed somebody one of your officers yes I'm an angry black woman because you are a white entitled man with a gun and a badge that makes you a threat and I'm afraid for my life
 So one of your officers had the audacity to tell me if I didn't shut up, he was going to give my nephew a ticket. And I told him, give him the ticket. I will pay it myself because he's not going to do that because we're going to go to court and I'm going to produce that video. And I told that officer, that same squiggly officer with that salt and pepper beard, got mad, starts on my urine grab.
 angry black woman textbook. Stop killing our people. Stop making our lives miserable. See, this is what you don't understand. And I'm going to say this in the nicest way I can. Y'all should be grateful that all we asking is for reparation and not revenge because there'd be a whole lot of dead white people. Okay. My husband white. Let me correct it. He's English. He says he's not white. Okay. He's straight off the boat. He said he can't relate with y'all.
 to college all the rejects of Europe. That's embarrassing. Y'all need to get it together. Got this video if you're interested in it. Thank you, Ms. Langdon. Next up, we have Mr. John Tack Brantley. I don't see Mr. Brantley here, but we'll give him one more try. Mr. John Tack Brantley? Okay. Next, we'll move on to petitions and communications. We have no petitions or communications underneath Planning and Development Committee, so we'll move to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items here.
 Number one, memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager, permits of special events regarding upcoming events, Midtown, Market, Clem Garden, Fair, Marshmallow, Hope, and Cycle. In the second, this is referred to codes and regs. And number two is the Treasury Commission's agenda for the meeting to be held on May 12, 2021. And the minutes for that meeting and consideration at the codes and regs meeting be held May 24, 2021. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you alderman beach next we'll move to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Thank you your honor First of the memorandum from jamie wratt water superintendent regarding an amendment to the intergovernmental agreement with the rock river water reclamation district For city well wastewater discharge this will be referred to the finance and personnel committee Number two is a memorandum from jamie rod as well regarding an agreement With united way of rock river valley for hydrant painting and neighborhood cleanup community initiative. This is referred to finance and personnel and
 Number three is a memorandum from Jennifer Jagger Community Services regarding the acceptance of seven grant awards for alleviation of housing burdens and Homelessness prevention this also referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you. Thank you alderman frost next We've just completed public speakers as well. So next we'll move to new committee reports and there's no committee report underneath planning and development So we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman Beach. Thank your honor. I
 Under B1, Committee recommends sustaining traffic commission approval to establish no parking restriction on the north side of Elm Street from 193 west of Avon to 173 west of Avon from 65 west of Avon to Avon. Number two, Committee recommends sustaining traffic commission approval to establish yield control on a portion of Hickory Lane Drive.
 Um, regarding requiring traffic on Lundville to yield prior to enter intersection number 3. Sustaining the traffic commission approval to yield control on a portion of Hickory lane drive. Uh, requiring traffic and high views to yield prior to enter the intersection with Hickory long drive. Number 4.
 Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to establish yield control on a portion of Hickory Lawn Drive, requiring James Avenue to yield prior to entering the intersection of Hickory Lawn Drive. Number five, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval to establish yield control requiring traffic on Parkwood Avenue to yield prior to entering the intersection of Hickory Lawn Drive.
 Number six, committee recommends sustaining traffic commission approval to establish no parking at any time on the west side of Eastgate Parkway from Broadway to Colorado Avenue.
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's recommendation of no action for the following items. A, request to establish a parking restriction of no parking any time on the north side of Guard Street from Camp Evelyn to Main Street. B, to request to establish a two-way stop control on Madison Street and
 Y Boulevard and C to request to establish handicapped parking on the west side of Church Street from 50 feet south of Mulberry Street to 30 feet south of Mulberry Street, thus repealing the existing one hour parking restriction on the west side of Church Street from 50 feet south of Mulberry to 30 feet south of Mulberry Street. Number eight. Many recommend sustaining traffic commission approval of the request for an amendment to the city of Rockford. Quote of Ordinance Chapter 16 for electric scooters. Number.
 9. Committee recommends a denial for the request of authorization to place for sale city-owned property at 1057 Kilburn Road. 10. Committee recommends a denial of final plant No. 6 of Rockford Crossing Subdivision. 11. Committee recommends a denial of the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the Hooga Lounge at C3 and General Commercial Zoning District at 4846 East State Street.
 Number 12, committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the modification of an existing liquor license to add a different business partner as a 10% shareholder for a liquor license and the drink in conjunction with a restaurant, tavern, and video gaming at 1025 5th Avenue.
 Number 13, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval for the sale of tobacco in conjunction with the tobacco store and the C3 General Commercial District at 3818 West Riverside Boulevard. Number 14, the committee recommends denial of the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the gas station and convenience store and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the gas station and the convenience store located at 320 North Mulford Road.
 Number 15, the committee recommends denial of the sale of liquor by the drink at 2525 Auburn Street. Number 16, the committee recommends denial of the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard to an electronic graphic display billboard in a limited commercial zoning district at 111 South Perryville Road. Number 17, the committee recommends denial of a special use permit for U-Haul at an address at 1312 7th Street.
 Number 18, committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a plan unit development consisting of 240 apartment units and a four-story, 146 assisted independent living at 6654 Garrett Lane. Number 19, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA of appeals for a special use permit for outdoor U-Haul rental in a C3 general commercial district at 529-519 West Jefferson Street.
 And the last one, 20, committee recommends approval of the amendments to Chapter 3 of the City of Rockford Liquor Ordinance. And all these, Your Honor, are up for passage this evening. I believe we have one additional item in there. I believe item 21. Which one? What did I miss here? Item 21. Item 21. All right. Okay. Thank you. So 20 wasn't the end.
 21 is the end. We're going to work these aldermen, you know, right to the end, Alderman Beach. These are saying farewell to us. The committee recommends approval of their authorization to allow the zoning officer to fix the text amendment for Article 80-009-D. Now, Your Honor, all 20 are up for consideration this evening. Excellent. Anyone want Alderman Beach to repeat any of those? Yes.
 Number one. Excellent. So Alderman Quinonez. Yes, I'd like to make a motion if I'm in order here to send number 15 back to committee for reconsideration. So we have a motion to send number 15, which is 2525 Auburn Street, back to committee. Is that accurate? Yes. And then we have a second by Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Is that accurate? Yes.
 okay we have a motion we have a second to send 15 back to committee uh is there any discussion and will a voice vote be sufficient uh all those in favor say aye aye those opposed okay so 15's no longer with us uh i'll go to alderman rose then alderman durkee alderman rose i'd like to um
 Do the following for item 916 and 18 under VB 9 sale of 1057 silver. I need to lay that item over. For item 16 on the 16 billboard at 111 South Perryville road. I moved to lay this item over under 18. Under the development at 6654 care lane, I moved to. Lay that item over.
 Item 10 under item. Oh one second the time so they need to be taken one at a time So you have let me make sure I get this right alderman rose you want you have a motion to lay over item 9 Let's start with that. We have a second. Is there any discussion on item automatically over automatic automatic? All right, then we you have a motion to lay over item 16, right? Is there a second for laying over we have a second to lay over 16 and
 at 6654 Alderman Durkee is making the second or did you want to make a comment? Alderman rose through the chair and that is I was hoping it rather than to lay that over to the next City Council meeting to ask for This would require a vote lay it over for 60 days with the ability to bring it back earlier than the 60 the purpose of which is to give the residents and the
 Midway village a chance to meet with the developer and our planning and development folks to discuss the nature scope and whatever the committee That's okay So could I ask you to take your motion back? I?
 Yes, I will read the motion. Okay, and so now we have a new motion by Alderman Durkee. I think everyone understands that, and let me repeat it so I'm clear. Motion to hold over this item for 60 days with the ability to bring it back sooner.
 If the community input is completed. Which item? Council vote, then. We're talking item 18. Alderman Durkee is asking for a motion to lay over for 60 days to get community input and planning and development assistance. Mr. Cagnoni?
 Thanks, Your Honor. Maybe as a proposal is just do the two aldermen rule for a two-week layover, and we'll work with a developer to see what the time frame may be, if that's acceptable with the aldermen. I don't know that makes a difference, because if the motion allows us to bring it back sooner. I just didn't want to have to put it back. I mean, it's sort of...
 It's not clear in regards to when it would come back and whether it would take additional council action to bring it back 60 days max and then back sooner but I think two week would be a tight time frame for the residents to plan a meeting and
 So your motion would be 60-day layover unless the meeting takes place or it's requested by the staff to put it back on the agenda? Right. That's fine. I just didn't, you know, based on our conversation, I didn't. We did reach out to the developer today, and we're putting together that time frame. I just didn't know how sensitive time was related to their development schedule. I think it would just be a matter of allowing the residents to gather the, you know, pick a date and all that stuff.
 so we got a motion uh alderman hervey i had a couple of phone calls about this myself and i live nowhere near it um but people knew that i i knew a little bit about some of the the hospital stuff back there could we give it an aerial to alderman because absolutely people were confused about it the three calls i got was exactly where is this
 because people didn't understand the addresses in the street. So an aerial would help because we're talking about significant congestion. We'll make sure that there's an aerial. Thank you. So we just have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. And this is for Alderman Durkee's motion to lay this over for up to 60 days, but it can come back with community input earlier.
 is there any further discussion on that layover up to 60 days alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor my question is did staff not send out information a letter to the residents of the area regarding this director franzen
 So absolutely as with any zoning process neighboring property owners were notified by letter in this particular case the property owner is the Park District and but the board of Midway village had expressed some concerns and I believe that's what alderman Durkee is referring to to allow that communication Regarding this development. So it was sent out they just Additional time is being asked for any other discussion seeing no discussion. I
 Is it? Awesome. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? No. Motion passes. Okay, so we're having fun tonight. So we have items by my math now, items 9, 15, 16, and 18 are no longer with us. Is there any Alderman Rose?
 You're on our under item BB 10 final plat number 6 at Rockford Crossing Subdivision. I move to refer this matter back to Code and Regulation Committee for further consideration. So we have a motion to move that back. Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. That's automatically no. No. Is there any discussion on that? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Alderman Rose.
 Under item VB 11, hookah lounge at 4846 East State Street. I move to refer this matter back to Code and Regulation Committee for further consideration. Is there a motion? Is there a second? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye. Okay. That motion moves forward. Next. Under item VB 14, liquor and tobacco licenses at...
 320 north mulford road i move to refer this matter back to code and regulation committee for further consideration we have a motion is there a second we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion alderman hervey yeah my only thing with discussion is is there a reason we're taking all the things many almost all of them that were denied and
 taking them back to committee just when some of us are leaving? Can you speak into the microphone? Sorry, it's raining. How about I not speak into my mask? That would probably help more. Is there a reason so many of the things that we...
 Um asked to reverse and and make it a denial are now being requested to go back to committee When some of us are leaving Absolutely, there is uh, so there's a host of reasons for some different ones like one the plat Uh, we've already approved the special use permit. We need substantive reasons to deny it as opposed to just no we don't want it uh for
 I mean, we could go through each one. Well, I guess what I'm saying is what concerns me is, and I hope any of the new aldermen will feel free to call those of us who are leaving, that people who are just coming in, this was one of the most confusing things for me, the plats and all of these technical things, especially codes and regs. It probably took me two years to get up to speed. I just...
 I regret that we're doing that because I think it looks like it's taking advantage of new aldermen that may not know some of the details like the hookah lounge and the tobacco licenses. And I think that's a bad thing to do. But I'm not going to talk a lot tonight because I'm not.
 So you are right, and we're certainly, one, we'll make sure the aldermen, newly elected aldermen, have all the information. Two, appreciate your willingness to share your input and hope all aldermen who are bidding farewell will. Many of them have had specific items or specific reasons why they're coming back from either a business or another alderman asking us if we would.
 alderman rose yeah just just out of uh answering part of that question for especially item 11 the hookah lounge the the new or the soon to be new um all their person is in favor of that so i felt in respect to that all their person who will be coming to city council after tonight that they'd be allowed to vote on that so thank you
 Thank you. So we have Alderman Rhodes. Did you already make a motion for 14? And we have a second, I believe. I believe I did. Yeah. So we have a motion. We have a second for item 14. Is there any discussion on that? Seeing none. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed. All right. So, okay, Alderman. This is what I have as our scorecard right now. I have items nine, 10, 11.
 11, 14, 15, 16, and 18 are no longer with us, either being laid over and or being referred back. We have now the remainder of the items before you. Is there any discussion on the remainder of those items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Thank you. Alderman Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose Beach Quinones Hanley McNeely Was that an eye? Thank you. Sorry. There's so much rain back here that it's hard for us to hear So we may be asking you repeat things items one two, three four five six seven twelve eyes item number eight Eleven eyes one no item twelve thirteen fourteen seventeen nineteen twenty and twenty one twelve eyes and
 Okay, thank you. Those items passed. Next up, we're moving to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I had a request from my seatmate, Alderman Hervey, to go back to some old F&P days, and she'd like to read in number one. Awesome. Alderman Hervey. Number C1, the committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $6,928,224.23 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on April 26, 2021. Thank you.
 I asked her if she'd like to continue on, but she said no. I'm just going to leave you with the hard work. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the development agreement for the downtown streetscape enhancements with the CVB. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue not to exceed $4 million for the waterworks revenue bonds.
 of the city of rockford for the purpose of paying the cost of improvements to the waterworks system of the city prescribing all the details of said bonds providing the collection segregation distribution of the revenues of said system for the payment of the bonds the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of the sale of city-owned property located at 1210 sixth avenue to ryan smith
 In the amount of $1,000, city staff is proposing the sale of city-owned property pursuant to 65 ILCS 5-11. The city has published the property for sale in a local newspaper with minimum bid of $1,000 and other specifications and requirements. The legal director, again, shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the 2020 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Let's see. I believe that is it, Your Honor.
 Okay, you got all five. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Seeing no discussion on those five items, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Berge? Aye. Bogeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No, on four. Aye on the remaining.
 items one two three thirteen eyes item four twelve eyes one no item five thirteen eyes thank you those items pass next up we have appointments laid over uh these appointments don't come up till may 5th and may 12th and may 20th so none of those will be voted on this evening
 uh next we have motions and resolutions uh and we have no motions or resolutions under uh a planning and development so we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman beach thank you again your honor under a to b1 committee recommends a proof of the swiss american state street mile uh ron was scheduled from august 7th excuse me from 8 p.m to 1500 at east state street prospect
 Number two is the Pride Month Kickoff Party, Saturday, June 5th from noon to 10 PM. The event's located at 513 East State Street. Number three, the event at Farmer's Market, held every Sunday beginning on Sunday, June 6th and ending Sunday, August 29th from 11 AM to 3 PM located at 5611 East State Street. Number four, the Inclusion Pride Party, which is scheduled for Saturday, June 12th from 11 AM to 11.
 uh pm the event will be held at 211 elm street lot 7 south main south side of state street to chestnut street number five is the approval of the arts happening downtown this event is scheduled saturday june 26th from noon 10 p.m the event will be held in downtown robert specifically 315 317 market street number six recommends the alpine uh bros bros today
 The event is scheduled for Friday, June 30th, Saturday, June 31st from 11 a.m. to 8 p.m. The event will be held at 5909 East 8th Street. And number seven, the committee recommends approval of authorization to allow the zoning officer to file a text amendment for Article 80-009-D. And I think that's all we have, and these all go up for passage tonight, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Beach. So, Alderman, we have six items before you. Is there any discussion on those six items? Yes.
 Seeing no discussion on those six items, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Staying 1. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. No. Hanley. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Item 1, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 13 ayes.
 Thank you. Next up, we go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of sole source contract building permits and service request online portal to Infor Technologies of New York in the amount of $51,300 for software and $106,407 for implementation.
 And 46,500 for annual maintenance starting year two. The contract duration is two years. The funding source is the general fund technology fees. Number two, the committee recommends approval of a change order at the Rockford Watch Factory to Hussar Abatement of Franklin Park. The original contract was 77,000. There's a change order of 34,500 with an amended amount of 111,500.
 The staff recommends approval of the change order to perform additional interior work that includes a clean-out of all loose debris, non-structural, non-historic interior components that will continue to deteriorate and litter the building if not addressed. The funding source is the U.S. EPA cleanup grant. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the Edgebrook Phase III water main replacement to N-TRAC.
 In the amount of $874,032.50, the contract is estimated to be completed by July 1, 2021. The funding sources, the water replacement improvement account. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of engineering agreement Davis Park floating dock improvements to fairgrounds.
 In the amount of $28,500, the project is estimated to be completed in 2021. The funding source is the state DCEO rebuild Illinois grant funds. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the resolution to take RFPs for the streetlights in distressed communities service provider. The funding source is the traffic division operating budget.
 any time venita number six the committee recommends approval of the acceptance of the dceo rebuild illinois capital grant award for downtown streetscape improvements in the amount of 120 000 the grant does not require a cost match however the city is planning to utilize
 Approximately $100,000 that is programmed in the 21 through 2025 capital improvements sidewalk and active transportation program chapter for downtown sidewalk improvements to supplement these grant funds for an already planned streetscape project. The grant term is anticipated to be from June 1, 2021 to December 31, 2021. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the existing.
 Grant LIHEAP a program which is his low-income households to maintain their utility bills The PIPP is a percentage of income payment program The grant is in the amount of one one point eight million dollars and does not require a cost match number eight the committee recommends approval of the LIHEAP a
 State supplemental grant award which will provide funds for approved clients electric and or heating bills clients energy uses education staff training payroll and administration the grants in the amount of seven hundred and seventy nine thousand fifty two dollars and does not require a cost match the grant term is from July 1 2021 to June 30 2022 number nine the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the LIHEAP and
 HHS this grant award will provide funds for approved clients, electric and or heating bills. Client energy uses education staff training payroll and administration. The grant is in the amount of 1,519,453 dollars and does not require cost. Match the grant terms from October 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022.
 Number 10, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the weatherization state supplemental. This is a state of Illinois Department of Commerce and economic opportunity funding of local low income house, a home weatherization program. The grant will provide funds for approved clients weatherization work order clients, energy use, education. Contractors staff training, payroll and administration.
 The grant is in the amount of $301,084 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022.
 Number 11, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the DCEO Weatherization HHS Grant Award, which provides funds for approved clients, weatherization work order, clients, energy usage, education, contractors, staff training, payroll, and administration. The grant is in the amount of $768,314 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022.
 Number 12, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the weatherization Department of Energy. The program's goal is the same as the state weatherization program, but the funding comes from the federal Department of Energy.
 the grant will provide awards for approved clients weatherizations work order client clients energy use education contractors staff training payroll and administration the grants in the amount of 576 824 and does not require a cost match the grant term is from july 1 2021 to june 30 2022.
 Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the renewal of the IDHS-HP Homeless Prevention Program. The grant award will provide funds for approved clients, landlord, electric and or heating bills, clients, budget, education, staff training, payroll and administration. The grant is in the amount of $343,219 and does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2021 to June 30, 2022.
 And lastly, the committee recommends approval of the tax abatement on foreclosure properties located at 3915 East State Street and 2323 West State Street. I place this matter before you. You did a great job.
 I practiced. So we have 14 items before us. Council members, is there any discussion on those 14 items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On items 8, 9, 10, and 11, I'm wanting to know how much is allocated of each of those funds for clients' energy usage education. Thank you. Director Parkin, we are having a hard time hearing, so she may have to have you repeat. Yes, can you please repeat your question?
 I'd like to know how much of each fund is allocated for clients' energy usage education. Okay. I can provide those exact numbers to you offhand. I don't know them, but I do know it is a smaller percentage of the grant. Of course, the majority of the LIHEAP funds go towards payment of the bill, but there is a small amount of education that goes towards clients with regards to budgeting and usage. But I can get that to you, Alderman. Thank you very much. Thank you. Any other discussion on the 14 items that we have before you?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No on 2 and 6, aye on the remaining.
 item 1 13 eyes item 2 12 eyes 1 no items 3 4 5 13 eyes item 6 12 eyes 1 no item 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 13 eyes okay next we're moving to new business there's nothing under planning and development committee so we'll move to code and regulation committee alderman beach thank you roger on number one ordinance establish no parking any time restriction
 On the north side of Elm Street. Number two, ordinance yielding control of the portion of Hickory Lawn Drive requiring traffic from Lumball to yield the intersection of Hickory Lane Drive. Number three, four, five is all the same in yielding one street to another, which would be to Hickory Lawn Drive. If that's all right, may I continue? Number five, establish...
 Yield control requiring traffic on Parkwood Avenue to yield prior to intersection of Hickory Lawn Drive. Number six, an ordinance establishing no parking anytime on the west side of Eastgate Parkway from Broadway to Colorado Avenue. This would be extending the parking restriction of no parking anytime on the west side of Eastgate Parkway from Broadway to 135 feet south of Broadway. Number seven, ordinance.
 Approving an amendment of the City of Rockford Code of Ordinance regarding electric scooters. Number eight is an ordinance approving a modification of existing liquor license to add a different business partner as a 10% shareholder at 1025 Fifth Avenue. Number nine, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the tobacco store at 3818 West Riverside Boulevard, Suite 133 and 136. Number 10.
 Number 10, an ordinance approving a special use permit for planned unit development. Is that not going back? What number, sir? Number 10. Number 10 has been laid over for 60 days or it could come back if the public comment is complete. We don't need to deal with that. Number 11.
 Ordinance approved especially was met for Alder you haul truck rental at 529 519 West State Excuse me, West Jefferson number 12 in ordinance approving the amendment of chapter 3 of the city of Rockford liquid ordinance and number 13 And arts approving the dedication of access easement number 1140 research Parkway. These are all for passage runner. Okay Director Myers
 That item 13 should not be on the agenda. That was on a previous agenda. Okay, so you have only items 1 through 12 and item 10 has already been laid over so now we have 1 through 9 and then we have item 11 and 12 which we're voting on now. Is there any discussion? on items 1 through 9 and 11 and 12. Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg.
 Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Hanley? Aye. McNeely? No, and seven aye in the remaining. Items one through six, 13 ayes. Item seven, 12 ayes, one no. Items eight, nine, 11, and 12, 13 ayes.
 Excellent. Those items pass. Next, we are going back to Alderman Kevin Frost for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving the development agreement for downtown streetscapes and handsmiths with the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau. Number two is an ordinance authorizing and providing for the issue not to exceed $4 million for the Waterworks Revenue Bronze Junior Lean of the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties for the purpose of paying the costs associated.
 improvements to the water work system of said city prescribing all the details of said bonds in providing for the collection segregation and distribution of the revenues of said system for the payment of said bonds number three is an ordinance approving the sale of city-owned property at 12106 Avenue to Ryan Smith of Rockford in the amount of $1,000 and number four is an ordinance approving the 2020 supplemental appropriation ordinance I place these matters before you
 Thank you Alderman Frost. So we have four items before us, Council. There's four items. If there is any discussion on those four items, none. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Hanley. McNeely. Aye.
 items one and two thirteen eyes item three twelve eyes one no item four thirteen eyes thank you those items pass next up uh we moved officers reports to the end uh for those uh so before we begin officers reports for those aldermen who have
 been reelected. If you would like to say some comments about your reelection and also farewell to some alderman, you certainly can do that at this time to those who will be leaving council
 We have a time provided for you a little bit later on in the agenda. But for those aldermen who will be remaining on and would like to make some comments either about their reelection or in the next four years that they have, or if they would like to make a comment about an alderman or more that are leaving and bidding farewell, you can certainly do that at this time. So with that, is there any officers reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I would like to first acknowledge our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I give him thanks for all that is good and true. I know that my battles are the Lord's. I am grateful that he has honored me with another victory. I thank the voters of the 13th ward for continuing to put their trust in me to represent them. I am honored. I say goodbye to the aldermen that are leaving and thank you all for your contributions to your wards and to the city.
 Wishing you all the very best in your future endeavors. And I say welcome to the victorious aldermen that are now a part of this body. I look forward to working with you and learning from you. I believe that the next four years will be very different than the past, for there has been a major shift in our beloved country and state.
 It is my hope that our beloved city will join the country and state and embrace this new and fresh change. There is a lot to be gained for Rockford if the new and old leaders accept the future and leave the past behind. Let the city grow by the will of the people, not by manipulating them. Let all of the citizens and areas of the city flourish and not be contained.
 There are new members, there's a new member for the school district. I congratulate her and look forward to much needed improvement in the district. I look forward to seeing African American principals in the schools once again and coaches as well. I hope that this body will assist the school district to move forward by not voting for police in schools.
 I am excited about the future for this country, the state, and the city. We are at a crossroad with the wind at our backs. Let's take the high road and move Rockford, all of Rockford, forward. May God continue to bless this country, state, and city. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any other officers' reports? Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. I am hopeful for you.
 in love with this great city called Rockford, Illinois. I'm grateful that I've been given the privilege to continue to serve the residents of the 10th Ward in our community. I'm grateful for my wife, Sonia, and my children, Lori and Jody, who have continued to stand by my side for many years. I'm grateful and thankful for the city staff that make it possible for us to move forward in serving the constituents.
 I do want to publicly congratulate and welcome the new alderman who will begin serving our community this evening. But there are many of our friends that will be leaving tonight and greatly missed. There's a big family down here. Vanita, Ann, I love you. You know how much I care for each one of you for the years. You will be missed. Natavia, blessings to you, my friend. And Ginger, too soon, but we understand. And thank you. I wish there was some way, Your Honor.
 to keep the retired aldermen engaged in some kind of advisory board so that we could all continue to benefit from the many years of experience they bring to this city there are very few people that are given the opportunity to serve our great city in the way that i have and with a thankful heart this evening i want to again express that i do not take this honor for granted most of all
 As I said 40 years ago, I'm grateful that God has given me privilege to extend his hands and his feet to the ministry of this elected office. The scripture tells us that whatever we are to do, no matter whatever it is, to do it all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we are dependent on him and his strength. So my friends that are leaving, God bless you and your family. May he give you strength and journey as you go ahead.
 You will not be forgotten. And God bless the new ones that come on. And thank you, Your Honor, for giving us a chance to say a few words this evening. Thank you, Alderman Beach. Alderman Rose, did you have your hand up? About four years ago, I ran for office. And one of the reasons I did was because I had an experience where I wanted to have a friend of mine and her kids together.
 to have a safe and pleasant community that they live in and one of the things that i lost sight of was the fact that every kid should have a safe and and good community that they live in and so uh the kind of legislative agenda
 I think moving forward at least that I'll be promoting is looking forward to doing that with every young person and giving them an opportunity. And those opportunities include continuous support for things like Rockford Promise, continuous support for areas that have been long ignored. And really to address that idea of Rockford, which has been historically the tale of two cities.
 where that story ends now. And that's one of the great things that I think moving forward, we start promoting. I want to say thank you to all of the people that I've got a chance to work with. Vanita, your vigor, especially around the Rock Valley College initiative,
 It has shown me so much on, you know, sometimes fighting those losing battles are worth fighting to continuously fight those battles. Natavious, I told you earlier, you're like a brother. And so I look forward to continuously working with you in the community. And you've been a mentor to me and a neighborhood advocate for our community for so long and
 you know, that kind of commitment that you've made to our community. I hope you kind of mentioned to me, when I mess up, I better get a phone call from you. So I can't say what you said. And then Ginger, I...
 Just having the opportunity to work with you side by side in the ward. And I know I'll see you at different family events and things of that sort. But just getting the chance to work with you. I hope you consider looking at other positions because you did a great job. But thank you to all those outgoing aldermen.
 for the work that you've done. We're going to miss you. And for the new aldermen that are coming in, we're looking forward to getting to work and doing some great things. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. Well, I'm not going to be as eloquent as the rest of them. I'm just going to speak from my heart. From the very beginning, I've called myself an accidental alderman. It was not a goal of mine. I was an activist. I'm still an activist. My heart is in activism.
 But somehow I ended up here. This is where my ward put me and I am so very grateful that they've shown faith in me again to represent them for another four years. So thank you to the 8th Ward for your support and for being with me in all that we try and achieve. I want to say a really big thank you to city staff for all that they've done. Whenever I call, they're there.
 i want to say a thank you to all the board members that are leaving i've learned something from each and every one of you but this one right here i'm an activist she's an activist she's coming along with me she's not running off anywhere am i correct yes i've already got plans for her so she has been there in places i've been that other people didn't show up she's been by my side and i noticed that
 And I thank her for it and she's been kind of a mentor to me whether she knew it or not So i'm not saying farewell because we're going to be together But thank you to everyone. Thank you other officers reports alderman frost. Thank you I would like to bid farewell to uh, the four outgoing alderman Alderman, hanley you came into some very heavy shoes to fill you were thrown into the fire quickly and fiercely and um
 You did a fantastic job of filling those shoes and doing well for all your constituents as well as adding value to our city council. So I want to thank you for that, wish you well. I've known Ann Thompson Kelly since 1997 when I was a young city rockford attorney. And she was showing me some ropes back then and she never gave up on that. Is that where you got the gray hair? My hair looked different back then. Okay. She may have contributed some of them there.
 You were still probably in great. But Anne, you've done a great job. You've always been an advocate for not just your ward, but the city as well. We've attended the Illinois Municipal League together and you added value each and every time you were there. And not only are your constituents of your ward gonna miss you, but we're gonna miss you here as well.
 Alderman Irvin, the same goes to you. We've had some great conversations here after City Council in the last four years and unfortunately not with COVID. But I really appreciated getting to know you and learning more about you and seeing you grow both professionally and as an alderman. And I wish you well in your future endeavors and I know we'll be reading about you soon.
 Then there's Vanita. Vanita has been my left hand, not my left wing, my left hand since I started eight years ago. And Vanita did a very great job of shepherding me and helping me and always being there to ask the questions. I tried to explain the same to Chad, but Chad just never kind of caught on to that.
 But, Benita, we've been involved in obviously, I'm also going to miss the fact that I'm losing the only other lawyer here, because Nick doesn't count, because he's not in the administration, and I can't get around with him sometimes. But,
 but but we've had a great chance to uh both both out here uh in closed session um at the iml and uh in in some mediations we've we shuffled through the city with and i've always appreciated your your legal values your legal skills uh as well as just the um the
 As mentioned by Bill, the zealously in which you represented all residents of the fifth ward. And I know Derek's not here, but getting the fire station that you worked tirelessly on, your efforts to redevelop South Main Street and all of your residents in a variety of projects.
 And I'm going to miss all of the tough questions that you ask. And sometimes when I'm trying to possibly get out of here quicker on F&P, and especially when saying I have a question or another question, but that's really what we're here for, and those questions are very important. And hopefully our new Alderman will take heed to that.
 Ask as many questions as you possibly can here in the well and in your committees because it serves you well learning How the city works and how you can make a difference. So thank you. Oh, yeah, I got reelected. Um, I Forgot about that again. Yeah, that's when someone runs against you and you have to go door-to-door. We'll talk later. Um, I
 But it's an honor and privilege to continue to represent the residents and citizens of the Fourth Ward. I'm humbled by the chance to continue to represent the Fourth Ward and also get a chance to work with all of you and the city staff makes it so much easier with our constituents to really help out in getting frustrated and sometimes hard questions answered. As well as the whole city administration, including the mayor, who used to sit next to me, but that's a long time ago.
 And I want to thank
 Most importantly, my wife, who ended up being my campaign manager this time around. We made it through a long season of campaigning, a long winter. My family, who was scattered around, but still I would call and bother. And I just want to really  and I had some great volunteers, and I wanted to thank all the volunteers, especially one in particular, Susie Murray. If you're watching, thank you, Susie, for really helping out with so many tasks. So thank you so much. Thank you.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Any other comments? Alderman Tunberg, and then I'll go over to Alderman Quinones. Thank you, Mayor. Alderman Hervey slipped me an envelope earlier to keep this short so she could continue to be the lengthiest-talking alderman.
 So I will try to keep it short, Vanita. I want to thank you to the third ward and all the residents for re-electing me. It is truly an honor. I'd like to thank my wife and kids for sticking it through. To the incoming aldermen, get ready. There is plenty of things you might miss and it's unfortunate, but we have a city to run and make it a better place.
 Alderman Hanley, thank you for stepping up. We had plenty of lengthy conversations our wards butt up to each other and boy, you you have the best interest for this city and appreciate all the work you do and what's been said and hope you get involved in a in another way and I
 Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly, our many times spent in the Signal Hill meetings together. And, you know, our awards also butt up to each other. And thank you for the leadership that you've shown through that time. Appreciate our time together during that. Alderman Irvins, thank you for your time on council. I really applaud also your Christian faith.
 and hopefully that will continue to flourish and may the best be with you ahead alderman Hervey where do I start boy it is it's been an honor to get to know you and
 We've had some lengthy conversations on the phone, and fortunately not on the floor, so you all could go to work the next day. But when you get Alderman Hervey and I on the phone together, watch out. No one would want to be on that call. It's a good thing you don't get charged by the minute.
 So, but it has created a lot of insight for myself and others on the Council. You'll be greatly missed, but just know that I'll be here to try to take your, try to pick up your slack if Frost lets me, but I will continue to be the, I'll take the place, continue to be the punching bag for some of the other aldermen on Council. So I'm willing to take that, so.
 Thank you and again thank you to the Third Ward for the re-election. Thank you. Alderman Quinones? Yes, I just want to make this short. I want to wish all the leaving aldermen good luck in the future. It was a pleasure working with you all. Aldermen Hanley, Irving, Hervey and Thompson-Kelly. I also want to mention another alderman that's not here but Shirely.
 He really taught me a lot and I got a lot of respect for him. And I want to thank the people at 11th Ward for giving me another four years. I really appreciate that. And good luck again to all the Naughty Men. Thank you.
 Alderman Logan and Alderman Durkee. I just wanted to say thank you for your service to Alderman Hanley, Alderman Thompson, Kelly, Alderman Hervey, Alderman Irvins. I think we all know here that it's not it's not me It's not us. It's it's not me. It's we And there's a lot of service aspects that go into this job It's a really big job and I'm proud to serve with all of you and I'm proud to serve as
 our entire city of Rockford because I think we all have the best interests of Rockford here and I'm excited for the next four years, but
 Alderman Hanley, I know that you did a remarkable job in just coming in like that. And our dear friend, Alderman Beck, who passed away. I was gone during that time, but thinking about what you had to step into and how you handled a very engaged 12th Ward was pretty remarkable. So I thank you for that. And I think one of my favorite emails this whole winter was,
 the bipartisan garbage solving that we did this winter here in the throes of January. So we'll miss you, Alderman Hanley. And then Alderman Thompson-Kelly and Alderman Hervey, too. I was telling Ann beforehand.
 that I remember, like my old, she's passed away now, my Aunt Martha Logaman, she'd tell me all the old war stories from many years ago, and to me they were just fun stories. But for you, you're actual literal trailblazers, and I deeply commend you for your service to not only this body, but to the city of Rockford, and to our entire region too.
 And Vanita, I don't know if you, I got a special thank you. I don't know if you remember when I called you up, I was just some kid out of the blue, and I had a paper to write. It was a graduate paper, and it was about public policy. And this is such your kind heart. You took about 25 minutes.
 out of your day to just answer some of my questions. But I think, yeah, you were like, oh, you're Martha's nephew. So I still remember that, and I appreciate that. And Alderman Irvins, your perspective here on council and some of the insights that you drew were appreciated by this body. And our two young families, we will still certainly be in touch, and I appreciate the work you've done for the sixth ward. I also wanted to say, again, thank you to the second ward. I look forward to...
 forward over the next four years to working with the second ward. Again, it's not me, it's not us, it's we, it's all of us. So looking forward to the next four years, but thank you, you know, for outgoing aldermen for the wonderful service from myself, you know, for the city of Rockford. So thank you.
 Thank you alderman turkey. Thank you. Um, likewise, I like to wish Godspeed to the outgoing alderman Is the sentiment of the United States a purpose unum out of many one and one of the things I enjoy about City Council One of the things I've learned and appreciated from our council members is the that we all at the end of the day pull for the best of the city and
 And your talents, your advocacy for the wards, advocacy for the city is remarkable. It's outstanding. And we may disagree about certain things, but at the end of the day, we care much about the city. I started as an alderman some ten years ago or whatever it is. Benita Hervey was one of the people I talked to a bit on and off about the goings on of the city. I always appreciated her perspectives.
 When it came to that so I it is a remarkable group truly and you will be missed and missed the exchange and and the debate there's a verse in the Bible that says iron sharpens iron and
 And as we hit each other, as we debate, and as we consider things, only good things come out of that. And so far, the spirit on the council has always been one for best for the city. And we've made some great progress. And it's been a joy. And...
 And likewise, with me representing the First Ward, like all the aldermen, it is humbling to put your name on a ballot and then at the end of the day somebody has taken the time to trust you to represent them in government. There's very few more humbling experiences that we enjoy.
 And it causes great, you know, it's a great responsibility. And sometimes you're sleepless about a few things. But the job is easier because of these folks, too.
 And the stuff that we learned from the staff between fire, police, development, finance, and even public works. I mean, I never knew that there's a pitch in a sewer line that is only two inches over 200 yards across Perryville. I mean, these are the things that they teach us. And based upon their ability and their patience to teach us, we're able to make great decisions. So this is a great group. We have a great city. And the strength of Rockford...
 It's not so much here, it's in the citizens. We have a great city with a lot of great people, and it's truly an honor to work in the council, to work with all of you. And welcome to the new council members, and look forward to working with all you folks. So Godspeed to you folks. Thank you, any other officers? Seeing none, okay. Next we'll move to the next portion of our agenda, which is an inauguration portion, and...
 I just would like to, Alderman Hanley, could I have you come forward please? We get to embarrass you a little bit. So as many of you know, Alderman Hanley came in after we lost a dear friend, a legend on council. That wouldn't be easy for anyone to come in under those circumstances. You add to that that we were absolutely in the midst of a global pandemic, something our city has not seen in over 100 years.
 Then you add to that as many aldermen mentioned the 12th Ward one of the most active and engaged wards that we have in our city And you stepped into This position so seamlessly you've built relationships immediately with administration with staff With council members, but most importantly with citizens and you just I just can't say enough of how you stepped in and were able to and
 Managed through all of that with all the craziness that was going on. You did it really wonderfully Just want to also say that I think when you look back and I would echo some of the other comments I
 You certainly should be involved in, and I know you are already in many ways giving back to our community, but you've done a great job with public service. Your citizens are fortunate to have you. This body was really fortunate to have you. And I just want to say a sincere thank you. So, on behalf of the city, we'd like to provide.
 provide you with this plaque that recognizes your work for and Presented with great honor and recognition for the year of service and dedicated service to the citizens of the city of Rockford So thank you on behalf of this body and all of the citizens of Rockford. Thank you for your service Of course I am or be this nervous so thank gosh I wrote something down I
 So when I kind of think of my time here as an alderman, one word really comes to mind and that's gratitude. I'm just grateful and thankful to be able to have had this opportunity and to be able to serve with all of you out here. So first I would like to actually thank the mayor for this appointment. You showed confidence in my ability to represent the 12th ward.
 You've been a great communicator and your love for Rockford and your dedication for Rockford is like really inspiring. It truly is and that's one of the major things that I'm going to take with me when I leave. So from the bottom of my heart, thank you for your service and all that you do for our city because I know it can kind of seem like a thankless job. But I thank you very, very much. Secondly, to all my aldermen, fellow aldermen, you guys have been welcoming.
 helpful, kind, really every single one of you. And a special thanks to my fellow caucus members, Alderman Durkee, Thunberg, Frost, Beach, and Joe who's not with us tonight. But all my questions, you guys always answer the phone. You guys were great, thank you very much. And then third, I would like to thank the city staff most of all, not once,
 where my calls met with like any sort of annoyance.
 or impatience. Rather, you guys always treated me with respect and the staff was always willing to help me when necessary. And I really believe that that's the city's strength, is your staff. So you guys work tirelessly every day to make this place a great place to live, Rockford. So again, I just want to thank all of you who have helped me with this experience and you've made it really enjoyable for me.
 um into all the new coming aldermen if you have any kind of questions or complaints please call alderman rose he's always available to help you yeah but but truly thank you guys good luck also just want to recognize uh state's attorney uh jay hanley's with us this evening so thank you for being here and thank you for your service alderman irvins come on up
 Alderman Irvins, so appreciate the service and dedication that you've provided to the City of Rockford. I want to say just a couple of quick things. One, you've obviously improved a number of things in the ward. One for certain is pedestrian access and safety, adding additional sidewalks into your ward and much-needed areas. The second is we have approved an 11th Street corridor study, which is 
 you are an ardent advocate that that is one of the main corridors to our community and it needs to be improved. And you fought rigorously to get that and just want to say thank you for doing that. And thank you for pushing always for the betterment of your citizens and adding such thoughtfulness to your comments here on council floor. And I just want to say a sincere thank you for being willing to serve.
 I know personally serving with a young family is never easy, but you did it with grace and just wanna say thank you to you and to your wonderful family for their service as well to our city. Would you like to share a few words? Oh, one second. We're gonna provide you with a plaque. This is a plaque presented with great honor and recognition for four years of dedicated service to the citizens of Rockford. So thank you for your service.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. And I just want to say thank you to everybody here. I'm so blessed and so honored. You know, I never anticipated on being here. And to be honest with you, I didn't anticipate on living past the age of 29. And so all of this was new. This is my first term and I'll do it again. But something that I learned is that my life operates in seasons and I can't settle anywhere. I have to
 I have to continue to move forward as the Lord instructs me. But I can definitely tell you that you haven't seen the last of me. Where I'm going, I actually just accepted a position at YouthBuild and doing some great work on the west side of Rockford, developing a whole training center. And so I'm excited about that. I just recently graduated.
 was a part of a church plant for two years now. We're up and running and that is thriving as well. And so I know the word of God tells us the greatest among them is those that serve. And I'm looking at a horseshoe of people that are alderman, honorable men and women who serve this city day in and day out as well as city staff and so,
 I'm just, I'm really honored and blessed to have shared in this experience. I'm honored at the fact that, uh, the six ward constituents would trust me with this task. Um, cause it is big and it is, it is, it's hard. It's not as easy as it looks and, uh, I'm just grateful. I'm really grateful. Uh, yeah. Thank you. Next up Alderman Hervey. Alderman Hervey. So, uh,
 alderman hervey you've provided 12 years of really unparalleled service to our community so i want to say first thank you for that i think it's been touched on that you are never shy of sharing your opinions
 or asking really difficult questions. But I think to build off of what Alderman Durkee said, each and every time, all of those made us stronger and all of those questions and thoughts made us better. If they were on council floor or if you were talking to us by the phone, all of it made us a better city. So thank you for all of that. When you look back, and I know I'm not gonna touch on everything that you were able to accomplish, but four things really come to mind for me
 And I'm not even gonna bring up ATC because alderman Hervey's gonna speak next and this is a kid-friendly show Morgan Street Bridge South Main Street reconstruction having a brand new fire station built In an area that absolutely needed it and not more than just a fire station more than just infrastructure It's what all of those represented and what it will lead to and I think you're starting to see those pieces start to connect all the way down
 That wouldn't have happened without you. So thank you for that. And the last thing I would say, just from me personally, and I think Alderman Frost touched on this as well, right when I got on council, you were one of the first people to contact me and sincerely walk me through this process. And if it was late at night or early in the morning, take the time to...
 First, educate me and then even you even let me talk every once in a while and listen to me and said, yeah, yeah, it's not like that, son. It's like this. And but educate me through that process. And I you've been so kind to me personally, to my entire family. I just want to say thank you. Obviously, the fifth ward is far better off now than when you first were elected.
 And I think arguably our entire city is. So thank you for your advocacy and your diligence and the voracious way that you come to every council meeting and every interaction. And also I should mention the advocacy you have for neighborhoods and for their standards. Thank you. Would you like to share a few? Oh, whoa. I keep forgetting the main thing.
 So we have a key to the city for you. We also have a plaque that says, from 2009 to 2021, your leadership and dedicated public service to the citizens of Rockford, Illinois, is recognized and honored. Your contributions towards the betterment of our community are greatly appreciated. And I could not echo those words enough. Would you like to share a few words? Have you ever known me not to? No.
 First of all, thank you to everyone. I'm gonna start with staff, and I did promise to keep it short so that we're not here till midnight. My competition has the nerve to clap yes for the longest win.
 to all the staff i always know they say if you start to single people out you make someone feel left out so i started writing cards to each of you because each of you has has touched me in different ways but i have to say todd you were the best not mistake that i ever made when uh todd was going to be promoted to city administrator um
 i i said i gotta go to lunch with them i gotta talk to him i'm just not so sure he has that quiet countenance but what people don't see is is that drive that's underneath
 Not many people could accomplish all the things that you do. I mean, that's just a simple fact. What he knows, what he accomplishes. And I was sort of the holdout at the beginning. And after the lunch, I came around and I said, no, I think I see something there. I missed what I saw because it definitely bloomed into the best city administrator I've ever seen. He's just amazing. And thank you so much.
 all the conversations. I used to wonder how he could get some of the memos and things written that explain complicated matters after he spent three hours on the phone with me. I just didn't see how he could do it. So I want to say thank you. I'm not going to go to everybody. I just can't because I'll be here all night. But to every single solitary one of you, you have just been... I said I wasn't going to cry, but...
 You've been absolutely wonderful and amazing. I do want to say something to the Rockford Police Department because I think it needs to be said. We've been through some tough times, some really tough times, and we're going to go through some more. But don't ever leave your job or come to your job thinking that you are not loved and cared about.
 I changed some of the diapers of the young men on the Rockford Police Department. I won't say who the brothers are, but I used to take them home from church every Sunday, and I'll be damned if I'm going to let somebody harm them or anyone else. When someone tries to harm me, I call you and you respond. And by the way, just so you all know about Station 3, that was strategic. I can literally roll down the hill of Clifton Avenue in a minute.
 be right at Station 3. When I call the ambulance, it's not even two minutes. They're there in 1.46 minutes. So, I mean, that was strategic, but it also did some real good stuff. And that was probably one of the happiest things that I saw because if you notice, not long after Station 3, we got the first full-service, non-government-backed clinic, fully private clinic, Swedish-American.
 a River West clinic right down the street. That was strategic also. I can roll my wheelchair straight down the hill and be right at the doctor's door. And I did switch my medical care there. For all of the Alderman, I'm not gonna go to each one of you, but you all know how absolutely fantastic you were. Sitting next to Kevin has been
 not just because he's another attorney, but it's been a lesson. It really has. He puts up with Chad, he monitors Chad, he keeps Chad in line. It's a huge job, but he does it very well. The one person I have to say something to just very sincerely is Frank Beach.
 When I first came on city council, I wanted somebody to give it to me straight. I don't like party lines. I don't like political parties. And I couldn't find anybody to do that. Everybody kept giving me the Democrat view. And I wanted the view.
 And Frank and I just started talking one day and he started to explain something. And I thought, wow, that was factual. That was fact-based. I had no idea what his political affiliation was. But Frank has been my mentor. He has been my friend. My brother that we lost a couple of years ago was in the Salvation Army program two or three times.
 And he met Frank at one of the Sunday sessions, and he was so proud. He was so proud that you knew the name Hervey, and he never forgot that. The demons won in the end, but Frank, he just loved that. And the work you do with the Salvation Army for the city of Rockford for so many causes saves lives. And I want you to know, he may have lost his, but it saves lives because there are many more people
 who survived because of the work that you do and to everybody else on City Council the work that you do for Rockford the work that you do for the city all of our staff people from legal to our camera folks who make sure that the community can see to our City Hall pages who get all the stuff to our desk every week and to all the administrative staff and people who aren't here
 Sometimes when people say a prayer, they always remember fire and police. And I want to ask that people start remembering public works. More people died in trenching accidents than in all the others until advocacy for people like us, the people around this horseshoe, the people in those staff positions, got better standards and better protection for trenching so that,
 excuse me, mud walls didn't cave in and kill people when they're trying to fix our water pipes and make sure that we have electricity. So thank you to everyone who does that work. And they used to have a phrase, keep on trucking. And I want everybody who's on council, Gabrielle, I can sleep well. I don't worry about Fifth Ward. And I'm so happy those phone calls will be coming to you.
 I have a little care package for you. And, yeah, there's some things you'll definitely need, especially the eye drops. These folks can go on forever. So thank you all very much. Can you honestly imagine being on a call with Alderman Hervey and Alderman Thunberg? Wow. My phone does not have that much battery. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. So, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, I hope this evening, as you're 
 as you're here, that you're also really taking a great sense of pride in tonight's swearing-in. You are the first African-American woman to serve on this council. And this evening, we will be swearing-in four more women. None of that would have happened without you breaking down barriers, so I just want to say a sincere thank you for the work that you've done.
 If it is the West Gateway Coalition, if it's Auburn Street Business Association, if it's Signal Hill or the countless other neighborhood meetings, you are always there, always a strong voice, and always an ardent advocate. I would say growing up in Signal Hill, I got to see you in action before I ever even thought of running for an office. Yeah.
 If someone, by the way, if you want to see how loved an alderman can be, go to the Auburn Street Business Association and ask them their thoughts on Alderman Thompson Kelly. And I think you are so loved by your residents because.
 not only are you present because that is a huge piece of it, uh, but you are truly a voice and not only a voice, you put that voice into action and get things done on behalf of your residents and the businesses in your ward and across the city. I will also say, um,
 Everyone and this is specifically for the new alderman the existing alderman know better But if we don't get that Auburn Street corridor plan not only done but implemented and completed I'm putting it all on you Because I don't want to see and no one here on council who knows her well wants to see the wrath of ATK If that Auburn Street corridor plan does not get done completed implemented Kyle just got a personal call out. I
 but I can't say enough. You've really taught, I think so many of us through your action, how to be a public servant. Uh, and you've done it with grace, uh, at times and you've done it with my at other times, but each time you got the job done and just want to say a sincere, thank you on behalf of the citizens. Uh, so with that, we have a key to the city. Oh man. Um, we have a key to the city and we also have a plaque for you. Uh,
 for your service from 1997 to 2001 and your service from 2005 to 2021. 20 years of service. Your leadership and dedicated public service to the citizens of Rockford, Illinois is recognized and honored. Your contributions towards the betterment of our community are greatly appreciated. So with this we say thank you and ask if you'd like to share a few words. Thank you.
 It's been a good ride and I truly have enjoyed it. You know, I was looking around the room when everyone was speaking, thinking every last one of these chairs has changed but one, which is Frank Beach. Graham and I are the only two that's been here for the past 20 years, but with the staff
 I want to thank you, Mayor, for having the insight to pick out a staff that would bring the city forward, that would be workable with the individuals that have to move the city forward. You know, we have our niches, but all of you have heard when I disagree with you. And mostly I have agreed with you, and Vanita, I've already apologized to Todd for that point.
 But I want to thank all of you for your services that you're giving to the city in the future. And for the new alderman that's coming in, I think the city is going to be in wonderful hands. And I have to reveal a secret. Every year when we have our Thanksgiving senior luncheon, I always tell you we have an angel. And I have to say Alderman Durkee is that angel.
 that is always willing to give more money. Don't ask any questions. You know, I wanna do you, do that to your wife. He's always willing to give more and I do appreciate that along with the seniors. And I appreciate each and every one of you for what you've done to this city and what's going to happen. I think wonderful things are coming down the pike and I wanna be in the middle of it. So thank you again. At this time, I'm gonna call up
 Director Nick Myers for item B.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My name is Nick Meyer. I'm the legal director, and one of the perks of my job is I get to read the oaths of office for all of the reelected and newly elected aldermen and also the mayor. So I think in years past, we've done the oaths of office up here, but because of some capacity restrictions, what we're going to do is ask each of the elected aldermen to come back one by one, as I call you, and take your oath of office from the public speaking microphone on the north side here of the city.
 City Council Chambers, and you're welcome to have your family or friends stand behind you as we go through those oaths. And then we'll have you each sign your oath at the end of the meeting. So we'll begin with Alderman Durkee. Okay. So I ask that you please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, Timothy Durkee, do solemnly swear I, Timothy Durkee, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois of alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability Congratulations. Thank you.
 Alderman Logan, please repeat after me.
 I, Jonathan Logeman, do solemnly swear I, Jonathan Logeman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office as Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois as Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Here comes the real Thunbergs. All right, please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, Chad Thunberg, do solemnly swear I, Chad Thunberg, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office and I will faithfully discharge the duties of office of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, Kevin Frost, do solemnly swear I, Kevin Frost, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my abilities Congratulations. Thank you.
 All in favor, please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, Karen Hoffman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois.
 According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Good enough. Congratulations. Just so you know, I have my niece, Alex, who just got accepted into the School of Law at NIU. And she helped me on my campaign. Is she just here to check up on Nick, make sure he's doing everything appropriately? No question. He better be watching out. No question. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, William Rose, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you.
 Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, Franklin Beach, do solemnly swear... I, Franklin Beach, do solemnly swear... That I will support the Constitution of the United States... That I will support the Constitution of the United States... And the Constitution of the State of Illinois... The Constitution of the State of Illinois... And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office...
 I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of alderman of the city of Rockford, Illinois Alderman of the city of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my abilities Congratulations. Thank you Please raise your right hand repeat after me. I Tuffy Quinones do solemnly swear I Tuffy Quinones solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the state of Illinois
 And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability.
 Alderman McNeely, please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, Linda McNeely, do solemnly swear I, Linda McNeely, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of aldermen of the City of Rockford, Illinois of aldermen
 of the city of Rockford, Illinois? According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. I will go to the newly elected alderman in order of the award from fifth ward. I wanna turn this way. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, Gabrielle Tarina, do solemnly swear I, Gabrielle Tarina, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois.
 in the Constitution of the State of Illinois. That I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. That I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. A fifth ward alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. A fifth ward alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. We'll do six board.
 Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, April Prunty, do solemnly swear I, April Prunty, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of 6th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois of 6th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois
 According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Congratulations. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me.
 I, Janessa Wilkins, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois, and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of 7th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois,
 of Seventh Ward Alderman of Rockford Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my abilities congratulations thank you
 I think so. Okay. Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. I, Gina Meeks, do solemnly swear. I, Gina Meeks, do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office.
 12th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford Illinois 12th Ward Alderwoman of the City of Rockford Illinois according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability congratulations thank you please raise your right hand and repeat after me
 I, Mark Bonney, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of Illinois and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of 14th Ward Alderman of the City of Rockford, Illinois according to the best of my ability. Congratulations.
 I think we're ready
 Please raise your right hand and repeat after me. Very good. I, Thomas P. McNamara.
 Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And the Constitution of the State of Illinois. And I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office. Of Mayor of the City of Rockford, Illinois. Of Mayor of the City of Rockford, Illinois. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. You can clap.
 All right. I love it. Thank you, sir. Okay. Exciting night for so many, and just want to say a special thank you to those who are outgoing. Again, just thank you for your service to the city, and a special thank you to your families as well. At this point, I'm asking for, is there a motion to adjourn Sine Diek?
 We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? With hearing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, have a wonderful night before we further the next 30 seconds as we bring back another group. Water went down the wrong pipe.
 So I would call those newly elected alderman to come take your seat. Okay, good evening again. We'll call to order us back to city council for our regularly scheduled city council meeting for Monday, May 3rd, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Logeman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Here. Here.
 Runtee? Here. Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Present. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Meeks? Here. McNeely? Here. Bonney? Here. 14 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum for this really busy agenda. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion and we have a second. Anyone want to discuss that? Good. We're off to a great start.
 All those in favor say aye. Those opposed, again, congratulations to all of you for winning your elections and especially those newly elected folks. We're really excited to be working with you and to move our city forward. Hope you have a wonderful night. New council, if you could just bear with us, we're going to just take one photo as a group. It'll take one second.