One nation, under God, in the name of liberty and justice for all. Clerk, please call the roll. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Hear it. Wonderful. We have a quorum. So could I have a motion to approve the journal proceedings for... Wonderful. Any amendments or changes to the journals? Okay. All those in favor, say aye. Aye.
 All opposed? No? Okay. Journal entries have passed. We will have public speakers today. We have three of them. I will remind the public speakers that each speaker has three minutes to provide us their information. We will begin with Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of John, the 15th chapter, the 13th verse, it says, "...greater love has no one than this, that he lay down his life for his friend."
 what I want to speak about tonight, a poem for veterans. I want all veterans here to please stand up. It is the veteran, not the preacher, who has given us freedom of religion. It is the veteran, not the reporter, who has given us freedom of the press. It is the veteran, not the poet, who has given us freedom of speech. It is a veteran, not the campus organizer, who has given us freedom to assemble. It is the veteran, not the lawyer, who has given us the right to a fair trial. It is the veterans,
 not the politician who has given us the right to vote. It is the veteran who salutes the flag. It is the veteran who serves under the flag. It is the veteran who has and will protect this great country, the United States of America. I want to thank all veterans for your service and bravery you extended to protect our freedom. May God bless all of you for many more years to come. I also want to congratulate all
 the women and men who I graduated from high school and college. I want to congratulate my great-great niece who graduated from the University of Chicago. I also want to congratulate my young friend who used to live in Fairgrounds who is graduating from the United States Navy Academy. And I told my friend, Alderman Beech, that I was going to show him a picture of a man who was the most decorated veteran in Vietnam. His name, and you got on the Internet,
 From President Lyndon B. Johnson. He was a rebel rat just like me. And I also have some jobs because if a man don't work, a man don't eat. That's why I'm retired. So I want you to let the people know that they're hiring. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Next public speaker is John Brantley. Thank you.
 Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our aldermen and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Proverbs 27 says, with all the problems and concerns a leader has, it can be easy to overlook the very people who most deserve attention. Faithful employees, volunteers that work in the hood, the people who stand behind you, who work hard to help you get the job done, deserve to share in your success. Be sure that in all your worrying and planning,
 and organizing, you don't forget the people who are helping you the most. I'm going to skip back to not talking about Donald Trump today because I know they haven't talked about him enough this morning.
 So these past week I was at a meeting I learned about the Community Action Committee Board and had a couple of positions open. I called the mayor office to get more details about this position. Mayor Tom McInerney informed me that I need to talk with George Davis from the Human Resource Department. Also, I called my alderman, Mr. Chad Thornburg, and asked him the same question. They both thought that it would be a good idea that I follow up on this position.
 I had a meeting with the director of the Human Resources Department on Friday that lasted over an hour. I learned that the Community Action Agency of Boone in Winnebago County makes significant contributions towards reversing negative economic and social indicators in our city and region.
 He showed me three CA board member groups and explained what they do. That this was started back in 1964 formed by President L.B. Johnson, was in office at the time fighting against poverty. Being an elected precinct committeeman and a community advocate, this is what I already do. And I have a strong working relationship with the churches in Beverly Hills, Rockton, Pecatonica,
 and as far away as Elgin, Illinois. This is a win-win situation all the way around. I look forward to going through the next few weeks, the steps that I will need to take to get on this board. I want to thank Chad for coming out to our community block party at Fairgrounds Park. I see us working together and not about what party you are in. At the end of the day, it's all about the peoples in the city that we serve.
 Today we had over 200 people to come out at the Fairgrounds Park. That was because we had three films at the same time, one being William Stokes' brother-in-law that worked for 32 years for the city, David A. Burke, an administrative clerk, plus two other young men, 122 and 120 years old. That's why when I spoke and I talked about this is more than having brass and hot dogs and playing music,
 this is about going out to rebuilding our city around peace and rockford that you need to hear our voice and our concerns i think it worked outside the box when it comes to working with my people i will still be able to do the things that i do in the community or would like just to be or forced to be a figurehead but not just be sitting at the table it's not one day that goes by that i keep hearing from the
 peoples in the grassroots and they tell me the last two years keep up the good work we see everything everywhere you go and we see see what you are doing we like we like what you are doing and keep up the good work when i was out there working the election 98 of the doors i knocked on
 They knew me and I didn't know them. And I want to thank you for giving me this time to speak. And I also want to recognize the fact that David may not be here with us today, but he will always be with us in memory. He was very close to me. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Next public speaker is Diana Rose Walker. Good evening.
 This is a day that the Lord has made. We rejoice and are glad in it. I acknowledge each leader in their respective positions and my citizens in the gallery and at home. Each morning, we are bombarded with negative images emanating from our national capital, our state capital, and local community. Yes, we face challenges, but we are recovering from a negative malaise at a rapid pace daily.
 Thankfully, amid the dark clouds are images of a brighter day. This evening, I want to highlight one of the bright images, a jewel in our community, which I've been blessed to serve with since 2007, specifically West Gateway Coalition, which was birthed from the Wheaton C. Department of Justice Initiative. In 2002, the federal funding ended and many local participating organizations disappeared.
 I thank God that as a founding member, core group of five citizens who chose to continue working on the progress of the Weed and Seed Initiative. This was an arduous process resulting in a democratic selection of a name, West Gateway Coalition, showcasing the West Gateway to our city. West Gateway Coalition service areas encompass the following boundaries, Auburn Street to the north, Preston to the south, Kilburn to the east, and Pierpont Avenue to the west.
 We are an incubator organization whose core mission is to create a vibrant community which fosters empowerment of residents through diversity, collaboration, economic growth, stability, social responsibility, civic engagement and safety. To date, we serve as a catalyst organizing four neighborhood associations, namely Andrews Park, Church School, Willis Lemon and Zion West. Our goal is to establish nine neighborhood associations.
 One of our associations, Giant West, has a viable contract with the City of Rockford, has established a 501c3 status, has an after-school tutoring program, and has implemented lawn mowing and snow plowing business, which recruits and hires individuals with felony records. In just five years, the West Gateway Coalition has obtained 501c3 status, established a scholarship endowment with the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois,
 Our current endowment balance in just two years is $49,570.85. Our scholarship will focus on residency and civic engagement. Our first award is expected to be in the 2019 to 2020 academic year. Currently, our members serve in organizations of Alignment Rockford, the American Heart Association, Carpenter's Place,
 Crusader Community Health, Northern Illinois Food Bank, Project 1013, Rebuilding Our City Around Peace, Rockford League of Women Voters, the Rockford School District, Salvation Army, ShareFest, Transform Rockford, and the Veteran of Foreign Wars. Our key collaborative community partners, which we couldn't do this work without, are the City of Rockford Administration, Fireman's Fleet,
 Home Start, Jeremiah Development, Northwest Community Center, the Order of St. Francis, Rockford Housing Authority, Rockford Police Department, Rockford Rotary Club, United Way, and Wayne Seeds. Yes, we started with five members, but what we're doing is an example of the effectiveness of community collaboration serving as a viable template for empowering citizens,
 restoring neighborhoods and a spoke in the wheel which transforms Rockford into a top 25 community by 2025. Because of your support, we continue in enhancing our great community. Thank you for supporting our efforts to create excellence everywhere for everyone. Thank you. So thank you to the public speakers this evening. We will move right along to petitions and communications.
 I have three items under planning and development. Number one, a memorandum from Andrea Hicks, housing rehabilitation.
 Rehabilitation specialist. I need rehabilitation. Regarding the development assistant agreement with Longwood Plaza LLC. This was referred to Planning and Development. Another memorandum from LaFakeria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau, also known as RECVB. Their quarterly report for physical year 2017, quarter three, which encompasses January through March 2017.
 This will also be referred to planning development. And lastly, a memorandum from Thaddeus Mack, building code official regarding proposed properties for demolition using the approved ranking system. This will be referred to planning and development. I believe that that list is already available for the aldermen ahead of time, correct? It will be available on Wednesday. Okay. Thank you. Those three out of Jeremiah. Thank you, Alderman Durkee. And Alderman Chiarelli.
 I've got five items this evening. The first item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda, and the second item is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda. Both those meetings will be held on May 16th, and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on May 22nd.
 The third item is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the amendment to vacation ordinance 2016-27 for alley line along the west and north sides of 709 Dickerman Street. Fourth item is a proposed ordinance to authorize the sale or delivery of alcoholic liquors in buildings owned and operated by the Rockford Public Library pursuant to Illinois Liquor Control Act.
 The fifth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager, regarding upcoming special events which include Rockford Brewfest and St. Edwards Fest. All those items will be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. We will move right along to proclamations.
 All right, this evening we have four proclamations, and if Kyle Saunders will come on up as we proclaim National Public Works Week. All right, Kyle. Good to see you. Whereas public works services provide in our community, public works services provided in our community are an integral part of our citizens' everyday lives, and whereas the support for...
 whereas the support of an understanding and informed citizenry is vital to the efficient operation of public work systems and programs, such as water, sewer streets and highways, public buildings, and solid waste collection, and whereas the health, safety, and comfort of this community greatly depends on the facilities and services provided
 And whereas the quality and effectiveness of these facilities, as well as their planning, design, and construction is vitally dependent upon the efforts and skill of public works officials. And whereas the efficiency of qualified, dedicated personnel who staff public works departments is materially influenced by the people's attitude and understanding of the importance of the work they perform.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 15, 2017 to be National Public Works Week.
 National Public Works Week in Rockford, Illinois, and encourage all citizens and civic organizations to acquaint themselves with issues involved in providing our public works and recognize the contributions which public works officials make every day to our health, safety, comfort, and quality of life. Kyle? Thank you, Mayor. Good evening. For those of you I have not had a chance to meet yet, I'm Kyle Saunders, Water Superintendent
 Public works is such an all-encompassing arena. From forestry to snow and ice, water, storm water, and engineering, just to name a few, our dedicated staff encounter a multitude of scenarios and circumstances and do a fantastic job while doing so. It's evident, especially today, as I'm sure you're well aware, with our engineering group recently winning project of the year for the rails to trails bridge project that converted a 900-foot railway into a pedestrian-friendly destination downtown.
 Public Works has and will continue to play a pivotal role in our community's vitality, and it's great that we spend this week acknowledging these contributions. Thank you very much. Thank you, Pat. Next up, we have National Transportation Week, and accepting this proclamation will be Steve Ernst and Pastor Herbert Johnson. And to anyone else, it's more than welcome to come on out.
 How are you? Hi, I'm Wigel. How are you? Good. Good to see you. Good to see you, too. Yeah, thanks for being here. Good to see you. Hi. Good to see you. Nice to meet you. Thanks for being here. Hi there. All right. Whereas throughout the history of Rockford, our progress as a city has been closely tied to our progress in transportation, and whereas Rockford and its need for mobility has grown over the years.
 During the 1800s, this need was well served by the rivers and railroads. Today, our transportation system also includes motor vehicles and aircraft, and whereas the generations of men and women of Rockford who pioneered these systems stand high in the ranks of Rockford's outstanding citizens, and whereas the current demographic changes in our urban area, along with our energy problems,
 present a challenge to transportation industry to innovate and to provide rapid, dependable, safe and efficient transportation to meet the needs of the future. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, the Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2017 to be National Transportation Week in Rockford, Illinois and urge all citizens to recognize the significant role transportation plays in all of our lives.
 Steve, would you like to say a few words? I would. Thank you. It's great to be back in the friendly confines. It's been a while since I've been here. With a fellow board member, Pastor Herbert Johnson and I, on behalf of our board chair, Gary Maserati, we want to kick off National Transportation Week and highlight both our passengers and our employees. On the passenger side, we're going to be giving a small safety gift to our riders during National Transportation Week.
 And this Friday we'll be hosting a luncheon for the best of our employees. We're fortunate to have three of those employees here tonight that are award winners. Our fixed route driver of the year is James Gladney. Our paratransit driver of the year is Jamie Nelson. And our maintenance mechanic of the year is David McClain.
 We'd like to invite members of the council and members of the community that maybe are not familiar with Rockford Mass Transit during this special week to make an appointment, come down to the facility, maybe take a ride on the bus and learn about all the great things that RMTD is doing in our community. And we certainly look forward to working with each of you in the years to come. Thanks very much. Congratulations. Wonderful. Thank you.
 Next proclamation is National Police Week. Rockford Police Lieutenant Dan Watton will be accepting this, along with retired 911 dispatcher in Northern Illinois, multi-jurisdictional honor guard, Board of Directors member Doug Passmore, as well as Rockford Park District Officer in Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week committee member Lisa Hodges. How are you? Great to see you. Great to see you. Okay. Okay.
 Whereas the Congress and President of the United States have designated May 15th as Peace Officers Memorial Day and the week in which May 15th falls as National Police Week,
 And whereas law enforcement officers are guardians of life and property, defenders of individuals' rights to be free, partners with our citizens in our efforts to lower crime, dedicated to the preservation of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, and willing to make the ultimate sacrifice of their own personal safety to serve our citizens.
 Whereas our community desires to honor the valor, service, and dedication of its own police officers to express our thanks to the men and women who help us leave our homes and families in safety each day and guard our loved ones, property, and government against all those who would violate the law.
 And whereas our community desires to honor the fallen officers who have, over many years, given the ultimate sacrifice of their own lives to protect our citizens and our community, now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 15th through May 21st, 2017, to be National Police Week.
 Honorable Mayor, Aldermen, Alderwomen, men and women from the community, I ask that we take a moment and bow our heads in a moment of silence in recognition and remembrance of the fallen officers who have paid the ultimate sacrifice for our community, as well as their families and loved ones.
 My name is Lieutenant Daniel Watton from the Rockford City Police Department. I stand here before you today also representing Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week and as the President and Commander of the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard. I'd like to first say thank you for the proclamation.
 Today in the United States, some 900,000 law enforcement officers put their lives on the line for safety and protection of others. They serve with valor, distinction, and with great success. Federal statistics show in 2016 that violent offenders, sorry about that, that violent offenders, I just lost it.
 The violent crime rates in the United States increased 5.3%. The protection comes at a price. However, each year there are approximately 60,000 assaults on law enforcement officers, resulting in nearly 16,000 injuries. Sadly, over the last decade, an average of 162 officers have been killed in the line of duty, which equates to one every 63 hours. Throughout the history of the United States, more than 200,000 law enforcement officers have made the ultimate sacrifice.
 In 2016, officers were killed in the line of duty, and the National Lima will be recognizing and honoring these individuals in Washington, D.C. Of these four, we're from Illinois, which were just recognized. This is a 10% increase from 2015, and Illinois currently has the fourth highest amount of law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty throughout the nation, with a record total of 1,026 officers.
 The National Memorial in Washington, D.C. features four bronze lions, two male and two female, each watching over a pair of lion cubs. Below each lion is carved a different quotation. It is not how these officers died that made them heroes, it's how they lived. In valor there is hope. The wicked fleeth when no man pursueth, but the religious are as bold as a lion. And the final one that is carved on these walls is the story of America
 of a continuing quest to preserve both democracy and decency and to protect a national treasure that we call the American Dream.
 These quotations represent those that have given the ultimate sacrifice and also those that still dedicate their lives protecting our communities. The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee was established in 1980, five years prior to the creation of the National Peace Officers Memorial Events. The Northern Illinois Police Memorial Week Committee represents six different counties, including Boone, DeKalb, McHenry, Ogle, Stevenson, and Winnebago.
 Each year this committee along with the Northern Illinois Multi-Jurisdictional Honor Guard hosts events to remember, honor, and recognize those 31 officers from the six different counties who have died in the line of duty given the ultimate sacrifice and attempt to keep their community safe. A hero remembered never dies. Honor, recognition, and memory. I'm going to pass it off to Officer Hodges for our events this year. Thank you again, Mayor, Alderman, ladies and gentlemen.
 This year, Thursday night, May 18th at 7 o'clock, at Temple Baptist Church will be our service this year. They will be hosting. They're located on East State Street. They're right next door to our beautiful Dalquist Park. The lovely Jody Beach is going to be accompanying our Rockford City officers singing this year. And I will be singing, and we are going to have a time of reflection, a time of memory, of celebration.
 and giving honor to those officers. You know, we don't want to forget those. And the families are going to be there, so your presence, we would really request that you could be there if at all possible. It means a lot to them to let them know that we haven't forgotten.
 We also have the events at the mall as well. So we'll be there Friday, Saturday, Sunday. We've got fingerprinting for little ones. So if you've got little ones, family members, we have that. We have face painting that we're going to be doing. There's going to be different demonstrations by the bomb unit is going to show how they use their robot. And we have canine demonstrations as well. So there's a lot going on. And on Sunday, we have Chief's Day.
 So if you can come out and, you know, be out there with us, we'd love to introduce the public to you guys as well as being a backbone of our community and doing what you do to help support us as law enforcement officers. So, again, I want to thank you and hope you can make it out for our events this week. Thank you. We do have a special invitation for the committee in the.
 members of the head departments. We do host the Police Memorial Breakfast Ceremony, which is a full honor ceremony out at Tabala Shrine Temple. It is by invite only, and all of the committee members, please, and all their men and all their women, we ask that you try to attend that event. We do pay full honor tributes, and we do read all 31 names of the fallen officers. That's going to be Friday, 8 o'clock. It's this Friday at 8 o'clock at Tabala Shrine.
 Thank you. Thank you again, Mr. Mayer. Okay, next up is Mental Health Month, a proclamation for Mental Health Month, where we will have Xavier Whitford and Mr. John Burns. How are you? Great to see you again. I'll give that to you. Mr. Burns, I'll give that to you.
 Okay. Whereas mental health is essential to everyone's overall health and well-being, and whereas all Rockfordians experience times of difficulty and stress in their lives, and whereas prevention is an effective way to reduce the burden of mental health conditions, and whereas there is a strong body of research that supports specific tools that anyone can use to better handle challenges and protect their health and well-being.
 And whereas with early and effective treatment, those individuals with mental health conditions can recover and lead full productive lives. And whereas each business, school, government agency, health care provider, organization and citizen shares the burden of mental health problems and has a responsibility
 to promote mental wellness and support prevention efforts. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, hereby proclaim the month of May 2017 to be Mental Health Month. Would you like to share a few comments? One moment.
 Good evening. Most of you guys see me here with a different hat as central services manager, but I also have the privilege of serving on the NAMI board. May is Mental Health Month, and NAMI of Northern Illinois is a grassroots advocacy group representing families and people affected by mental illness in our community. NAMI provides services like NAMI Connection, family support groups, teen support groups, education.
 education and advocacy. When it comes to mental health it's highly important that we're educated, informed, and involved.
 One out of five in the United States lives with a mental health condition. Half of all lifetime mental health conditions begin at the age of 14, and 75% by 24 years old. But early intervention programs can help. Ninety percent of those who die by suicide have an underlying mental illness, and we had 45 suicide deaths in Winnebago County last year alone.
 The best treatments for serious mental illness today are highly effective. Between 70 and 90% of individuals have significant reduction in symptoms and improved quality of life with the right treatment and support. NAMI believes that everyone knows somebody and together we can make a difference. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, moving right along, we will move to new committee reports.
 Alderman Durkee. 1. The committee recommends approval of an amendment to the agreement among the County of Winnebago, City of Loves Park, City of Rockford, and Rockford Memorial Hospital, now known as Mercy Health, regarding City of Loves Park Riverside special assessments. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that item up for passage. Is there any discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, we'll ask the clerk to call a roll. Bogeyman, Toomber, Frost, Irvins, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. McNeely, 12 ayes, 1 abstain. Item passes. We'll move on to codes and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli.
 He recommends approval of the plat number two of Mercy Health Riverside campus subdivision number two the kid in the committee recommends approval the proposed sale of a portion of cedar street locked that request comes from Mackey properties LTD at 802 cedar street to purchase a portion of adjacent city on lot to cure and encroachment of their shipping deck.
 The item number three is a committee recommends sustaining the LTAP board that recommends to approve the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant at 298 North Mulford Road and 5880 East State Street. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances for both those items, number two and number three, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, I'll have the clerk call the roll, please. Thank you.
 Abstain on number one. Aye on two and three. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. All items pass. Moving to Finance and Personnel Committee Report. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Three items. First is the vouchers in the amount of $5,364,743.99. Yes.
 Second is the approval of the fine reduction request at 1915 20th Avenue. And the third is approval of the fine reduction request at 4914 Dexter Street. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, I'll have the clerk call the roll. Yerke. Aye. Logeman. Thunberg. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely.
 Chiarelli, 13-Eyes-Round. Okay, item passes. Moving along, we will move to officers' reports. I'll just, if you don't mind, give my brief report from here. I want to make everyone aware that this Friday at 3 p.m. over at the University of Illinois School of Medicine, there is the Fire Department Survivor Event.
 One of the most touching events I think you'll attend as an alderman or any affiliate to the city of Rockford. So I'd urge all to attend that event if you can at 3 p.m. this coming Friday over at the University of Illinois School of Medicine. Any other officers' reports? Alderman Frost. Thank you. I just wanted to make a comment about, I know it was mentioned last week and now that David Burks passed away last Tuesday, I had the pleasure of meeting David Burks yesterday.
 20 years ago when I worked for the city of Rockford in the legal department. And David was a guy with a kind soul, a really great sense of humor and added a sense of calmness to a rather chaotic courthouse office that the city maintained for a number of years before coming over to city hall.
 I saw David leave the building on May 1st, the day we were all sworn in, and unfortunately didn't get a chance to speak to him, and he passed a week, a little over a week later. But David worked for this city for over 32 years as a team member, I believe, starting out in another department and ending up in the legal department for, Carrie, you have to correct me on this because he was there before I was, but probably over 25 years, and if...
 His smile, his wit, his sense of humor was just something that really made, selfishly made us all a joy to be around David because he really had that great spirit. So I would ask that we take a moment of silence for David Burks. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I, too, offer my condolences to the family of Mr. Burks. I know that the mayor was there in the previous year. Morrissey was at the service as well. I also learned today that there was a passing of another city employee, Sue Wadley? Her daughter. Wadley?
 Her daughter passed away, and I just want to recognize them and also offer condolences to the family. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toomer. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to mention also it's National Bike to Work Week, and I couldn't tell. Thank you.
 This is actually from Art Deli, which is in the Third Ward. Great shirts there. But it's with one of the intentions of Rockford being a top 25 city by 2025. It's to encourage healthier living. We all know Rockford has an obesity problem.
 I love food. My wife is a great cook, so I'm always battling the bulge myself. But I rode here tonight, and it was a great ride, and I encourage everyone today, or this week, if they can get on their bike, if they don't have one, borrow one, buy one. But making Rockford a more bicycle-friendly city, if you can bike to work this week, I'd highly encourage it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Alderman Toomey. Alderman Rose?
 I just wanted to recognize the work of two neighborhood organizations, the Northwest Neighbors and the Nesna Group in the 9th Ward. Particularly a gentleman by the name of Jason Thompson. If you get a chance to drive down Huffman Boulevard, it just looks gorgeous. And that's due to his work and the work of his friends that he's recruited in keeping
 the boulevard looking nice. I also want to also recognize our Chief O'Shea and the work that he was recognized on last week in chasing down a shoplifter from Target. It just goes to show that our leadership is out in the field working with our leaders here in town, and he needs to be recognized for that. Thank you, Alderman Ropes. Any other officers' reports? Okay, moving on.
 God, that was going so good. So good. All right. Legal Director Partridge has a statement he would like to inform us on. Give me one second. There you go. Thank you, Your Honor. It's my duty from time to time, actually quarterly, to announce to the council that we have received our quarterly payment from Comcast in the amount of $480,549.71.
 See, I should never have forgotten to call on you when you were telling us we got money. Man. Okay. Moving along to unfinished business. Committee reports laid over. Finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's a report recommending approval of the lease agreement between the city of Rockford and Ozinga Ready Mix of Concrete. I have placed that for passage. Okay. Is there a discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, I'll have the clerk please call the roll. To Urban. Urban. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 13 action. Thank you. Item passes. Moving along to appointments is Alderman Beck. Thank you, Alderman Beck. Thank you.
 Well, thank you. It's my honor to move that we approve the appointment of Todd Cagnone as city administrator and I would just make a couple of comments. It's been my privilege to work with Todd since I've been an alderman. I was elected back in 2001 when I was 23 years old and I think Todd was 22 at that time. Todd's just been a great asset I think for
 I've always been a reasonable person to work with, very professional, but just real. So I think it's a great move on your part to put him as our city administrator, and I really look forward to seeing great things from him and you working together to lead the city. Thank you. And Alderman Thompson-Kelley? Thank you, Your Honor.
 You don't know what I'm going to say, do you? I, too, want to make a positive comment in regards to the years in working with Todd and bringing the staff together. He has done a lot with morale and giving staff credit for the hard work that they're doing. And I hope that definitely continues in all the departments and morale continues to go high. So I do support you this time.
 Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I want to join in with the other aldermen and say congrats to the new city administrator. I've certainly enjoyed working with Mr. Cagnoni over the years, and I'm sure I'll continue to enjoy working with him. So best of luck. Thanks. I will just say thank you. I think I made a really good choice. No, um...
 I don't think there's someone who is as smart, kind, knowledgeable about the city, knowing this has wonderful relationships with key stakeholders and works as hard as Todd. So I'd certainly appreciate your support of Todd for city administrator. So clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Logeman. Toonberg. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose.
 Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes. Thank you. So that appointment moves forward, and we'll hear about that for the next year. Having unanimous support, thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 We're going to hear about this from Todd occasionally, that he got unanimous support. We'll be moving on to motions and resolutions to Alderman Shirelli. Your Honor, under Roman numeral 9B, one is the Festa Italiana, number two is the Rockford Marathon, and number three is La Familia dei Seri. Place those items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, I think we can just do a voice vote on that. All in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed say no. Okay. Item passes. Thank you. Moving along to finance and personnel, motions and resolutions. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Rumor no. 9C. Thank you.
 Got quite a few, I got 12 items here. Gotta read them in as quickly as possible. We have an awarded bid for concrete and cement materials to Point Ready Mix of McHenry, Illinois for an estimated annual value of $130,000. Contract duration is one year. Next is a bid for Oaklawn Avenue water main replacement to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford for their bid of $113,167.38. Next is award of joint purchasing contract for four ambulances.
 The fire service of St. John, Indiana for a contract total of $1,096,736 and includes necessary equipment for an individual cost of $274,184. Next is award a sole source contract for vehicle exhaust system for Fire Station 7 to Midwest Air Pro for a total cost of $54,130.
 Next is the change order for Geo-Policing Security Package to Midco of Burr Ridge, Illinois for an additional $69,159 and a revised contract amount of $412,625. Next is the change order for Fire Station Number 7 Rehab Project to Schmeling Construction Company of Rockford for an additional amount of $97,807.36 and a revised contract amount
 of $1,302,920.36. Next is a change order for GeoPolice in District 1 to Stenstrom, general contractor of Rockford, for an additional $11,508.
 And the original contract amount was $5,895,800. So the revised contract amount is $5,907,308. The next is an engineering agreement for construction inspection for East 8th Street lighting from Fairview Boulevard to Dempster Avenue to Chastain and Associates of Rockford for a not to exceed amount of $86,482.
 Next is the city-state agreement between the city of Rockford and Illinois Department of Transportation for federal participation and funding of the north Alpine box culvert reconstruction. City's estimated portion is $376,000. Total cost of the construction is estimated to be $1,880,000. Next is the tax abatement on foreclosure properties at 500 Fisher, 518 Fisher Avenue and 933 Woodlawn.
 Next is the award of bid for the Wellness Center roof replacement to distinctive roofing of Rockford for their bid of $104,992. And finally, we have the approval of the Finance Task Force. I place these items up for passage. Okay. Is there a discussion? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number eight, the East State Street lighting, the funding source of sales tax, exactly what sales tax are we talking about? Okay. Okay.
 That would be CIP sales tax that's budgeted in the CIP for this year. So would this be the same sales tax that we would use for any street lighting throughout the city?
 This would be the street, excuse me, the funding source used for any construction projects throughout the city. This, because it's lighting that is being done for a general stretch of main roadway, it's included in the CAP. This wouldn't cover ongoing or replacement of individual lights. That happens out of the traffic budget generally, the ongoing cost to rent.
 and supply energy that comes out of the traffic budget, but lighting as part of a broader construction project is paid for out of the CAP, and this is sales tax for this particular project. So staff decided that the street lighting was needed on East State Street? Or was it the One Mile organization that requested it? Once again, I'll ask Director Stockman.
 This has been in the planning stages for several years, and Alderman Beech was one of the proponents of this for the Miracle Mile group. The design has been completed, it's been out to bid, and now we're just simply hiring a agent to do construction inspection for this process. It's been, but again, it's been ongoing for, it's been in the works for a couple of years. Mr. Mayor. Would you like a follow-up? Yes, please. Sure.
 Since it's been going on for several years, I don't know if it was on paper when the city, when the previous mayor and the council made the decision to reduce street lighting throughout the city. But if it was, certainly I need to understand why we're doing that there. And secondly, East 8th Street is...
 Fairly well lit while we have several communities as well as other business districts that don't have half the lighting that This section of East 8th Street have so I don't intend to support this tonight I don't understand why we're using that money to put more lights there It's very well lit from what I can see when I drive through there compared to other parts of the city Thank you very much. Thank you Alderman Beach. I
 For the information of this council, that stretch has never had streetlights. The only lights that have been lit on that street have been from the businesses and their neon lights, period. So the lights that are going up are part of a long-term plan that the Miracle Mile has put in place
 And once the TIF was established out there, it generated several millions of dollars of new business in that area. And this is just something that's coming forth. We've also been trying to do business at East Dayton and Elk Time to get that intersection of about 50,000 cars a day revamped, and we're having difficulty getting that job done. So I really appreciate any support that we would have here to try to at least bring the first-time streetlights to that area.
 Yes, there are businesses there, and yes, when their lights are on, the neon lights, there is some reflection back out, but not like other business districts. Like for example, 7th Street has brand new lights on both sides of the street. They've had lights for years.
 I don't think that's a problem that we change that they upgraded the area it looks wonderful and as we go around the city to beautify what we do this is an appropriate thing to do and probably spend for my and it's been in this EP program it's not been some surprise it's been there to be looked at year by year thank you sir for letting me speak thank you Alderman Beach Alderman Beck Alderman Beach just said what I had planned on saying was that this this was approved as part of the overall CIP um
 Last fall so it's not something new. Okay. Thank you. Any other discussion alderman McNeely Yes, thank you Item number 10 The tax abatement for Fisher Avenue and Woodlawn Avenue. I would like to know how much of That is the dollar amount
 I'll turn that over to city administrator, Todd Cagnone. Thank you, Mayor. The address is a reference to...
 Two projects, 500 Fisher and 518 Fisher Avenue is related to the Valencia redevelopment agreement that we have with Urban Equities and the back taxes were from taxes due prior to the city taking ownership of the property when we foreclosed on our interest on the property. So that is to clear it out. I believe it's around $70,000.
 And Attorney Partridge can advise if I'm way off on that number. 933 Woodlawn, I don't know the exact amount on that one, but that is a blight reduction property, a property that was donated to us for demolition where we'll use the blight reduction program funds, the grant funds, to demolish the building. Thank you. Yes, a follow-up? Thank you.
 The Fisher property, so with the $70,000 or so rebate, how much more does the city, will the city have invested into that property?
 City Administrator? Thank you. So the city won't have any additional dollars invested in the property from when we foreclosed on our interest on the property. It's not uncommon that when we as a municipality take properties, there'll be past taxes that are due or past due. And then to clean title, we'll go through this process to abate past due taxes so that
 the city isn't obligated to pay them directly. So that's the process that we're going through is to bait the taxes from the county. Mr. Mayor. Another follow-up? Sure. Maybe my memory is incorrect, but I thought that the city paid money after the city –
 worked with the previous owner to take over that property and that particular owner was unable to move forward with it and then gave it back to the city for a dollar but we also had expenses that occurred at that time maybe I'm not remembering correctly, Mr. Mayor
 Mr. Cagnoni? That would be correct, Alderman. Prior to the city advancing the development agreement we have with Urban Equity Properties, there was a previous development agreement in which the city had provided funds upon a certain completion of the project, and I want to say that was in an amount of at least $100,000, but I would have to go back and review our file to determine how much
 monies we put in the project with the initial developer, but that was the emphasis for us to move forward with the foreclosure on our interest when the project was not developed and operating in conformance with the development agreement.
 Once we took control of the property, we then started discussing with developers the potential opportunity to redevelop the property and which led to the negotiations and ultimate development agreement approved by council for urban equity properties. Part of that development agreement was them getting clear title of the property. And so this is the process that we're going through to ensure that they have
 clear title and can close on their construction loan and advance the project forward. Is there further discussion? Alderman Frost. Just with respect to number eight, which involves the lighting along East 8th Street, it says Fairview Boulevard to Dempster Avenue, both here in the agenda, Your Honor, and as well as in the memo written by Mr. Vittner. And I believe it's actually Fairview Boulevard to Dempster Road. Dempster Avenue is another street in the city of Rockford that runs south of East 8th Street.
 off of Alpine and runs east and west and does not actually touch East State Street. So I believe it's Dempster Road is the road they're probably talking about. Mr. Taxman? I'm sure it was the Scribner's area. I just wanted to point out before we pass the resolution. I'm just amazed by your knowledge of the streets in Rockford. Thank you.
 You must have been biking to work today and zoomed in. Alderman Frost, you are correct. Dempster does run east off of Alpine, but as it comes around and intersects into East Lawn, it is still Dempster up to State Street on the south and it turns into Don Avenue on the north and that's the reason for the perimeters of the construction project being listed that way.
 I thought, I'm sorry, I thought Dempster Road was the road that hit East 8th Street, just east of the McDonald's, which I frequent not on my bike, but in my car. So I thought it was called Dempster Road there. I side with Mr. Stockman. Okay, any further discussion? Okay, I'll ask, without seeing any further discussion, I'll ask the clerk to please call the roll. Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach. Aye.
 Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 13 ayes. Item number 8 and item number 10, 12 ayes, 1 no. Okay, thank you. All items pass and...
 We will move along to new business planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item under new business, Roman numeral 10-8, an ordinance amending the agreement among the city, I'm sorry, the county of Winnebago, city of Loves Park, city of Rockford, and Rockford Memorial Hospital, and now Mercy Health regarding the city of Loves Park Riverside special assessment. Place that up for passage. Is there a discussion?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Turkey. Abstain. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. 11 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Thank you, Your Honor. Rule number 10B1 is an ordinance approving the sale of a portion of the 800 block of
 Cedar Street to Mackey Properties LTD at 802 Cedar Street. The second is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant at 298 North Mulford Road and 5880 East State Street. Place those two ordinances up for passage. Well, is there any discussion? Durkee. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose.
 Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. Your honor. Thank you, your honor. I have an ordinance approving the lease agreement between the City of Rockford and Ozinga Ready Mix Concrete. Place it up for passage. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. That item passes. I understand that we are fortunate enough to go into closed session this evening. Is there a motion to do so?
 I'm not making the motion. Wonderful. Clerk, please call the roll. All right. Thank you. Wonderful.