Alderman Beach, would you be willing to share an invocation with us? Thank you. Father God, we're grateful that we can pause for a moment and come to you. And thank you, Lord, for giving us life, giving us opportunity, especially to serve here in this community. Bless this council. Bless our mayor. Bless the first responders, those that serve the people. And Lord, especially tonight for those that are hurting and suffering and mourning the loss of loved ones.
 Be with us tonight, Lord. Thank you for your wisdom. We're grateful for it, and we pray now this in Jesus' name. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you, Alderman Beach.
 So this evening we have a finance and personnel special committee meeting as well as a full city council regularly scheduled meeting. We will begin before we get to finance and personnel with our public speakers. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back left that we'll ask you to use.
 And remind each of the public speakers that you have three minutes. You will hear a very annoying cellphone beep When it has been three minutes the first public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson senior
 The Bible. The angel of the Lord showed himself to Gideon and said, You are a brave man, and the Lord is with you. Gideon said, But pray, my Lord, is the Lord, if the Lord is really with us, why has all this happened to us? But now the Lord has cast us off and delivered us into the power of the Midianites. The Lord turned to him and said, Go and use this strength of yours to free Israel. It is I that send you.
 will be with you. Living under another's heel causes paranoia, self-hatred, hopelessness, self-doubt, anger, despair, and rage. The black community understandably reeks with hypertension, drug abuse, mistrust, and crime, and living under such oppression is a living hell and nothing seems to matter to many.
 But God knows the real black people, their capabilities and potential. Saying, you are a brave people and I am with you. Yes, there is struggle in life, but that does not justify evil people preying upon defenseless, poor and weak people. There is a day of reckoning. Answering God's call is this assurance, I, the Lord God, will be with you. And that makes all the difference.
 I made clear to this community that our group is saying to the Biden-Harris administration, whose existence would not be possible without black voters in South Carolina and Georgia for sure, that our request to cabinet-level departments, commerce, labor, education, HUD, transportation, et cetera, are to bypass local political and business leadership.
 send our funds directly to us, and they total something like in excess of $165 billion, and we will build our own sustainable communities. We will build our own sustainable communities of significant black business ownership, and that will free us from the disgraceful record of current and past leadership that ignores such progress for over half a century, particularly as pertains to Westside Rockford.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. Elmo Dow. Good evening. I said before you tonight is a request to support the Awakening Foundation's request for financial assistance from the city that will allow them to continue to seek solutions that will provide future opportunities for the youth of Rockford. I know some of you. I've had the privilege of working for the city of Rockford in the past.
 When I was hired by the City of Rockford in 2003, the problems the city faced are the same as it was then and in many situations worse. We talk about it, we point our finger at it, and then we stay as far away from it as we can and hope that we personally don't have to face it. It is one thing to hear the conversation and look at the headlines and come to the conclusion that the conditions in Rockford are tough,
 It's another to live in the situation in Rockford that are tough with little hope for opportunity and success. No one that I know of wakes up in the morning, looks in the mirror and says, you know, I think I will fail today and I think I'll be a bad person. They do, however, wake up and hope that today will be better and will be better than yesterday. However, most realize that hope is not enough and it takes actions to change and move towards a better day. I met Jaria yesterday.
 as someone suggested that she talk to me about her idea to create a training program that would help young African American girls succeed. I asked myself if this was just another idea from a person unwilling to put in the work, prepare themselves, jump through the hoops, overcome obstacles, and get told no, and get told it sounds good but it will not work, gets rejected, and still works hard.
 That is my test of who I will provide my time to. I met Jaria just, I would meet with Jaria just about every week and help her identify the players, connections, and activities she needed to do to make this work. I opened up my network to her and made introductions to people that could possibly help her. She went to the Saturday meetings in Chicago, Springfield, and other places.
 She met with the federal and state agencies, she met with the executive chefs in the local restaurants here in Rockford, she met with industry leaders and labor organizations. She took all the courses, got the certifications, and jumped through the hoops, and now she's here. The program developed by JAREA with the input and guidance from many might not change the city of Rockford as a whole,
 but for some of its citizens, it will create a path to becoming an added value worker. WebEx Assistant is enabled to save audio highlights. And businesses with maybe a future opportunity to create a business here. Those careers will create opportunities to have homes and raise families. And I don't know about you, but I bet on people and not things. Thank you, Mr. Dunn. Appreciate it. We've been able to solve whatever is happening. Okay.
 Next public speaker is Kathy Ulrich. Hi, my name is Kathy Ulrich. I'm a broker at key Realty in Rockford. I want to thank the city council for the opportunity to speak in support of the culinary school presented by awaken foundation and encourage you to support it.
 It's been an honor to play a role in the development of this project for the last four years with Jaria as a client And she's become my friend in the process I've witnessed complete and unwavering commitment to her vision to provide concrete help to the young adults And the youth in this community to help them obtain vocational training and support their adult lives off in the right track and
 I'm not used to public speaking, but I talk a lot. This model she's developed of help and funneling the profits back into her mission, I couldn't agree with more as a way to model that to the students also.
 watching all the parts of this vision come together from her obtaining her apprenticeship training status the workforce development funding partnership with the College of DuPage and district 205 just to name a few of them has been amazing and it's been an honor to open up my network and skills to help her bring this forward
 The difficulty has always been the funding of renovating the building and getting the commercial kitchen built out. We found a couple of different options, but we found an ideal location on our main corridor, centrally located so it can be supported by all citizens in this community, because not only will it be a training facility, but it'll be a restaurant open to the public that everybody can support.
 So I like the location, the access, the visibility. It is the ideal place, but it is not turnkey and needs repairs and kitchens, stations, and equipment needed for the proper training in the culinary.
 Can't think of one reason for anyone on this council not to support this program We talked about that. We need workforce development. I've sat at so many Presentations and this is it. This is the workforce development And I can think of hundreds of young adults or students that need this opportunity Deserve it and they need us to put our resources behind it. I
 I ask you and urge you to vote in favor of the funding for this and then construction can begin. Thank you Thank you. Our next public speaker is mr. John tack Brantley. Good afternoon. Good evening and mayor McNair I just want to make an observation. I Wanted to know this history we have six ladies all the persons and
 And we have one Hispanic, so that makes seven Auburn persons. And Chad, you're my brother from another mother, so you know you're one of us and we're heavy. So I just want to make that comment and just to find out if there is that history here for Rockford, Illinois. And hopefully that's not part of my three minute speech. I want to go into...
 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil. For thy art is with me, thy rod and thy staff comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of our enemy. Thou anoint my head with oil, my cup running over me.
 Surely graces and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Renewal turning point is a catalyst for changes within the city of Rockford. We seek to mobilize the community to address the common obstacles that affect the city, lower income youth population, and to build a positive future in and around our community and education, training, jobs, black on black crime and domestic violence. When people, when people,
 have trouble in school with the police, the court, domestic violence, black on black crime, they call Brother John. The have-nots trust, love, and love Brother John because they know he is not going to sell them out. We are in the middle of three civil wars. Paranoid people talking about the coronavirus-19, systematic racism, and the two main political parties plus the
 The biggest drug dealer in the world is the pharmaceutical giant. Case in point, pain killer, opium epidemic. Our people do not trust the system and once again, the system helped to make me strong and them trust and believe me before they would believe you or the system.
 I make sure that I do my homework before I open up my mouth. Just when you try to call me a liar and the truth come out that I was right all the time, you just reinforce the truth in me. Walk a mile in my shoes. Just walk a mile in my shoes before you're abused, criticized, and accused. Then walk a mile in my shoes. Representative Liz Cheney told the truth about...
 dictator wannabe Donald Trump that the election wasn't rigged and she also told the truth about what happened on January the 6th and then yet they still fired her. Right here in Rofford I asked a question about Johnson & Johnson vaccine and other vaccines and about the side effects and how many people have taken the corona vaccine without going into a whole lot of details and the
 I was blown off. It wasn't until three or six people got sick from the coronavirus or died from the coronavirus before they started recognizing that we have side effects with the vaccine. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Ms. Dorothy Redd. Welcome, County Board Member Redd. Thank you, Mayor. For those of you that don't know me, I am Dorothy Redd.
 from the county board and the county has done their part. And I'm here tonight to ask that the city, the council people here do your part. I worked for the Rockford Public Schools for 33 and a half years. And I know the struggle that our kids go through. Put yourself in a parent's place from a low income area. Say this might be your child or your grandchild that needs training. And it's here now for that. Our children,
 So many of them stay in trouble and they get in trouble because they don't have a focus. They don't know what they want to do. They don't have anyone to lead them. Now, you wouldn't want your child or your grandchild in that situation, would you? Ms. Jaria has worked on this program for a number of years, and I've helped her. Helped her recruit. She had to go out of the county to help these young people. We shouldn't have to do that.
 Is there a program here in town that offers culinary arts for our people, our young kids? No, not for the regular kids. There's one for special ed. Now if you're special ed and you have all kinds of problems, you can get into the program. But we need to reach out and help all of the people in need. And you know that we need this in the city. There are lots of restaurants here that need people working.
 And you got to have training. Back in the day, you could just get a job. You can't do that anymore. You got to have that high school diploma, GED, maybe some college. But everyone can't go to college. So they need some type of skill. Reach down in your heart, all of you, and see if you can vote yes for this program tonight. Thank you. Thank you. At this time, I'll turn it over to Alderman Kevin Frost to run the special finance and personnel meeting.
 oh thank you your honor i'll just stay seated uh i'd like to call the special meeting for today's date monday may 17th of the f p uh meeting clerk please call the roll ottoman logan tuber frost here wilkins here beach by president thank you
 There's one matter on the agenda. It's a resolution for the approval of the amendment to grant number ending in 191, homeless prevention. The amendment to the original grant effective dates July 1, 2020 will add $680,792 to the grant for a grant total of $1,024,011. The granting agency is the Illinois Department of Human Services. Is there a motion to approve? Motion to approve. Second. Second.
 Are there any questions or comments? Alderman Logerman. Director Parham, I don't think it was on council yet when this grant was initially passed. This looks very similar to the Treasury grant that was awarded to Winnebago County. I know it says homeless prevention. I guess ultimately it would satisfy homeless prevention,
 It's more for landlord. I mean landlords folks who are behind on bills that type of thing. So my question is Is it I mean this seems pretty similar to that US Treasury grant. Is that correct? Yes, that is correct Alderman Logerman This is actually the vehicle that the Illinois Department of Human Services used to get this funding out to communities that already had existing homeless prevention grants and
 So this is that funding from the Treasury Department that is going to specified communities throughout the state of Illinois. They utilized the existing grant agreements that were already in place under the homeless prevention grants.
 um in our grants portal this is identified as the direct as treasury funding so this is um the city's version of that rental assistance program so it aligns with the same boundaries that we have for the community action agency which is winnebago and boone county um but this these are treasury dollars um that are being expended labeled as homeless prevention by the illinois department of human services got it thank you are there any other questions or comments
 seeing and hearing them clerk if you can please take the the vote i'm on the logoman toonberg frost aye wilkins beach five eyes thank you uh is there a motion to adjourn all those in favor of nikki by aye aye opposed thank you this meeting is adjourned thank you mayor we'll give a couple moments so clerks can change over before we go into the city council meeting you good awesome
 Okay, we will call to order the City of Radford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, May 17th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Here. Alderman Loganman. Here. Alderman Toonberg. Here. Alderman Frost. Here. Alderman Tarina. Here. Alderman Pranti. Here. Alderman Wilkins. Here. Alderman Hoffman. Here. Alderman Rose. Here. Alderman Beach. Here. Alderman Keonis. Here. Alderman Meeks. Here. Alderman McNeely. Here. Alderman Banning. Here.
 It's 14 present. Excellent. So we have a quorum. Next, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council meeting held on April 5th, 2021? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor say aye. Aye.
 Those opposed? Excellent. Item passes. Next, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the special city council meeting held on April 12th, 2021? We have a motion. Second. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next up, we will go to petitions and communications. We have nothing under A, which is planning and development. So we'll go to code and regulation committee, item B, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have a few items. First item is zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 18th, 2021, and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting referred to codes and regs. The second item is a liquor and tobacco advisory board agenda for the meeting to be held on May 18th and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 24th, 2021, referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 Excellent. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 Number one is a memorandum from Anquanet Parnum, Health and Human Services Director, regarding the approval and acceptance of the COVID-19 funds. This is referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number two is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, Traffic Engineer, regarding an intergovernmental agreement for governmental body maintenance of traffic control devices. I think your three minutes is up. I'm sorry. Can I sit back down now?
 Sorry, which is between I dot and the city of Rockford that refer to the finance personnel committee Number three is a memorandum from Kyle Saunders public works director regarding the approval of an application agreement for ComEd energy efficiency program streetlights and distressed communities incentives Referred to the finance personnel committee number four is a memorandum from Angela hammer City Attorney Regarding an intergovernmental agreement with the rocker housing authority for police services this will also be referred to the finance personnel committee and
 And lastly, as a memorandum from John Weich, Contracts and Grants Compliance Officer, regarding the acceptance of a grant from the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board, this matter will also be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. And I believe Director McMyers has the Comcast payment information. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I just want to let the council and staff know that we are in receipt of our Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $425,368.00. That's all from me. Next up, we'll move to new committee report, Roman numeral 5, item A, Planning and Development Committee. Alderman Meeks.
 The committee recommends approval of a TIF loan agreement with the Wacom Foundation L3C for a $300,000 loan utilizing the East State Alpine tax increment financing redevelopment fund for the improvements related to a hospital Thank you, is there any discussion on that item before us we have one item before us alderman Beach Thank You Your Honor I
 We had quite a spirited debate here at the committee meeting last week, and I wanted this to be really clear to my council members around here and those that are in the chamber, that when you tie financing in with a program and ask whether you're for the program, and when you speak against one part of it, the answer is that you're opposed to it. And I would imagine that if we put this thing in two parts, program and financing, you might get a different vote.
 Because I want to tell you all here, I support this program. I think it's good. I think it's creative. I think the ladies have put a lot of time and energy into it. And I especially appreciate our councilman from the county, Dorothy Redd, and the $80,000 that the county put into it. At this moment, the city of Rockford has not put any money into it. A TIF is being suggested as a funding source. What's being proposed tonight is not the establishment of a TIF.
 but rather using TIF dollars earned by other developers. And as far as I'm able to determine, really the only thing that we have to really shore up and protect our money is perhaps some liens on equipment. And if that were to be the case, I hope it isn't, it certainly is not going to be back dollar for dollar. Usually when you buy used equipment, it comes in at 10, 20 cents on the dollar. So that gives you some idea.
 And if I am wrong for standing here talking about the financing end of this, then please forgive me. That's not my intent to be speaking against this program. But I think we all have a degree of fiduciary responsibility when it comes to funding to talk about it in terms of what will we get back? Will we ever get it back? And if we won't get it back, fine. And let me say this. From what reading that I've done, Your Honor, this funding mechanism called the L3C program,
 It's not designed to get money out of a TIF. It's really designed to have foundations funded. It's really designed for the 501c3 corporation, that's a 5% to fund these programs, because the truth of the matter is sometimes they don't work, and that's okay. A lot of times in businesses, we plan, we know things won't work. We're going to try it. There's nothing wrong with that.
 But the point of it is, all I'm talking about is TIF money that is used for, well, let me see if I can say it here another way. Please give me just a moment to find my notes. The primary focus for any TIF project is to enhance equalized assessed value, the EVA of property in question. And I've sat down in the council long enough to know that when TIF requests have come into this council,
 They've come in to say what value in terms of increasing EVA will this TIF bring? We know that there's a lot of goodness. It all looks good on the outside, and I'd agree with it. The appearance of property but not increase of value, this opportunity may increase sales and employment, which may generate income tax revenue but not increase EVA. And that's one of the basic tenets of a TIF.
 So when I stand up and talk about this, I feel like I'm all alone, like I'm some person that's opposed to this. I'm not. But I wish there was another way to fund this. I wish there was another way to fund it to protect the TIF in the events this doesn't work out. The TIF has all of the burden with no recourse other than perhaps some equipment to recover. So please, no...
 hear my heart. I wish there was a different way to fund it than to take it out of the TIF. Apparently, there isn't. I ask the Economic Development Department, how much really research have we done in terms of foundations and others to help bring this money forth? So I think that's all I have to say, Your Honor. You've been very kind. This Council has been very kind to let me speak. I hope you understand where I'm coming from.
 And I know that you will vote what's best for this community. I really mean that in my heart. But I am concerned about the funding. There should be a different way to have funded this project for the betterment of these folks that are going to put this together. And I wish them Godspeed. I wish them success. I hope it works out. So thank you very much for allowing me to speak, Your Honor. Thank you.
 Alderman Hoffman, did you have your hand raised? Yes. Thank you, Mayor. I happen to be reading an email right now from Odessa Walker, who's at RHA and in charge of all of our programs there. And according to this email, Ms. Crudup reached out to her, and it's about the fact that RHA now has an MOU with them, and they are going to be part of that new Jobs Plus program.
 So I don't know how that changes things. Are you her? I'm told that they gave her information that she could present to us tonight, if that's allowable.
 uh it is concerning the mou with rha yeah we we typically don't do that at city council meetings okay so we can't do that okay but at any rate rha is partnering with her wonderful that is good information thank you alderman frosted do you have your hand raised i had a quick question for mr franzen in addition to the awaken foundation that's going to get the benefit of the redevelopment of
 Commercial building is there going to be another business run out of this place director friends? There would anticipate that there would be a separate entity for profit restaurant that would co locate be subtenant of the. Of the space, and who's going to run that? So I would be, I believe it will be a miscreant up's father who would run the place. The place would be called Sonny's place.
 But that's not in the committee staff report, is it? So, no, this is supporting the redevelopment of the kitchen primarily for the use for the hospitality apprenticeship program. There certainly are some operational revenue streams that Ms. Crudup can utilize in partnership with 205 and, of course, this restaurant, which would also provide the experiential opportunity for the students.
 Any other questions all of them in frost? No, I just was gonna follow up on what alderman beats I feel the same way the almond beach I think I think the the foundation and the structure behind having a program like this to benefit at-risk Youth in our community is a fantastic thing as an alderman my role looking at the due diligence of the deal I
 Is a little bit concerning and troublesome, especially based on the information that Mr friends and just told us that there's going to be for the 1st time another business owned by her father. Run out of the same business or healthy health 3 C. So, that's just a little troubling in itself that we really didn't have that information before. I also asked about a personal guarantee on a project like this and was told it was the only guarantee was from.
 The L3C, which really isn't that significant. So I wish it could be done differently. If I had my way with it, the county kicked in $80,000, I'd propose that the city just give her a $100,000 grant and be done with it and support this L3C going forward to do all the good work for the community and just use $100,000 to support the L3C.
 out of the grant, as Mr. Cagnoni told us last week. This TIF has been used to help, although they were other businesses.
 Found out that really a tip can be used for a nonprofit or for an L3C. It doesn't have to just specifically be used for a business. So in the past, the grant money has been used. I think Mary's Market was mentioned. Alpine Inn was mentioned. Don Carter Lanes was mentioned. They're all established businesses in the Miracle Mile. This is not established yet, but I think it's a good program. You know, I just can't get my...
 Idea around putting $380,000 into a kitchen without really seeing any of the numbers or what really makes up that. I mean, the building itself is is worth probably. South of 200, but we're going to have a 380 kitchen and that's called being upside down out of the box. And I just, I just don't understand why it couldn't be done.
 For a smaller amount, and then maybe there'd be no loan at all. Maybe we could have done it differently with just a straight up grant and give the awakened foundation a true grant with no, no reason to pay it back. But I guess the ship's kind of sailed down down the road where it is today. So I'm not making a motion for that. I'm just, I'm saying that that's what that's how I would have proposed moving forward on it. And again, I just, I pause.
 With knowing information that wasn't formally presented to us, that if I hadn't asked the question, I would have known and the council would have known with respect to the idea that it's some sort of father-daughter duo. And having a for-profit business that I would presume is going to use the same benefit of the commercial kitchen that's being built for 380 grand.
 That's all I have. Thank you. Thanks alderman. Durkee. Yeah. Thank you. I actually equally find it disturbing that we're finding out that there is a for profit entity. Involved just a quick question to the for profit entity, secure a small business loan. Or make any attempt at their own financing for this project director Francis.
 For-profit entity is in the process of their financing now, but it should be noted that it would be a sub-tenant. So, you know, it would be a funding stream to the Awaken Foundation as the primary tenant of the property. So the answer would be no? It is in the process of the financing, so it does not have its financing 100% secured at this point. But what is it? Is it a small business loan? What is the financing source?
 So the financing will depend on the overall costs of the operation, but it would be anticipated that there's likely a loan aspect to it. Alderman Bonney? Just a question. It's interesting information that Alderman Frost brings forward, but I wonder if we don't already have a similar situation. Doesn't the...
 and i'm not certain but doesn't the indoor market benefit from from a tiff and don't they have a shared market that several for-profit businesses or shared kitchen that several for-profit businesses use and i know there's also a similar situation at stewart square although that redevelopment occurred so long ago i have no idea what the what kind of
 assistance there might have been for Stewart Square back, what, 20, 30 years ago. Director Franzen. Certainly, Alderman, there's a significant and complicated capital stack with the indoor city market. A portion of that is the commercial kitchen, which is utilized for a fee by entrepreneurs. Alderman Beach. Your Honor, thank you for letting me speak second time on this. I don't know if this is absolutely fact, but I have been told.
 that that business is going to be a nightclub with a liquor license, which is their privilege. But it raised a lot of questions to me. Is what kind of nightclub? Who is going to be there? How is the neighborhood going to be affected? Will there be adequate parking? And that's a small place to park cars in. And there's a lot of interest. And really the only thing that I could get is the fact, well, that's coming in later. And we can vet that at a later time.
 But the truth of the matter is it is a concern if it goes through because there are other questions that another business brings to this table that we must address. Thank you, sir. Yeah, I've never heard of a nightclub there, just for clarity. Alderman Durkee. Just a point of clarification. The difference between the city market and this is everything was up front. We knew all the details. This we do now. We don't.
 This is all new stuff and now it makes it very very gray. I have no idea what's going on now with this project Absolutely, none. I have no idea what i'm voting on any other discussion alderman mcneely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor director franz the father's business is not part of the the lc3 for the Other business that's before us Is it?
 director it's a separate entity uh not related directly to this and and i apologize if there was any confusion i i you know i believe i did mention there would be a co-located restaurant on the site uh at the committee meeting um but uh uh apologize for not making that clear but they are separate entities um incorporated and so they would be leasing space from the lc3
 That's correct. Thank you. Alderman Bonney and then I believe Alderman Tunberg. Thank you. Along the same line, what would be required, if anything, in terms of approval for the for-profit business to eventually open up? Would this come, would the for-profit part of this come back to the council in any way, shape or form?
 Thank you. And just because it was referenced earlier, the business plan for the four-property restaurant would not be what we would define as a nightclub under our zoning ordinance. However, it does have anticipation to apply for a liquor license. And so, you know, it certainly would come before through our LTAP process.
 and under the scrutiny of our legal and zoning and other divisions to Review that proposal and come to a recommendation. I believe alderman timber. Did you have a question? Yeah, actually some of them have been asked already. So thank you alderman for Asking some of my questions. All right, so let me just help me understand this kitchen will be used not only for the
 organization awaken but also by the Private entity director Francis. That's correct. Okay. Is there a Probably nobody like surprises on council at a time like this is an understatement I
 Are there any other and maybe this goes to uh, mr. Cagnoni as well Are there any instances that could be compared to this in the past within city of rockford? I know that alderman bonnie mentioned city market But is are there any other ones that we can kind of lean back on and do a comparison of any sort? Thank you your honor um, certainly the the
 the example shown related to the city market as director franzen said is somewhat complicated in regards to how the whole capital stack works but certainly there's a component that is a not-for-profit and they have for-profit businesses located within the same location
 uh... i believe director friends and did mention uh... last week when he made the presentation in regards to there being a a sub tenant restaurant for-profit uh... as part of the proposal quite frankly when we've looked across
 you know models across the country one component is the training program and the infrastructure that's needed to support it both as it relates to ongoing revenue source for job training which director franzen has identified through school district confirmed now this evening with with rha as well as workforce connection
 The other side of that is the infrastructure needs related to the rehabilitation of the restaurant, understanding its age in a number of years, that it's been vacant. But we did anticipate that there was, you know, the training component and then the operational restaurant component that are working with one another for this proposal. Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Mayor.
 Is there going to be any commingling of the such so these individuals who are being, who are going through the program would be at the expense of workplace? Or I'm sorry, workforce direct and also possibly some other entities that may contribute.
 Would these individuals be commingled in such a way that they would be working and making product for the private side to disperse to their customers? Or are they going to have their own employees that will be completely separate? And you know where I'm going on this. I wouldn't care for taxpayers' dollars to subsidize employees for a private entity necessarily. Right.
 You know, it's a little bit of a difficult question to answer, and I'll answer part of it. And I'm not certain if Director Franzen is made of a doctor. He joined the club, Dr. Durkee.
 You know the the primary thing item under consideration here is the the funding of the capital improvements for the Establishment of the the training program. That's what we're looking to stand up But we understand that they need to have additional revenue sources to offset the overall cost so that continues to be Sustainable, this is not a high profit enterprise We know that so the ability for a
 the owner to have a subtenant brings in that additional revenue. How exactly the training course works with the operation of the restaurant, Director Franzen might be able to answer that. I cannot answer that directly. Director Franzen? Thank you.
 Yeah, so if the question is, you know, is this for-profit getting free labor subsidized by the apprenticeship training, that's not the case. So the actual training consists of classroom and actual, you know, kitchen experience. But then there's on-the-job training in which not only this restaurant but other partners in the community would be employing these students and providing that training afterwards.
 Alderman Durkee, do you have your hand raised? That was my question. So these students are going to be employees as well, so they're going to be paid? Because there is going to be commingling. I can't believe that there won't be. So how do we know when the student's being a student and what hours are they working for the private restaurant? How do we know?
 Director Franzen. So that's done through agreements with their partners. So similar, it would be the same with the co-located as it would be for a community restaurant that would be participating with this program through an agreement and employing those students. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? No. Lilleman? Aye. Thunberg? Frost? No. Tarina? Pronte? Wilkins?
 Rose Beach No Keonis Meeks McNeely Bonnie 4 nos 10 ayes Thank you. Next up we go to Code and Regulation Committee Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have three items, actually five items. The first one is the committee recommends approval of the final plat number six of Rockford Crossing Subdivision.
 Item 2 the committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a hookah lounge in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 48 46 East State Street item 3 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for item a modification of a special use permit and
 To allow temporary outdoor storage of trailers, campers, vans and related items and 10 parking spaces along the eastern and southern borders of the property and be variation to increase the size of the maximum permitted wall. Mounted identification sign from 62 square feet to 107.1 square feet in an eye 1 by industrial zoning district at 4850 North Main Street item for the committee recommend sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval.
 And item five, committee recommends the approval of the pre-annexation agreement for the property located at 1203 South Meridian Road. I'd like to make a motion to lay over items four and five. There's a motion to lay over items four and item five. Is there a second? Second. Two aldermen have made a motion to lay over items four and five, so they'll be automatically laid over. So there's items one through three before you. Alderman McNeely. I'm sorry, Mr. Mayor. I...
 I'm not sure that I understood that we voted on all of the items under finance and personnel. Those are under petition and communication. I'm sorry. Sorry. Never mind. Okay. So we have three items before you. Is there any discussion on those three items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a brief comment again on number two. I represent the 10th Ward.
 The hookah lounge there is in the 10th Ward and the business district has expressed that they are not supportive of it. And for that case, I'm not supportive of it as well. Thank you very much. Thanks. Any other discussion on the three items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logan. Aye. Toomber. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Pronte. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. No. No.
 Keonis? I'm sorry? No. Meeks? McNeely? Bonnie? It's 12 ayes, 2 noes. Thank you. Those items passed. Just a reminder, please speak into the microphones as best you can and I'll do my best job to make sure I click them on and off.
 Alderman Beach. Maybe maybe I've got this confused. Was that vote for all of them? I didn't want to vote no on all of them. It was for all of them. I'm, sorry Well, you changed my votes then on uh committee report one Uh three that would be an eye two on no And the other two I guess are laid over. Okay, one two and three are the only ones who are voting. Yes
 Alderman Quinones. I just want to make sure I voted right on here. I want no on two and yes on one and three. Okay, so you said no for all of them, so that will change it for no on two and aye on one and three. Yeah, I was away from the speaker. Thank you. Thank you, sir.
 Next up, we have Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $8,378,607.06 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on May 10, 2021. Number two, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the Rock River Water Reclamation District addendum for the inclusion of Well 39-10,
 located at 7423 Springbrook Road into the City Well Wastewater Discharge Agreement. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the renewal for the private property tree removal loan program, and the legal director shall also prepare the appropriate ordinance as well. I place these three before you. Thank you. Thank you. So there's three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Turkey. Roll the roll.
 Schubert. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Pronte. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Keonis. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next up, we have officers' reports. Is there any aldermen who'd like to provide a report? Alderman Logerman. Alderman.
 Yes, first I just want to wish happy, I think it's 37th birthday to Alderman Bonnie over here. Happy birthday my friend. Second, I was requested to just relay a text message to all of council, the mayor, especially Director Haggerty for, of course folks recently got their property tax bills in the mail.
 She was just very appreciative of Director Hagerty's work, City Staff's work, the Mayor's work, City Council's work. It's very much a team effort in holding the line on property taxes for our residents. So yes, my resident, Lynn Roday, wants to express her appreciation to all of you. Thank you, Mayor. CHAIRMAN BRYANT L. Thank you. Alderman Beach. CHAIRMAN BEACH.
 I don't know if this is the right place to ask it, but I noticed the other day over by the park near where I live, the good humor man comes with his truck and the little bell, and I watch all the kids run across the street to get some ice cream. Is there any way that we can have the good humor man, when they go by parks, to either come up the other direction or park on the other side of the street so the kids do not have to run in the street or across the street to go get ice cream? I just see a...
 problem happening with little children I saw parents yelling at their kids to stop so they can go and help them I just wondered if there's anything we can do to kind of shore up that during this uh summer season thank you your honor yeah thank you uh I don't know which truck that was but we can certainly talk to those who pull a license for that Alderman Rose
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to mention the Neighborhood Association, North End Square Neighborhood Association is hosting a plant event this weekend. I believe it's going from 9 to 1, but you can check the NESNA webpage. It's a...
 Plant exchange event you bring a plant you get one in exchange Also, if you decide not to bring a plant, uh, you can walk away with a a few plants with a five dollar donation so and that's being held at the Church of the good shepherd off of rockton. Thank you alderman. Toomer that you have here mayor Uh, if you want to anybody wants to let me know where that truck is I'll go ahead and set the example on on how you should handle yourself around that truck
 uh... but i'd probably get stampeded by alderman canonez or frost on that matter but uh...
 I'd like to thank Public Works and Kyle Saunders on a lot of work that has been done in the Third Ward that has come up on an emergency basis and different things. And boy, it really shows a lot to the taxpayers of our city when Public Works steps up to the plate like they have. It really shows that the benefits of their taxpayer dollars at work.
 I want to congratulate again the City Council and Mayor and administration on keeping our levy flat. Although I did receive a phone call with somebody's taxes went way up, but at least I was able to pass the blame off to other taxpayer bodies. So, not us.
 so that was nice uh and also to uh the rockford police department on a few issues in the third ward it's not all parties downtown in the third ward like many you think but uh for them stepping up to the plate as well and helping out on a few situations and hats off and uh i look forward to the back the blue motorcycle rally this saturday for them so thanks
 Thank you. Alderman Hoffman. Thank you, Mayor. I really want to thank Kyle Saunders also. I have a very difficult problem in my ward due to a death at an intersection, and he has really been on it, and we're getting some positive results. I also want to thank Chief Red and Jeremy Carter because they really saved my soul at a community meeting. They did an excellent job. I just have so much appreciation for them. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Bonney.
 just want to thank alderman logeman for the birthday wishes but correct the record despite being on the finance committee he's off by 22 years on my age which makes me if you using age as a metric sixth and seniority on the council and um as long as everyone is thanking um
 Director Saunders, you don't have to know I'm gonna thank him publicly for pointing out that we had met once we had met before when he used to skateboard with my son in my driveway Now that you bring that up if you have photos we would certainly pay a handsome wage for the right He actually damaged the property quite a bit That's great any other officers report. Okay. Thank you. I
 uh next we'll go to unfinished business uh committee reports laid over we have nothing under planning development so we'll go to code and regulation committee alderman rose
 thank you your honor the committee recommends a denial of the request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned property located at 1057 kilburn road and item 2 committee recommends denial of the modification of an existing legally non-conforming billboard to an electronic graphic display billboard in a c2 limited commercial zoning district at 111 south perryville road
 um your honor as a part of that i'd like to make a motion under item v 2 b2 the modification of an existing non-conforming billboard to an electronic graphic display billboard at 111 south perryville road per staff's request i move to refer this matter back to code and regulation committee for further discussion
 So there's a motion to refer item B2 back to committee for further consideration. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item's been sent back to committee. Just for my clarification, Director Myers, for item B1, a no vote on item B1 means—
 they support placing it up for sale?
 One of those reverse ones. So a motion in favor here will deny the request to place it up for sale. A motion, or a nay vote will then place the property up for sale. And I do want to point out that this is only a request from staff to place the property up for sale, which would require the city to take bids and then come back to city council again to approve any contracts or any bids. Okay.
 Is there any discussion on one item before us? Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. This is in Ward 7, which is my ward. And this matter was brought up before my former alderman, Thompson Kelly. And she requested that we deny it, and I definitely support that decision. Seeing as though we don't know the intentions of the population,
 Possible owner and what their intentions are with this, especially due to the fact that he owns the junkyard right next to this property. We do not want this to become get another site for him. It's already. I'm slightly, so I would ask that you would support this with a correct me if I'm wrong. Yes. Yeah, so if you vote yes, and help me clarify this, uh, director Myers, uh, do you need help sir?
 Thank you. Can we we'll make sure we get it. Thank you. So just so I'm clear Just so I'm clear Mr. Myers, so we What's before the alderman this evening is just simply if you are okay with the city placing it up for sale Not to someone specific and then if it does go up for sale Whoever that is will have to come before the city of Rochester
 Correct. Somebody would have to make a bid on the property. That would come back to City Council so we would know who the owner or the bidder is, and we would know what their plans are to what they want to do with the property. And at that time, the City Council would also be able to either accept the offer or deny it.
 Okay, and then what alderman wilkins said is a yes vote means it won't go for sale, right? Correct if the If the council votes yes on this item the matter will not move forward and their the uh, Property will not be placed up for sale. Excellent. Thank you. Any other discussion alderman? Who's been taking care of this property and does it have any use to it? Uh director franson got a question
 So the adjacent property owner, who we believe has interest in purchasing it, has effectively been carrying and paying taxes on this parcel for, I believe, about 30 years. Yeah.
 is that is is there any significance to it or use of it for other purposes we purchased it presumably for potential right-of-way it's adjacent to a small right-of-way strip just south of our horseman quarry at this point we do not see functional use for the city so are we going to have to then take care of it going forth as a city
 at at uh i mean presumably i mean so it's a really unique kind of situation where the property owner to the north uh purchased um purchased the parcel to the south
 and again many years ago and we only discovered the existence of this uh parcel which was unpinned uh when they combined it so uh um it's it's a unique situation further question alderman timber no no thanks mayor any other uh alderman bonnie so uh thank you what is the impetus for the city wanting to sell this is it the inquiry from the adjacent property owner
 It was the discovery that we had this parcel in the first place through the combination of these parcels and understanding that We had no functional use for it And it was already it's already embedded into a combined parcel any further discussion clerk Could you please call the roll turkey? movement to work cross Torino Pronte Wilkins and
 Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Keonis? Meeks? McNeely? Thank you.
 Ten ayes. Ten ayes. Ten ayes. Three noes. Thank you. Next up, we will go to appointments laid over. We have two appointments, but only one of them comes up this evening. The next will come up at our next city council meeting. The appointment up this evening is appointment of Anna Montoya to the Community Relations Commission to fill the vacant position left by Charles Prorock. This appointment is a three-year term. Is there any discussion on this appointment?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Loberman? Timberg? Aye. Frost? Carina? Franti? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Meeks? McNeely?
 Aye. 13 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. I probably also had every department had to have their heart sink because I did not read their appointments. So next up, we have the appointment and reappointment of the following individuals as directors of their municipal department in the City of Rockford. Carrie Haggerty from Finance Department. Cherise Hunter for Human Resources. Aquanet Parham for Health and Human Services.
 Todd Hughes for Information Technology, Nicholas O. Myers for Legal Director, Kyle Saunders for Public Works, Carl Franzen for Community and Economic Development. Is there any discussion on those? Can we separate Mr. Myers? Just kidding. I don't know what Mick did to you, but... Is there any discussion on those?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Behrke? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Pranti? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Fahney? Aye. Sporting? Aye. Excellent, thank you. Next up we'll go to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under planning development so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, your honor. The committee recommends approval of the Rockford Midtown Market. The event is scheduled every Thursday beginning on Thursday, June 3rd and ending on Thursday, September 30th from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. The event location will be 1004th Avenue in the lot adjacent to the RPS 205 building. Item two, committee recommends approval of the Clem Garden Fair. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 5th and Sunday, June 6th
 From 9 AM to 5 PM, the event location will be on the grounds of Clem Arboretum, 2715 South Main Street. Item 3, committee recommends approval of the Marshmallows Hope. This event is scheduled for Saturday, June 26th from 2 PM to 7 PM. The event location will be 4007 East State Street next to Don Carter Lanes and the Old Magna parking lot.
 And then item four, the committee recommends approval of the cycle on 2nd Street. This event is scheduled for Sunday, September 12th from 8 AM to 10 AM. And the cycling route will be southbound on North 2nd Street from Auburn Street to Walnut Street. Those four items put up. Thank you. There's four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke? Aye. Wilgeman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Aye. Pranti? Aye. Wilkins?
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Keonis? Aye. Meade? McNeely? It's 14 ayes, Your Honor. Thank you. Those items are approved. Next up, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost.
 Number one, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for demolition group 18 and northern only service in the amount of $52,225 for 124 sunset, 1427 Jefferson Street, 1711 Green Street, 2005 Green Street, 2134 Kishwaukee, 322 Underwood and 439 Irving Avenue. The funding source is the community development block grant.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the rescind award RFP for fiber installation for radio system to provide fiber optic connectivity to radio repeater equipment for the city of Rockford Fire Department. Staff recommends rescinding the bid made to Comcast and awarding to iFiber in the amount of $737. $737.
 The contract duration is one year with four optional one year extensions with no increase over the contract. The funding source is the fire department operating budget.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of RFP for body-worn cameras for Police Department to Axon Enterprise of Scottsdale, Arizona in the amount of $3,384,781. The contract duration is five years. The budget, the funding source is the Police Department operating budget and the State of Illinois grant funds. Number four is an approval of the amendment to grant number ending in 191 for homeless prevention. The amendment to the original grant.
 We'll add $680,792 to the grant for a grant total of $1,024,011. The granting agency is the Illinois Department of Human Services. I place these four matters before you. Thank you. There's four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. On number two, there's the words with no increase over the life of the contract. On number three...
 Those words doesn't exist. So is there increases over that five years? And if so, what are they? Director Agadir? The annual prices are outlined in the memo, but there is a different cost for year one in the contract award to Axon. But the subsequent years are all the same. There is no increase allowed in that contract. Thank you. The pricing is detailed year by year in the memo.
 Thank you any further discussion alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor. My question is could we not find anyone in the Illinois? The cameras Director
 We solicited proposals from several different vendors after review, and this is a request for proposal, so as we're evaluating based on a number of factors, the performance of the product, the experience of the vendor, and cost. After reviewing initial proposals, the list of vendors that were considered was narrowed down. There were several on that list.
 These, Axon is probably the biggest provider of body-worn camera technology in the country.
 and has the best developed product, and the product that we believe meets the police department's needs the best. Obviously, while we would prefer that company were located in Illinois, we didn't believe that it was appropriate to sacrifice the functionality for buying from a company that certainly wasn't located in Rockford. There's nobody local that can provide this type of service.
 maybe not local but not illinois either okay thank you you're welcome thank you is there any other discussion on the madam's matters before you you just want to say a thank you uh to director hagerty and chief wisney and the entire team that went through specifically the body cameras uh it was a long process uh a lot of time put into it so just want to say thank you so there's no further discussion on those four items clerk could you please call the roll
 Erky Wilderman Toomer Ross Tarina Pratty Wilkins Hoffman. Hi Rose. Hi each Jonas Meeks I McNeely. Hi, honey. Hi 14 eyes. Excellent. Next up. We'll go to new business planning and development alderman Meeks An ordinance approving
 A TIF loan agreement with the Wacom Foundation, L3C for a $300,000 loan, utilizing the East State and Alpine Tax Increment Financing Redevelopment Fund for improvements related to a hospitality and apprenticeship program. Thank you. There's one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? No. Logelman? Aye. Toomber? No. Frost? No. Tarina? Pronte? Wilkins?
 Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Beach? No. Keonis? Meeks? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Donnie? 11 aye. I'm sorry. 10-4. 10-4, yes. Next up, the Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Item 1, an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a hookah lounge in a C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 4846 East State Street.
 item two an ordinance approving a modification of special use permit 017-20 to allow a temporary outdoor storage of trailers campers vans and related items in 10 parking spaces along the eastern and southern borders of the property and variation to increase the size of the maximum permitted wall mounted identification sign from 62 square feet to 107.1 square feet in an i1 light industrial zoning district at 4850 north main street
 Item 3, the ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from County Ag to I-1 Light Industrial Zoning District in conjunction with a pre-annexation agreement and variation to allow deviations to the zoning ordinance per the pre-annexation agreement at 1203 Meridian Road. And item 4, an ordinance approving the pre-annexation agreement for the property located at 1203 South Meridian Road.
 thank you we have four items before you uh director mark mr mayor uh items three and four are laid over oh sorry about that thank you so we have uh two items before us is there any discussion on those two items seeing none clerk will you please call the roll jerky logan man jumbert frost terena pronte wilkins hoffman rose hi beach i want to be one i am the rep keonis meeks mcneely
 Yeah, we have 14 eyes on number two and 12 eyes on number one. Thank you. Next up. We'll go to finance. I'm sorry I'm so sorry. I didn't miss you. I'm sorry. Thank you. Next up. We have finance and personnel committee alderman frost
 Thank you. There are two matters. Number one is an ordinance approving intergovernmental agreement with rock river water reclamation district addendum for the inclusion of well 39. Located at 7423 springbrook road in Rockford into the city. Well, wastewater discharge agreement. Number 2 is an ordinance approving the renewal of the private property tree. Removal loan program, I placed these matters before you. Thank you. So there's 2 items before us. Is there any discussion on those 2 items?
 Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Loberman? Aye. Toonberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Pronte? Wilkins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Pionis? Meeks? McNeely? Bun? 14 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Alderman Frost. I move to convene in the closed session or discuss pending and threaten litigation matters.
 excellent so we have a motion is to go into closed session is there a second we have a motion in a second is there any discussion no discussion clerk uh or all those in favor say aye those opposed we'll go into closed session we'll be right back did chas like prep you for that question like he's gonna come and tell you ask you he does every meeting okay we're back into open session clerk could you please call the roll logoman here to
 Frost. Here. Tarina. Pranchi. Here. Wilkins. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Keonis. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Zulep and Preston. Excellent. So we have, is there a motion to adjourn? Yeah, we have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logeman. Ginsburg. Tarina.
 Cronty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Keonis, Meeks, McNeely, Spiney. Thank you. Have a good night.