Good evening and welcome to the city council meeting in the city of Rockford, Illinois. The date is May the 18th, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Fire and Police Chaplain Wayne Ahrens from Five Gates Church. Gracious and loving Father, we come before you tonight, Father, we ask for peace in our city, Father.
 We ask for grace and direction over the city council meeting. Holy Ghost, we ask you for comfort as you are the comforter. And Father, once again, we ask for protection and guidance for the men and women in uniform and out that have been called to serve and protect this great nation, both local level and throughout the world. In Jesus' name, amen and amen. Amen.
 Consider your vote for which is the chance, one nation under God. Thank you. Clerk, you have time to read. Can you please call the roll? Durkee, McNamara, Frost, Hervey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Votto, Newberg, Beach, Elia, McNeely, Chiarelli, 13 present, your honor. Thank you very much. We do have a before. Is there a motion to accept the journal?
 Second. There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. Are there any amendments or changes to the journal? Hearing none, all those in favor of accepting the journal is presented. Please signify by saying aye. Your Honor. I'm sorry. Mr. Hayes. There's two journals, both the May 4th and the May 11th. If you could designate which one. So I will put both journals up for passage. Are either of them, any changes to either?
 Hearing none, all those in favor please. We'll be accepting both journals, the May 4th and the May 11th. Please signify by saying aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it, thank you. We have several speakers signed up for public speaking tonight. Just as a reminder for our speakers, our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, they will hear my buzzer go off and I'll ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Jacqueline Primer. Is Jacqueline here?
 Okay, we'll go to our next speaker. If she does show up before we through all of the speakers, I invite her to come back. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the Book of Acts, the first chapter, the eighth verse, Jesus says, you will receive power when the Holy Spirit comes on you. What I want to speak about tonight, endangered species.
 The purpose of the Endangered Species Act is to protect and recover imperiled species and the ecosystem of which they depend. Living and working in Illinois is going from bad to worse. Earlier this summer, Gallup reported that 50% of Illinois citizens want to move elsewhere.
 According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Illinois lost 26,500 jobs from August 2013 to May 2014. In that same timeframe, 27,000 new jobs were created for a whopping net increase of just 500 jobs. As of June 2014, the Illinois Department of Employment Security reports manufacturer employment is down 47,000 jobs in the last 10 years. Mayor Ron Emanuel of Chicago announced the results of a task force study
 on the minimum wage that supports a $13 an hour rate for the city of Chicago. Over time, the mayor supports raising the minimum wage to that level. And finally, maybe the most important development of the summer, the Eleanor Supreme Court ruled on a case that seems to make it clear that our state's Constitution will not allow in any way the diminish of pension benefits. This final piece of news just might be the icing on the cake.
 for many of our members and sadly for many of our citizens. As well, they are going to be leaving Eleanor. They are running away. They're being driven away. We now seem to have a state that will require citizens to pay for government pensions that under current funding schemes cannot be supported without higher tax revenue, much higher. Therefore, hold on to your walk. Job creators and homeowners will face higher property taxes to pay for schools that will be required
 to pick up increased pension costs. Parents will be outwaged as taxes go up. At the same time, vital programs are cut from their children's schools in a classic case of treating a symptom instead of a disease. Well, oh, we have one more.
 Hold everything, because I'm stirring up. Job creditors will be told to pay a high minimum wage for entry-level workers, forcing companies to decide what new fire employers are paying some high costs to their customers. The notion that Elroy is a good place to grow a business is laughable. Our state government, much like Congress, is paralyzed. If the courts go on to rule as they have,
 Pension reforms passed last winter are unconstitutional. The exodus of manufactured will accelerate at a frightened pace. In 1973, the federal government passed the Endangered Species Act, as it states above, its purpose is to protect and recover endangered species. Attention politicians, our job just as important as the Eastern War rat
 of the Western Snail Diver, is an ability of Eleanor's family to realize the American dream just as important as saving the Jephthah Salomon of the smooth soft-shell turtle, is an ability to stop the fighting murder rate of 16 to 20 year old males in Chicago just as important. It's time for our supposed to be leaders to propose a series of reforms
 That will protect jobs in Eleanor. Do jobs count anymore? I say it's time to enact an Endangered Job Act, a program that focuses on saving jobs, first in Eleanor, and help recover those jobs that have been lost in Eleanor. This should be done now because time is short. Many of our society problems stem directly from the job loss in areas where manufacturing was once strong. Communities in these cry for stricter laws on guns, while others shout for stiff abilities on those who commit crimes. Do you think it's merely a coincidence?
 The time is up. The society broken. Thanks for the opportunity. Thank you very much. Thank you, our next speaker is Ian Lineberry. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much for your time. I'm here to speak to you tonight in favor of the Gorman Project. At the risk of sounding melodramatic, I'm just gonna dive right in and say that I think that our community is at a very important crossroads. We have a very important decision to make as a community as to where we go forward.
 I wear a couple of different hats in the community and I'm wearing two tonight. First, as a taxpayer, my most important hat is a resident of Rockford. And second, as an elected official who understands and appreciates the gravity of the decisions that elected officials need to make. You are going to make some very tough decisions with respect to the Gorman project, but I urge you at the end of the day, at the end of your evaluation, to support this project.
 The downtown has seen historic revitalization, the likes of which I've not seen in my lifetime. And I believe that the Gorman project together with the Ingersoll Sports Building Sports Complex together will play a vital role in the ultimate
 revitalization of our downtown and the transformation of our city. So I urge you to take a good hard look at this and I commend you for taking a look at it and evaluating the project and asking difficult questions. I don't begrudge that at all. It's your responsibility as elected officials to do so. Certainly there is no reward without risk and this project, like most economic development projects, is, is, is.
 That way, there's certainly risk involved. There's always risk, and you have to evaluate whether the potential rewards outweigh those risks. And I think in this instance, the question is clearly yes. The potential rewards associated with this project and what it'll do for our community, specifically the revitalization of our urban core, are essential. And so I urge you to vote yes on the redevelopment agreement with Corman & Company. Thank you very much for your time. Thank you. And I was remiss
 I should have announced when Mr. Linneberry took the start to speak, he is a commissioner, elected commissioner of the Rockford Park District. We appreciate the Park District's partnership on all the many projects we're working on, so thank you. Next, from the Rockford Area Commission, Business Bureau, John Rowe. Thank you, Mayor and members of the Council. Actually, I have a few updates and a few announcements. This weekend was a busy and really great weekend in our community.
 We had the opportunity and the privilege to host two different significant events. Out at Sports Corps II and at Sports Corps I, we hosted the Division III Collegiate Nationals for our Ultimate, our Ultimate Frisbee. More than 5,000 college-level players and fans from 150 schools from across the country were in town this weekend and had a really fantastic time. Collectively, they spent
 over a quarter of a million dollars in our community when they were here. And I think that illustrates that tourism is big business. We also had the opportunity to kick off a seven weekend tournament that will continue now for the next six weekends at Cherry Bowl and down Carter lanes. The Midwest women's bowling tournament is bringing over these collective seven weekends
 4,000 bullers who will spend a half a million dollars in our community over those seven weeks and we're thrilled to have the opportunity to host them.
 And along the same lines, I'm very excited to announce the first official booking for the Downtown Sports Complex. A little less than a month ago, on April 24th, we were at the Downtown Sports Complex for the official construction tip-off. And today I'm thrilled to let you know on behalf of our community team that the Amateur Athletic Union Sixth Grade Girls Basketball National Championships
 will come to Rockford in the summer of 2018. So it's the first official national booking for the downtown complex and we certainly wouldn't be here without your diligence and leadership which has led to our ability to bring that community asset not only to our citizens but to potential tournaments. That team, that tournament will draw 100 basketball teams, so about 1,200 players.
 collectively with their coaches, their families and fans. We'll spend four to five days here that summer in 2018 and spend three quarters of a million dollars in our community while they're here. So certainly a major win for the community. And then just about three hours ago in our office we met with two tournament directors that collectively will bring likely 15 tournaments basketball and volleyball to the downtown complex.
 key in their consideration and on their mind is this downtown hotel, not only the Gorman hotel at the Amrock building but the Joseph James Partners hotel. That walkable environment close to amenities is something that our tournament directors are looking for. So I know that as Ian mentioned, big decisions, lots to consider, certainly the
 The developer here, Mr. Gorman, is invested and the city and our citizens are very much invested. I'd encourage you to continue on the path that we've been on, ensure the success of the project and the continued success of our community. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. Our final speaker this evening is Toby Haldeman. Three years ago today, my life and my mother's life were changed forever.
 Most people would call it an anniversary, but what happened to us was despicable, and there will be no celebrating. Today marks the day when Joshua Ono Irvin invaded our home and put a knife to my mother's throat. He was sentenced to 10 years. We'll only serve five. He spent over two years in county lockup, so he'll do just a little over two years at Menard. How pathetic.
 The main reason I'm here before you tonight is to talk about the geopolicing site on Broadway. No, I'm not going to talk about how you should be putting in geothermal or solar panels and the wind turbines so the taxpayers won't have to foot the whole bill. I already understand that you have no intention of looking out for the taxpayers' money. My concern is where are the general public going to park when they come down to do business at the police station on Broadway?
 you have at least two options, LC Auto on the northwest corner of Broadway and 10th and an empty car lot formerly known as Mark's Auto at the southeast corner of Broadway and 10th. One major problem, 1401 is a
 Marks Auto is a documented hazardous waste dump site with the chemicals traveling off-site to a neighboring property at 1512 10th Street with levels exceeding IEPA standards. Chemicals include benzene, ethylbenzene, acetone, chloroform, methyl chloride, vinyl chloride, lead, barium, cadmium, chromium, mercury, selenium, silver, arsenic, diesel, kerosene, the list goes on.
 We have footage and video and still pictures showing employees at Marks Auto dumping these chemicals down drains, in cracks in their car lot and along the fence line. This illegal activity happened for approximately 10 years. While this illegal activity was going on, they would also throw these chemicals into dumpsters at the location where they would further drain and pollute the site.
 The neighbors Bob and Shanna Millsna went to federal court to have the owner of 1401 Broadway, Gary Pickett, to be held responsible for cleaning up their property on 10th Street. Gary subsequently settled out of court and paid the Millsnas many times what the county assessor said their property was worth. To this day, to my knowledge, no cleanup has been done at 1401 Broadway or at 1512 10th
 Five years ago, Bob Milsner wrote a letter to the mayor, Morrissey administration, explaining what was happening next door to him. He received no response and no action was taken on a continuing zoning violation. When this case was brought to federal court, the city was asked to bring their documentation that they had and the inspections that they had done. The file was empty, deleted, trashed, removed.
 No paperwork was found. Alderman Elliott was in Attorney Jennifer Caciapaglia's office for over an hour, and Jennifer could find nothing. It's not that I don't want the city to purchase 1401 Broadway. I believe they should. They need parking. I just don't think Gary Pickett should make any money off of it when more than likely hundreds of thousands of dollars will have to be spent cleaning it up. Give him a token of $1 for the property. I will not be silent. I will be heard. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you just wanted to get one more chance is this a primary check the primary is Jack Jacklin primary here so that will be all of our speakers and this evening petitions and communications thank your honor and one item
 It's a memorandum from Jovita Donahue, Economic Development Administrator of Community and Economic Development Department. It's a proposed development agreement with Frederick Green for the building rehabilitation of 607 West State Street. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, Matt. It will be referred to Mr. Allen. Thank you, Your Honor. I have several items here under participants and communications.
 Number one is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on May 19, 2015, and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Codes and Regulations Committee meeting on May 26, 2015.
 I have the zoning board of appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 19, 2015 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the codes and regulations committee meeting on May 26, 2015. I have a memorandum from Kelly Nopes, assistant operations manager regarding the upcoming special events. I believe I'm dining on state, I'm not reading in. Main Street District block parties 6-13-2015.
 7 18 2015 8 22 2015 edgebrook artsy art show 6 20 2015 labor day parade 9 7 2015 slide the city 9 4 through the 9th
 September 4th through the 6th September 4th through the 6th thank you your honor 2015 Murphy's EDM festival 7-11 2015 fully support the troops ride 7-18 2015 at the Rockford traffic Commission meetings minutes from the meeting to be held on May 13 2015 also have
 from LaFakiria S. Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney, the repeal ordinance 2009-050-0
 1915 20th 20th Avenue groundwater ordinance and enact a new ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 1915 20 20th Avenue the former acne solvent reclaiming incorporated site all those items your honor will be referred to the full regulations
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a resolution from Carrie Eklund, Central Services Manager, regarding ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers, mechanics, and workers employed by the City of Rockford, and I refer this to Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Mayor. It will be referred. Do we have another item to refer? Oh, I'm sorry. I have one more. That's a memorandum from Wayne Dust, Planning Administrator, regarding proposed amendments to the loan agreements between the City of Rockford and South Main Shopping Center, and I also refer this one to Finance and Personnel.
 Thank you. Further petitions and communications. Proclamations. Several proclamations this evening. First, we have the proclamation for National Emergency Medical Services Week. I invite members of our fire service, including Fire Chief Derek Bergson, as well as Dr. Pearson from OSF, St. Anthony Medical System, and any other members of their group that might be here to accept the proclamation to please come forward.
 Whereas emergency medical services provide vital public services to our community, whereas the members of emergency medical services teams are ready to provide life-saving care to those in need 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
 Whereas access to quality emergency care dramatically improves the survival and recovery rates of those who experience sudden illness or injury. And whereas the emergency medical services systems consists of emergency physicians, nurses, medical technicians, paramedics, firefighters, educators, administrators, and many others.
 Whereas the members of emergency medical services teams, whether career or volunteer, engage in thousands of hours of specialized training and continuing education each year to enhance their life-saving skills. Whereas it is appropriate to recognize the value and accomplishments of emergency medical services providers by designating emergency medical services week.
 And whereas this year's theme for National EMS Week is EMS Strong, now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 17th through the 23rd to be National Emergency Medical Services Week.
 and we stop now to recognize all of the work of our firefighters and other emergency medical service providers for the vital contributions they make to the safety and well-being of our citizens. And we encourage our community to observe this week and do so with appropriate programs, ceremonies and activities.
 It's my great honor to speak with you tonight because emergency medical services is really truly the core of who I am and who we are up here. I'm Dr. Jane Pearson, and I'm the EMS Medical Director for the Rockford Fire Department and OSF. I've been at OSF virtually my entire career, and it's my work home. As a physician, I grew up at OSF and will be forever grateful for the opportunity to
 Share EMS oversight with the city and in celebration of EMS week I approached mayor Morrissey for the opportunity to speak and thank you very much The truth of the situation is I'm here here to honor the fire department and EMS personnel for their exemplary service and
 for always doing their best job, and it's always an honor to serve with these individuals. But I also came here to talk to you about one person who in my opinion as a physician is a hero to anyone who may need the services of the Rockford Fire Department. I believe that everyone here understands what a hero is, and that the world we live in is filled with heroes. News stories are filled with heroes. And one thing's for sure, heroes challenge people to believe in something more.
 One thing is certain, we want to believe in heroes, and the decisions this individual makes can make the difference between life and death. As this hero flies under the radar, this person is in the back of every ambulance and fire truck that responds to the call for help. Albeit he may not be physically present, he is there in spirit. He waits, hopes, and many times prays, not only for those who call for help, but for those who respond. This individual is Chief Bergsten.
 If you want to be an effective leader, what you feel, what you think, what you say, what you do needs to be aligned, and this is exactly what Chief Berkson does. I have known the chief for many years, but in the past 10 months have worked side-by-side on a major initiative to prepare for the CAS accreditation, the Commission of Accreditation of Ambulance Services, and this has put us in the position to join forces to provide the best care for Rockford.
 This was a proactive, collaborative effort, and Rockford Fire has provided me a place at the decision-making table, and we have worked closely together. Ten thousand documents later, we have worked and responded to challenges, challenging me always to do the right thing for all the right reasons. Every discussion that I ever had with Chief Bergson always ended with the request to do more for the citizens of Rockford.
 And for this reason, I really want to honor him today. We watch and meet many leaders every day. Some we agree with and some we don't. But there is someone who leaves a great impact on the lives around him, and nothing is more powerful than that.
 Chief Berkson loves his family, wife, children, and his community, and serves them every day. He has integrity. He does what he says he's going to do. And he's always looking to make this community a better place. So with that, I would like to present him with a plaque.
 that I call the Community Service Recognition Award, presented to Chief Derek Bergsten on behalf of all the patients entrusted to the care of the Rockford Fire Department. This plaque is awarded in grateful appreciation for your exemplary EMS leadership and outstanding dedicated service to the people of your community. Thank you.
 I'm going to have to make sure I talk to the mayor and Dr. Pearson because this was definitely unexpected, but I appreciate it very much. I was up here to recognize our own members of our department, and I'm very humbling and flattering for the words you say. And I think this really ties in with EMS week.
 We're very thankful for the responders that we have every day, the paramedics, the firefighters, our emergency medical dispatchers, and this week we really focus on their efforts and pay tribute to the work that they do every day, putting their lives on the line. Some of the places they go into and the situations and using the training that's provided by Dr. Pearson and St. Anthony Hospital,
 to have great outcomes on patients that we pick up on a daily basis. And we do take our job very seriously. Every man and woman that's out there working with the Rockford Fire Department is honored to serve for the department, and I'm honored to be their leader. And it is very proud for us to be here today. We have three members from our organization that our EMS coordinator, Bob Vertes, he's the one that does most of the work, lines the training, keeps pushing programs,
 tells me about the program so we can work together with the hospital, with our resource hospital. Also wanna recognize EJ DiLeonardo, he's in the audience. He's our EMS coordinator through St. Anthony Hospital. But I wanna turn this over to Bob now, and he's gonna talk about three individuals that we have, and then also an award that our fire department's getting for some of the good work that we're doing on the cardiac side. So I'll turn it over to Bob Vertovs now. Thank you, Chief, and congratulations.
 I'd like to recognize three people, three very important people amongst us here. First person I'd like to recognize is Lieutenant Chuck Lippert. Chuck's a 25-year paramedic with the department. He's a lieutenant at Engine 8 and he's got 27 years on the department. Next to Chuck is driver engineer Pete Grady. Pete started on the job in October 1995. He's currently a driver engineer at Engine 7, 15-year paramedic with 19 years on the
 And to my right is Firefighter Paramedic Shannon Kopp. She started the job April 1999. She's a Firefighter Paramedic at Engine 2, 15 year paramedic, and 16 years on that department. Congratulations to all. I'd also like to introduce Art Miller from the American Heart Association. Art's got a few words for us.
 Thanks, Bob. Hi, good evening. My name's Art Miller, as Bob said, from the American Heart Association office in Chicago. It's great to be out here tonight. Thank you. Even the commute was good. I'm the Mission Lifeline director. Mission Lifeline is all about systems of care for those patients that suffer.
 time sensitive diagnoses and one of those is called a STEMI. And a STEMI is a heart attack, it's the worst type of heart attack, the most serious type and often fatal. Some people refer to it as the widow maker.
 Excuse me. A STEMI heart attack, we have over 200,000 of those every year in the United States. Through the efforts of EMS, many of these heart attacks are minimized and the patients survive through definitive care at the appropriate hospitals. You're lucky in Rockford to have the great service of all the hospitals that you have available and the great partnership with Rockford Fire. And this provides for the system of care that we're recognizing them for tonight.
 And through the generous budgetary support that the council provides to the fire department, EMS is able to purchase the equipment that they need to do this job, also to support the training. These are not cheap, as I'm sure you know.
 On behalf of the American Heart Association, I'm here to thank the fire department staff and the elected officials in Rockford for their leadership and support to Mission Lifeline and other AHA initiatives and primarily to recognize the excellent job done by the EMS personnel in the field. And I'd like to present Bob with a silver EMS award from the American Heart Association.
 Thank you very much everyone. Like he said, if it wasn't for the support of the council, for the equipment and training that we do, the support of the hospitals, and definitely the men and women that are out on the street every day doing the work of the Rockford Fire Department, serving the citizens, it's what we're truly grateful for. And from the bottom of our hearts, thank you very much for
 this great honor today. It's a pleasure to work for the city of Rockford. We all love what we do. Definitely want everyone to come out this Friday from 3 o'clock to 5 at NIU in East State where we'll be recognizing some more of our responders and the actual survivors that they've transported and treated. It's a very wonderful event. It's very heartwarming and touching. We hope to fill the auditorium at NIU and welcome everyone out there. Thank you very much. Thank you so much. Congratulations. Thank you very much.
 Thank you so much. If I could just add my recognition and thanks to the Chief, to Bob Vertes and for the entire team for their work that they do. And I would just echo the sentiment that the leadership and the support of our EMS system at the City of Rockford comes from a long legacy and I just would also recognize former Fire Chief.
 Bill Robertson, who also served on our council. It was under his leadership that we really made the move to expand EMS, to require for all of our firefighters to become paramedics, and to provide the service that they do, which is outstanding to our community. And if you haven't been to the Survivors Night event in the past, I would encourage members of the community council to see it. It's truly an extraordinary opportunity to celebrate life and all the committed work of all of the EMS teams that support those endeavors to save lives.
 Next, we have a proclamation for Safe Boating Week. I'd invite John Hatton and Robert Canfield and any other members of the group that might be here to accept a proclamation to please come forward. We may have a surprise at the end. We'll see what happens. Whereas while being a marvelous source of recreation, boating to the unprepared can be a risky sport,
 And whereas our waterways can become crowded at times in a place of chaos and confusion. And whereas on average 700 people in the U.S. die each year in boating related accidents with nearly 70% of these fatalities caused by drowning. And whereas one particular behavior that can reduce the number of boaters that lose their lives by drowning each year by approximately 90% is wearing life jackets.
 This is why we must continue to spread the message of boating safety, not only during National Safe Boating Week, but also throughout the year. Now therefore, I, Lawrence G. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, hereby proclaim the week of May 16, 2015 to be Safe Boating Week and urge our citizens to boat smart, boat safe, wear it, and practice safe boating habits. Want to give a shot at that thing? All right. All right, sure. Go ahead. Mr. Mayor, Aldermen, ladies and gentlemen.
 We are here representing the Rockford Sail and Power Squadron, and we wish to thank the Mayor and Aldermen for recognizing the importance of safe boating and promoting boating safety in the area. The Rockford Sail and Power Squadron is one of almost 350 local squadrons which compose the United States Power Squadron. The USPS is the largest nonprofit boating organization in the country.
 Our primary goals are boater education and boater safety. We do this through many avenues. Each spring, the Rockford Sail and Power Squadron offers America's Boating Course. This course provides the basic knowledge to choose, operate, and navigate watercraft. We teach the federal and state regulations, including different types of life jackets that are available, rules of the road, emergency situations, and basic knots.
 As the mayor indicated, drowning continues to be the number one cause of all boating fatalities. In 2013, of nearly 400 boating-related drownings, 83% were not wearing a life jacket. The best way to save a life on the water is to wear a life jacket.
 We also conduct vessel safety checks. These are voluntary to boat owners. These checks are conducted by trained examiners and cover all safety aspects of the vessel, including required equipment and recommended equipment. Upon successful completion, a decal is issued to the owner to illustrate their compliance. Failure to comply only results in no decal being issued. We cannot and do not take any enforcement action.
 The squadron may also help communities promote safety awareness through other activities as well, such as our participation at the Swedish American Safety Day this past Saturday, where we helped promote the use of life jackets and displayed various types, including the new lightweight inflatable models we have here.
 The Rock River provides many recreational activities to boaters and non-boaters. We encourage the public to take advantage of these activities and to do so in a safe, responsible manner. That's why we are honored to accept this proclamation on behalf of the Rockford Sail and Power Squadron. Thank you. This is an inflatable, and we're going to show you how to use it. Mr. Mayor? No, you stand still. I got to stand still. You got this.
 This is why you practice. And we buckle it. We got that. Okay. Now, we recommend you put this on and at least once a year you check it out. Good job. Thank you very much. Since we have a pretty full agenda, I may actually leave this on for the rest of the meeting. Some say, you know, sink or swim, I want to be able to float. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. You're welcome. Thank you very much.
 I wasn't expecting that actually this evening, but I'm glad to provide some help. I was never a very strong swimmer, so it's even better, more appropriate. Next we have a proclamation for National Public Works Week. And I don't know if they're bringing a bulldozer or accepting on behalf of the city of Rockford, a city engineer, Matt Vittner.
 Whereas public works services provided in our community are an integral part of our citizens' everyday lives, whereas the support of an understanding and informed citizenry is vital to the efficient operation of our public works systems and programs involving water, sewers, streets, and highways, public buildings, and solid waste collection.
 Whereas the health, safety, and comfort of our community greatly depends on these facilities and services. Whereas quality and effectiveness of these facilities as well as their planning, design, and construction is vitally dependent on the efforts and skills of Public Works officials. And whereas the efficiency and qualified and dedicated personnel who staff our Public Works departments
 are influenced by the people's attitudes and understandings of the importance of the work they perform. And now therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 17, 2015 to be National Public Works Week. And we call upon our citizens and civic organizations to learn about the issues involved with public works and to recognize the contributions in which officials make, our public works officials make every day to our health, safety, comfort, and quality of life.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to say a couple words. And I want to start out by saying that Director Tim Hanson is to be commended for his leadership and management that has transformed Rockford Public Works into a lean, mean public works machine. During the toughest of times, he has done an awesome job in optimizing the resources given to the department to provide the highest level of service possible. I would also like to commend the public works staff.
 They all serve with quiet dedication to keep our great city up and running 24-7, 365. They do more with less and often go above and beyond a normal work day. I could not be more privileged to work with this fine group of men and women. Sometimes it's easy to forget that it is people that make the world turn. There are dedicated and conscientious people behind the water that flows from your tap.
 that keep the lights burning in our buildings and on the streets, that clear the way in the winter, that maintain the roadway surfaces, drainage, signing, striping, that plan and implement capital projects, that manage our rights of ways and environmental compliance, and in general provide for the welfare and safety of our citizens and visitors as we stand alongside with our other brothers and sisters from the other city departments. On behalf of Director Hanson and all the public works staff,
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Jim Ryan. Council members and citizens of Rockford for your leadership and support in helping us to do our part to keep the great city of Rockford up and running. Thank you very much. Congratulations. Thank you for your outstanding ongoing contributions as well as the entire department. Tim Hanson, I know, couldn't do what he does without the incredible staff that we have, and I appreciate all of that recognition.
 Next, we have our final proclamation this evening. This is for Community Action Month. I invite the participants that are here to accept the proclamation, including George Davis, our Human Services Director, Joanne Lewis, our Head Start Director, and Owen Carter, our Community Services Program Coordinator, and the family representatives and other individuals that are here to accept the proclamation. I invite them to please come forward.
 Whereas community action agencies were created when the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 was signed into law, and community action agencies have a 48-year history of promoting self-sufficiency for those of limited income, and whereas community action agencies have made an essential contribution to individuals and families in the city of Rockford, providing them with innovative and cost-effective programming.
 Whereas community action agencies are needed as participants in the reform of the welfare system as we know it, and whereas welfare reform in Illinois has benefited from the state's partnership with community action, whereas limited income individuals continue to need opportunities to improve their lives and their living conditions, thus ensuring that all citizens are able to live with dignity.
 And whereas the City of Rockford, State of Illinois and our entire nation must continue to promote economic security and opportunities by engaging citizens and building stronger communities. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morrissey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2015 as Community Action Month. And we urge our citizens to recognize the hard work and dedication of all those involved with community action in our City of Rockford.
 Thank you, Mayor. And we just want to thank again our City Council for the support of the work of Community Action, the important work of addressing the needs of those who, because of their income, are caught in situations that oftentimes require a hand up, not a hand out. I also want to recognize here today former Alderman Victory Bell, who continues to serve on our Community Action Board.
 And of course, really give honor to our staff without whom none of the work that we do would be important. Rather than really hearing a lot from me though, I think what we want to do is take this opportunity as we do annually to recognize several examples of how the work of Community Action is carried forth effectively with the partnership of families that we serve as well as others in the community.
 And so I want to also mention though that on each of your desks, Alderman, is a copy of our annual report from 2014. And in that report is featured the family that we're honoring tonight as our family of distinction.
 I'm going to have Joanne Lewis say a few words and Christine Holm, actually, I think she's whispering Joanne saying, not me, not me. Christine Holm to maybe say a few words about our work with this family. But in the community action annual report, you will see actually a little description of the work that we've done with the family and really more importantly what they've accomplished through their own initiative and their efforts. And we're very, really actually honored to have been able to assist them.
 So first of all, let me ask Chris if you would like to say a few words before we give out our recognition.
 We're just really honored about the dedication that you've shown to making the strives forward. In addition to the story that you'll see in the annual report, there have been additional successes as of late where Dad has secured a job, Milton, and LaKira has got a different job promotion of sorts as well. So they continue to make fantastic strides toward improving their self-sufficiency. Thanks.
 So the Turnage family really joined us down in Springfield for our representative from the Rockford community to the state family distinction event just recently. And really, we just want to give you this small token of recognition of all that you've done and still will yet do. And again, thank you for all that you're doing to really make this a better community. Thank you.
 So next we want to recognize one of the partners that was already recognized tonight. And I think it's kind of fitting that on a night when the fire department is being recognized for their excellent work, we also want to point out that they are one of our key partners in the work that we do through Community Action. And I'm going to ask Owen Carter to say a little bit about the work that we've done with the fire department.
 We've recently started initiatives that start at the federal level of 0-2016 and 0-2017 and 0-2018 where we're going to work to eliminate homelessness in our midst. Yes, here in our own town. With the help of the Rockford Fire Department, we have worked with Bob Bertese and his crew and Chief, your team.
 your men and women have been extremely, extremely helpful in our work and community action to address the needs of some people who are what we call superutilizers, who we're calling
 facilities, hospitals, ambulances at an enormous rate. We're happy to say we have knocked a significant, made a significant detinent with the help of the Rockford Fire Department. And on behalf of the Community Action Agency Human Services Department, we are, it is an honor and a privilege to work with the Rockford Fire Department on a daily basis and we look forward to it and we wish to thank them. Thank you.
 And Chief, if you would accept as well as Bob Ortiz and of course Chief Corral on behalf of the Community Action this little token of our recognition. Thank you. So last but certainly not least, we want to recognize one of our most important volunteers over the last six years.
 Our board has been chaired for the last six years by Crystal Walker. Crystal actually, only because of her term being up, has moved on to other things, but she continues to really offer her time to us.
 and today recognizing her with what we call the Francis Williams Award. Francis Williams was a perennial volunteer in the community who worked with our Head Start parents and worked with our Community Action Board many years ago. And really in her honor, we started this annual award to recognize an outstanding volunteer for community action. And this year we'd like to, it's our honor to give that recognition to Crystal Walker. Thank you, Crystal.
 And again, thank the council for the support that you continue to give to the important work of community action. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, George. Congratulations. Thank you to all of our recipients of proclamations. It's a great night to recognize so many partners in our community doing outstanding work on behalf of our community. Next we will move on to reports of committees. Alderman Durkee.
 I have four items up for approval. I'm an eye to suspend rules. There's been a motion and second to suspend rules on all four items. Yes, sir. So there's been a motion and second to suspend rules on Roman numeral 5A, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye.
 Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Sam, the rules be submitted. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I place the following up for approval. Under Roman numeral 5A1, a committee report recommending approval to enter into a memorandum of understanding with Northwest Homestart and the City of Rockford. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 The committee recommends approval of the amendment of the Gorman Development Agreement for the rehabilitation and redevelopment of the Amarok-Zayac Building at 416 South Main Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the amendment to the contract between the City of Rockford and Gorman slash Amarok LLC for sale and purchase of the Amarok-Zayac Building and adjacent properties. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 And finally, the committee recommends authorization for demolition of 1417 11th Street, previously known as Tokyo Health Spa. Funding in partnership with the Winnebago County, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and place these up for passage.
 Thank you very much. The four items are for passage. Is there discussion? We'll move it back to Mayor. Thank you, Mayor, for allowing me to speak. I'd like to move to amend Agenda Item Roman Numeral 5A2, New Committee Reports to Reduce the Cost to the City if Gorman & Company exercises its put option to $1. It's been moved and seconded to under...
 agenda item Roman 05 a 2 to reduce the cost to the city of Gorman would exercise its put option to one dollar that's been moved and seconded to discussion all the times Kelly why would it be under item 2 and I'm great I all back to where I'll be doing that as well you just jumped the gun any other discussion on the item
 All those in favor of that amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Aye, seven. Thank you, Mayor. Additionally, I'd move to amend Agenda Item Roman Numeral 5A3, New Committee Reports to Reduce the Cost to the City of Gorman and Company Exercises. It's put option to $1. There's been a motion and second to amend Roman Numeral 5A3,
 to reduce the cost of the city of Gorman and company exercises its put option to a dollar. It's been moved and seconded. Is there discussion on that item? Hearing none, all in favor please say aye. Aye. Opposed no. No. Ayes 7. The two items, Roman overall 5A2 and 3 have been amended and I'm assuming you want to put those back up for passage with the
 So the items are up for passage along with items one and four. Is there any discussion on the four items? I just wanted to be clear with regard to the development agreement and also the agreement for the contract for sale and purchase. Were there any other elements in there that were amended besides the building? There was anything in there for permits or any other cost items?
 Not based on the motion in the two motions that were just approved simply reduce the put option down from what it was originally approximately $250,000 I believe down to a dollar. It doesn't address the other items that are part of the contract and the development agreement.
 on top of the point of clarification your honor and we suspended the rules on item two and item three it's been an amendment on item two and three are we going to make a motion to suspend the rules for item two and three as well we've already so procedurally in order to
 take the items up for passage tonight. We had to, as we've been doing in our new council format, since they already discussed last week, and most of the whole moved and suspended so that they could come up for a vote tonight. That occurred procedurally, so they're all appropriately on the floor for discussion.
 items two and three were amended as was mentioned so they are all about all line four items one two three and four are appropriately before the council for um action uh tonight mr hayes i get that right yes sir thank you uh oliver frost thank you i just know that i know we don't have it in front of us like we did last week but with respect to development i know there was some concern also
 about some other items one of them included the location of the parking deck and i just wanted to ask or clarify whether or not that's something that will be discussed or decided at a later date whether or not this development agreement addresses that mr wright certainly your honor the original design called for the parking deck to be north of the conference center in the vacated right-of-way of the wyman street crossover
 The issue that we had with that was that that would prevent any future expansion of a convention center or flat space at this location.
 In addition, we felt that with the movement of the Amtrak line moving from the Canadian National onto the Union Pacific, there was a great opportunity to co-locate a parking facility with the intermodal station. So we felt due to the fact that one of the requirements of the hotel was to have a direct connection
 to the hotel, that was the best location. In addition, there was not approval from IDOT to have any sort of crossing over the Main Street Highway, so we thought that was also going to be an impediment. So we felt, and Gorman did as well, that the location that it's on now is the best long-term at that location. In terms of, Miss Ryan, just as a follow-up, in terms of council action,
 We've not yet approved actual construction contracts for the construction of the parking structure. Is that correct? That's correct. In order to do that, we're anticipating coming back to the council at a time after the financing
 My recollection is correct. We're not going to do that and move to start construction until after all the financing has been approved on the normal project. That's correct. Thank you. So I was quite a little unclear on the answer that I received or did not receive. Do we have the ability to modify where the parking structure may or may not be located in the future? So, and just asking that back based on what all of the process asked.
 Does the development agreement, I'm assuming that the amended development agreement identifies the new location at the area south of the building as opposed to north of the building? That's correct. So that's within the agreement? Yeah.
 said if there was a proposed change that council saw it or if for whatever reason some change in circumstances we're not planning on spending any money that forward until a later date and certainly take up other options if there are other issues at that time on the beach
 As I discussed with you and the phone and others today, I'd be pleased if we could just go on the record of explaining and expressing again how we are going to be guaranteed in the event of this funding, this Section 108 funding. God forbid that it does go away and they'd have to exercise this. What's in writing or will be in writing to protect our interests in that case?
 I'll start and then I'm going to ask Mr. Cagnoni or Mr. Hayes to fill in based on my knowledge of the project. So the city's got a number of protections with regard to the various phases of activity in the project. As I was just alluding to, we won't move forward any actual construction costs, for example, on a parking structure until we know that there's actually been a closing.
 on the financing that's going to move forward so we actually have a project. One of the other protections that we have is that all of the underwriting, all the investors that are involved in the underlying project to build the hotel are given a performance
 bond guarantees so that in the event of something happening during the construction, there's a guarantee that the structure will be built. And Mr. Hayes or Mr. Cagnone, if I mess up on any of my descriptions, please let me know. So the 108 loan in particular he asked about wouldn't be moving forward. There wouldn't be any money spent on the 108 until the end
 There's an actual closing on the entire financing package. So out of a $68 million project or so, all of the different elements involved, the $3 million that would be part of the Section 108 are part of this much larger stack of capital investment. So our funds, in a way, are protected by the balance of that entire group and all those other investors with the performance bond and the other elements they've got to do.
 One additional element specifically related to the 108, while this agreement lays out the outline of activities that would happen under the coming months to move the project forward, the specific Section 108 loan, so I'm not anticipating us having to bring the development agreement back. However, the 108 loan and the underwriting associated with that, the approval will be coming back to the council.
 So this wouldn't be the last time, tonight wouldn't be the last time you have a chance to look at the 108. It will be coming back once the additional, there's a state and federal partners that we work with, or at least federal partners on the 108, that would have to give their blessing and approval on the 108 element as well. So it's going to be coming back to Council. Mr. Cagnone, did I get that right? Mr. Hayes, that is correct. Your Honor, if I could. Yeah, thank you. Go ahead. Just so to clarify, there is a specific provision about...
 the closing on the balance of the properties and waiver of the put option, that if that's delayed and that's to take place when they've closed on their financing, if that's delayed, then we can delay the construction on the parking deck until we're certain that there's financing in place. And that specific provision is in paragraph 4 of the agreement as amended. Thank you. Thank you.
 thank you for that what was again the rationale for waving that million dollars of fees what what is going on if you want to take that mister
 The agreement contemplates that the developer will attempt to utilize the services and products from local contractors, tradesmen, makers and artists by soliciting proposals from these groups throughout the construction bid and purchasing process.
 And so that is the idea that in the procurement of the furnishing, art and fixtures, they're going to utilize local craftsmen as much as possible. And that was the concession that was suggested by staff in exchange for the waiver of permits. I would say I was involved in some of the discussions on that. So the request was coming from Gorman for the waiver and the permitting fees. We responded.
 their main request wasn't tied to what Mr. Hayes initially, they didn't bring that up
 They brought up the fact that the cost of the project were extremely significant and that this was additional request and consideration to be able to help them get the project done. And as part of the cost, when we were having that discussion, that's when we brought up the opportunity to use that as an additional incentive on their part to go out and work
 manufacturers and makers to help supply furniture fixtures, equipment, artwork, that kind of stuff for the actual project itself. So just one last follow-up, if you don't mind, sir. Just to respond to that, it would seem to me that like any major chain, in this case Embassy Suites, it seems to me like they're the ones that are going to be dictating
 what the furnaces are sold at your own sweet Robert or New York City where probably somewhere so I'm just wondering how much of that really it's going to happen so there's a you're actually corrected every flag will have certain parameters or requirements and we did discuss that specifically so within the band of requirements what will be developed our specifications
 And those specifications then will be open for anybody to bid on. So it could be someone local just as well as someone from South Carolina or China, wherever. And we've asked that our local, every hotel on Missoula's suite's flat will have artwork. And there's certainly quite a bit of flexibility to allow just by way of example that artwork.
 produced and purchased locally. And so there is this, and don't ask me to give you the details on exactly what those design specifications are, but we have been working with Mr. Gorman and his team so that our local, they're planning on doing a supplier fair at some point or open house. I don't know the dates on that, Mr. Cagnone or Mr. Hayes, perhaps you do, but I know later
 moving forward planning on being able to have a meeting so that the various local suppliers that would be bidding on that project would have a chance to learn about specifications and try to respond this can only I get that right that is correct your honor the date has not been set for the supplier open hurry thank you your honor I would ask that the
 undertake a solicitation of or review of our local manufacturers I know people here that do woodworking tremendous amounts beautiful woodworking
 I have a couple of people in the fifth ward that do, I think they did our city medallions on the South Main Street project, ironworks if you will. So I would ask the city take a part in that and find the so-called makers, manufacturers, suppliers and be able to provide a list of those people to Gorman and undertake something to truly help them become a part of that project, not a passive.
 Yeah, if I find a couple I will and I think it's up to us to help Gorman do that. And that's something I think our CD department, our economic development department should be doing. I don't know if we even have an inventory of all of our businesses and providers in Rockford. It's funny you should mention that because we have some, so if you go on the Rockford area Economic Development Council website, you can find a list of suppliers for various types of manufacturing equipment.
 what they haven't had, what you just described is exactly what we've asked them to help us add. So folks who are interested in getting
 other types of products made, such as we're talking about right now. They really don't have a very developed database for those types of makers, manufacturers. Something we certainly support them doing, actually Alderman Frost and I talked quite a bit about it. He's got an interest based on his wife's involvement as a small maker manufacturer. So we had talked about that as well as others.
 I've instructed our staff, we've had a number of discussions about trying to do exactly what you described to make sure that there are any potential manufacturers locally that can provide these types of products we want to be able to tap into. Thank you. A number of questions, we'll just go around Old Manali first, then McNeely, then Old
 Would it be a conflict of interest for Alderman Frost's wife to get a deal with Norman? I don't know that she was planning on bidding on anything, but I would direct Mr. Hayes to provide counsel to Alderman Frost. Any other questions, Alderman? Hell yeah.
 No. That's a good one. That's a good one. I'll get you back, Hillary. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. You're next. I would like to know if we could amend the agreement so that if Gorman is not able to purchase, say a minimum of 50% of the supplies from people locally, that we reduce fees
 that we were going to grant him by 50%. So are you making a motion? Yes. Second. And your motion is, can you restate it? Okay. I make the motion that the City of Rockford will reduce the fees originally proposed to Gorman by
 50% if the amount of supplies or purchases that the original agreement stated is reduced by 50%. So they just have to be clear? Or by a percentage. I shouldn't say 50-50 because it may come out to be 70 or something. So the original agreement just to make sure?
 it's understood original agreement calls for best efforts it doesn't require that they meet a specific purchasing so if you're saying they need to get 50% it would be 50% of what we get
 of their total purchases for their supplies, what they're calling supplies or inventory for the hotel, whatever they're calling that, whatever we used in those discussions with them as a basis for purchases, I'm saying that if they purchase less than 50 percent from vendors here in Rockford, then the fees, the half million dollar fees, be reduced to
 by 50% so they have to pay the city of Rockford $250,000. Mr. Hayes, can you provide any help for me in trying to word out a motion based on what Alderman McNeely is describing? Thank you very much. I was taking notes and trying to follow. Mayor, the total amount of fees is about $530,000. Can you speak up, Mr. Hayes? The total amount of fees is $530,000.
 $20,000 plus or minus. And so we have discussed with Gorman a number of financial matrices on this. They simply haven't been able to commit because they don't know the capacity of the area, some sort of ratio, percentage of items that they're going to be able to purchase locally. They just don't understand right now how our industry does.
 They don't understand how our capacity to produce will meet their needs right now. This is why we haven't been able to get a firm agreement with them. I'd be reluctant to suggest that a developer coming in with this sort of investment would be able to commit a percentage right now tonight that they could live by. And so right now I'm reluctant to suggest language that we would amend the agreement
 certainly to accommodate Alderman McNeely's larger thought of having some reduction for percentage as an appropriate way to approach this. But I don't know that we have that capacity to produce something that be fair to all sides right now tonight. So Mr. Hayes has not been able to provide any guidance to Alderman McNeely to better put towards your motion so that it represents what I think is manageable
 description within the current contract. I understand what I think is your intent, which is you'd like to see at least 50% of the potential contracting, or if they don't get you 50% of the potential contracting, that you'd want to see the fee waiver reduced by 50%. The problem is we were unable to find out, part of the reason for the other question was,
 you know what's our local capacity that's been part of the conversation which we hope to identify with in this supplier fair
 The other piece of it that's been a little bit of a developing target is exactly what the specifications will be from the hotel partners, so the flag that they're offering under some of these embassies weeks. They will have some requirements, so based on those requirements, we're not sure amongst all the contracting, which will be significant for the project, what potential we can see contracting with locally. And so that's part of the challenge, and I'm just wondering if there's a way to word it
 could take those concerns into consideration. I'm confused, Mr. Mayor, because at some point, someone from the city and Gorman sat down and came up with this part of the agreement. If the potential wasn't there for Gorman to make those purchases locally, I don't know. So how about if we work it this way? If we can work this way? So the motion would be to reduce the fee
 waiver of $520,000 by 50% if the, through the efforts of the city to contract for local makers and manufacturers to provide furniture, fixtures and equipment is not achieved. So what it would require is that we would sit down with them to figure out what's the potential that we could do, arrive at that figure and then send the claim to the city
 50% to you. Mr. Mayor, thank you very much. What I was trying to say is that if they purchase 50% and not 100%, then reduce it by 50%. If they purchase 70%, then reduce it by 30%. So that's why I say I don't think I can say. So I think at a minimum, we'd like to hear your base number is that it would be reduced by up to 50%.
 Or greater. Or do you want to do a dollar for dollar? Percentage. Right, percentage. Okay, so. We certainly can lay this over and come back to it in two weeks. I would do that. If we can get it done tonight, I'd like to get it done. So your motion would be to reduce the fee waiver by the percentage that the foreman is unable to meet its targeted global supply. Let me tell them.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I think I see it as the difference, not a percentage. You're going to reduce it by the difference between what they purchased against the $520,000, whatever that number is.
 so the difference between what they actually purchased was actually purchased and what we're actually waiting so if it comes where they purchased 400 000 uh it's 120 000. but they're purchased you can't no i don't know well that's really the intent is that we are we are allowing them five hundred twenty thousand dollars in exchange for them buying certain things
 I think what I'm understanding the motion to say is if they don't buy certain things that that portion they don't buy should be reduced. Now have I seen that wrong? I'm going to ask for some assistance. I had a huge problem with fees initially but I think I have more of a problem with vagueness and uncertainty.
 just have a problem at this point, neither of those two parameters make sense to me because I don't know what the initial starting point is. There are some things that Gorman may be purchasing that are outside the realm of what anyone in Rockford could supply and I think it's a late date to insert that kind of a change amendment into the contract. So even though I don't like the idea of the fees, I think
 I think it's equally unfair to put a vague term. This is a contract. Maybe that's the lawyer in me, but it just seems like it gets very convoluted and uncertain. I would not like to be a person who was embarking on a large project and was under that kind of, and I don't mean vagueness in a negative sense. I wish I had had your suggestion or something like it when staff was negotiating with Gorman. But I don't know that I would insert that kind of change right now.
 My preference would be, I think Gorman is going to make a good faith effort to use local suppliers. We're not talking about labor now. We're not talking about contracting. We're talking about supplies. And I can think of five names that I can give them and every single one is a top-notch supplier. And if they can be competitive, I believe Gorman will use them. So I'm not so sure I'm in favor of amending
 that kind of change at this point with that degree of uncertainty
 I'm not in favor of this, but I think I do understand that what Alderman McNeely is suggesting is if they only purchase 20% local, then we would only reduce the fees by 20%. If they purchase 50% local, we would reduce their fees by 50%. Am I right? Yeah. I don't think it's that complicated. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you.
 I think we should just vote on this amendment. Again, maybe it's the lawyer in me, recovery lawyer in me, but I'm actually trying to make sure that there's language that if it were to pass is actionable. The way I'm wording this is the Alderman McNeely has made a motion to reduce the fee waiver
 by the percentage difference between what ends up actually being purchased by Gorman and what has been established as a targeted global purchase amount. Correct. Is there a second on that? I'm sorry, we can move to the second. All right. We've moved to the second. Is there any further discussion on that? I don't know.
 I'm sorry, I'll frost. Can I hear that further? I just wanted to respond to a comment that was made, I think stemming from your comment that you and I have had conversations before about what Alderman Hervey said and mentioned about having a list of possible suppliers, vendors for local manufacturers that aren't in the fastener business, the aircraft business, things of that nature.
 So I didn't want anyone to think that you and I had any conversation all about my wife's business, except for the sake that we were trying to work with local, as a local manufacturer herself, to work with other local manufacturers and vendors for the furtherance of her own business and nothing to do with her business in the city of Rockford. Correct. And nothing to do with this project specifically. However, now that I see this item in here, I've used it before,
 I don't want to preclude myself, my wife's business from doing any work. I don't know if Embassy Suites though is going to allow or want to entertain an option for her to buy from her any of her artwork. But if in fact they ever did, I would be more than happy to do so. But under the circumstances, I don't believe they're, I'll ask Mr. Hayes if that would
 potential conflict of interest because if it ever did, then I would want abstain from any vote. I would not want to jeopardize my wife's business, but for the record, she doesn't do any business, nor has she ever sold any paintings to the city of Rockford except maybe to make a donation to someone. But there's been no business transacted between her and the city or her and Gorman and Company.
 Mr. Hayes does uh, I don't know if it's an off the cuff way to anticipate this but Alderman Frost is asking if he would need to abstain or if he has any concerns with showing up this way. Because it's all hypothetical and not in reality I don't see there being any present conflict of interest. I think all our aldermen know that they can't attempt to gain an advantage in a legislative matter with their vote for any close associates
 to put pressure on the party to benefit anybody else, whether it's a family member or themselves. So I'm certain that Alderman Frost's conduct has not gone in that direction. And so I don't see that there's a conflict at this time. All right. Thank you. Alderman Neuber? I was not seconding that. I had a question. Oh, I'm sorry. Thank you. I just want to make sure you're going to apologize. Was there a second then on Alderman McNeely's motion?
 Yes. Okay, just a check in, just want to make sure. So, if you have any questions. Yes. Yes. If there's such a thing as we're trying to figure out a certain percentage of, let's say local services and products will be utilizing connection with the project, the percentage of that versus X amount of dollars of permits, why can't it be at the end of the project
 showing a proof of percentage of Rockford personnel and or products and then that amount is returned to Gorman. Please open it again Lawrence. I know I opened it again Lawrence, I'm sorry. Okay, thank you. I don't know, I guess I'm just going off of what all that we really did. We have a motion, it's been seconded, it's not being discussed so I'm happy to take any additional discussion on it.
 Wouldn't the time to pay for the permits come well before they were at the point of the project where they were buying finishing pieces? So just generally speaking, when a permit is pulled, it's pulled for an estimated contract amount.
 And Mr. Cagnone, timing-wise on this project, based on what we've been anticipating, the actual construction permits won't be pulled until the financing is closed. I'm assuming it will be later in the fall. Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor. It's likely that they'll...
 whole their permits in different stages so understanding that the first stage was to get in there and do some demolition some environmental cleanup they'll be getting a portion of a permit for that type of work predominantly the permits are issued prior to the construction starting so yes the major portion of that permit fee would come after likely after the financing has been secured so
 But the permits will, even assuming that's the case, permits would be pulled prior to the, I don't know, or it would be exactly at the purchasing or the contracting for the material supplies, that kind of stuff. But I'm assuming there's going to be a rolling process and materials, so they're not going to order the furniture and fixtures until they're somewhat processed. So, yes, you're probably correct. I think there would be permits made up
 Other questions? We'll check with another magnum here. Any other questions on the proposed? All those in the next city. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? No. McNamara? Frost? No. Hervey? No. Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elliott? No. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye.
 2 ayes 11 noes oh 3 ayes 3 ayes 10 noes So the motion to amend fails so the amends are still before the council that the motion fails all that's relevant Thank you your honor just a couple questions is the Gorman Amarok LLC do they anticipate any further amendments to a development agreement is there any talk going on about that or even
 in business with these amendments will the city be protected for taxpayers so we can assure them because we're all getting so many phone calls about this ball moving constantly this target so is there any talk about any further amendments going forward is there any assurances that can be given to things that want to know there's certainly a shared hope that we don't have to come back with a change to the other set of changes to the
 That being said, the reason we came forward with these changes was so that we can reflect the need to get the project done in light of circumstances that financial and the operational issues have arisen for the project. So the hope is that we don't have to bring it back, but we will be back for various elements that are contained within the underlying development plan.
 So for example, we'll be back if there's something we have to do on Davis Park, something we have to do on the Chesham Street Bridge, something we have to do on the 108 level, we'll be back on that. So we wouldn't be back. We hope to not have to come back in the underlined development agreement. Certainly that's the hope. If we have to, we have to. But our hope is that we have a good, strong underlined development agreement.
 the development agreement with the change that I proposed will be back moving forward various elements that are already envisioned within the development agreement as it would be amended so other than the section 108 you don't know of any other reason that they should come back no I can tell you there's reasons that we discussed within the development agreement
 sure but I'm envisioning we may be coming back talking about changes to Davis Park because it's within our development agreement that we've committed to taking a look at long term looking at Davis Park. But that's within the development agreement? That's correct. It would not put the city at any further risk as far as dollar amounts or tax. Well I mean
 improvement to Davis Park that would be part of a conversation that we'd have then, but we're not financially committing ourselves outside the four quarters of what's continuing. Very good. And then there was talk about the performance bond. Can you just go over that a little bit? In our discussions with Foreman, they hired to get performance bonds guaranteed to guarantee the construction of a project based on the investors and partners that already are in the project.
 one final question your eyes right sure look at this is Mr can't go to make sure you can articulate that correctly is part of their financing package when they commit to their financing all of that will be part of their due diligence no requirements for their findings that's all partly underlying the financing package that people are trying to find okay so one final question in the event that Gorman cannot get the financial backing on this debt
 project what would happen with the building the city of the city had to purchase it back for a dollar so that this would be put the put will be a little warm to sell back to
 and to be trying to see something positive. Hopefully, obviously it's our intent that we don't get to that point, our intent, is that we get a complete project and that's why Mr. Gorman and his team have invested so much, the developers,
 great track record of getting complex projects done and we certainly are should be proud of many complex projects but the Ingersoll project right now in our construction that
 Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Yes. Getting back to the question and the answer I wasn't quite happy with, it's the performance bond. I understand he has to have a performance bond for his financing, but does it state in our agreement that he has to provide us, the city of Rockville, with a performance bond? Because we've gone through this before where we didn't get one.
 Mr. Hayes, Mr. Cagnone, I don't know that. The city's security interests in this arrangement includes the fact that our main financial incentive is the sale of the building. They're paying us for the building, our acquisition cost. So they'll own the building for what we have in it. The other financial interest that the city's putting forth into this deal is the road construction
 that we're funding in large part because we think there's a larger planning benefit as well to doing this rerouting of our downtown highway through the city. That's a considerable expense and there isn't a performance bond on Gorman's part that protects the city on that, so we're not protected there. On the final element that's a major financial element is the TIF assistance that's in the development agreement.
 And the city's security on that is that it's a pay-as-you-go TIF, meaning that we won't put dollars forward until the increment flows into our TIF funds from this project, from the benefit of this project being built. And so that's why the city has not pursued a performance bond. We generally don't in these circumstances. We could have. Again, this is not an element of the present development agreement.
 and not an element of the amendments that we've sought so far. So just to back up for a minute, performance bonds generally that we require are for projects that we will own at the end of the contract. Right, our construction projects, road construction, or if we, certainly if we went out and bonded it $10 forward and we're at risk, we would probably seek a performance bond going forward. Mr. Ryan, second.
 Typically, we'll either require a performance bond when it comes to infrastructure or in the case of a residential subdivision, if the developer is making a commitment that they're going to put in utilities, street lights, streets, we'll require them to submit a letter of credit for surety to ensure that that infrastructure gets completed. Because ultimately at the end of it, that's our infrastructure.
 And it's our requirement that it gets completed so the performance on guarantees that that work is going to get done. And what I was indicating before is that the investors who will own the project, after this project is built, the project is a private development company owned by a group of investors. So we will own the parking structure.
 We would hire to build the parking structure. We may require them to have a performance bond so that it gets done and then we're contracted to do it. That would be our ownership. But the performance bond is required for the other investors who would own it. So what I'm telling you is that if Mr. Gorman's going to get his project financed, he has to provide performance guarantees.
 and a bond to guarantee it in order for those people to invest in his property. So that's additional protection, although we're not planning on being a direct owner of the hotel and the conference center itself. Those are protections so that we can be assured that a project once started will be completed.
 Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. We have up for passage items one, two, three, and four, and a roll number five. Clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. 81? Aye. Cahill? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? I'm sorry, no and one, two, and three. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Elliott?
 back McNeely Charlie Roman or not 5 a 2 and 3 11 nice to know Roman or 5 a 1 12 eyes 1 now the remainder of 13 a 0 thank you much yes thank you you want to thank your honor the new committee reports
 1 the committee recommends approval of an agreement to purchase a piece of property at 1311 Harrison Avenue from being Graham holdings LLC in the amount of 113 thousand five hundred fifteen dollars for the Harrison Avenue project the legal director should prepare
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of the proposed ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as a part of the water supply at 715 North Madison Street, Chemical Processing Inc. facility site. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three is a committee report recommending approval of the proposed amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 17 dash 42 residential quality support ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four is a committee meeting
 report recommending taking no action on the recommendation to adopt the attached amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 3-58 classification of liquor licenses to create a new classification based on food and alcohol sales compared to gaming revenue
 On item number four, I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports, Roman numeral 5B, item four, to reflect the approval of the recommendation to adopt the attached amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, section 3-58, subsection 0PQR, to create new liquor license classifications. Second. So there's been a, under Roman numeral 5B,
 5B4 there's been a motion to reflect approval of the recommendation so it's an amendment to reflect approval of the recommendation to adopt the attached amendments to the city of Rockford code of ordinances section 3-5a subsections O, P, Q and R to create a new literary license classifications it's been moved and seconded is there discussion on
 all frosted you are we substituting the words no action to approve yes we'd like to reflect the approval of the recommendation to adopt the attachment to the city of rockford court of ordinances thank you I'm just is it that the committee recommends the approval or are we just saying somebody wants to amend it so say let's approve it I'm just confused on which one
 Is it the committee report that changed or is it someone is saying I want to? Yeah, so this would be changing. Mr. Hage, correct me if I'm wrong, but this amendment would be changing the committee report to reflect approval as opposed to no action. How do you change a committee report once it comes out of committee? You can always amend to. So the committee said they don't want to take action. The council decided that the council wants to take action. Okay.
 no because yes no action means that no actions taken no no action means I don't know what no action means but I think the motion is in proper form it's before the council I find it in order and it's for the council to be voted on this is a motion to amend is there
 Yes, Your Honor. And this method is commonly used if there's a tie in committee or if one member of the committee understands that committee is going to vote against but perhaps the will of the whole council is captured by this motion. That will be tested in this vote. Obviously committees are a smaller group of the council. There's a sense that perhaps the whole council as a whole would move these forward rather than continue to hold up these applications.
 This is a motion that's made quite often when there's a tie in the committees and a vote goes the other way to get a matter out of committee as well. Thank you. But the reasons you just gave us, that was not the case in committee. It was not a tie. It was not any of the circumstances. The committee said no.
 by the vote right in the shoulders it came out of committee is no action right so anybody can move to amend a committee report at any time that's why it works when there's a tie and it works when you know and there's a vote the other way but as the mayor mentioned this is it an appropriate motion it's before the council if there's not the will of the council to move forward than the motion of fail so the motion is before the council's discussion
 Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Faust? Aye. Purvey? No. Connell? Thompson-Kelley? No. Odo? Aye. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? No. Hold on, sorry. No. Chiarelli? Aye. Eight ayes, five noes, noes. A motion to amend passes.
 your honor I place all four items I moved to suspend the rules on all four of those items your honor second so there's been a motion and second to suspend the rules on those four items your honor yes Alderman Beach made an amendment also to one of the items
 I think we probably should take the motions to suspend first. But Mr. Hayes, we're going to take the motions to suspend rules first. Members and members, suspend the rules. On items 5B, 1 through 4, will you say aye? Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7, all in favor? Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to offer an amendment to B3. Your Honor.
 After our last vote, I did get a call from a member of the Environment Association concerned that there needed to be more information and criteria that would represent what a chronic nuisance is.
 And I took that back to the legal director and he brought forth an amendment that he's asking that it be put forth onto this committee vote tonight. It's somewhat lengthy. Is there a copy on all the owners' desks, may I ask, sir? Mr. Hayes. If you want to all take a look at that for a moment, it really defines chronic nuisance and it lists down several examples.
 And if you don't mind, unless I'm instructed to read it all, can we wait a minute and just have you look at this copy? I'd be happy to read it in if that satisfies the Alderman Beach. I'd be happy to read it in. Fine. So, as you know, that the amendment that was passed last week contained the language that the chronic nuisance would be defined by disorderly conduct.
 a felony or misdemeanor for a violation of Chapter 19, Section 19-4 or 19-5 of the City Code controlling offensive use of property that was stricken for violation of any municipal ordinance or State of Illinois statute controlling offensive use of property. We have added to that amendment the following language, including but not limited to the following violations.
 In the National Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.1 and 308.1, Sanitation. International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.4, Weeds. International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.8, Motor Vehicles. International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.5. International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.9, Defacement. International Property Maintenance Code, Section 302.7, Accessory Structures. International Property Maintenance Code,
 Section 304.2, protective treatment. International property maintenance code section 404.5. City of Rockford code of ordinances section 3-13, public drinking and possession of alcoholic liquor with a broken seal. City of Rockford code of ordinances section 4-59, barking dogs.
 City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Section 17-33 Miscellaneous Noise Sources City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Section 17-34 Animal Noise City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Section 17-35 Nuisance Noises City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Section 19-3 Offensive Uses of Property City of Rockford Code of Ordinances Section 19-4 Permitting Offensive Uses of Property
 City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 19-19, loitering. City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 19-20, public urination and defecation prohibited. And finally, in order to address the concerns raised in the press and over the weekend by the Rockford Department Association about single-family dwellings, we've added an affirmative defense, Section 17-43, Paragraph G. Thank you.
 would state it will constitute an affirmative defense for a violation of section 17-43 if a single family dwelling is owner occupied. This subsents from any notion that you would be required to register if you had overnight guests in your home, as reported in the press. That is an unfortunate misunderstanding of the intention of the ordinances drafted that we hope this amendment would clarify. Thank you.
 I just like to comment on that last point because I did receive a phone call from a constituent on the way over here actually. And I do appreciate the document, the paragraph, gee, this data isn't affirmative defense, but the way I read it, I think it would be maybe fruitful to amend section 17-43 so it does not say any dwelling unit. Because in my mind, affirmative defense means you've been charged and now it's a defense,
 were charged in the first point. I don't think it was the intent of the city to allow the city to charge or write anyone for a violation if they actually are a single-family owner-occupied home. So perhaps the legal staff could change the
 the language so it doesn't say it shall be unlawful and a violation of this section for any dwelling unit in the whole or part. Perhaps in that particular part of it you could have the exclusion or except for the single family owner occupied residence is there because the way I read an affirmative defense is a lawyer means that someone's going to call me and say they were charged with something and then there is an affirmative defense or
 just one way it's used, but I think it'd be just, perhaps we could solve that problem so homeowners in that category don't feel like they're all of a sudden going to have to, if they have some out of town relatives overnight, going to have to call the city of Rockford up and register their aunt and uncle from Cleveland that are here for a First Communion party.
 So that's just my thought on that matter. So just to make sure, are you offering that as a friendly amendment to Alderman Beach? I would offer as a friendly amendment to either Alderman Beach or to Section 17-43 to clear up that issue. So Alderman Beach, you can take that as a friendly amendment? Fine. Okay, so...
 I just want to make sure I've articulated this appropriately and Mr. Hayes feel free to provide recommendation if it would be helpful to council. So Oliver Frost has said that he would like to see the phrase added under the amendment that would be the following. Part of the definition of a chronic nuisance where it says means nuisance activity which occurs in three or more instances on the same property or dwelling unit.
 except for single family or occupied dwellings, comma? Is that accurate? Actually, I was going to add it to the parameters of where it begins, section 17-43, added there as well, where the beginning of that section instead of the end of the section under the G. I mean, I guess there could definitely be a chronic nuisance issue at a single family home. So I think your intent would be, Ms. Fagey, go ahead.
 The idea would be that if we had sent it, single-family owner-occupied from 1743, we would have sent them from the registration requirement and therefore the balance of the regulations under the code. And so we'll note that exception and make sure that that's the way that the ordinance is drafted. Thank you. Thank you.
 So Mr. Hayes, is the recommendation the way you interpret it what Mr. Harkov said, if you add that language, it would still keep the affirmative defense? We would no longer need the affirmative defense if that was modified in that fashion. Understood. And we'll make certain that that's the way it's going to be. Understood. If the motion succeeds, then I have a question. Thank you. So we'll, I think that's it.
 I think it has been accepted that as a friendly amendment and that language would be talked about right now over the back of my hand. I'll back to my hand, then I'll come back to the whole event, and I think Tubs Keller is next. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to make a motion that we lay over item 5B3. Second. I just want to make sure I don't know currently. Okay, so we currently have the friendly amendment. That is, I think, needs to be voted on first before your motion will be voted on.
 So the motion to lay over would lay it over before we make the amendment if you want to persist with your motion at this moment. So let's make the amendment first and then we can lay it over. So if you'll withdraw your motion at this time and make it after the amendment is heard. Withdraw second. Thank you.
 has there actually been a it was it been a formal motion and seconded autumn and beaches motion or was he just yes reading on the street was not because he accepted the friendly but I think it okay so the language all of us for us offered replace the language was originally presented by all the agencies that so let's vote if we can't very good motion
 we'd like to make the motion to let her hold it. I was going to ask you. Thank you. It's still under discussion, correct? It is, yes. The suggestion for amendment as well as the proposal that all would be. I just have a question. Was this information, I just received it today, was this information given to the department association? Because this is one of their main questions that they had in the meeting. My question is, was this information given to them?
 I believe that this specific language related to the enumeration of the offenses that would have a property included in a chronic nuisance was shared with the rock for department association last week.
 The language regarding the owner occupied home only came up the day after the press reported that there was some confusion about what properties this would apply to. Well, I just want to make sure that the information was given to them. So, because we have been accused of changing things without sharing the information, I wanted to make sure that this information was shared with them. So they can't live in a building that is before the council?
 would amend the proposal to identify the specific offenses under section 17-42c3 as well as change the language identifying that indicating specifically that single family or occupied dwellings would not be covered.
 Your Honor, if I could respond to Alderman Thompson-Kelly directly about that question. Sure. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, on the 14th of May, Mr. Arena was provided this specific language, and he acknowledged receipt of that language in opposition to it on the 14th of May at about 5 o'clock p.m. That was the Thursday of last week. So it was shared with them. They acknowledged receipt. Thank you.
 Thank you. Thank you. What I wanted to make clear is that's what we've been accused of by members of the association. So I wanted to make sure that they knew when the information was received and that we did share that. Because a lot of my questions were to define a crime. So I'm happy to hear that we did define that.
 Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 It's a comment. I'm not asking for a direction. I have two questions, even though I think that this should probably be laid over also, but I would like to get my questions answered first. They're probably quick and easy. The three violations that would occur, could they occur all in one visit from code enforcement? Yes.
 When I read through this list of offenses, I think it would be pretty easy for more than three of these to be cited in one visit. Is that the intent here or would it have to be three separate visits from code enforcement? And then my second question is in regard to public drinking and possession of liquor with a broken seal, could that be explained how you would be charged with public drinking while you're on private property?
 So, to the first question, the ordinance requires three separate factual events that have been independently investigated. So it would be, if you go on one day and do a review, that's one incident, no matter how many violations emanated out of that single factual event. So I think to address your point, it would take three separate factual events. Okay.
 Then the other question was regarding public drinking. This actually came up in the public meeting hosted by Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 where there is a party house that was established and there were people emanating from the home and being cited for various offenses. Both the tenant and occupants and people at the party were cited for various issues, including public drinking, because they were emanating out into the street and down the street. So that is the type of offense and the type of chaos that if it was repetitive,
 we would want to bring the landlord before the housing board to determine how we could resolve that situation going forward. There would have to be three separate events like that over the course of 120 days in order for us to have the authority to bring them in before the housing board and try to develop them. Thank you. All right. Clarification on that please because I hear mom right behind me.
 That means that if there's 10 people at a function and there are five or six tickets, maybe the chief could answer, there's five or six public drinking given out there. That's still only counted as one incident. Yes.
 Correct. There were five issues of, no matter how many tickets, that instance is still just one and there's three, you have two more instances happen. Not the amount of tickets but the instance. Correct. Thank you. Other questions on the amendment? Hearing no further questions on the amendment, all those in favor of the amendment please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed no. No. Ayes have it. Alderman Frog, Alderman McEwen.
 Move to layover item number 5B3. Second. Move to second. It will automatically lay over. So let's see, that is just the one item. We still have the other items of passage, correct? Yes, Your Honor. So that's all in Charlie. 1, 2, and 4. 1, 2, and 4.
 Yes, Your Honor, I placed one term in the floor of the passage. We're having a discussion on what's out of public process. Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to number one, the property at 1311 Harrison Avenue, if someone could just explain to me the details of the transaction. Well, let's take that. Is that good? Your Honor, this is a partial taking of a building and furniture along Harrison for that road project.
 The original estimates indicated that we would take six feet of the building, but once the engineering was done, it was impractical. We wound up having to take a larger portion of the building in order to contain some of the reconstruction costs. So we're literally taking frontage off of the building and reducing it. We had to take a little more of the building than we had anticipated.
 The total overall costs of reconnect or reconfiguring that were lower, but the taking was larger. And this was an outcome derived by staff to resolve that issue. So the price went up a little bit, but it's not beyond our parameters of typical acquisition. So instead of taking six feet of the building, they're going to take 14 feet. And that's why the acquisition costs increased slightly.
 Is it a commercial property? It is. It's Ingram Holdings LLC owns the building. Is it a rather large parcel of land? I don't have the exact dimensions but I can get that for you. Mr. Hanson, do you have any details on it? Nothing. Any further discussion on it? Hold a minute. Newberg, did you ever handle? So any further discussion on the items that are passage under 5B1?
 2 and 4. Ms. Yes, sir. Ms. On number 4, on the amendment of the city on liquor licenses to create, I do know that there are like 6 entities that have been waiting since I think the first one was from July of last year. They've been on hold with the LTAP and I would like to know if there's a way those, by passing
 We're lifting the hold, matorium, whatever you want to call it, on any gaming parlor licenses. They need liquor for those licenses. I want to know if does this make those six people that have been waiting six to eight months to even get a hearing, would they fall under the grandfather?
 It's the staff's perspective that the issues would rise to the permittees when their license is issued, not when their application was made. This was part of the discussion last August when this conversation started, was that the applications in the pipeline would be subject to any amendments that were made.
 So this expectation hasn't changed since the beginning of the discussion, but it is always within the prerogative of the city council to address an issue like that. But staff was clear at the beginning with all of the applications that we anticipated that these modifications would affect all pending permittees as well. So there would not be any change of expectation for those individuals.
 Okay, I feel these people applied for a license under certain terms. Now we've changed the terms so they have to be given, they will now have to either apply for WB50 or L50, correct? So therefore, their criteria is going to be different. And I myself, I'm not going
 I think we should return their filing fee and they should be allowed to resubmit under the new guidelines if they so desire. Mr. Ase, you want to comment on that? If applicants at this point ask for a return of their fees, I think the city's costs right now include publication. I think that we have published their applications so that they've been on the agenda.
 So we need to reconcile how we dealt with the publication cost that the city has actually incurred. The staff would have no objection to any way that the council would want to reconcile a reimbursement of the fees. All in terms of county?
 I have a question and a concern in regards to the state level. And I know that there's legislation that has been presented or I don't know if it's still in committee or if it's reached the House or the Senate in regards to regulation of powers.
 have we been in contact with our lobbyists and gotten up to date on where the state is and what they're proposing to be done in regards to Pollard's? Mr. Schrelle or Mr. Hays, I see Mr. Schrelle. I've spoken to Representative Cisnowski many times about this and he feels that this proposal complements anything that his bill would accomplish.
 we just saw him this past week in Springfield and he said that he's still at that position that his bill is complimentary to this proposal and this proposal should move forward. Um, with all due respect, I'm not speaking about Mr. Shinofsky, Joe's, because Joe's is not for Pollard nor Stanley. There was another bill introduced and I don't, I've
 I'm sorry, I was not aware of another bill. Alderman Thompson-Kelley.
 Alderman Cisnowski introduced it, or former Alderman Cisnowski introduced the bill, House Bill 259 that would allow local municipalities to limit the number of gaming terminals permitted to operate within the boundaries of the municipality as well as place restrictions on the locations within the boundaries of the municipality based on their proximity to other similar uses. Unfortunately, that bill has been referred back. It made it out of committee but was referred back to rules.
 And so that House floor amendment number one is in the rules committee. And I don't know what the prospects are for moving that bill at this time. On the calendar, I believe that it's missed the opportunity to move out of the House on the timelines and deadlines that have been set.
 put forward there, but it may well be revived. So I think that awaiting outcomes from Springfield in this arena doesn't serve the present applicants for our permits that we ought to make our best judgment now and then adjust if the state legislature passes any legislation to modify the environment.
 Thank you. Well, I understand that, but I wanted to also be aware that the legislation is also being introduced, not only for Mrs. Sinowski, in regards to gaming, and for our council to be aware that that is in the making. And I think it would be very appropriate to work with our lobbyists to find out exactly what that status is in Springfield. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. So, I'll let for passage our amendments and rumor.
 to end our passage. If there's no further discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durfee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Tannehill? Thompson-Kelly? No. Ford? Aye. The remainder? Odo? Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Back? Aye. McNeely? Chiarelli? Aye. Warren?
 Roman numeral 5B4, 8 ayes, 5 no. Roman numeral B, excuse me, 5B1, 12 ayes, 1 no. Remainder, 13 ayes, 0 no. The matter is passed, thank you. Thank you. All in favor? Thank you, Your Honor. All right, one item. It is the vouchers on the amount of $7,864,696.19. And I put these up for passage.
 For passage are the vouchers under roll 5C1. Is there discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Frost. Hervey. Cannel. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 13-0. That is passed, thank you.
 Pardon? I'm sorry. Say it again?
 to the position? Certainly. Sorry, I apologize. On the Alderman desk is our Section 19-28 and Section 19-28-5. It has to do with our curfew laws, our daytime curfew, and our curfew for minors. I've had staff make copies for everyone. I'd like for you to look them over. Give me your opinion and your input.
 and see if this is something that we need to discuss and implement into this community. It is outdated, just by me briefly reading it, because there's programs that we've had at that time that we do not have now. So I would appreciate it, seriously, if the alderman would read it and give me your input, your comments, and your suggestions. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Officers, reports? Yes.
 Just a couple items this evening that I wanted to comment on. First, I have a number of appointments for boards and positions. These will lay over pursuant to council rule for 30 days. I would reappoint to the Electrical Commission with your approval Division Chief Matt Knott.
 from the Fire Department and Charles Lasconas. Their terms would end in June 2016. Their material has been passed out for your review. Again, those will lay over pursuant to council rule. Also have a recommended appointment for the Airport Authority Board of a Mr. Jeffrey Lee for a five-year term filling a vacancy. Again, that will be submitted for your review for 30 days as well as the reappointment to the Airport Authority Board
 with your approval of Paul Cicero for a five-year term. And then the final board position that I had making a recommendation tonight would be to Marcus Hill to a five-year term for the RAVE board, Rockford Area Venues and Entertainment Authority, Metro Center Authority Board. Again, those will all lay over for 30 days. And then finally, I wanted to introduce, although she's been on the job for a little over a week,
 or about a week. Kimberly Bruce, two weeks. All right, I'm losing time. Kimberly Bruce joins the city. We issued a press release out about her hiring today.
 Kimberly joins us having worked in the Rockford area for the last four years or so and previously living in the city of Milwaukee, transplanted here with her husband who is a native of Rockford and we're very excited to have her as our Director of, Manager of Strategic Communications. And Kimberly maybe you could stand and just welcome me to the city of Rockford. Thanks for joining us. As part of what Kimberly's been doing is
 It's, you know, they say about drinking out of a fire hose, no pun intended, especially when you've got a fire department. But she has been quickly trying to get acclimated with all the various departments within the city. She's got a lot of challenges. We're in the communications business, and this is a position that is long overdue, really, and we'll be keeping her very busy. But she will be taking time out to introduce herself, if she hasn't already, to all of our council members.
 and learning more about your issues and concerns from a communication standpoint and how she can help. So I just want to welcome her. And I thought I was going to have them done tonight, but I didn't. Our committee assignments I should have at our next meeting, and my apologies for not having them finalized tonight. There was a couple positions that I had some questions that I needed to follow up some members on. Thank you. For the officers' reports, Baldwin Beach. Your Honor, about a week ago, maybe a few more days ago,
 There was this little small jeep with about five guys on it driving around the neighborhoods. They come to a house and they jump out of the jeep and they had to invest on the hard ass but they go back and find the utility poles and they take out drills and they'll drill holes in the utility poles.
 and then they would take and dig around the base of the pole, and then they'd wrap it with some kind of plastic, and then they'd fill the holes back up and leave. So I get a hold of...
 of the Commonwealth Edison representative that replaced Paul Kelligan and said, do you know what this is about? He said, I don't think I do, but I'll check it out. And then he called me back the day later and said they were testing to see whether they can get any more life out of the poles.
 So they were drilling inside, et cetera, and it came down from Oak Brook. And I said, is there any way that you can get some information to our city so we can broadcast it to the citizens? And I've got e-mails full tonight from citizens saying, Frank, who are these guys running around with these unmarked cars coming into our yards drilling our poles? They don't know. So I'm saying that publicly is that ComEd used to really communicate with us.
 and let us know when these things were happening. And I just wanted to mention that too, Your Honor. I probably would have forgotten tonight and I got another email, but I wanted to mention that to you as such. And I would hope that perhaps someone could just, I mean, it looks like it's a good thing we're doing, but if the people would know who they are, if the fellows could have identification tags or something to identify them, probably more helpful. Thank you, sir. MR.
 great example of uh um you can really prepare so you can help get some follow-up information from all of that beach and we can work to try to coordinate better communications with the county of wilson thank you all my time well i have several things this evening um
 First of all, I don't even know if it's on, yes. First of all, I would like to thank Representative, thank you, Leticia Wallace and John for the
 John Trabello for the meeting that they called, or the press conference. It was a press conference, but it turned into a meeting for their information and working with us on the legislative level, which is a process that's going to take quite a while to materialize. One of the things that
 And also thank the Rucker Police Department for their actions this weekend and responding to all the incidents that took place in this community. I am highly upset with Last Friday, as I know everyone else is. And I have a lot of irate residents, which they should be in this community, in regards to Last Friday.
 One of the things that I've been talking to the residents in regards to is the lack of knowledge, the lack of ownership. We have so many different pockets in our community and we need to start holding them accountable and responsible for what is happening to our community. I truly do feel that the residents of the community should have the right to
 more responsibility in reporting crimes and reporting activities in their community. I also feel that we need to hold the Rockford Housing Authority accountable for the damage that's being done in our community, as well as a lot of the mental health agencies and other agencies in the community.
 Everyone takes a part. We cannot police ourselves out of this, nor can we continue to write legislation to legislate ourselves out of it. It has to be everything. And also, city government has to take its part in supporting the residents of this community.
 You know, we sit here year after year and we craft a budget to where we give away thousands and thousands of dollars to individuals for businesses and promoting their businesses. And the neighborhood groups are low on the priority in supporting what's happening in our community. Shame on us.
 We're willing to support individuals with $40,000, $50,000 salaries and not neighborhood network that had to go to different sources in order to be funded. That is a valuable source that works with over 60 neighborhoods in this community throughout this community.
 One of the things that I like to do is I like to start the dialogue with the residents and the parties and I would like to have the support of the alderman and also the input from the alderman to have a meeting May 22nd at 6 p.m. in City Hall. And it's going to be a call to action meeting for the residents and the parties.
 The other part is the government concern. It's where we need residents to start reporting problems. We need to have, we will have there the public service, our community service officers. At this point in time, we cannot no longer afford our community service officers to work nine to five. If it's going to cost us an overtime, we need them longer on days where we have the issues where
 Residents are calling our community officers and by 5 o'clock the office is empty. We need to look at if we can adjust, if we can adjust their hours or have a night community officer because that's when a lot of the calls come in. I also want property standards to be there as well as to address questions and concerns and let the public know.
 Out of 60 neighborhood watch groups, all this information is given to the neighborhood watch groups. I think I've got more neighborhood watch groups than any alderman on the council. With all that I attend, I work with one, two, three, four aldermen as far as neighborhood watch groups.
 The information that we receive, our residents are not receiving it. So I want to show the opportunity for city government to give the residents all the information that they need to assist in cleaning up their community and their neighborhoods. I can't express the anger that I received, the calls that I received from residents of this community, and they should be outraged. I'm outraged.
 If we continue to go the route that we're going, we're going to continue to have the things that we're having if we're doing nothing. You know, I took out and looked at the 2020 plan. It's a joke. It's a joke. Simply because a lot of hard work was put on it, but when you come to communities that need the support, come to communities that need not only our financial support, but all types of support, they're bottom of the list.
 They're at the bottom of our planning. Oh, sure, you acknowledge us when the income levels are low or the housing stock is low. Yeah, we acknowledge you in those numbers. But are we acknowledging how we're going to bring this entire city up? We focused on downtown. Now it's time for us to focus on our communities. Thank you. Thank you for their officer reports. All men will do very well. Thank you, sir. On the same somewhat type of note, I would like to commend
 the person that called the police department and told about a gun that she saw or they saw and that it was being given from one person to another. This is what we need to know. It doesn't make any difference who made that call.
 That call was made to the police department to help the police department in what they are trying to do. We can have 10 or 20 cars traveling around Rockford and watching everything, but if we get to the point to where we have neighbors watching neighbors, that's what we have to do. And I want to commend that person. I don't care.
 who it was, what section of the city it's in. If you see something going wrong, the very first thing I ask all of my people that call, and I want them to keep on calling me, but we also have to, if we see something going wrong, we have to call the police department. We can't expect them to be magicians and go, oh, wait a minute, I'm traveling down North Main, three blocks over and one block up, there's gonna be a problem.
 Someone in that neighborhood knows there's a problem. So call it in. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Herbie, you're next. Thank you, Your Honor. A couple of points on the not so good side.
 I got a lot of calls too from people who are absolutely appalled at the level of violence that occurred. The good news is that almost everyone who did call said, what can we do? We've got to do something, not what is Chief Epperson going to do, what are our CSOs going to do, but what do we need to do in the community? And I think there's a couple things that I think Alderman Thompson Kelly's forum will be a good one to get some of those out.
 But the second is, when I first came on council six years ago, we had to make some really deep and harmful cuts into some of our city services. I just noticed Mr. Wilhelmi is appointed as our new, I call him our new Charlie Schaefer because I can't remember the title of the position, but in our code enforcement area, we reduced some of our code enforcement people because we had to. I want them added back.
 As I drive around, even the Fifth Ward, I can't keep up with the tall grass. And that is an open invitation. I have so many of these vacant homes. That's an open invitation to vagrants that says nobody's here and nobody cares. I know we have the fastest under our Public Works Department and our Community and Economic Development Department. We need to accelerate that cutting schedule.
 I know that's going to cost more money, but we need to have an adjustment. Three weeks doesn't get it. And I understand it's 10 inches. I think we need to look at lowering that.
 for vacant houses. I'm not going to go after private citizens who happen to be ill and their grass might grow a little taller than six inches, but I want to see it lowered because it is an absolute scourge on our neighborhoods when the grass is that high. Garter snakes love the Fifth Ward. I have no idea why. I named them now, but I don't kill them or anything. I just let them stay there and do their thing.
 Just the number that we're seeing dead in the street, there's a bumper crop this year. And people, many people are afraid of them. That's just the way it is. Like I said, I got used to it. We have two nests around our house. But I'm getting a lot of calls about that. So I'm asking that we take a hard look at increasing or decreasing the time that it takes us to perform cuts.
 On a more pleasant note, I am proud to say that this weekend, and I have to acknowledge Chief Bergston, he's going to get all the kudos tonight, you all got a notice about our brand new fire station number three that will be opening at 888 Marcassano Drive.
 It was good for everyone all around for this station, but even more so for an absolute eyesore that is now gone and is really going to help us, I think, with that corridor. They're working on laying a new Marc Gasano Drive. But the fire station grand opening is this weekend, May 23rd, for all of our citizens from 10 a.m. until 2 p.m. I believe Mayor Morrisey will be cutting the ribbon at 1 p.m.
 And I hope everybody can make it out. Lots of activities for the kids. The station, ambulance and fire engine tours, blood pressure checks, vital sign checks for health, fire safety trailer, the ones with the smoke so you learn how to get in and out. And then buttons and button making, literature and some raffles and giveaways. So I'm hoping everybody can come out and join us. We all didn't get one. You all didn't get one of these?
 You'll get one by email and, Chief, do you have any more? He has some more and we will make sure that you all get one before you leave. Absolutely. So lastly, I want to remind people and put out a challenge to my favorite, my fellow alderman, the West Rock Wake Park
 will be opening soon. They're opening weekends. I shall be out once again. This time I will make it across the lake. Even if it's on my face, I'm going to make it across the lake. But I would like to issue a challenge to all my fellow aldermen, especially those who are
 to get out there and ride the wave, ride the wave. So, and I'll pay for it. I'll pay for your hours. So for all of you, the gauntlet is down. Did I say 60? I meant 80. I'm sorry. Alderman Beck, I think you were next. I'll make an announcement next Tuesday. We'll be meeting because of Memorial Day and holiday, but
 It's the committee meeting night, and Alderman McNair asked me a while ago to add on the agenda for the finance and personnel and update on the geo-policing. So we're going to have a special start time of 5 o'clock to cover geo-policing, then get into our regular finance and personnel agenda, and then move on with other committees. So we want to make sure everybody knows that we'll be doing that and hope you can make it.
 Thank you, Alderman Frost. Thank you. I had a chance last Wednesday to travel and spend a day in Springfield, our capital, and meet with some of our local leaders.
 pretty much all of our local legislators. And also in attendance at Springfield was Alderman Shirely, Alderman Beach, and Alderman Newberg. So we had some level of bipartisanship slash independence represented. We met with Senate President Cullerton, Speaker Madigan's office, Minority Leader of the House Jim Durkin,
 and Governor Rauner and it was, I think, a great day had by all where we had a chance to advocate on behalf of our city and defend our city and our actions to some folks and it was a very productive day that we were able to have in Springfield and I would encourage
 either travel to Springfield or reach out to our local legislation that is bipartisan and obviously has a very similar agenda that we do in helping Rockford get our fair share from the state in this especially difficult time. Thank you. Thank you. Who's next? Sullivan. Back to Mary. Thank you, Mayor.
 I want to echo a number of concerns that several aldermen mentioned about people actually taking ownership of their own homes, their own surroundings. I also wanted to ask that we get a report over the next week or two for our strategy moving forward with formerly Eden, we're now Rockford Community Partners with the director now living in another state.
 I personally would like us to see a stop using that vendor as soon as we can in our contract and would like a strategy of how we're going to move forward and continue to work with many partners that we have. Thank you. Thank you. So is there any other hands up that I missed? Thanks. I don't know whether short of a dedicated line, the biggest complaints I get at our neighborhood meetings, and we have six groups.
 is that when they call, they're told to call the non-emergency number. And that's very difficult to get through, especially for someone who's seen something happen right now, whatever it might be. We tell them to call. If they call a non-emergency number, they've got to wait, go through, be transferred, and a lot of times they get lost in it. So I don't know whether they should be...
 Instructed to call the community service police officer 24-7 or some other arrangement or whether there's some other number or whether it's really important to call 9-1-1 I don't know but I'm not asking for an answer tonight but that is a problem that when we tell the people to get engaged and actually get the nerve enough to pick the phone up and call There should be somebody right there to take that information for them right now regardless how it's put in the queue but they should at least be received that's my feeling
 Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'll let me direct you. If I may, can we return to petitions and communications? Sure. If we're done with officers' reports? Yes. Thank you, sir. Well, go ahead. We'll come back if anybody else has any additional questions. Well, I'll sit down then. I had one item I was going to come back on, but go ahead. Okay. I just received a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Director, and it's for an assistance agreement with Longwood Plaza, LLC.
 It's a request for approval to enter into an agreement for redevelopment of 1055 East State Street with Longwood Plaza, LLC, wholly owned by Zion Development Corporation. It's a local community housing development organization using home investment partnership program funds. This will also be referred to planning and development. Thank you. Further officer's reports? There's one item I ask Chief Epperson if you want to come up and join me for a moment.
 Chief, I was going to just give an announcement about one of the projects that we've been working on some time. And as we were discussing him coming up to talk about the Strong Neighborhood House opening up this week on May 21st, I just asked that he give a quick update in response to the violence that occurred Friday and just to talk about some of the initiatives that we're already engaged in.
 I also wanted to recognize Representative Wallace. She and I chatted about a month ago with her idea when she first raised it with me about having a violent crime task force and that's when I had some discussion with her about the fact that we already have a violent crime task force.
 Chief Epperson will talk a little bit about the initiatives that we're engaged in right now on the law enforcement side and also some of the directions we're heading on the human and social services side. Chief. Thanks Mayor. This Thursday at 3 o'clock you're all invited to come over to 1233 Revelle. We're going to have an open house, the Strong Neighborhood House, Swedish American Hospital
 has provided a home, it's right off East State Street, that's 1233 Revell, open house between 3 and 5 o'clock. We'll have our community service officers over there, will be engaged in the neighborhood, bringing back some civility to the neighborhood. They've had some issues over the years. Just wanted to give a quick update. We were very busy Friday starting at 5 p.m.
 We started off with an officer-involved shooting at 1800 Block and 16th Avenue. Several officers were involved. I've been in contact with the officers that were involved in the shooting. They're doing fine, and so our prayers and thoughts go to them and also to the decedent and his family. Very unfortunate situation that took place. And the Winnebago-Boone County Integrity Task Force is handling that investigation.
 We were busy later that evening in the 400 block of Underwood. It's a constant issue with one particular home, and there was one person shot, a 29-year-old male. Later that evening, the violence went to 2022 School Street. Three people were shot, one which is very unfortunate. We talked about it on Saturday. A 15-year-old was shot, a 19-year-old was shot, and a 23-year-old was also shot, deceased at the scene.
 I was out there Saturday afternoon and the scene just to the block north still had shell casings and I counted about 25. So there was a heavy gunfire that was at that particular location. And then later in the evening there was after hours party. People just decided not to go home and they went to the area of Furman and Arthur. I got into an argument
 pulled out weapons and there were six people that were injured by gunfire. Twenty-two years of age was the youngest, then up to 59. I can tell you that there's been discussions since Saturday morning at about 10 o'clock with the staff. We're working with the Illinois State Police, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Winnebago County Sheriff's Department, and the Illinois Department of Corrections on all of these investigations, I'm confident. We will solve the cases. There's been information that's come forward today.
 and we'll be bringing those cases to the one of the county state's attorneys and also hopefully the US attorney for prosecution. I also want to comment on the information that was brought in yesterday about the
 caller who saw some people with handguns in the park on Central. I applaud that person. And there are people in this community that will not be bullied. They live in some of our most marginalized areas because I hear those calls. We can't say who those people are, but give a shout-out to all those individuals who won't be bullied in their neighborhoods, and they will call the police. And it's commendable for what this person did on Sunday afternoon.
 Also, Alderman Thompson, Kelly talked about the curfew. I want to remind everybody in the city that between Sunday and Thursday, unless it's changed, curfew is 11 o'clock. For those that are 16 and younger, unless you're with a parent, on the weekend it's 12 midnight, so we will be enforcing that. And also just a message for many of the houses or residences that we go to, and there's this constant gunfire that we'll be seeking prosecution. Thank you.
 Chief, if you could hold up just for a couple other items I want to mention. Part of what we've been discussing at our Violent Crime Task Force meetings, Alderman Odo raised the question a couple weeks ago, and there's data that we're continuing to work on the poll in cooperation with Winnebago County, is the status when we do take guns off the street, and we typically have between 160, correct me if I'm wrong, 160 to 180 approximately gun cases that we move in a given year. It's been hard to...
 get a handle on what exactly the outcomes are for those cases. We've been going, trying to work backwards from the most recent data that we've had starting 2014 and 2013 and starting to get a better sense of what happens. What, having seen this information, been involved with these conversations for years, if we arrest five people who are involved in a drive-by shooting,
 And only one of them gets the hit, who is the actual shooter for the longest possible sentence. But all five were involved in the activity. I think we're missing an opportunity. There's more complex cases that may involve multi-party prosecutions are difficult. They may be challenging. But what we've been in conversation with through the violent crime task force is whether it's
 federal US attorney or the local state's attorney, we want to make sure we're doing everything on our investigations to get the stiffest penalty in those gun crimes specifically that will hold for the longest period of time. So the data that we're trying to arrive, we're not doing it to place blame on anyone. We're trying to gather the data so that we get the best possible direction and deployment of our resources so we can be as effective as we possibly can.
 We don't want people who are committing gun crimes to be back on our streets. The violent crime has got to stop and all of us have dealt with it and don't want to tolerate it any longer. Final thing I will mention is that we have a tremendous amount of community partnerships. Some of those that have already been referenced tonight, but specifically the work that we're doing on our jail reentry program.
 and trying to work with ex-felons to make sure that they have an opportunity to be successful. It's a lot of work. We have many partners involved. We want to continue to get better at that work, as well as our work in partnership with the county on probation, mental health resource partners, etc. And so we do have a number of initiatives that we're trying to move forward over the next several weeks
 to pull together and be much more systematic and coordinated as a community group of partners to help that occur. I've had a chance to talk to a couple aldermen about that, but in the coming weeks I'm going to try to personally talk along with the chief to everybody in the council and bring something forward, most likely in June or July, to try to help us move that initiative forward. So I just wanted to give an update on that, and you can expect to hear more from myself and Chief Epperson on that in the coming weeks.
 Thank you, Chief, and thank you again for all of our community members. Any final officers' reports? Unfinished business? One item is planning development. It's under an unfinished businesses ordinance laid over Section 7A1. Planning development proposes the 2020 Comprehensive Plan Amendment for the proposed Plan Element 14, Implementation Plan 2015-2019.
 place that up for approval. Thank you. I'll for passage Roman numeral 7A1. For discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Newberg? Beach? Aye. Elliott? McNeeley? No. Shirley? Ten ayes, two noes, Your Honor.
 Item one is the reappointments of the following individuals as directors of the Municipal Department of the City of Rockford. Effective immediately, Todd Cagnoli, Community and Economic Development Department, Chris Black, Finance Department, Julia Scott Valdez, Human Resources Department, George Davis, Human Services Department, Glenn Trommels, Information Technology Department, Patrick Hayes, Legal Department, and Timothy Hanson, Public Works Department. I place that up for approval.
 item 8.1 is up for passage as the discussion. Thank you, sir. On this, do we vote yes or no? Or do you can pick and choose, like, say, one whatever and then I on the rest? You can separate. Thank you. Yes. All in favor? If any alderman would prefer, we can vote one at a time or we can vote all together. I'm putting them up together at this point, but.
 I would recommend we'll take one vote. If you want to separate the vote by identifying somebody you don't want to vote for, please feel free to do so. Sure. Any further discussion? Hearing none, I'll let McKinley. Thank you very much.
 I just wanted to comment that I was surprised when we received a handout, I think, a week or two ago regarding the salaries for the department heads. I was surprised to see for the Community and Economic Development Department, for that director to have the lowest salary. And I think it's one of the departments that has one of the biggest requirements and carries the city's
 It's more or less certainly part of the backbone of the city. So I just wanted to make that comment. Thank you. Further discussion? Clerk, please, call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Hervey. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Sciarelli.
 Oh, Roman numeral 8, A, 1, A, B, C, E, F, and G, 11 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 8, 1, D, 10 ayes, 2 no. Thank you. Banner passes. Motions and resolutions. Roll 9. Alderman Shrelle. Thank you, Your Honor. Item number 1 is a special event permit for the Biggest Loser Run Walk event to be held on Friday, June 19th.
 2015 from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. for registration and on Saturday, June 20th, 2015 at 7 a.m. to 12 noon in downtown Rockford at Davis Park, 320 South Wyman Street. City support shall not exceed $1,000. Item number two is a special event permit for Ramps Run Walk Wheel event to be held on Saturday, September 5th, 2015 at the Trolley Station located at 324 Madison Street.
 Item number three is a special event permit and liquor permit for consumption of liquor outdoors on private property. S license for St. Stanislaus Church Polish Festival to be held on Sunday, August 16th, 2015 from 10 AM to 8.30 PM at 201 Buckby Street.
 item number four is a special event permit for the rockford road runners swedish american state street mile event to be held on saturday august 1st 2015 from 4 45 p.m to 8 p.m the race route is starting at state street and summit and ending at the west end of state street bridge item number five is a special event permit and liquor permit for the consumption of liquor outdoors on private property s license for the winnebago county
 911 emergency responders party on the rock to be held Wednesday, July 22nd, 2015 from 5 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Verde Club, 782 North Madison Street. Item number six is a special event permit and liquor permit for the consumption of liquor
 outdoors on public property SP license for the fourth of July committee's fourth of July celebration to be held on Saturday July 4th 2015 and downtown Rockford Davis Park located at 3 20 South Wyman Street from 12 noon to 11 p.m.
 Number seven is a special event permit for the Rockford First Church for their car, truck, and motorcycle show to be held on Sunday, June 14, 2015 from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at 5950 Spring Creek Road. Number eight is the special event permit and liquor permit for consumption of liquor outdoors on private property, S license.
 for the same winds riders MC ninth annual pig roast to be held Friday June 12 2015 from 12 noon to 2 a.m. and Saturday June 13th from 2015 from 12 noon to 2 a.m. at 803 and 811 South Central Avenue.
 Number nine is the review of the special SP permit for North End Square Market to be to extend SP permits in excess of limit due to nature of event public event on city property apologize there Place those items up for passage. Thank you Nine
 Is that, do we take action on that? Yes, your honor. And that's why it was placed on the agenda and the fashion was. Thank you. So those items, 8139, are for passage. There's discussion. None. All right, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Pannell. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 McNeely aye Shirely aye 12 ayes are in it Thank you Your Honor I have under finance and personnel committee I have an award of bid for fire department station where The uniformed den of Lowe's Park Illinois for an estimated amount of $98,800 And C&E specialties of Rockford Illinois for an estimated amount of $15,250
 Next is an award of bid for Snowplow Blade Repair Parts to Bonnell Industries of Dixon, Illinois for the bid of $50,850 for caster wheel assemblies and curb guards and Monroe Equipment of Monroe, Wisconsin for their bid of $68,390 for cutting edges, caster wheels and alternate curb guards.
 Item 3 is an award of bid for Downtown Sports Complex Site Development and Construction to Stunstum General Contractor of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $5,683,829.95. Item 4 is an award of bid for Citieswide Street Repair Group Number 4 2015 for a concrete package to TCI Concrete of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $1,389,263.70.
 Item 5 is an awarded bid for South Main two-way conversion, Cedar Street to Chestnut Street to M-TRAC Group of Rockford, Illinois, for their bid of $4,178,461.76. Item 6 is an awarded bid for Citywide pavement marking 2015, the precision pavement markings of Elgin, Illinois, for their bid of $72,581.45.
 7 is award of RFP, temporary staffing to workplace of Rockford, Illinois for their hourly billed rates. Clerical and program aides, 1.44. Technical, 1.48. Direct hire flat fee based on salary. Item 8 is change order for utility bills for the
 Bill printing to level one of Malvern, Pennsylvania to cover the cost of a cross connection control survey. The cost of print and mail to cover letter and questionnaire is $32,823.75 and return postage is estimated at $8,630. The contract increase amount is $41,453.75 and the new contract total is $1,141,453.75. Nine is an engineering agreement. The new contract
 for the downtown sports complex site development construction observation to Arc Design at Rockford, Illinois for an amount not to exceed $160,841.92. Item 10 is an engineering agreement for the Pierpont Avenue bridge repairs from South Branch at Kent Creek to HR Green Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois for an amount not to exceed $32,956.09.
 Item 11 is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds for citywide street light electric 2015 in the amount of $2,500,000. Item 12 is a resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for use of motor fuel tax funds for Rockford Avenue and Halstead Avenue Highway Safety Improvement Program in the amount of $175,000. And I replace these 12 items up for passage. Thank you. Separate which one? Seven. Thank you.
 So we'll take your question. We'll do the items 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 first. On the beach you had a question on 11. Utility bills or something else? That's for the utility bills. There was a higher amount, and we discussed this at committee last week, because the actual electricity I think was 1.1 million. Mr. Hanson might be able to describe why the additional amount was in there. Mr. Black or Mr. Hanson? It's a general fund transfer. I know that. Cool.
 Correct. Thank you, Mayor. That amount is a transfer from the L.A.P. fund to the general fund. And an amount cannot be more than what our expenses are for street lighting. And then in turn we transfer money from the general fund to the capital improvement fund for infrastructure improvements. Alright, thank you. May I ask one more question? Yes, sir. Number five, what fund is paying this money?
 so much love is the common ground of the end of the five-star blackout to do it that's part of it I'm just an empty funds to make it thank you thank you for just another quick question I may have asked this last week but with regard to the South main two-way conversion if we're passing the bid when is that project going to start it is a codependent on the
 Route 2 being shifted, not Route 2, but the Wyman Street portion being vacated and rerouted? Or are we talking about doing that separately? Again, nobody wants it more than me. I hate it that it switches to one way there. But this council specifically voted no on that project previously.
 Zioch-Gorman Hotel project, but if for some reason that project doesn't go through, are we going to be starting on the South Main two-way conversion independent of that project? Because I don't know that that was understood by people, that that was going to be done no matter what. That's going on this summer.
 Mr. Ryan, do you think that... That is an independent project and as an exhibit to the development agreement, it spells out the timeframes for which that South Main two-way conversion would be completed. So it will be under construction prior to the hotel being completed. As Alderman Kirby mentioned, it has been a long-term goal of getting South Main Street converted to two-way, particularly at that section.
 No, wait, I want to make sure I'm understood. It was a goal. There's no question about that and it was one that I personally wanted. But I don't know that it was understood because I've gotten questions from some fellow aldermen as to whether that was independent of the Gorman project. I think the perception was that that was part of the Gorman project because we were going to be rerouting Wyman and in order to reroute Wyman, you needed that two-way conversion.
 That's all I'm asking. If one doesn't go through, is the other one still being done out of MFT? Because I don't know that that was council's perception. So pursuant to, I think what Mr. Ryan is saying, pursuant to the development agreement that we approved,
 We have a timeline which requires us to get started on the project because it takes time to complete the road elements of the project in order, which have to be done before they can start construction, where the crossover will be taking place on that element of the project that's going to be built on that area, which I believe is primarily going to be the
 conference center that's correct I can't tell you what the timelines are and that's what I would just defer to Mr. Hanson or Mr. Ryan on what exactly the timelines are that we've committed to because I can tell you that the new construction so the way the hotel project is supposed to go the new construction is going to be the last part of it the first part will be the part that's historic tax credit dependent which would be the
 I don't know what our timeline was if we improve this contract tonight they supposed to start next week or what's the it will start within a month and it be pretty much done by the end of the season will be part of the South main project that is going south of Cedar Street I'll finish for a little bit you talked about pursuant to the development agreement I think in the last two weeks we've discussed the development agreement and
 modifications to it quite a bit with some extensions of timelines that we have given to Gorman and Company. One of them involves a very critical element, which is the financing part that we still don't have an answer on yet, nor does Mr. Gorman. And I would just recommend or suggest that before we spend $4.2 million on a stretch of road that
 is fairly short in nature from Cedar Street to Chestnut Street, that perhaps we can amend our timeline on that to make sure and ensure that this conference center that's going to
 affected by and improved by the two lane road there is going through before we go ahead and do the work. So this was the concern I had last week is getting ahead of ourselves. So I just think maybe that the council could consider pushing this project off a little bit until we have more secure information and hopefully it'll be coming soon that there is a viable financing options on this because as of right now, we don't know the answer to that. Thank you.
 What's the current timeline call for for the completion of the Wyman Street crossover improvements? What is it supposed to be done? Mr. Cagnone, do you know? The development agreement states that the city shall convert to South Main Street from a one-way to a two-way street between Cedar and State Street no later than March 1, 2016. March 1, 2016.
 Mr. Wright. I think that the critical element of the project is really the vacation of the right-of-way. And we can't vacate right-of-way on an existing operating state highway.
 That's really the critical path issue. And on the developer side, they need to be able to show clear title when getting financing. So without the vacated Green Street, you cannot expand the convention center to the north. That's really the issue ultimately. So what is our, just to get back to the underlying agreement,
 change property or is that already is there a closing schedule on that one said take place on the actual one crossover is that the state involved awesome other process work we're we're pushing the state to do the property transfer by September 1st 2015 so that we
 read the two-way conversion before that date in order to get them to D-Dust the property by September 1st of this year. Because of the projects we're working on, these timelines are very difficult to reconcile with the concept of we don't start.
 until the financing is in place because a lot, as Mr. Ryan mentioned, a lot of this has to occur in dealing with IDOT as the aldermen all know. They've got their own timelines and worlds so we're struggling to meet all, juggle all these different timelines and this is part of the risk that we've been portraying all along that yeah, there's some of this stuff we're committing to period whether Gorman comes or not.
 And that's the reality of being able to live up to the commitments we made in the original, you know, development. The only changes that we're seeking in those timelines here are relief or giving us additional time to make relief or additional time for us to complete these items, not shorten those timelines on us. So this commitment, is it different than what it was during the first period?
 Correct. Well, it's farther back in time for us to do these transfers. It gives us more time to get them done. So we aren't moving these dates up. We're moving them back for us. Thank you. And I appreciate that. And I understand in the original agreement there were different issues. And most importantly, the issue of financing was not such a risky input. And you just hit it on the head.
 Mr. Hayes, that this is a risk that we as a city, as a council, are taking and we're spending. I don't know anything about the legalities of the conversion and the right-of-ways. That's to do with a contract with Intrac to do the row. And so, instead of having, maybe we could get some better documentation on this matter to see the timeline and the specifics of this as we go forward.
 I'm not comfortable voting on a matter that's $4.2 million. Why don't we entertain a motion to move this over? So I would. Thank you. So there's been a motion second to lay over 9-5 until we can get some a little bit more discussion on it. All those in favor lay the matter over and propose. So we'll lay over until the next meeting. We may, if we can, get it resolved, set it before next Monday so we can get it if we need to. Our schedule on track.
 right between us and his own office staff trying to have conversations with everyone is trying to I was not okay thank you for the discussion of this so that only yeah seven thousand seven speaking hello so separate we'll talk about that after the only one that was there was five so pass right now is one two three six eight nine ten eleven twelve
 Any help for us? I have a question about number three, the Ingersoll Sports Complex new bid. Was this part of the original package in which Stensfield Construction won the bid for the large amount of work, or is this a separate? Mr. Ryan, you can take that. We bid the site improvements as a separate bid package. So we had the building package that went first, and then we bid out the civil site work second. So it wasn't part of the original.
 And this has not been bid before? Mr. Ryan? That's correct. I was just, I know that it said that there were only two bids. I just find that surprising that there are only two bids on a project like this. Any? We're starting to see bids tighten up and people are very busy right now. So we're starting to see prices escalation. Thank you for your input. Any further discussion?
 Hearing none, so for passage one, two, three, four, six, eight, nine, 10, 11, and 12, clerk, please fill the roll. Deerkey? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Hervey? Aye. Connell? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Newberg? Beach? Elliott? Back. McNeely? Shirely? Roman numeral 9B3, two no, one abstain,
 The count would be 9 to 3 and the remainder 12 I 0 no. That is passed, thank you. And we'll come back to item 7, which was separated. Is there a discussion? I would first like to acknowledge, I passed out to all of the aldermen, I'm sorry Ms. Merritt, and put on your desk a memo.
 from Global Staffing Services. And based upon that memo, I would ask that the council lay this over until our next meeting, which would be two weeks from today. There's been a motion and a second to leave. Item 7, over for two weeks. Any discussion? The motion will be over. Hold it. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you.
 I understand from the memo that they want to wait over. Did they express any reasoning behind just wanting to talk to staff or what they wanted to talk to staff about? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. They have a concern, and I think I expressed that with you earlier, that...
 Regarding the whole process, they have been sending or responding to the city RFPs for this particular type of employment service. And they have some questions. I think it's valid enough that we should give them the opportunity to talk with the aldermen as well as staffing regarding them.
 When this RFP was first initiated, I take it there were several chances for folks bidding to ask questions of the city? Any more any questions? I'm sorry. Thank you. Ms. Valdez? Were there any specific questions raised by Global Staffing Services at that time in which they wanted to discuss with the City of Rockford Personnel Director?
 Yes, she was part of the RFP response and did participate. In fact, this is the first I've heard that she had any additional questions. We were actually waiting for some information from her that we had never received. All in. Thompson, Kelly. Well, I had the opportunity to speak with Global Staffing as well as Temp Services, the workplace.
 I and I will say what I said to Lorraine is I think that we need to clear up our house as far as her being on the commission, the police and fire commission and getting the major contract in this community. It does not look all culture.
 One of the two should happen. I have no problem because Julia and I have had a conversation as far as the fairness of the process. And what I also told Julia is that as long as the process is fair and everyone at the table has the opportunity,
 My concern that I feel that is where I see staff coming in from the workplace last year where a lot of minorities went to human services and a lot of whites went to property standards and public works. But if they weren't qualified, they weren't qualified. That's just my personal opinion. But I do think that it is a conflict.
 by Lorraine giving her services to this community quite well on the Police and Fire Commission and receiving a major contract from City Council. There's nothing that is
 that I have found, but it just, the perception of it is not good. And so that's why I have listened to other employment agencies. And also, the concern that I have with the
 our finance department and the contracts and how they issue the contracts, the wording of the contracts and the large amounts of the contract, which is eliminating a lot of our small businesses in this community. The one good thing that we have done is we have
 Lorraine did bring to my attention, and she's absolutely correct, she is a female-owned business, which is some of the things that we do push for in this community. So that's my concern. And I think, Your Honor, that is up to you with the commission that we've asked about on several occasions to take care of. And I don't think the perception would be so bad if one of those matters was taken care of.
 Thank you. Any further discussion on Durkee? Thank you, Your Honor. Did Global Staffing Services provide a bid for service for this in particular contract? Ms. Vales? Yes, sir. They responded to the RFP and they were part of the RFP process. We did interview them. Okay. Thank you. So there's a motion to lay the matter over for two weeks. Any further discussion on the motion? All those in favor of the motion, please add. Aye. Opposed, no. No. Durkee? No. McNamara? No. Okay.
 Frost No Purvey Connell No Thompson-Kelley Aye Newberg No Beach Elia Beck McNeely Aye Cirelli No Three ayes, nine no, Your Honor The matter fails. The matter remains before the council to refer the discussion on the item. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee Aye McNamara Aye Frost Aye
 Thompson, Kelly? No. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elia? Aye. Beck? No. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? No. Nine ayes, three noes, Your Honor. The matter passes. Thanks for your business. Hope to hear from you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have actually three items. I would ask that under Roman numeral 10A4 be held out while we work on the agreement between the City and the County.
 And then I would place up for passage items one, two, and three, and I would ask that the rules be suspended. Second. Motion and second to suspend the rules on item 10A, one, two, and three. All those in favor of this act? Aye. Opposed, no. No. Ayes have it.
 thank your honor that I would ask that items are under Roman numeral 10 8 1 2 and 3 be placed up for passage there's a passage is there special why are we holding out for again and why why did you mention that I mean during the earlier about that the earlier vote was the committee report holding out the ordinance
 so that the city and the county can work out the, it's a 50-50 contract. The city and county can work that out before we bring the ordinance forward. If I may, I thought the purpose of this vote was to show our intent to the county that we would like to work with them. I'm not in favor of holding this out. I don't think that...
 voting on this is gonna stop working it out with the county. Mr. Hayes? Typically the committee report alone would be the device that we move forward on with demolition.
 we might go to resolution we anticipate will be approving an intergovernmental agreement with the county by ordinance we believe that the committee report would be sufficient indication of the council's intention to move forward on condition of that intergovernmental agreement with the county and the county committee will pick that up this week and as soon as that's approved then I think we'll get a an intergovernmental agreement and get it in place I don't feel that this indicates any hesitancy on the ultimate part it's just
 there's nothing to support an approval until we have that intergovernmental agreement because the committee report conditions approval on 50-50 funding, so there's nothing to move forward on until we get that in place. Okay, thank you. Thank you, any further discussion on those items that are not clear, please call the roll. Can I ask a question? Which item did we hold out for? Four. Okay. So items 10 and eight. Durkee. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey.
 Cattle Thompson Kelly Newberg 1 1 Beach 1 1 Elliott Aye Beck Aye McNeely No I'm 2 and 3 I am Chiarelli Roman numeral 10 A 2 and 3 11 I's 1 no Roman numeral 10 A 1 8 I's 4 no Sorry what was the count on 10 A 1 8 I's 4 no So does that fail Mr. Hayes
 Thank you, Your Honor.
 number one is an agreement to purchase a portion of thirteen eleven Harrison Avenue from Ingram Holdings LLC and the amount of one hundred thirteen thousand five hundred fifteen dollars which includes the purchase of the right of way land cost to demolish four hundred ninety square feet front of building and cost to rebuild the front of building and temporary easement for the Harrison Avenue project
 Number two is an ordinance to prohibit the use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 715 North Madison Street, chemical processing Inc. facility site. Number three, your Honor, was laid over. I'm going to be adding a number four.
 is the amendments to the city of Rockford court of ordinances section 3 dash 58 subsections 0 p q and are to create new liquor license classifications your honor I moved to suspend the rules those items that I was the most sections that rules that tend to be to look
 the changes to the program that's correct John yes your honor and it's section 0 HQ and are rather than 0 I'm sorry again in our on our agenda just above Roman numeral 5 committee reports indicates that the items appearing on the committee's might
 might be up for a vote with a rule suspension. So because that was amended from a no action, under that provision we can, based on that amendment, go ahead and pass on the ordinance tonight. So the first suspension of those three items, and B1 and 2, and then an additional item of license changes previously, acknowledge the motion to second the special rules on those three items, all those in favor of the staff?
 I was having to be spent those items of the passenger on it so the passengers they're just going to get a clarification on the amendment to the liquor license so if someone comes in and says I want this this liquor license I'm going to have 50 percent of my sales as food even if they have the gaming machines or are we does that mean they would be eligible for that license just because they say so Mr.
 Staff feels strongly that we will be able to audit through the various tax revenue reports that we require a very fairly accurate depiction of these ratios of sales. The idea would be that if the council deems to grant a liquor license to an entity based on its application and that entity decides to pursue gaming, they'll have to prove out over time that more than 50% of its revenues are related to things other than gaming.
 And we'll be able to track that through the gaming reports that are online, the ST1s that they file with the Department of Revenue and the tax returns they file with our redevelopment fund. We'll be able to track through those devices, those ratios accurately as it relates to anybody who is reporting to tax authorities their revenues. So we feel that will be as reliable a source as we can develop for a reference to what the ratios of sales are. Thank you. Thank you.
 Dirkie? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye on 1 and 2, no on 4. Thompson-Kelly? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Elliott? Beck? Aye. McNeely? 4-0. Shirely? Aye. Roman and Rule 10b-4 9-9-3-0, the remainder 12-0-0. Thank you. Further, Mrs. Postmanson? No, that's not what we're doing.
 So moved. Second. Second. The Chair of the meeting also appears to be to sign.