Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Pinonez? Here. McNally? McNally, I just unmuted her. She's here. I'm sorry. Shirley? Here. 13 present.
 Thank you. So we have a quorum. So this evening, under Finance and Personnel, Human Services Department requests for approval of the $86,725 Head Start COLA funds, $44,582 Head Start COLA funds, $11,000.
 11,577 early Head Start partnership COLA funds, $142,044. Head Start quality improvement funds, 53,000. So early Head Start quality improvement funds, and 35,000 early Head Start partnership quality improvement funds to be used to offset increased operating costs of the program. Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Sorry, thank you. We don't have any officers' reports.
 We don't have any, we do have a motion and resolution, finance and personnel committee, award of bed demolition of 116 to 120 South 2nd Street, AKA City Body Shop to N-Track Group of Rupps Park, Illinois in the amount of $38,893. The contract duration is 45 days. The funding source is a property fund. Is there any discussion on that item?
 Your Honor? Yes. Point of order. Did we vote on... You know what? We did. I'm sorry. Thank you. I'm sorry. I was moving too fast. Let's go back. We have the Human Services Department requests. My apologies. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. Is there any discussion on that item? No.
 Seeing no discussion, Claire, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Aye. Yes, Brainy. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Gosselin. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13. Aye. McNeely.
 Thank you. And again, my apologies. We just discussed it and
 may have been a Floridian slip there we don't want to discuss it again um finance and personnel under motions and resolutions uh what a good demolition of 116 to 120 south second street aka city body shop to n track group of left's park Illinois in the amount of thirty eight thousand eight hundred and ninety three dollars contract uh duration is 45 days funding sources of property fund discussion or questions on that item
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Jeff Braney. Aye. Tundra. Aye. Ross. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Urban. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Pinonez. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Sure. All right. 13-9.
 Thank you. Next, under new business, finance and personnel in ordinance, approving a request for human services department for $86,725 for Head Start COLA funds, $44,582 for Early Head Start COLA funds, $11,577 for Early Head Start Partnership COLA funds, $142,044 for Head Start Quality Improvement funds, $53,436.00.
 for early head start quality improvement funds and 35,000 early head start partnership quality improvement funds to be used to offset increased operating costs. And I'd ask if there's a motion to suspend rule 15. So moved. We have a motion. Is there a second? Second. I said 30. We have a motion. We have a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Aye.
 Same sign? Okay. Motion passes. Next up, is there any questions or discussion on that one item before us? If not, can we have any clerk to call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Gasparini? Aye. Schubert? Aye. Ross? Aye. Irby? Aye. Irving? Aye. Kemp and Kelly? Aye. Rothman? Aye.
 Hi. Rose. Hi. Beach. Hi. Quinones. Hi. McNeely. Hi. Shirely. Hi. 13-9. Thank you. So that item passes. Before we adjourn, I'll go back to the office, which reports Alderman Durkee. Do you have any report?
 Yeah, of course I do. Just my weekly admonition about encouraging our governor to open up our region. I'm looking at, as far as I can see, the phase three recovery program.
 And to tell you the truth, from my view of the data, other than I don't know contact tracing, we're pretty much there. And the governor talks about following the science of it all, and I agree with him. But the problem is, me as an alderman and a constituent, I just don't see it.
 I am looking at right now to confirm it, the information that's put out by his modeling group.
 at the state level. And basically, in one of the slides, the modeling group says the five-phase plan for reopening and announcing for May 5th, they weren't consulted about it. So I don't know...
 I don't know where we're going. And if you go through the data that's put out, I guess we are in the northwest region, which is when you look at the data, we're flat. So I'm not understanding...
 I'm not understanding exactly what's opening. Now, if we reopen, it's doubtful that we're going to see any kind of spike anywhere near the cases that we're seeing. And I think that's because we have a herd immunity at part. We don't exactly know what that all means, but this is run through... It's had to run through the community based upon other modeling. In fact, New York is just releasing data of their recent cases.
 Almost 70% of them were people who stayed at home. But I think as we look at opening, a couple things that need to be, that I have to bear in mind. They're more than likely is a herd immunity. People are taking their health more seriously. People's practices are now very different. There's a heightened awareness about it. And people, susceptible people, are going to be wary of exposure. And...
 You know, and I know Chief Berkshire knows the data in far more detail than I do, but it does not look like...
 We've even approached our capacity statewide. When you look at the state numbers of hospital beds, we're nowhere near the capacity. And it looks like from the raw data, things are flat. It also concerns me that the governor, in order to get to stage five, he basically, you know, almost says that we need a vaccine. And I'm not so sure...
 that one would be, you know, I know they're working on them, but I'm not so sure that the realistic expectation, I read the governor's press release that was just issued yesterday.
 I guess a little while before we met, and it does look like the governor is starting to move the goalposts. And I guess I understand the governor's point, and I would be remiss in my frustration with the governor not to say that I think he was absolutely spot on.
 in shutting us down via his 30-day order in order to prevent the spread. I think he was ahead of what other governors were doing, and I think when we look at other states, I think we benefited from it. So, you know, I have to give him that. But I think my personal opinion is he's acting a little bit too slow –
 He's acting a little bit too slowly to reopen us. And I would encourage the governor, this is my personal opinion. I'm not a constitutional lawyer, but it's my... Somebody's got their... You need to unmute because you're rattling. I'm just muting, everyone. Keep going. Yeah. Yeah. So the...
 The frustration I'm having with the governor is, like I said, I think he's moving the goalposts. My belief, and it's a belief, it's not fact, and I understand the difference, but I believe that he's exceeding his statutory authority by extending this beyond 30 days. I know there are smarter people than me that are looking at this with the law.
 And I do not want to get into a confrontation with the governor. I think that's counterproductive. But I think somehow we need to encourage the governor via a city resolution, a council resolution, to pull the legislature back in so that he can hear from our representatives and really discuss this. Because I can't see how this five-point plan was vetted.
 even if his own modelers basically are saying that they weren't consulted. So I am horribly concerned that, again, that he may be exceeding his authority. Like I said, somebody will figure that out. But we've got some folks here now that won't make mortgage payments.
 I'm afraid we're going to lose businesses. And the fear of the business loss, which we all share, the caveat that people need to bear in mind is Illinois has been a judge to be by not by me, but by businesses as a anti or business unfriendly state. If some of these folks start to go under or whatever, and they're entrepreneurial, they just may pick up and leave. And so not in addition to the businesses being closed, right?
 they may depart even, you know, as much as opening a bar or restaurant or whatever is in the right. But I, so I, you know, I don't know. I know your honor, you've been working on it and I know, I know you share the same exact concerns that we all do, but I think somewhere along the line that, um,
 If there's an appropriate venue that we can either county folks, aldermen, reps, where we can go to Springfield, maybe meet with the governor or do something to plead our case to allow us far more discretion in opening up our positive test rate. Again, I'm not so sure that's a valid statistic, but even that,
 looks like it's flat. And like I said, the other problem is if all of us look around, people are not social distancing. They're just not. As the weather got nicer, I mean, every parking lot and every box store is jammed up where they're able to go in the stores. People are all over the highways. They're all over every place.
 And we're not given that over the past couple of weeks where people have been getting out. We're not really seeing the spike that we are. And, again, it's not so much the number of COVID cases that we have. It's the acuity of the disease. Are we overtaxing our health care systems?
 Are we putting people in intensive care units and reaching our capacity? And we're just not. And if, as you work with our health department director, I think as we do that, that process
 And I know this is what your practice is, Your Honor, but that data that we're using to open or not open, I think that needs to get out to the folks because people are reading this data. It's all over the place, and they're looking at numbers. They're looking at alternative studies, and they're looking at it, and I can't tell you how frustrated people are, and I know everybody on council knows this.
 But I don't know. You know, if we could gather as a group of elected folks and meet with a governor, I know, Your Honor, that you talk with him frequently and you have his ear, but whatever we can do to speed this along, it'd be great. So sorry for taking up so much time. No worries. Just I think you bring up some very –
 real suggestions and that was frustration. So that contact tracing is just going back to every person who tests positive to go back through so we can notify those who had come in contact with that individual. Our health department is actually way above this, so you're aware and all our aldermen. We've been doing contact tracing literally from day one.
 So we're well aware, well above and beyond when it comes to that. All of the metrics show that we are at or better than all stats that are outlined that the governor is using. And I would say the two last things is, one, yes,
 I think there's an opportunity, Alderman, as I mentioned at the beginning of this, not necessarily to bring Alderman down to Springfield to meet with the governor, but to utilize the Rockford Rebound workgroups to help provide strategies, policies, and protocols of different industries
 Uh, true and then back to Martel is a 100% on board with that. I think she as well as I and others on the policy group. Understand that, you know, as a governor, I think you actually stated that a phenomenal job there are areas that early on to a phenomenal job. There are certainly areas.
 Uh, in our community that are different than say, uh, other parts of the state. And so I think he's provided some flexibility, maybe not as much as all of us would like to see in some areas and maybe more than some would like to see in some areas. But.
 We're seizing on that flexibility and utilizing these work groups to provide recommendations that then we can bring as a policy group forward and potentially have areas of our industries open up prior to what the five-phase plan states.
 And the last thing, the only thing I guess I would disagree with, I think our citizens have done a pretty phenomenal job in social distancing and only going out when it's essential. I think they've really done a great job of that. Certainly some are not, and some are out at box stores picking up items, some essential and probably some non-essential items. But by and large, I really fear what our stats could have looked like if we did not. Alderman Gasparini?
 No, Your Honor. I have nothing for tonight, but stay healthy. Alderman Toonberg? Durkee, you thought you took a long time. You're getting all comfortable over there. All right, guys, pull up your pillows.
 I had a question to Chief Bergsten on the calls for the EMTs. I heard a thing today or yesterday that Milwaukee is up on drug overdoses since stay-at-home shelter-in-place orders. They're up 54%.
 on drug overdose calls and up 80% on suicidal calls or suicide calls. Are you seeing an uptick in Rockford regarding any of those at all? Alderman Durkee. I'm sorry. Alderman Bloomberg. He talks in a way that you thought it was still him, but it's Bloomberg now. I feel the love. Okay.
 So we've been looking at our data. We have not seen an increase in suicides or attempted suicides. Our overdoses to opiates are just down just a few percent. One thing that we are seeing as an increase is the acuity of calls, is that people are staying at home longer than they should before seeking medical attention and
 What we're finding that's attributed to people being scared about going to the emergency room or their doctor. We've been working through our policy group with the Joint Information Center and all three hospitals that it is okay if you have serious medical conditions such as diabetes, COPD, renal failure, anything, you know, having chest pains or stroke symptoms, please seek the emergency room, 911, or your primary care physician. That's where we've seen the biggest uptick for us is that the calls were going on,
 are very serious, and then we have to do a lot more advanced life support measures on the scene while en route to the hospital. But we do look at this on a monthly basis, and the other calls that you mentioned we have not seen any increase, like Milwaukee has mentioned.
 Right. And that is an unintended consequence that I've been hearing more, and I'm sure everyone else has, too. Alderman Thompson Kelly, I hope you're enjoying your balloons from me. If somebody put out somebody else put their name on it, that was a mistake. But anyway, so back to the point, though, because I also saw Australia. They've they've done their study and found that.
 In comparison to the number of COVID deaths, their suicide rate has jumped up 10 times to the amount of COVID deaths.
 uh, within their country. Granted that's Australia, but, uh, you know, I know that alcohol sales are greatly increased. I'm sure if you took, uh, Gasparini and frost out of that equation, they'd probably be flat. Um, but things like domestic violence, obviously I, I would think has spiked in our community. Uh, like many other communities across the country, of course. Um, you know, we know our violent crimes up a hundred percent. Uh,
 Um, but you know, just, uh, some things that I get from a market economic standpoint in my morning briefings from various sources, um, you know, one of them I just like to read and Alderman Durkee pointed that out that, you know, I think nationally people are starting to look at Illinois, uh, as kind of being behind on, on some of our steps. I appreciate the regional approach, uh, mayor and,
 Todd, know that from day one I've been asking for that to see if they can get the governor's ear. And so I appreciate now that we are taking somewhat of a regional approach. But this one was number six on one of my reports on Friday was Illinois, and I'm going to read it verbatim. Illinois and Pritzker criticized by press as Illinois has greatly succeeded in flattening the curve.
 Governor Pritzker is being widely criticized for his slowness in looking to reopen Illinois. Here, the Chicago Tribune writes, quote, we have been patient, but Pritzker is moving the goalposts, unquote. Another article notes, quote, report finds Illinois is among the strictest stay-at-home rules in the nation, unquote. Here, this shows Illinois is one of the top three in terms of closed economies. I don't mean that as a hit on Pritzker. I'm just, I guess, reiterating the fact that
 It is so important. I mean, these other items that I mentioned too are a direct result of this. So people are hurting in a lot of ways besides just the COVID virus. And again, I'm not downplaying the COVID virus itself. I saw that Indiana X3 counties today are opening up their salons and barber shops, and
 Restaurants are at 50% capacity with people spread apart. The bars within those restaurants are closed.
 But Georgia, which was highly criticized for opening up too early, they have found in a separate independent survey that within days, and this is something that maybe we can look at too as a possibility of happening once we do implement some of these measures.
 openings, allowing these businesses to open, that within the first few days, they were up about 10% to their norm. But this was April 27th when they opened. But as of right now, the independent survey found that these businesses are up 70%.
 uh to what they were before closing so you know i think that may be a little optimistic for some of the businesses that want to reopen uh but again we need to do that in a safe they still have their their waiters and waitresses masked up and gloved um but lastly i'll just i'll touch on a um one of my
 Morning ones today was the ISI Evercore. They're an economic company, and their second quarter was supposed to be 50% down for GDP when those numbers come out soon after the second quarter. Third quarter, it was supposed to be down 5%. Fourth quarter, it was supposed to be down another 5% in GDP. Now, with looking at the GDP,
 data as of recently and getting some of the data from the states that are opening back up. They've revised it down GDP at 40% instead of 50. Third quarter up 5% versus down 5%. And then
 Things like ride-sharing programs showing higher numbers now. Travel bookings are actually greatly increasing right now. And I think the third was, another one was rail car travel.
 uh capacity now rail cars are up uh that's that's a showing sign of a picked up economy so thought i'd give you a little donkey gets to give his medical stuff the attorneys get to get their law stuff so there's some of the economic stuff so keep up the good work everyone
 Thank you. And just a small correction. Our youth crime has been up extensively. Violent crime is up 8% and property crime is down 12%. Yeah, sorry, I didn't specify that youth crime part. I'm sorry. Yes, that is correct. Appreciate it. Alderman Faust.
 I think it would be appropriate if I yielded my time to Dr. Durkee and Alderman Tunberg, a.k.a. the Squawk Box, so I don't have to watch. Have a good week. Alderman Hervey? I will not perpetuate the bloviating, so I will pass.
 Now we know how wrong those two spoke. Oh, man. That's a new day. That's actually every week. No, let's not get that crazy. Alderman Irvin, do you have any comments? No, thank you. All right, thank you. Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you.
 Oh, I got to take you off mute. One second. You're off mute. There you go. Yes, I do. I think the alcohol usage is going to be high on this council just listening to Dirkie and tonight. I'll probably exceed. All you have to do is take yourself off video and you can start now. Okay.
 I have a question. And maybe I need to talk to our lobbyist. Have the gaming board met and approved the casino license for Rockford? So at this time, they have not approved the casino license. We can say that.
 Our attorneys have been in discussions and it looks like they have begun their process, which is good news. Okay. I'd also like to make a request of Alderman McNeely to call a Democratic caucus if we can do it by WebEx to check with IT. Certainly. We can help you do that. Okay. Thank you. Alderman Hoffman.
 Mayor, I would really like to thank Barb Chidley. She helped me to put together a Zoom meeting last week, and we were able to get Chief Dahlke and Chief Pan to speak to our neighborhood on some concerns. And as you know, we've had some lately, and so it was great that they got to come and
 and give the correct information. And then after they left, we came together as a neighborhood and have a plan now on how to honor all of our graduating high school and college students. And I hope you'll be hearing about it soon, but we're still working on it. We wanted to do a neighborhood plan to let them know they're not forgotten and that we appreciate what they've done, how hard they've worked. So thank you. Okay.
 That's wonderful. Thank you. Alderman Rose. I just wanted to say, you know, I second what Alderman Durkee had said about, you know, taking a second look at, you know, some ways we can open up in various ways and do it in a safe fashion. I think, you know, you know,
 Some people think that certain groups are anti-business or pro-business and things like that. When I have conversations with Alderman Durkee and Alderman Thunberg, you know, we're all in this together. We all want our Rockford businesses open, and we want to do it in a responsible way. So I think I'd like to applaud...
 Frank Haney and some of the work that he's doing at the county on trying to get the governor to take a second look at some of the practices and again I think that when we do open up that you know businesses need to be aware that you know their employees need to be safe
 that their patrons are safe and I think that extremely extremely important to to get that across to them because you know my family that work in the insurance industry and I've asked numerous questions with people in the insurance industry on how this can
 can impact small businesses and, and, and employees that are potentially exposed to something that they wouldn't have been exposed to if, if they had the proper equipment. And I just, I'm urging caution, but I also, um, agree with the fact that, um, everyone I think would, would benefit from, um,
 moving forward on, you know, getting back to some sense of normalcy, even though we know that it's not going to be normal anytime soon. Thanks. Alderman Beach. I appreciate the comments that I've heard tonight. I really wish this possible.
 that we could have a joint resolution from all of us, all the aldermen. We're all frustrated. We're all talking about it. And I know that you say it might not serve us, Your Honor, to go down to Springfield, but maybe the second best would be to write some kind of note, whether it be called a revolution or what, expressing the frustrations and
 and outlining, if you will, some of the suggestions that we've been hearing around this council this evening. I appreciate what you're doing. I appreciate the rebound working groups. I'm, like others, part of that. I think that's possible. But I just, whether we go to a joint caucus, whether we go to a joint resolution, we need to band together as all the aldermen now to express ourselves publicly on a higher level
 than what we're doing this evening to the people of Rockford. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Beach. My comment was a little pun and cheat since the governor was out of quarantine and is home in Chicago at the time. So if you go into Springfield, that's going to serve you or anyone a whole lot of good right now. Alderman Quinonez. Not going to say. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you.
 I certainly would like to say that I'm very pleased with the governor. We're at where we're at because of the actions that he's taken. I'm very pleased with you, Mayor, and the county health department, and the county representative for working together. I think that Rockford is where it's at because of the leadership
 That had that stood forward and did the things and are doing the things that we need to do to keep that curve down so that we don't get a curve. So I support what the governor is doing, and I know that we will get to that point soon.
 where we will open and the businesses will be able to get back on track. I don't think we should try to do anything different. We're not getting the same information that the governor is getting, so he has a better understanding than we do individually of how to approach this, and unless we know otherwise, we have data available.
 then I think we should be listening to the governor and the mayor as we move forward in this. Secondly, Alderman Thompson, please give me a call. We spoke earlier today. I could have set this up so it would have been on the agenda for us to have a caucus meeting, but I won't address that. And finally, Mayor...
 I just want to recognize Mary Allen. She passed away. She, along with her twin sister and another sister, had Let's Talk It Out on West State Street years ago, addressing the youth in the community. I send my condolences to her family and pray that God be with them as they go through this. Thank you very much.
 Absolutely. You talk about a remarkable woman. Seems like she was in absolutely every single organization that was impacting someone's life. So certainly a rock for you in Meadowview, Matt. Thank you for bringing that up. Alderman Shredder.
 Yes, thank you, and I agree with all the comments from our, my colleagues, the City Council. I believe through the unity of all these thoughts and your relationships and our relationships, it can be articulated down to Springfield, and my hope is that our five legislators really do have their voice heard to represent the people that they represent in our community, and
 If we stand together, united through your office, your honor, I believe that we will get somewhere. We will restore our community. We all hear the cries from the business owners. We hear the cries from the people through unemployment. Hopefully, this is a very good learning experience for all of us going forward. Truly, standing united, we will get through all this.
 together um as a report from the 14th ward a few months ago we had annexed some properties on south alpine a couple of different apartment complexes and at that time it was discussed on getting some police and fire calls so i can report that to some of the citizens that had concerns about those annexations if i could get those your honor
 That request just came in late this afternoon. Since the annexation has occurred, if we can go back in time a little bit to see since the start of the annexation, you know, when they were annexed into the city and the amount of police calls and fire calls to that area, that would be very helpful for me. Certainly. Chief Berkshire and Chief O'Shea will make sure that we get that to you right away. All right. Thank you. Okay. Is there a motion to adjourn?
 So moved. Second. We have a motion and a second. Any discussion? Seeing no discussion, I hope you all have a safe and healthy week. Thank you. Thank you. Bye. Bye. Thank you. Have a wonderful night.