Your steadfast love never ceases, and your mercies never come to an end. And we thank you for accepting and loving us just the way we are. Thank you for giving us opportunity to serve you, our mayor, bless him, our staff, and each one of us aldermen that sit around this chamber and for guiding us to make decisions that affect the welfare of every one of us in this community.
 Please grant boldness to our law enforcement officers to keep us safe, both life and property. And thank you for the warriors that extend themselves to protect us against this silent virus. Father God, please comfort those who have lost loved ones since we've last met. Please bring peace to their hearts. And we offer this prayer now to you in the name of your son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.
 Thank you, Alderman Beach. Now I will unmute everyone so we can do the Pledge of Allegiance. We could start with the Pledge of Allegiance.
 I pledge allegiance to the flag, to the republic, and to the nation, and to the people, and to the people of America. And justice for all.
 It's an odd chorus of us aldermen here. So I've muted everyone. So as Chaz goes around and asks about the role, if you would just unmute yourself during your time, that would be helpful. So, Chaz, you're unmuted. It's all yours. Dirkie. Hi. Here. Yes, Doreen. Here. Toonberg. Here. I don't see Frost yet. Herbie. Herbie.
 Here. Urban? Here. Thompson-Kelley? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. McNeely? Here. Chiarelli? Here. 12 present. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Alderman Rose, did you get Alderman Rose? Yes. Sorry. That's okay. I forgot to unmute. Okay. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the City Council Meeting on May 4, 2020? So moved. We have a motion by Alderman Beach. Is there a second? Second. Second. Herbie? We have a second by Alderman Herbie. Is there any discussion? No.
 Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposition, please say aye as well. Okay, the general has been accepted. We have no proclamations this evening, but we do have petitions and communications. And I'm going to just start by going to Director Meyer for our payment communications.
 Thank you Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of the Comcast Quarterly Franchise Fees Payment and amount of $423,535.73. Thank you. Next we have petitions and communications and if you all would like me to read these in, I certainly can. Whatever is best for you. Which would you prefer to the chairs?
 I'm good with that, Your Honor. Yeah, I'm fine with that, Your Honor. I assume that's going to be me until Kevin gets here. I'm fine with it. Thank you, Alderman Herbie. Okay, so I'll read in Planning and Development Committee Memorandum from LaFecurio Vaughan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the Rockford Convention and Visitor Bureau RACBB quarterly report, fiscal year 20, quarter 3, January through March 2020, referred to Planning and Development. Okay.
 I'm random from Kyle Saunders, public works director regarding an application for the 2020 Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity Rebuild Illinois Fast Track Public Infrastructure Program Grant for exterior facade improvements to the Clouman Auto Performing Arts Center, referred to P&D.
 Memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director regarding an application for the 2020 Department of Commerce and Economic Office to rebuild Illinois' fast track public infrastructure program grant for the replacement of Water Main along Montague Street, referred to PMD. Next we'll go to Code and Regulations under Petitions and Communications.
 Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 19, 2020 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 26, 2020. Referred to as the codes in red. Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board.
 agenda for the meeting to be held on May 19, 2020 and minutes from the meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on May 26, 2020. Recurred to codes and regs. Memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager. Permits and special events regarding the upcoming special events permit for the Port of... Your call cannot be completed as dialed. Please consult your directory and... Welcome to WebEx. ...
 Enter your attendee ID number. We're clear of this man-made virus. There are too many of our agonists who are going to fall farther and farther behind to be brought up when I want to talk to you about. Too many of our young mothers are not ready to be home soon. We are widely open, widely using Boys and Girls Clubs, and our community is back open to us to meet our agonists and families. If you talk about wearing a mask or staying six feet apart all you want,
 Just in the meantime, the idea is a waste of time. Just in the past 60 days, how many of our youth are killing each other? It's bad enough that this man-made virus is killing a lot of people. I can do this. This is not the only virus that is still out there. Each one of them has HIV, SARS, and go on and on. I have the answers to our problems, but since I don't work for the system,
 And as Matt saw, sometimes our concerns fall on deaf ears. We are out there on the front lines and we're getting sick and tired of seeing so many of you leaving the world before the parents do. As God has been witness, I will always be on the front lines until the day I die. With the statement, there are also some photos in the sitting room to make sure are distributed to all the audience around the state. Thank you. Can you hear me?
 I can hear you. Does anyone know if folks at home can hear me? Mayor, this is Glenn. We lost power to the sound system council chambers, so I lost audio as you were starting to read in petitions and communications. So are you saying that you would like me to reread those petitions and communications? I'll leave that up to Attorney Meyer.
 you don't need to reread those here because the final action is not going to take it on those okay thank you so we have uh new committee reports and i'll just keep going through these uh if someone one of the chairs would like to read them just interrupt me and i'd be happy to give it back
 New committee reports, we have no items underneath Planning and Development Committee. So moving to Code and Regulation Committee, we have four items. The first item, committee recommends sustaining the liquor and tobacco advisory board's approval for the sale of tobacco in conjunction with a convenience store in the C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 2209 North Main Street. Subject to conditions, so legal director shall prepare the appropriate report.
 Number two, committee recommends denial of the request for modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at Ross Pearson Coast, number 5145, Veterans of Foreign Wars of the United States, 120906443.
 Number three is committee recommends approval for the authorization to place for sale a city-owned parcel located at 1811 Crosby Street, 1011-24-456-013 for a minimum date of $1,000. Any proposals will require city council approval. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Last item for Code and Regs, this committee recommends approval of a lease for 315 North Main Street between the City of Rockford and the Family Peace Center. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate code answers.
 So I'm gonna, everyone I think should be close to me if you're not, but I'm not seeing any, your honor. This is Joe, Alderman Quinonez would like to speak on this. Yes, on committee report number two. Thanks for letting me speak, Chairman. I'd like to move to reverse the committee report from the now to approval.
 The Veterans Club didn't know they didn't have to make the $150 a day.
 on the machines and they're on the state law, they don't have to do that. So I would like to have the six machines like the other veterans clubs in the city have, the Navy Club and the American Legion and Alpine. I'd like Attorney Myers to speak on this. Thank you.
 So real quick, just so I'm clear, we have a motion on the floor to change the committee report from a denial to approval. Okay, attorney Myers, did you have anything to add? We have a second before we move to discussion. Okay, is there a second to that move? I'll second. We have a second by Alderman Chiarelli.
 And now it's open for discussion. I'm just going to go to director Meyer and then I'll go to Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thanks, Mr. Mayor. So this is not a state-wide issue necessarily. The whole per day rule is a function of our own ordinance that required a non-fraternal organization
 to apply for the six machines. The hold per day requirement is not required on the ordinance for federal organizations, but it doesn't mean there's an automatic approval for organizations to go a...
 machine for the sixth, a sixth machine there. This may have been part of the, part of the, which is not necessarily a state law function. It's a local ordinance function. But our employer is correct. Those particular organizations are having to get, that 748 threshold still can apply and still can be approved for a sixth machine to be possible. Okay. Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Pelly. Thank you.
 I JUST WANTED TO KNOW THE REASON STAFF DENIED IT. SO WHAT I CAN SAY TO THAT, ONE OF THE REASONS IS THERE WAS AT LEAST ANOTHER ORGANIZATION THAT HOLD THAT THRESHOLD OF 150. THEY WERE REALLY CLOSE. I THINK THEY WERE ABOUT 130. AND THEY DID HAVE JOBS THAT WERE HOLDED FOR DAYS BY $80.
 So, I think the concern was that an additional machine at the VFW isn't going to necessarily yield additional revenue like what the Prince is doing. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Hervey, I'm on mute. And Hugh, you have a question? Yes. Well, more a statement. Given the...
 feeling that we have on these machines with the casino I know we've had this discussion before I'm wondering whether we should look at
 revising the ordinance to make that a requirement for all the six machines. I'm sorry, I should clarify. I can't see having six machines out for an organization that's only doing potentially $50, $70, $80 a day
 On the machines, they don't really need a sixth machine. And yet we're moving that threshold and potentially keeping a new business that would have a much higher yield and return for the city. So nothing against fraternal organizations, but in many instances, some of them are not open every night. They tend to have pretty low thresholds on their gaming machines.
 So I really don't want to have anything automatic, and I'm thinking perhaps we should even include them in the requirement for the minimum earnings or take, whatever you call it, per day. Alderman Hervey, my understanding, and Mr. Meyer, Director Meyer, please correct me if I'm wrong, I don't think it is automatic. I think that's why we're having the vote tonight, right? Correct. Okay.
 Okay. So, Alderman Hervey, staff agrees essentially with your position. Okay. I mean, in terms of not having to vote on them even, that should be a requirement for all of the gaming machines. Director Meyer, do you have anything to add to that? Not much. There is, I believe, one of the reasons that we...
 i apologize um my honor doesn't suit the fact that i think one of the reasons we uh exempted out of the fraternal organizations uh from that 100 yard day i really i can't recall but one of those there was a basis for doing that uh was was a statutory uh issue of uh
 There was a difference between a liquor license holder being eligible for the six-page sheet and a fraternal organization. Okay. So the statute says they can't be required to meet that threshold. There's nothing in the statute about them meeting a threshold requiring a liquor license. I believe you can have each. That is a function. The hold per day is a function of our ordinance. Hold per day. Okay. All right. Thank you.
 Alderman Tumberg, I believe, has a question.
 Yeah, so does this then remind me, would this apply to fraternal organizations such as a few of them that are in my ward, in the third ward of Verde and Lombardi, would that as well? And I do have a follow-up statement after that. Director Meyer? Yeah, there's a definition in our ordinance that mirrors the state of law of what a fraternal organization is, and I believe the definition is to have a national charter.
 I'm not quite sure which clubs in Rockford fall through that fraternal organization, either a national fire, as opposed to the state or local one. It could be those clubs of Verde, the other ones are national fire organizations.
 well we don't have to worry about a lot of the Swedish clubs any longer so maybe so is Italians but I would just like to comment on on the in the case of the VFW I know that we are looking at financials as being a factor and me
 meeting certain criteria for the machines. But I do admit there is a, I think there is a soft spot, at least for me, in cases like a VFW, you know, an organization that consists of individuals that went, fought for us to be sitting here doing what we're doing. And so, you know, I think there, you know, for some that we may take that into heart as well, if we're looking at voting on something like this.
 So for a case like a VFW, thank you. I don't see other questions. Alderman, did you say you have one? Yes. Okay. I just wanted to ask this question. Whether it's a maternal organization or not, each terminal counts against our minimum? Yes. That works? Okay. All right. Okay.
 I think that's a thought process, not to be abundantly clear on this, but I think that was a thought process of our internal limit that we're placing and policies we put in place just because we certainly don't want to jeopardize the multimillion-dollar revenue stream via the casino with adding gaming machines to places that do not meet a minimum threshold, and in this case, unfortunately, are below it.
 Alderman Rose has a question
 Just real quick, what was their reasoning behind the application for the machine? I mean, I agree with Alderman Thunberg in the sense that, you know, obviously they fought for a lot of freedoms for us. But if they're only making, I think you guys had mentioned like an $80 amount per day. They're not meeting our threshold. Why would they need that sixth machine? Is there a reasoning that they gave the city or? Yeah.
 Mr. Meyer, what was the total threshold at their meeting today? On the time I had, it was somewhere between $80 and $90. I think it was $80,000 per day. When I spoke to the owner, the manager of the BSW a while back,
 I don't think they were aware of the threshold. A number of businesses, even below that threshold, also wanted to put their assist machine. They thought that they would have more business because of other circumstances and promises would increase that threshold a little more.
 Okay, so we have a motion and a second to change the committee recommendation from a denial to a committee recommendation of approval. Is there any other questions? I still see hands up for Chad, for Frank, and for Benita. I just don't want to miss you if you have another question or discussion item.
 Sorry, Mayor. No worries. I do have another question. Alderman Hervey. How many of these fraternal organizations are there? Are we talking about 10 or are we talking about 30 of them? Sorry.
 I think it's kind of being more accurate. Oh, okay. It's a small number. Okay. I don't have the report in front of me, but I think we can hear what it may have been if the staff had recommended a portal distribution network call. Yeah, I think I was mixing them in with social clubs. You know, some of them are not.
 Some of these are like VFWs, but there are others that I thought might be defined as fraternal, and I thought there were a lot more of them.
 that might fall into that same category. That was my concern. I thought we might have every one of them coming in for a sixth machine, and we're going to beat out 30 or 35 machines. I know we can vote to say no, but I think it becomes you start getting into the whether it's arbitrary. Never mind. It's just...
 Okay, thanks. I'm done. Thank you. I don't see any other questions. So right now we're going to have a vote on a motion to amend from denial to approval for the DFW on 7th Street. All those and, well, I'm sorry, Chas. Clerk, could you please call the roll?
 Yes, Marini. Aye. Simberg? Aye. Kirby? Aye. Aye. Johnson-Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. H? Aye. Quinones? Aye. H?
 McNeely? Cirelli? Aye. Aye. Okay. So next up, we have four items. Number two has been amended for an approval. Is there any discussion on the four items before you? I see any hands raised. Burke, could you please call the roll?
 DERKY. AYE. GASBRANI. AYE. TUNBERG. AYE. SERVEY. NO, I'M 2. AYE ON THE REMAINDER. URBAN. AYE. JOHNSON-KELLEY. AYE. AUSTIN. AUSTIN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. BEACH. AYE.
 all right he known as i mcneely hi shirely item number one twelve eyes item number two eleven eyes one no item three and four twelve eyes okay thank you next we're going to finance and personnel
 Committee recommends approval for the vouchers in the amount of $4,170,458.11 as approved by Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on May 11, 2020. Item number two, committee recommends approval for the tax exempt lease of one Digger Derrick
 Old truck with fancy equipment, LLC of Columbus, Ohio for a lease rate of 2.510%. The annual lease payments will be 36,237 dollars and 74 cents for the term of 7 years. So total amount finances 253,664 dollars and 18 cents of funding sources and street division operating budget.
 Next item is committee recommends approval and the request for release of the demolition lane on 432 Brook Road and 1502-326-015 to facilitate the transfer of property from the Winnebago County Trustee to Rock River Water Reclamation District. Number four, committee recommends approval for an alderman to the intergovernmental agreement with
 With Rockford area venue and entertainment authority or Ray Ray's request an addendum to our operating and a governmental agreement to allow for short term borrowing necessary due to COVID-19 related closures. The legal director should prepare all of these appropriate ordinances. So Alderman, we have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? I see one hand raised, Alderman Beach.
 thank you on on number two um how often is this particular truck used on let's say a daily basis a weekly basis dr saunders all right thank you um it really depends on the season during the summer months um you know life
 WHEN WE'RE MAYBE WORKING ON CAPITAL PROJECTS, THIS PIECE OF EQUIPMENT GETS A LOT MORE USE, YOU KNOW, ON A DAILY BASIS. OBVIOUSLY, OUTSIDE OF THAT SEASON, IT MAY BE MORE OF A, YOU KNOW, BI-WEEKLY, MORE INFREQUENT BASIS.
 The reason I asked the question is the possibility that we buy this heavy capital equipment and then could we use it? to other jobs besides The city of Rockford and we see equipment out to other communities to you when we're not using Oh
 I BELIEVE YOU AND I MAYBE DISCUSSED THAT IN A LARGER CONVERSATION. AS WE'RE CONTINUING TO INCREASE OUR FLEET, WE HAVE BEEN APPROACHED BY SOME SMALLER YOU KNOW, YOU TOO, YOUR MUNICIPALITIES AND BEEN APPROACHED WITH THAT QUESTION ON AN INCREASED BASIS. BUT I WOULD CERTAINLY BE MORE THAN HAPPY TO LOOK INTO THAT WITH DIRECTOR HAGERTY ON EXACTLY HOW AND IF WE WOULD BE ABLE TO DO THAT.
 Thank you. Alderman Durkee, you have a question? Yes. I've been talking about the item number two and we would like to know why Mr. Saunders is naming this truck after the fire chief. Is there significance that we're not quite sure about this. Sorry, this is what happens when we're on WebEx.
 Thank you, Dr. Littleton. Next, Alderman, do you have a question?
 I WONDER, DO WE KNOW THE PAYBACK SCHEDULE? I THINK I ASKED ABOUT THIS LAST WEEK. IT WASN'T AS LONG AS I THOUGHT. NORMALLY WE HAVE LIKE A DUE DATE AND I DON'T REMEMBER IT BEING IN THE AGREEMENT. HOW LONG, ASSUMING THEY BORROW THE ENTIRE 2 MILLION, HOW LONG BEFORE THEY PAY THAT BACK? I DON'T KNOW. I DON'T KNOW. I DON'T KNOW.
 Are you talking to item number four, one grade? I'm sorry. Yes. Number four for race. Okay. Certainly. So we would pick up the amount, the full amount borrowed at the conclusion of their repayment of the existing amount outstanding. So until we know what the final amount,
 We haven't calculated the repayment terms on our schedule. I can certainly assume 2 million, I can send you out that information that would be repaid.
 Obviously that's contingent upon the city maintaining a line of credit. Our current line of credit is renewed on an annual basis. So if we were to at some point not renew that, we would need to pay that off in full and then Rave would be repaying us instead. But I don't have that calculation done, but I'd be happy to do that and send it to you. And their payment to us includes interest, correct?
 Correct, yes. Whatever we're paying out in interest, they have to pay that back. Okay. Correct. All right. And have we presented any costs on an annual basis for the various repairs that RAID is asking the city to fund to the Coronado and to some of the other buildings? I know we have some improvements to Davis Park. Okay.
 We did receive a capital plan from Rave that we shared with Alderman when it was received. We don't have, we're waiting for some final numbers on some of the improvements to the BMO Harris Bank Center to proceed with that. Administrator Cagnone may have some additional information on that one. Mr. Cagnone?
 Thank you. I carry statements would be up to date statements in regards to wherever at the, you know, we provided the capital plan after bending it out with our internal team, all the aldermen. And we anticipated that we would bring it forward for authorization to go out for a bond sale so that we could schedule those improvements.
 Certainly the current circumstances that we're in have put us on a little bit of a pause as we evaluate the bond market in the most appropriate time to move forward. You also notice that one of the items that was referred tonight was a fast track build grant where we identified one of the capital improvements that we think is of the best
 of the highest priority, which is the facade improvements to the Coronado Theater, so that we can find alternative ways to take on those expenses through grant opportunities as well. Did we get a list of those, the build opportunities? Have all of those been put together in categories and sent out to aldermen? So the Illinois Pinnacle Track Build Grant Opportunity got
 published and announced last week. It's a first-come first-served grant opportunity. There's going to be $25 million statewide, which, when you look at it across the entire state, is not a lot of money. So our team responded extremely quickly on identifying projects so that we can be first in line. So we're doing a number of things simultaneously between meeting the requirements
 public notice in the newspaper as well as reading the item in and putting together costs estimates so that we can present everything to council, um, a week from today. Yeah. No, I just wondered, cause we're, if instead of having to bond,
 For the Cornell, and I mean, I know you're trading one for the other. I just wondered if there's an opportunity somewhere to get some of the Rave projects in there, because that is a lot of money that we're going to end up borrowing. And I'm not even sure if the payback would be the debt service would be from the redevelopment fund or where. I'm assuming it would be the redevelopment fund.
 That is correct, Alderman, and just for priority purposes, you know, the Coronado facade improvement was in the Rave Capital Plan as identified need. Yeah, okay, thank you. Thank you. I believe Alderman Thompson-Kelly had a question. Okay.
 I'm sorry alderman Thompson. Oh, did you have a question? No, I don't. Okay. I'm sorry. Um, I think I got all of the questions What do you say My hand up I have one. Yeah, i'm sorry. Oh, you're fine. I'm just gonna make sure we're getting these questions answered. Thank you Okay um
 So we have four items before you. I see no further discussion. So clerk, could you please call the roll? Aye. Yes, Braney. Aye. Schoenberg. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye.
 Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Quilby? Thank you. So those items are approved. We'll push the officers to the end as we've been doing during the WebEx meetings.
 We have a whole host of appointments that have been placed before you. I'm just going through them all. I believe only one of them can be up for a vote, and that is item number one, the appointment of Jennifer Ginger Hanley, Ms. 12th Ward Alderman, to fill the vacancy to fire her good friend, Alderman John Black. The term of this appointment will be until the next election.
 Is there any discussion on this item? I see Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. As I look through the list, many of these folks, we know a lot of them. They're well experienced and have been in some of the roles before. And I'd like to make a motion that we suspend rules and just approve your recommendations for these positions. Seconded.
 So there's a motion and a second that's out there. And so just so I'm clear, Alderman Durkee, and for, uh, you're saying items under a Roman numeral five or Roman numeral seven, uh, items one through 22.
 Yes, Your Honor. That would be my motion to suspend rules and approve items. That would be 2 through 22, I believe. Oh, yeah, because one, you don't need to suspend. Thank you for that clarification. So we have a motion by Alderman Durkee. We have a second by Alderman Beach. Is there any discussion on the motion to just suspend rules for items 2 through 20? No.
 I see Alderman Hervey. Do you have a question on that? You're on mute. Sorry. Now you're not on mute. Oh, thank you. I'm sorry. I would like to request that items five and six, those are both the appointments to the fire and police commission be held over until the next council meeting. Okay. Second. We can hold those out.
 Alderman Hoffman, did you have a question? I'm just a little confused. I thought we were going to go ahead with the reappointments. Are we going to also go ahead with the new appointments? So what we're going to do right now is we are, as it stands this moment, there's a motion and it's been seconded to fast track rule 18, suspended. And then it...
 there was also a request to pull items number five and six from that so items two three four and then items seven through twenty uh there is a motion uh to suspend rule 18 and that's what we're voting on right now we just simply went through items number five and six from that rule suspension is there any discussion on that uh item isn't 18 also a new appointment so
 Yes, you are correct. So we'll take 18 out and we'll do 1 and 18 at the same time. Thank you. And 22 we'll take out as well because that's a new appointment. And then we'll vote on items 1, 18, and 22 together. Do you have any discussion on suspending Rule 18 for items 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20?
 7 through 17, 19, 20, and 21. In motion, reduction. The motion I made was to cover 2 through 22, and I think that motion gets voted on first, and then once we suspend rules, I believe, Your Honor, then it comes to whether an alderman wants to hold out
 the other names. Director Meyer, you got to unmute yourself. Mr. Sustenu, that's the first motion. So we need to go down, as did everyone. With Dr. Ducey's put out. If somebody wants to put something out, then they would have to either make it a motion to amend that or vote against the rule suspension as to those individuals.
 they're going against uh i guess we're against the rules of suspension so uh dr is correct the motion on the table right now is sustaining the rules for the numbers that he identified thank you all right so we have a motion we have a second uh for dr durkin but i'll go back to alderman hervey and alderman thompson kelly uh for their uh request so right now
 vote to suspend the rule number 18 for the items that Alderman Durkee presented. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Yes, Marini. Aye. Schindler. Aye. Coady. Aye. Ervin. Aye. Johnson-Kelly. No.
 Hoffman? This is just to suspend the rule, correct? Yes. Then I'm an aye. Rhoads? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. McNeely? McNeely? Was that Alderman McNeely? No. Thank you. Chiarelli? Aye. Penn? Aye. Juneau?
 Okay. So now I will go to Alderman Hervey. I believe she had a motion. Yes, I would like to move to...
 HOLD OUT FROM... THAT WAS NUMBER FIVE AND SIX, I BELIEVE. THANK YOU, I WAS TRYING TO FOLLOW DOWN. FROM FIRE COMMISSIONER. NUMBERS FIVE AND SIX, THE TWO REAPPOINTMENTS FOR THE POLICE AND FIRE COMMISSION. FIRE AND POLICE COMMISSION. ALDERMAN HERBIE MADE THAT MOTION. IS THERE A SECOND? SECOND. THERE'S A SECOND BY ALDERMAN CONTON-KELLEY.
 Director Meyer, is that then automatically laid over since it's before council? Or does there need to be a vote? We need to vote that rules for community reports. Okay. So there's a motion and a second to hold out the fire and police commissioners. Is there any discussion on that item? There's several hands that are up. I'm not sure if they were up. So Alderman Herbie, I'll go to you and then...
 Yeah, I wanted to discuss both with the chief and with the commissioners some of the recruiting plans that also include the school district.
 And this was my own, I had some health issues and simply didn't get around to contacting any of them for this week. It's not a negative thing, it's a positive thing, but I do want to have that discussion before voting on the reappointment.
 Thank you. Alderman Thompson-Pelly, you have your hand raised as well. I wanted to have my discussion on that with the chief as well, because I have some serious concerns, and at this point, I cannot support item 5.
 Because of the Second to hold out item summer five and six. I don't see any other discussion. So right now we're just voting We're just voting on the motion the second to pull items five and six for the TV clerk, will you please call the roll? No
 I. O'BRIEN. AYE. JOHNSON-KELLEY. AYE. BALTHAM. AYE. GLOVES. AYE. BEACH. AYE. LUNAS. HE SAID AYE. MCNEILLY. AYE. CHERELY. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 Aye. Aye. Aye. Okay. And ayes to noes. Thank you. So those two items are held out. So now we have items 1 through 4. We have items 7 through 22 before you. Is there any discussion on those items?
 I'm sorry, let me lower my hand. Thank you. Any other discussion on the items that are before us? Okay, so just before I ask the clerk to call the roll, obviously, I think I don't mean
 We were all and still are really negatively impacted by the loss of Alderman Beck, our good friend.
 I had the opportunity to talk to John's wife, Sandra Beck, and she outlined a couple of really important items that she would like to see and someone that would replace her husband, John. There was two big ones. One, someone who had a spirit of collaboration and one who...
 But a tremendous emphasis on constituent services. And I do believe Jennifer, Ginger, Hanley, would do both of those. And I obviously they're huge shoes. And for many of you who have known John even far longer than I have, you know, who knows if anyone can fill those shoes to the service, to the community, the advocacy that John brought.
 But I do believe she will do a fine job in filling the role of the 12th Ward Alderman. I believe she has a number of merits of her own that will make her an exceptional advocate for the 12th Ward from now until the next election. So with that, Kurt, will you please call the roll? I'm sorry, Alderman Beach. Thank you.
 Alderman Beach, do you have a question? Well, I was just going to make a comment. The things that you just said a moment ago is what came across when both Alderman Trelle and myself talked with Ginger. And that was one of the things that we really stressed was that what you just said now, the collaboration and contentious service, the important thing. So I just wanted to say the same thing, sir.
 Thank you. Alderman Gascon, do you have your hand raised? I do, sir. Thank you, Your Honor. You had mentioned earlier about number one, and I think it was 22 and 18. Is that a separate vote, or is that included in this vote? That'll be included in the vote. If you wanted to vote no on any, you could say aye for all, but this item. Gotcha. Thank you.
 Thank you, sir. Also in Durkee, you had your hand raised. Yes, Your Honor. I just wanted to make a personal remark to yourself. I think it was very kind and respectful that you actually ran by John's successor, by his wife. I think that's an extremely admirable thing that you did, and thank you for doing that.
 Did you have a question? Yeah, I do have a comment. I did get a couple of calls from people. Again, I apologize to Ms. Hanley. I did not get to call her, and I wanted to do that and talk with her. But a couple of people called and asked that I consider her qualities in voting for her, quote, even though she's a Republican.
 I couldn't care less what someone's political affiliation is. Half the time, I'm not, with the exception of Alderman Thunberg, I'm not really sure what somebody's political affiliation is. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha.
 Yes, Republicans are known for long speeches. They don't know his affiliation either. But seriously, and I told the people who called, neither of whom I knew. I didn't know either one. They just...
 wanted to say they thought that I would do that. And I think that's true for a lot of us. There may be sometimes an issue that we split along party lines. And you can usually tell that that's gonna be what it is. I thought I was gonna get tarred and feathered for voting for Governor Rauner's turnaround plan, but I will always vote for what I think is the substance of something. And I think in her case,
 Even though I don't know her personally, enough people, and just looking at her resume, when people jump into a community and get themselves involved and invest their time to serve on committees and to be involved in things, whether it's Transform Rockford or a specific board or group, I think that speaks to persons caring for the city. So, absolutely.
 absolutely support her appointment. I don't think Mayor McNamara would have made any appointment if he didn't believe the person had the qualities and personal qualities necessary to fulfill the automatic seat of dear, dear colleague John Beck. So thank you. Thank you. So now it looks like I'll turn it over to the Republican from the Third Ward, Chad Tundra. Thank you.
 make it short Chad uh
 I would just like to say that, Vanita, that no one on council knows what you're talking about because no one listens to me. At least I know that one person on council listens to my bloviating, and that's you. So with that said, yeah, I want to thank the mayor and the rest of the individuals who were able to talk with Ginger. I was able to as well. Thank you.
 And, yes, kudos to everything that was said up to this point. I feel confident she is capable, and I'm willing to help out in any way I can. And I think John would be proud as well. And so I think it's a good overall choice. So thank you. Okay. Clerk, I don't see any other questions or comments. So, Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thank you. Aye. Aye.
 Yes. Timber. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. I believe I have to recuse myself on 17 and 18. But other than that, I correct mayor. Yep. Hi. Hi. Hi.
 Kenona? Aye. McNeely? No. On all? On all. Okay. Shirely? Aims 1 through 4. 11 ayes, 1 no. Aims 7...
 THROUGH 16, 11 AYES, 1 NO. THROUGH 16, 11 AYES, 1 NO. 17 AND 18, IT'S 10 AYES, 1 NO, 17 AND 18, IT'S 10 AYES, 1 NO, 1 OF SAME. 1 OF SAME. ITEMS 20, 21, AND 22, 11 AYES, 1 NO. ITEMS 20, 21, AND 22, 11 AYES, 1 NO. THANK YOU.
 Moving right along to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under P&D, planning and development. We have nothing under code and regulation committee. So we'll move to finance and personnel. Award of bid, Christina Street, reconstruction to Northern Illinois Service Company of Rockford, Illinois in the amount of $397,847.22. That's moving completion date is August 18, 2020.
 It's funded by sales tax. Number two, award of non-competitive contract, submersible pump services to Lane Christensen Company of Aurora, Illinois for an estimated contract value of $500,000 based on unit pricing. Total contract value of $2.5 million. The contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions, funding services, water replacement improvement account.
 Number three, rejection of bids, Chestnut Street Bridge, multi-use path modification. The city received three bids that were substantially over the engineering assessment. City staff recommends that all bids be rejected and the project would undergo value engineering in order to reduce overall cost of the project. Number four, the police department donation to the Rockford Public School District 205.
 The police department has to donate, want to donate a retired doctor spot card to rock the public school to be used for the criminal justice pathway and the public service academy program. The decommissioned vehicle would otherwise be central auction, but then that's maybe 1,000 dollars. Number 5.
 the Illinois Housing Development Authority or Ida single family rehabilitation program grant the city of Rockford has requested and has been awarded 520,000 grand funding this grant will give us the ability to replace roofs on approximately 30 single family owner occupied homes located within the city over a period of two years
 Those are the items that we have. So we have five items for you. And it looks like there's some questions. Alderman Durkee? Nope. You took your hand down. Alderman Beach? Alderman Beach? Alderman Beach?
 NO, I TOOK MY HAND DOWN. I'M SORRY. I DON'T SEE ANY OTHER QUESTIONS HERE. SO, KIRK, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? DIRTY. AYE. GASBREENY. AYE. CHINBURN. AYE. HERBY. AYE. URBAN. AYE. JOHNSON-KELLEY. AYE. HOFFMAN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. AYE.
 I'M AN AYE, EXCEPT I'M GOING TO ABSTAIN FROM ITEM FOUR. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE. AYE.
 Thank you. Next, we're going to go to new business. There's nothing under planning and development committee. We're going to move to item 9B, that's code and regulation committee and ordinance approving the sales back on conjunction with the convenience store and a C2 limited commercial zoning district at 2209 North Main Street.
 Street. That's item one. Item number two is an ordinance approving an authorization lease for sale of city-owned parcel located at 1811 Crosby Street and number 11-24-456-013 for a minimum bid of $1,000. Any proposals would require city council approval. Item number three, an ordinance approving a lease for 315 North Main Street between the City of Rockford and Family Peace Center. Those are the three items for 40, wasn't it?
 I don't see any questions or comments. Claire, could you please call the roll? Yes. Aye. Jeff Braney. Bloomberg. Aye. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvin. Aye.
 Aye. Kemp and Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Feach? Aye. Nunes? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Cirelli? Aye. 12-I. Thank you. Next, we'll move to Finance and Personnel Committee.
 I know it ends up proving the tax exempt lease for one digger, Derek. All truck, I swear to say that four times fast.
 With PNC Equipment Finance LLC of Columbus, Ohio for a lease rate of 2.510%, the annual lease payments will be $36,237.74 for a term of seven years. The total amount financed is $253,664.18. The funding source is the Street Division Operating Budget.
 Second item, an ordinance approving the release of the demolition lane on 432 Brook Road and number 15-02-326-015 to facilitate the transfer of the property from the Windmill County Trustee to Rock River Water Reclamation District. Number three, an ordinance approving an addendum to the Intergovernmental Agreement with the Rockford Area Venue and Entertainment Authority. So, Alderman, you have three items before you. Thank you.
 I DON'T SEE ANY QUESTIONS. I DON'T SEE ANY QUESTIONS. CLEAR TO PLEASE CALL THE ROLL. CIRQUE. AYE. YES, BERNIE. AYE. TUNBERG. AYE. BURBIE. AYE. URBAN. AYE. SEMPSON-KELLEY. AYE. MAUTHMAN. AYE. ROSE. AYE. BEACH. AYE. CURTIS. AYE.
 You know, I think we. Hi, surely. Thank you so we're going to move to officers reports and just get a, I'll give you a brief update and then we'll go items or ultimate. 1 through 14, so 1st.
 I just want to say thank you just for tonight's vote for the lease for the Family Peace Center. But I think it's very significant, the work that this council is doing as it relates to domestic violence and serving those survivors. Tonight was really a monumental step forward, I think, for our community when it comes to serving survivors in our city. So thank you. Second, I want to give you an update. We have...
 Now 10 working groups and now at least 3 subcommittees on these working groups. Today, myself, Director Martel, Chairman Haney outlined 3 areas that we have priorities.
 We, as of today, our all health metrics show that we will be moving into the governor's phase three of his plan. And that movement will be, I believe it's May 29th, if everything stays consistent.
 With that, we outlined three areas that we would still need to follow health metrics to reach. And everything that we're doing is with the center and the focus on the health of citizens. We just forward three areas that we would like to move, for lack of a better word, from Phase 4 to Phase 3 of the governor's plan. Okay.
 The first is child care. As you see more parts of our economy opening in phase three, let's say if you just look at retail, if you have a single parent who is being asked to come back to work, we've got to ensure that they have child care.
 2nd was restaurants and that will obviously be with several modifications and restraints on them to which the working teams are reviewing right now. And 3rd is the faith community obviously, Governor's risker recently bided.
 an agreement with the plan with the Catholic diocese. And I just think one of the things that makes us a wonderful community is we're diverse in faith and we want to see if we can create guidance for all faiths in our community to have that opportunity to worship together over a certain period in time.
 With this being said, two critical pieces should be of note. One is, this is really, lack of a better word, a contract with our community. We have gotten to this position by shared responsibility and by all of us working together. That includes practicing social distancing. That includes wearing a mask where appropriate and required.
 The second item I would like to just touch on is, as it stands today, Governor Pritzker has an executive order, which is a law, in essence, a law to which we must follow.
 We plan on following executive orders. And this executive order is set to expire and have not had any communication from the governor's office that it would be extended and no communication from the legislature to which they're finally going back to session, which I think we're all excited to have them go back to session. But I have not heard of any communication from them that they'll.
 be looking to pass any information that would require us to do something different. So I felt, and I think we felt, it's fair to say, that it's incumbent on us to prepare for the day after the executive order is done. So we still have some work to do to get to this point that we can begin with modifications and controls in place, begin to safely, responsibly, and sustainably open child care youth centers.
 youth programming restaurants and their faith community, but that is our intention. And we wanted to throw that or put that out there to those groups so that they can begin to think of what they need to do to get in the best position for their opening
 which as it stands right now, we hope will be June 1. And also wanted to provide them some opportunity to provide us feedback through those committees. So I just wanted to give you that update. If you have questions on that, I'd be certainly happy to answer those. But other than that, I'll move to, well, it looks like we have one question. Alderman Thompson-Kelly, do you have a question? Yes.
 good on that i've got a statement to make in regards to the uh joe sanowski and uh representative west with the comment that they made about real estate taxes and deferring um can the legal department share some of that information with us can you i director meyer did you hear that
 Alderman Johnson, Kelly, can you repeat? We had a hard time hearing you. I sure can. Joe Sinowski and Representative West made an announcement about some legislation that they were discussing to defer property taxes, fees, and...
 So, you know, what I saw those times as well. I have not seen a bill. I've got to be doing it. That would potentially be up for passage. It would impact the payment of those fees. I will move. I have some sort of moratorium on there. I can certainly circle back with that.
 lobbyists to see if anything has been filed yet. I will update the council next week if that's the case. Thank you. Just because I may not be the only one, we're all waiting pins and needles. What did they say? I think that the gist of the comments were that there needs to be, if you're advocating potentially for some release to property tax payments being pushed back.
 Does that bill state that then the state would pay us for those revenue or I'm just saying, is the state collected property taxes? No, my, my, my, my dad was telling me that no, there probably is not a unfunded mandate to hear about. So, okay.
 I thought it was very interesting, and we got our property taxes in the mail today, that they would come out with a press release that they're looking into it. Wonderful. Good for them. Alderman McNeil, you have a question? Yes. Thank you. I just want to know, come the 29th, did we give –
 Are we putting out information to the child care, the restaurants, and the faith centers regarding distancing or any other information related to COVID-19 that they should be undertaking? Yes.
 Great question. So, and I should have been more specific and I apologize. So phase three on May 29th, our proposal does not have them opening until June one, which is a Monday. And discussions with many restaurant owners and the committee opening on a weekend is very difficult because it'll be, um,
 more highly used during the weekend and to have that ramp up period was good. So as for let's say policies and protocols to which you're discussing, absolutely there'll be policies and protocols. We outlined today that we would provide them to them no later than I believe it was May 26th, which is a Tuesday because the 25th is a holiday. And so we're going to be providing them to them.
 And so today we announced that they will be able to open. The teams are made up of business owners or faith leaders or child care providers, and they're working to create their first blush of protocols that will go to Dr. Martell to review, to ensure that they are practicing social distancing, practicing socializing,
 putting in place best practices because one benefit we do have with so many other states and cities across the country opening, we have a lot of information that we can pull from them so they don't have to recreate the wheel. They just need to pull items that fit our local area. So will every business submit to Dr. Martell?
 A plan? So we're going to create a framework of plans and policies and principles that they all need to follow within the county. Okay. All right. Great. Thanks. No, great questions. I should have been more clear. Alderman Hoffman? Thank you, Mayor. Did you say salons also? So salons and barbers are already in Phase 3. So on May 29th, those are already open. Do you know if this also includes aestheticians?
 Director Meyer, do you know if that includes estheticians? I don't. I'm not sure. I don't know specifically. I can find that out. But my reason with the word, the word I usually say is like businesses. So if it's similar to death services, similar to small business or then it would probably be yes. Okay. I don't know. Do you know about massage therapists? So massage therapy,
 Right now would be allowed. We can pursue it to a doctor's order, but I don't believe I see in the historic Illinois plan if it's been mentioned. But the plan itself, in terms of the list of the businesses that would be allowed to move from phase 4 to 3, is not extensive at this point. But they've all been put together, so I wouldn't be surprised if they all move as well. Thank you.
 Can you please let me know about the asbestos tissue because I do have one that wants to reopen. Absolutely. I'm looking forward to it. But she wants to make sure she doesn't want to assume that because she's in a salon that she's approved and then she gets in trouble. So thank you. Yes, we'll make sure we do. Thank you.
 Certainly, and just to clarify for you all, non-essential businesses, employees of non-essential businesses are allowed to return to work under IDPH approved safety guidelines. That's already there for phase three.
 Personal care services and health clubs, barbershops, and salons with IDPH-approved safety guidance will be open. Health and fitness clubs can provide outdoor classes and one-on-one personal training. So that's open as well. And inside retail is open with capacity limits through IDPH-approved guidelines. That's all automatically in Phase 3 if we continue to meet our health measures. So I'm going to continue to go down these...
 Alderman Rose, it looks like. Alderman Rose. So just real quick, I just wanted to make a statement in regard to the violence that happened this weekend. I'm hoping that the city can reach out to the family or victims that were affected by Saturday night's
 violence at the Motel 6. It's a sad state of what people are taking advantage of the situation. And I don't know if that has to do with mental health issues or what. But I knew one of the victims. And for their own...
 Uh, safety, I won't say anything release the name, but. I'm hoping that the city can reach out to the family and do whatever they tend to help them in this tough time. I know for for business reasons, they're hurting, but their family is hurting as well. And, um.
 But also that people just say prayers for that family as well and look out for people that are looking to cause harm in our community. Alderman Rose, I won't ask for this information tonight, but if you have an opportunity to share that contact, I would personally reach out to them. Okay, thank you. Okay.
 ANY OTHER QUESTIONS ON THIS AND THEN WE'LL GO TO OFFICERS. A LOT OF HANDS RAISED BUT SOME WE'VE ALREADY ASKED. AUBRIAN, YOU HAVE A QUESTION? YES. ON THESE RESTAURANTS THAT ARE OPENING UP, I'D LIKE TO KNOW THE ONES THAT HAVE BARS IN IT, ARE THEY ALLOWED TO SERVE LIQUOR IN PHASE THREE? SO JUST SO EVERYONE KNOWS,
 The restaurants, the childcare and the faith communities, we have working groups working on them now. I can tell you to this question, yes, we know that they're going to be able to serve alcohol. But for all the particulars, we're letting the experts look at these first, the experts being the owners or those most involved like pastors and things of that nature, look at this first to provide that guidance and recommendations to the health department, then they will review.
 but i have uh i yes the alcohol will be allowed to be uh consumed if we make it through to phase three starting june one for these items uh
 Thank you, Mayor. Good, thank you. I think we've answered all the questions. Alderman Hervey, did you have a question or an office request? A question. Yep. Has there been any court ruling that brings into question Governor Pritzker's authority for the second 30-day emergency period? Mr. Mayor? Yes.
 There was an order entered, I think, prior to the last extension down in Cleve County that was ultimately vacated voluntarily.
 So far, no, I've not seen any adverse moving or impacting the ability of the governor to issue the second order. In fact, the only ruling I'm aware of, locally is a federal district court order that was actually upheld by the seven districts court, public court, regarding the church arena that challenged the governor's state of home or as it applied to churches
 And that was the new order. So, the interest is known. There's not seen any orders that would apply to us.
 Okay, so essentially, if there's a spike, I know this is, if you don't want to speculate, this was posed to me, if there's a spike towards the, say, the 26th, there's a big spike in covoid positive readings, hospitalizations, or whatever. Does the governor have the authority to perpetually issue
 emergency orders for 30-day periods. I understand the point of their question. What is the limit of his authority to restrict lawful activities under an emergency order? In other words, when does the emergency expire and the legislature have to step in and approve further extensions of
 on those restrictions so right now the answer is he can issue executive orders and 30-day increments there's no limit on when you can declare a new emergency for 30 days and unlike all of these for example there is no uh set timing after the third extension the legislature has to come in and approve it or ratify it that doesn't exist right now that was the crux of the uh when the argument is down in the same county there was just
 There was just that one representative, Bailey, who made that argument. There was the corresponding on that, but that temporary trade was ultimately vacated. Okay.
 Okay, thank you. I'm assuming there are a number of cases being filed around the state in different circuits and different jurisdictions. This issue will be litigated at some point. There's no doubt in my mind that this will be litigated. Someone asked me if there had been a definitive. I just did not know the answer, and...
 wasn't available to research it. So, and I wouldn't feel comfortable doing it anyway. Muni, you're holding up my... The only order we have right now that is actually law in our district is the District Court law. I mean, the executive order did not violate the church's personal order. Okay. Thank you. Can I clarify one thing, Mr. Mayor? Huh? Can I clarify one thing? Yes. The question was in regard to whether restaurants were dealing with poor alcohol.
 in phase three. I just want to make sure everybody is aware that that's up to whether or not the governor issues a new order. If the governor issues a new order in May that does not move, does not allow for that, then it really doesn't matter what we do on a local level, those are state licenses. So we have to be real careful on understanding that all of this is subject to approval by the government.
 Absolutely. Just like I said earlier, we're going to follow executive orders. We must follow executive orders. As of right now, there is not one on June 1st. So are there other questions? I see a lot of hands raised and I don't know if these are all repeat. Alderman Torelli?
 yeah thank you the honor just one question the city had extended the payment of fees for liquor license annual renewals are we contemplating extending that out further since the executive order was actually extended in we're reviewing that and we'll have information for later this week absolutely
 that were extended by the city. What was that? Were there any other fees that were extended by the city? Uh, let me grab honor. No, I don't think we extended fees. We may have waived late fees for that. Um,
 I don't have the full list at my disposal, but I know we deferred payment of tobacco licenses, deferred payment of liquor licenses. We deferred payment of taxes for Hotel Mojo. We deferred payment of taxes for food and beverage. We deferred any water cutoffs and any lacing. I feel like I'm missing something. Okay.
 This is Todd. So the food and beverage tax deferment and hotel and motel tax deferment were through May 31st. So as the mayor stated in regards to the decision on whether that's going to be extended or not, that is being worked on this week. As it relates to liquor license, renewal fees were deferred to July 31st already. So plenty of time to continue to evaluate that situation. Okay.
 I just want to point out too that we did raise convenience fees for water bill payments, both the one-time online payment and the phone payment fees. So those would be fees that we are not collecting at all.
 Thank you. Just a second question, Your Honor. Upcoming, we have the zoning board and the liquor and tobacco board meetings. Are they going to be similar to the WebEx meetings we're having currently for City Council? Or maybe if you can give a little more update for the general public, can come into those meetings, or is it restricted to just the applicants and people who are for or against the application?
 Director Kegner? If Lop is on the line, I'd ask her to walk through the process. She's been working with our zoning officers and communicating with all the applicants in regards to the process.
 If Director Meyer wants to do it, otherwise I can do it. I don't know, Nick, do you recall the procedure? I don't. I know the procedure was recognized. I haven't been briefed with that information enough to speak about it. I'll go ahead and answer the question, Your Honor. Yes, we plan on having the public hearing at WebEx.
 as well as the city hall being open for interested parties to come down. We have notified all the applicants of the meeting via WebEx, as well as sent out additional adjacent property owner letters, so that interested parties could provide their comments in writing in advance of the hearing. And then we would provide those to the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board or the zoning board
 board of appeals as we go forward. Additionally, we did streamline both the ZBA and LTAB agenda to move forward only with the projects that we felt were time sensitive with the information that we had. Hopefully that answers your question, Alderman Schreller. Alderman Schreller Yeah, is there going to be a time limit for speaking?
 So generally no, it follows the standard rules and procedures in which there's not a time limit. Thank you. It looks like we have one more question. Alderman Toomberg. Thanks, Mayor. Thank you.
 Excuse me if I didn't pay attention at that moment. Did you address, as far as if we do open these restaurants, to what capacity, or is that still being decided on locally? So all of those decisions will be –
 Based on the work of the committees, Dr. Martell used as an example today at the press briefing 25%.
 And I have heard others talk all the way up to 50%. To answer your question, it will be decided at the committee and then with guidance from health professionals. So I don't have an exact number, but that's what was being discussed all in the tumor. Yeah, and just to let you know, and the rest on council know, and I'm sure many of you have heard from business owners as well. Some have stated to me 25% would be the same
 wouldn't be enough for them to bring back servers, dishwashers, cooks to make it feasible. On the other hand, some have said, at this point in time, I'll take anything I can get. And then also in hopes of getting people just in the habit of coming back out and getting into restaurants. But I would love to see 50 if possible. Thanks. Beep.
 I've learned an incredibly fluid situation, and if you say 50, half will say 100, and half will say zero. So I'm not going to please a whole lot of people in several weeks.
 All right. Let's do officers' reports. Alderman Durkin. Thank you, Your Honor. I'll keep it short. It's unusual. With all the meetings, and maybe it's a follow-up of what we've been discussing, but all these meetings, and what you're saying, it appears as though
 the health department is going to be rendering in a sense the final decision i think if that's the case it would be nice to have uh director martel maybe come come to the council meeting next week and explain what her metrics are what her reasoning is uh and out as a matter of transparency because like uh ellerman tunberg said
 50 people in one restaurant is different than 50 people in another restaurant. I know Chief Bergstrom has addressed that issue, but I've actually seen some video of restaurants in New York City and other places that are opening using plexiglass barriers in order to keep their volume up.
 And so, you know, I'd like to at least hear, you know, her understanding and what she's using. You know, when we, in fact, I don't know if this will be at a state level, but as far as opening public schools up, I mean, there's some really good data out of Europe that basically says COVID is really not running rampant.
 in the schools there. So it would be nice to hear what metrics we're using, what basis, what data basis, policy decisions are being made in a little more detail, and a Q&A would be helpful. Thank you. We'll make a note of that. Thank you. Alderman Gasconi.
 I just had a question from earlier. When will we be going to council chambers again? Good question. I don't think we've made that determination yet. Let me get back to you this week on that. We have not had that discussion yet.
 I MISS ALDERMAN HURD'S COGS A LOT. I REALLY NEED TO SEE HER. ALDERMAN FOSS IS ABSENT. ALDERMAN HURD. JUST ONE THING WITH REGARD TO SOME OF THE REOPENINGS. SOME CITIES ARE ALLOWING BARS WHERE IT'S CONDUCIVE. FOR EXAMPLE, FOR DISTRICT AND FOR OCTANE, WE COULD CLOSE THAT PART OF NORTH MAINE STREET, THAT ONE BLOCK.
 That's been really neat where they have closed off so that they could still outdoors and keep social distancing a little bit better. So I'd like to suggest that we maybe look at that. As well as the extension of potential sidewalk. Sidewalk. Yeah, well, the sidewalk. And then they did half the street, you know, so traffic.
 was it out there, they had bicycles and walking, made it a walking lane. So just anything I think that we can do would be great. But I also just want to real quickly piggyback on
 the value of local decisions and the decisions being made by the people who, who are frequenting those places, as opposed to having Winnebago County make the decisions on the number of people. I think all of them in their keys, the words, the metrics for the city of Rockford, I'd like to see us pull together the fire department, um,
 maybe Director Franzen's office and some other places that know how the layout of places almost automatically. Or we could take a week and say, hey, if you want to open and have a full capacity or something else,
 We'll come out and look at your plan and make that decision. But I'd like to see if there's opportunity for Rockford to make that decision for Rockford businesses. And I may be over-interpreting the other part of it. But I'd like to see us be able to do that. Last thing I just wanted to ask, and it's an ask, is,
 is whether, since we've done this remote stuff, I agree with Alderman Gasparini. I'd like to get back to in person. But whether we could look at some policy that would allow for remote participation in council meetings, since we've kind of seen where we have that capability. I know we'd have to extend it to the actual chamber.
 I know I've had to miss sometimes up to four weeks due to a surgery or something. I can't get out and come into a building. And I'm also concerned that I'm going to be on isolation probably longer than most people. And I don't want to have to miss council meetings. So I'd like to know, just for those of us who may have longer restrictions, if we could look at an extension of the remote participation. Thank you.
 Thank you. That's all I have. Thank you all for your attention. Yes. I got two items actually that I want to touch on. Ms. Mayor, I want to talk to you for a second. With all due respect, I know you do a great job at what you do, especially running these host, hosting this meeting, seeing everybody's hands up.
 Ask that next time you see my hand up that you don't oversee it or you blow past it. The second thing that I want to talk about is...
 The fact that, you know, I was never 100% sure as to why I even came to Rockford. And, you know, I think last week or these past few weeks has really become more clear to me. You know, in my heart, I'm not a politician. I think that's something that's, you know, pretty clear. I don't know.
 I don't have a passion for this as much as you guys do. And so I'm like, you know, every week I listen to people bloviate and talk and listen to everybody, you know, pat each other on the back. And it's like, okay, Father, how do I add value to that? What do I have to contribute to this? And, you know, I...
 Just recently, he told me in the tagus, all I need you to do is share my word. There's no other reason for me to be here. And so I just want to take some time out and, I guess, pray. That's really all I have to offer is the wisdom of the Lord. And so, you know, I see we're constantly going from one agenda to the next, from one thing to the next. And it's like...
 Me, the way that I work is I have to incorporate God in every decision that I make. And when I'm going through week after week and I'm listening, I mean, we pray in the beginning and sometimes it's almost as if it's a passive kind of let's just do it and get it over with type of prayer. And I just...
 The God that I serve, I know that he's a jealous God, and I look at this city in the condition that it's in, I look at this nation in the condition that it's in, and the boiling pot that's here with all these random gods and all these idols, you know, it reminds me of Babylon and Sodom and Gomorrah and Nineveh, where Noah, or not Noah, but Jonah, swallowed by the well, went to Nineveh. They went to, because the people of Nineveh were the wicked people. Yeah.
 And Jonah didn't want to share the goodness of God with Nineveh, but God said, Jonah, I have a purpose and a plan with these people, so go there and do what I told you to do anyway. And so I have to say, every time I got on this mic, I was nervous, because, you know, again, I don't feel like I fit in, and I really can't talk about a lot of the things that you guys talk about, but there's a new boldness that's coming up on me. And so I just, again, I want to take some time out and pray. Okay.
 Heavenly Father, I just thank you right now, Father, for this time and in this season, Lord God. I thank you for you appointed this time. Father, for a time such as this, Lord God, I thank you for the words that you've given me. I thank you for the wisdom that you've bestowed upon me and the knowledge of your word, Lord God. So I pray, Father, that right now that your word goes forward because we know, Father, that you're
 Your word never returns void, Father. And when we include you in things, then things actually get done, Lord God. You tell us not to be wise in our own eyes and to pursue you in everything. And that prayer should be a constant thing that we're doing, communicating with you. This whole thing with separation of church and state only tells me that this nation don't want to have anything to do with you, Father. Amen.
 And if that's the case, then I don't want to have anything to do with them, Lord God. People are hurting. People are suffering. And we can only turn to ourselves for answers, and that's foolishness, God. So I just thank you right now. I pray, Father, that each and every individual, you tell us to pray for those that are in authority, Lord God, because you establish authority. You place people in authority. So I pray, Father, right now that if there is anyone around this horseshoe that is –
 that have doubt or, or, or, or a lack in faith. Cause you said without faith, it's impossible to please you, Lord God. And, and, and, and, and, and a man without faith is, is unstable in all his ways. He's tossed back and forth, like, like a boat in, in the wind on the ocean, Lord God, there's no stability in that Lord,
 God, and I'm looking at this city, and for years, it seems as if this city just has been unstable, Lord God. So I pray, Father, that you step into the boat with us, Jesus, that you step into the boat with us, Father, so that we have a little bit more peace with all that's going on around us, Lord God, the storms and the chaos, and that we begin to look at you once again, Father. Once again, Father, what happened to the days where we actually had fear? Right.
 In you, Lord God, reverent fear in all of your glory, Lord God. So I just, I pray, Lord God, that humility takes place right now. Father, I pray right now, Lord God, that the lips, that the words that people use on their lips, Lord God, begin to reflect your goodness and begin to reflect your glory. And glory begins to be given back to you and not, that's us, because we can't do anything to save anybody, truthfully, Father. Amen.
 So I pray right now, Lord God, that eyes are set back on you, Lord God, our help, our counselor, our advocate, our provider, our deliverer, Lord God. I pray, Father, that the people's hearts are stirred up once again, Father. In Jesus' mighty name, we pray, man. Amen. Thanks, and I apologize. I obviously didn't see your hand up, so my apologies. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? Yes.
 After that, I don't have anything, Your Honor. Okay. Alderman Hoffman.
 Thank you, Mayor. I would really like to thank Nathan Bryant. He did an excellent job with a Zoom meeting in my community through Nextdoor. And he was really uplifting. A lot of people think nothing is going on, nothing is getting better. And then he talked about all the things that Rockford Area Economic Development Council has done and is doing and will be doing.
 and it made a big difference to a lot of people. So I really want to thank him, and I would suggest to anybody else that's interested, he is perfectly willing to put on a Zoom meeting. It is only 40 minutes, and I think the community would really enjoy hearing his positive remarks. I also would like to thank Chief O'Shea and the police department for all that they've been doing lately. I'm one of the...
 the neighborhood that had a murder. It was actually a block from my house. I could see the police cars and everything. So that one was actually brought home. He talked about all the shootings. I had five within a week and things have really calmed down since they've stepped up. They haven't found our murderer yet, but they're close.
 So I want to really thank the police department and all the groups that have been working with them. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Rose. I'm good, Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. I'm fine tonight, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Quinones. I have nothing, Mayor. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. And thank you, Natavia. I appreciate your prayer. I appreciate your sincerity. However, within your prayer, you said that God put those in place to be leaders and he put you in that place and you are leading.
 I think you're doing a great job. You're trying to bring your community together for some reasons from the first year that you were on the council. And you continue to do things to bring your community together and help them and help the city overall.
 So I pray that you will feel even more comfortable in your position and you continue as the alderman in the city.
 And you're more than welcome. And there, I just wanted to, I still had my hand up, not by accident or because I forgot, but to ask you to comment because I have not gone to the government, the state site. But for myself and others, I think that we can go to the state website and find out what the plan is.
 see those businesses that are under that plan at each step. And I just want to encourage the residents to do that. And my other question, Mayor, was for the restaurants or any business that has the gambling machines, will they be able to use them? So, hey...
 But I don't think that's the kind of machine I'm referring to, Ann. Ann has gambling machines in her home. So Restore Illinois plan is listed on the website. We will email that out again to everyone to make sure that you all have it and help spread that word. Your second question was about the gaming machines. That is highly regulated by the state. We won't have any control of that here locally. Okay.
 And so we are waiting on the state to provide guidance as it relates to machines. Either Mr. Meyer or Mr. Cagnoni, is that accurate? That's correct. Thank you.
 Well, thank you. Thank you. Alderman Trelink? Yes, thank you, Honor. Yesterday you and I had the opportunity to help a local business that they were handing out free meals to the public. We handed out hundreds of meals. It was a great turnout. I want to thank the Twins Auto Mall for their dedication and commitment to our community in doing that. It was a wonderful gesture on their part, and I know a lot of people appreciated it.
 SECOND, I GOT A COUPLE E-MAILS I WANTED TO EXPRESS TO YOU. ONE WAS AN E-MAIL FROM A CONSTITUENT WANTING TO KNOW THE STATUS OF THE TRACK VEHICLE. AT SOME POINT WE CAN GET AN UPDATE ON THAT BUILDING.
 Second, I've received emails from our police and fire departments, and people are praying for their safety and concerned for the safety of our community, so I wanted to express that as far as the emails I'm receiving. And personally, I want to congratulate Ginger Hanley on her confirmation tonight, and hopefully we can get to work and everybody will...
 Greet her and accept her onto our council and help her through this Process because we're going to have a lot of heavy lifting to do coming forward in the next few weeks and months So again, I want to thank you and your staff there for all your hard work this week and everybody involved City and County. Thank you. Thank you. Looks like our alderman tumor. Oh You got passed over the
 Thanks, everyone. You know, just a little bit of an economic update yet again is, you know, if people saw the week ago, a week ago last Friday, the jobs reports, to put that in perspective of what the magnitude of we're dealing with is,
 At the height of the Great Recession, we lost about, I believe, about 9.5 million jobs, and that took about 18 months for that to happen. And we considered that a big recession. Here, in one month, we lost 22 million in one month.
 Now we're well over $30 million, obviously. So some of you may have heard the 40-40, where about 40% of the jobs lost are to people that have been earning less than $40,000 a year. So, you know, to kind of piggyback on Alderman Durkee, you know, I've said –
 Some of the common denominators that I've seen for other states that have been opening up a lot of times the
 the medical professionals have been at the same table as business leaders, and they've collaboratively worked together in coming up with solutions and strategies to move forward. Just this last few days, Peggy Noonan of the Wall Street Journal wrote an article kind of about this and states that now there's a term called overclassed.
 And essentially, these are individuals, leaders of hospitals, state houses, firms, but also people that are really at the head of making these decisions almost solely, which includes scientists, medical doctors, political figures, consultants, and that these people.
 underclass are not being fairly represented at the table. I'm not saying or saying it's a case here, what have you, but it's just, I think it's so important that the decision makers that are putting these rules in place also consider not just the health of individuals of the COVID situation, but also the health of the
 but also we've seen the detrimental effects of what has happened to individuals during this lockdown with obviously drug overdose, domestic violence. You know, in Texas, I read that their domestic violence calls have actually gone down, which is scary because teachers aren't able to see the kids.
 and report these things. So, you know, it's stuff we know, but, you know, I'm for bringing Dr. Martell here and clarifying some things because she seems to be one of the decision makers on this as well. So, thank you.
 Thank you. So I hope you all have a wonderful, safe, and healthy week. I've got a couple of items I'll work on to get taken care of over the next week and see if we can bring Dr. Martell into one of the very soon council meetings. So thank you. Move to adjourn. Second. We'll have a motion and a second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Have a wonderful, safe, and healthy week. Thank you, Mayor. Thanks.