Good evening. We will call to order the City of Radford's specially scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, May 10th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Jerky, Logaman, Toomer, Frost, Tarina, Prunty, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, and Bonney. 14 present.
 Excellent. So we have a quorum this evening and we'll go to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development So we'll move to code and regulation alderman rose. Thank you your honor. We have one item 320 North Mulford Road, I'll put that one up. Thank you. We have one item before you alderman Is there any discussion on that one item seeing no discussion clerk? Could you please call the roll turkey? bogeyman timber frost Torina
 Prenti Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Quinones Meeks McNeely McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes and then there's one a was it no excellent next up I will go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost. Oh
 Thank you, Your Honor. There's one item. It's an approval of the agreement between the City of Rockford Human Services Department and the Illinois Housing Development Authority for the use of the database. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place that before you. Thank you. There's one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye.
 Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney. 14 ayes. Thank you. Next up, that item passes. Next up we'll go to appointments laid over. We have a host coming up. We have two coming up, but we have one up this evening. Appointment of Tom Okite to the Traffic Commission for a five-year term effective on the retirement of Mr. Fred Lehrman, who we recognize this evening.
 Is there a motion to approve Mr. Okita? Also moved. Is there a second? Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman.
 Excellent next up. We will go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning development nothing under code and regs So we'll go back to financing personnel. There's been frost Thank you number one is an award a bid for the water treatment plant 29 and 45 for filter media replacement to Leander construction of can amount of three hundred and thirty two thousand eight hundred and ninety dollars and 43 cents the project is estimated to be completed by July 2nd 2021 the funding sources the water placement improvement account and
 Number two is an award of non-competitive contract for neighborly software for emergency rental assistance program to benefit of Atlanta, Georgia. In the amount of $21,600 annually, the funding source is grant funds. Number three is the Continuum Care Rapid Youth Housing. This grant is a HUD program designed to house homeless youth. The grant is the amount of $92,569 and does require a 25% cost match the grant term.
 is from november 1 2021 to october 31 2022 number four is the continuum of care for carpenter's place cp this is also a hud program designed to continue existing housing and services for those struggling with homelessness it's a hundred and thirteen thousand five hundred and thirty three dollars um again
 Again, all these require a 25% cost match, but not by the City of Rockford. The grant term is from October 1, 2021 to September 30, 2022. Number five is also a carbon risk place, but this one is a renewal of a HUD for existing housing supportive services for those struggling with homelessness.
 This grant is $32,810 and runs from December 1, 2021 to November 30, 2022. Number six is a Continued Care for Shelter Care Ministries Consolidated Rapid Rehousing. This one is to alleviate housing cost burdens and provide supportive services. It's in the amount of $143,978. It runs from August 1, 2021 to July 31, 2022. Number seven is a Continued Care for Shelter Care Ministries Consolidated Rapid Rehousing.
 Consolidated permanent support housing, which is to continue with existing housing and supportive services for those struggling with homelessness. The grant amount is 175,855 dollars. Uh, and runs from September 1, 2021 to August 31, 2022. Number 8 is same 1, but as rose grants consolidated this 1 is also to.
 alleviate housing cost burdens provide supportive services this amount grant is 71 152 and it runs from may 1 2021 to april 30 2022. lastly number nine is also for rose grants 2003 this one is to alleviate housing cost burdens provide supportive services this grant is the amount of 138 955 and it runs from june 1 2021 to may 31 2022 and i place those matters before you
 Thank you Alderman. So we have nine items before us. Appreciate that. Is there any discussion on those nine items? Alderman McNeely. Thank you Mr. Mayor. On item number three, is this a new grant? Structure parking? No. Alderman McNeely, all of these grants are continuing grants for the continuum of care. So they all go to the sub-recipients that we work with in the community for various subsections of the homeless population.
 And with this particular grant, as I questioned the other grants, is there more than one organization that would be a recipient of these funds? No. Each one of the individual grants goes to that recipient only. I'm sorry? Each one of these individual grants goes to that particular recipient only. So this one is Rapid Youth Rehousing? The Rapid Youth Rehousing, yeah. That's the name of the organization? Yes. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you. So we have nine items before you. Is there any questions on those nine items? Seeing none, clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonnie. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items passed. Next we'll go to new business. We'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Item 1, under codes and regs, an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial district at 320 North Mulford Road. The second item is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with a gas station and convenience store in a C3 general commercial district at 320 North Mulford Road. I place those two items up. Excellent. Thank you. We have two items before you. Is there any discussion on those two items?
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Prenti. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. Item number one, 13 ayes. Item number 14, I'm sorry, item number two, 14 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, Finance and Personnel, and we get to go back to Alderman Frost.
 thank you i have one item which is an ordinance approving the user agreement between the city of rockford human services department and the illinois development authority for use of a database thank you thank you we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item say none clerk could please call the roll durkee logeman toomberg frost terena prunty wilkins hoffman
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. So we'll go back to officers' reports. Just again, really great seeing the whole committees this evening and all the discussion with new aldermen and returning aldermen. Really just appreciate it. And are there any aldermen who have officers' reports? Alderman Rose.
 Real quick, I just wanted to say thank you to city staff, especially Tim Hinkins, for his work on a new art install that's going in off of Huffman Boulevard in coordination with RACVB, John Groh and his staff. I had it written down here, but...
 I just wanted to say thank you also to the president of NASA for their work on. On that project, so 1 other quick item I also wanted to give a shout out to Robert Jones. He is a former president of the United States.
 an East alumni who was recently drafted to the Miami Dolphins. He did a lot of work at East, working out and getting into Middle Tennessee University. And so Rockford, Illinois has yet another pro football player and just wanted to say go E-Rabs with Robert Jones. That's awesome. I think probably the biggest question is how –
 How would you be able to fit his bobblehead on your desk if he does well? I think that's a great problem, and I'm looking forward to figuring it out. Maybe a second shelf? I don't know. Maybe. Any other officers' reports?
 The only thing I would say is I had the opportunity to be with Alderman Hoffman today as our Rockford Housing Authority was one of only 10 in the country who were a recipient for this round's federal job plus program of $2.3 million. So just really wonderful work in bringing those dollars and can help impact the lives of many people who call Rockford Housing Authority home now.
 Congratulations to the director and the board and all the residents. With that, is there a motion to adjourn? Second. We got a motion, we got a second. Any discussion? None. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke, Logerman, Toonberg, Frost, Tarina, Prenti, Wilkins, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Abani. 13 ayes.
 Have a wonderful night.