Time providing our invocation at the City Council meeting tonight. And that is Rajan Zed from the Universal Society of Hinduism. And we invite him to, and he had asked for the picture. That's what we took before the start of council. Appreciate the council members entertaining the picture and invite you to begin with the invocation this evening. Thank you.
 It is an honor for the community when the prayers from ancient Hindu scriptures are being read in this great hall of democracy of this great city of Rockford. Starting with Gayatri Mantra considered the most sacred mantra of Hinduism from oldest existing scripture of mankind Rig Veda I shall be reading in Sanskrit and not translate into English.
 Om Bhur Bhubahas Vahay Tat Savitur Varenyam Bargo Divasya Dima Hi Diyo Yona Prachodayat We meditate on the transcendental glory of the Deity Supreme, who is inside the heart of the earth, inside the life of the sky, and inside the soul of the heaven. May He stimulate and eliminate our minds. Astho Ma Sadgamya Tamso Ma Jyotirgamya Mrityur Mamratam Gamya
 Lead me from the unreal to the real. Lead me from darkness to light. Lead me from death to immortality. Niyatam kuru karma tavam karma jayao hyaa karmana sarira yatara pi chatayana prasidiyat karmana yagnarthat karmanao nyatra loko yam karmabandhna tazalsam karma kaunteya muktasam samashara Fulfil all your duties. Action is better than inaction. Even to maintain your body, you are obliged to act.
 Selfish action imprisons the world. Act selflessly without any thought of personal profit. Strive constantly to serve the welfare of the world.
 By devotion to selfless, one attains the supreme goal of life. Do your work with the welfare of others always in mind. Om Saha Navavatu, Saha Navanaktu, Saha Viryan Karba Bahai, Tejasvi Nava Dita Mastu, Ma Vidvisa Bahai. May we be protected together, may we be nourished together, may we work together with great vigor, may our study be enlightening, may no obstacle arise between us.
 Sam Niva Kooti, Samna Hirdiyani Wa, Sam Namastu Vomanu, Yatha Vasusa Hasti. United your resolve, united your hearts, may your spirits be at one that you may long together dwell in unity and conquered. Om Shanti, Shanti, Shanti. Peace, peace, peace be unto all. Om. Thank you. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 and to their government for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Matt Ramirez. Here. Frost. Here. Thompson Kelly. Odo. Here. Newberg. Here. Beach. Elliott. Here. Beck. McNeely. Here. Chiarelli. Eleven present, Your Honor. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum.
 motion except the journal but a motion and a second to accept the journal other any minutes or changes this is the journal proceedings for the May 2nd meeting hearing on all some favor
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it, thank you. We have five speakers signed up for public speaking. Remind our public speakers they can use either of the microphones in the back of the chamber. Our speakers have three minutes to make their comments. If they start to go over, I will ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Roland Posca. From all fishy whales, help do the impossibles. Achieve respect for all and prejudice
 End violence. Expand thinking. Expand the money supply. Make it happen July 4th. It is time to make life perfect. Come to City Hall to do the impossibles. We can make life perfect. Get a book. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of Matthew, the sixth chapter, the third verse, Jesus says, when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing. So that your giving may be in secret, then your Father who sees what is done in secret will reward you. What I want to speak about tonight, a poem for veterans, freedom is valued, but never free.
 Bless all our veterans, alive and dead. When things look hopeless, they forge ahead. They never fail to do their part. Some came home, some did not. Some trade a limb for a purple heart. Fellow veterans from coast to coast, enjoy the freedom you love most. But remember the ones who deserve your toast, those veterans whose spirits remain at their posts. In the final agreement, we have to agree, though freedom is valued,
 It never is free. I want to congratulate all the young men and ladies who are graduating from high school and college. I want to congratulate my great-great-nephew who is graduating from the Navy Academy. He's going to be an officer in the Navy. I want to thank the city of Rockford for having the resource for that other day. We need more of them in the city of Rockford. You always hear bad things about police officers. You never hear about the good things they do.
 I thank God for that Love Park police officer who ran into that house that was on fire and saved the people who lived in that house. I know some of the people that live in that house. That police officer didn't run from danger.
 He ran to it. I want to thank God for that police officer. Bless him and his family. And thank you for allowing me to speak before I speak. I need 30 men or women who have been in the military or been in combat, and I can reduce crime in Rockwood in 90 days. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, our audience, and our citizens of Rockwood and Illinois.
 God give me the grace to accept with serenity the things that I cannot be changed, prayers to change the things which should be changed, and the wisdom to distinguish the one from the other and know the difference. This was a very busy weekend on Saturday.
 We went to Milo Dentist Care with Dr. Jamie Milo. Out of the 14 youth that was taken, 12 of our at-risk youth got free dental care. The youth and the adults got a big laugh out of me when I asked the dentist, what about me? I need teeth too.
 Thus, on Sunday, at the church, we went to the African American Gallery of the Ethnic Heritage Museum to celebrate 100 years of Book of Washington Center, Community Center, on May the 15th. We would like to thank our sponsor, our RHA van driver, our personal van driver, and the cars that follow us from point A to point B.
 This is what we call transforming Rockford by engaging and not just talking. We are still working on trying to get a minivan and who's out there that's still trying to help us. Also this past Thursday, I went before the Winnebago County Board and I talked to them and got their blessing, which was quite interesting.
 I talked about the 1% sale tax, where part of the money go to the jail system, but the other part are supposed to go to recivilization and also going to preventative programs. And we have Salvation Army and Lanzarion Church that what we engaged in, understanding that the YMCA shut down the Boys and Girls Club, I mean the Big Brothers and Big Sisters,
 But we in the community are the big brothers and big sisters that should be working with our youth. I also brought up the fact, when I brought it up at the CompStat meeting, why not that the Sheriff's Department also do something similar to the CompStat meeting, where the citizens are able to come to the CompStat meeting and engage the statistics and what goes on behind the closed doors as the Sheriff's Department do.
 the same way the police probably have the all statistics of crack and a number of people just knocked up in jail why not they have a uh... a constant need and uh... one of the uh... individuals is running for office he said uh... jack i'd like to argue on that but we can not platform i say no man look at the action that you go to a job the usual idea to make money over your ideas and i didn't think the fact that she would have to be patient and i told him
 i get paid to the lower i want to use but i'll finish in the past sunday one of our youth and uh... a lot of what was in the car accident and uh... she'd been traumatized and brother is in the motorcycle club he was killed this second brother of the brother motorcycle club my stepson is a member of the brother motorcycle club so within four months we have lost two brothers
 due to a car accident. It's very important that those who ride motorcycles wear a motorcycle helmet. But also, I have a problem with the fact that this young lady is so chromatose that she is talking about committing suicide because she took another individual's life. Her six-year-old daughter, who's constantly with me at every program,
 she's coming to a point out there to help deal so that they don't do anything of you know crazy or drastic this is what family and I'm working with and I'm pretty into the community we need your help on both sides of the family and I ask that we pray for thank you thank you miss friendly our next speaker is attorney Robert who cast look as it I apologize for mispronounced you good evening Mister Mayor and alderman
 I'm here on behalf of a reasonable group of citizens reasonably objecting to a large bar and gambling parlor with late night hours being proposed at 1620 and 1626 North Bell School Road, located right behind and adjacent to my client's residential properties.
 I emailed the mayor and alderman a letter outlining precisely how the city would be in violation of its own zoning ordinance if it approves the liquor and gaming application on tonight's agenda. I also provided copies for distribution to all of you tonight.
 In short, it is not lawful to use an old PUD as authority for something beyond the scope of what the PUD originally allows, both in character and square footage. And per the PUD section in the zoning ordinance, interior use must be considered with a PUD, so the square footage of the new restaurant has to be taken into consideration.
 and the city has failed to make new findings of fact after a 12-month lapse in use, also as required by the city's zoning ordinance. Last week, I also spoke about how this gambling parlor would interfere with the residents' family units, their morals, and the value of and use and enjoyment of their properties. In your council packets, you have a litany of letters from residents objecting to this gaming parlor.
 But you don't have any letters supporting this development, aside from the support of the business owner and her lawyer. And while it's obvious that the business owner stands to benefit financially from a license being granted, what is not obvious is why she is so determined on a location in a C1 zone building adjacent to a neighborhood full of kids. My clients are not against business. This venue, if proposed in an appropriate place, will have no objection from any of us.
 The problem is just that this is not an appropriate place. I also find it odd that we have posed several legal objections that have still not been directly addressed by the city and legal objections that have not even been acknowledged by the city. It's my hope that tonight the city specifically addresses the concerns that we've raised so that the council can at least make an informed decision.
 Tonight you'll vote either for or against making a bar and gambling parlor, not a high-end restaurant like the previous venue, a part of the subdivision. You'll vote whether this city needs another gambling parlor so bad that it's worth putting it in a C1 zone as a special exception, the first of its kind. And you'll vote whether to follow an idea with few supporters and with as questionable legal footing as one can find.
 In addition to the serious legal problems we've raised, it's also my hope that you give substantial consideration to the voices of your citizens because this really matters to them, and they are the ones that are going to have to live with the outcome of your decision. In closing, we respectfully request that you vote against late-night gambling at this most inappropriate location. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Attorney Richard Butera.
 thank you mr mayor good evening council i represent rosemary provenzano and i would indicate to the city council tonight that the residents that are opposing her request for a liquor license with five gambling video gambling machines are anything but reasonable let's put this in perspective this location is 1620
 Bell School Road. This is the main thoroughfare in Rockford. It is controlled by stop and go lights, at least two on both opposite ends of where the business is located at. The property is used in various ways along the thoroughfare. There is a driving range, there is a restaurant and bar is where Garrett's is, there is a retail golf shop, there is a photography studio, there is a florist.
 there's residences around there there is anything that
 can be on a main thoroughfare such as State Street or anywhere else here in Rockford. This is not a residential area. The neighbors continue to tell the city council that this is a neighborhood environment that where it is not at all. Their subdivision is the entry on it is off of Rote Road. The only portion that backs up to the strip mall where the restaurant and bakery is gonna be located at
 uh... is four or five property owners along there it'd be closest one is at least three quarters of football field away from where the back of the strip mall is and in fact over a football field away from where Mrs. Provenzano's bakery and cafe would be located at they cannot even see where the location is at they come before the advisory board in the initial meeting before the council before the committee and talk about
 increased crime, prostitution, undesirables, lighting, security, everything in the world to try to back up their position. But the fact remains that they are fundamentally opposed to any type of gaming which is legal in Illinois and which is legal in the city of Rockford.
 This request is a reasonable request made by a responsible business owner who did the responsible thing by setting up a meeting and hosting a meeting for the homeowners association that is located right behind the strip mall. Remember that this is about 12 to 15 property owners that are objecting to this.
 as opposed to the numerous businesses that are along the thoroughfare, as well as residences that are located there. There is no objection other than these 12 to 15 people and the most vocal of those being fortified. When the meeting was held,
 They specifically, when they were told the hours could be scaled back, security could be on site, lighting could be adjusted, a privacy fence could be put up in the back, that we would do anything possible to eliminate the concerns that they brought up at the time of the advisory committee meeting, and they indicated, we have no objection to your business at all except for the gaming. So therefore, nothing will satisfy us in any way whatsoever.
 look at the responsibility of Mrs. Provenzano, look at the situation that she is proposing in terms of her license. That is what this council has to determine, whether or not the person who is proposing the application for the license can be responsible in her privilege to hold that license and to carry out that business. Thank you. Mr. Buteri, your time is up. Okay, thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Moving on to petitions and communications.
 Alderman Shrelin. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight. The first is the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on May 17th and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on May 23rd. The second item is the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 17th and minutes from that meeting for consideration of the Code and Regulations Committee meeting on May 23rd.
 The third item is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the zoning and land use administrator, regarding final plat of Riverside LM subdivision.
 The fourth item is a memorandum from Scott Capovella, Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the tenant of Platt of Mercy Rockford Riverside Campus Subdivision. All four of those items will be referred to the Coats and Recs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Matt, for being referred. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Reverend. I have two items. The first is a memorandum from Nora Doyle from Legal Department regarding Rockford Area Economic Development.
 or RAVEC, the first quarterly report in 2016. This will be referred to Planning and Development, and that is also the second item. That's just one item. That's it. Thank you. Any further petitions or communications? One of the meetings, too. Proclamations? I'm sorry. Alden Beck. I have a memorandum from Carrie Eklund, Central Services Manager, regarding the resolution of the City of Rockford ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers, mechanics, and workers employed by the said city.
 And I'll refer that to finance and personnel. Thank you, Matt. I'll refer it for the petitions and communications. We'll move on to proclamations. We have a number of them this evening. Actually, we have one special presentation as well tonight. And I would invite – let's do that first. There is a presentation regarding a traffic calming sign competition award presentation that was administered by a public works department, I believe. Mr. Vittner, are you the one handling that presentation?
 Mr. Carter, thank you. Jeremy Carter, Public Works Department, if you want to come forward to help with this presentation. And then I invite the individual young people that are here to accept the presentation if they want to come forward. So I'm going to turn it over to Mr. Carter and let him make some introductory comments and talk about the competition.
 The number one complaint that the traffic department receives from the citizens of Rockford is complaints of speeding throughout the residential neighborhoods. As a result of that, we looked at what we could do to possibly raise awareness for traffic safety issues in the neighborhoods. The department came up with an idea to work with the very creative students of RPS 205
 And they submitted 32 submittals that were ultimately kind of whittled down to six finalists. And of those finalists, the sign here was ultimately decided by a panel of esteemed judges, I will say. So these are the students. Okay.
 Angelica and Chase were from Auburn High School, were the winners of the competition. And we have some prizes for them, some City of Rockford keepsakes, and some prizes that were generously donated by the Rockford Park District and local movie theater. Thank you.
 Hello everyone. I feel very happy to have designed this amazing sign with my partner, Chase Heim. And I hope that it really helps the community, help people slow down, because kids matter. Thank you. One thing about our design process is usually we start out with something called a mood board. This helps us build inspiration.
 And we sometimes we can pick colors and pictures and just seems to build inspiration for us on our final project. So yeah, we just go on the internet, find pictures and colors, and sometimes we can even pick types of texts that we want. So yeah. Congratulations, awesome. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Congratulations.
 Congratulations again. Great. Give them one more round of applause. Thank you. Thank you. We have a number of proclamations. I'm going to go and actually reverse order here. Our next one is regarding National Public Works Week. I'm going to invite those from our Public Works Department and other partners that are here to accept the proclamation to please come forward. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
 Marcy Leach is here, our Engineering Operations Manager, to accept the proclamation, which reads as follows. Whereas public works services provided in our community are an integral part of our everyday citizens' lives, whereas the support of an understanding and an informed citizenry is vital to our operations of public works in programs such as water, sewers, streets and highways, public buildings, and solid waste,
 And whereas the health, safety, and comfort of this community generally depends on each of these facilities and services, and whereas the quality and effectiveness of the facilities and their planning, design, and construction is vitally dependent upon efforts and skills of talented public works officials.
 Whereas the efficiency of the qualified and dedicated personnel who staff public works is materially influenced by the people's attitudes and understanding of the importance of the work they perform, now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 15, 2016, the week of May 15, 2016, to be National Public Works Week in Rockford, Illinois. We encourage our citizens and civic organizations to do so.
 to acquaint themselves with the issues involved in providing our public works and recognize the contributions which public works officials make each and every day to our health, safety, comfort, and quality of life. Would you like to share a little bit more? I would. Thank you.
 For those of you who don't know me, I have actually been with our Public Works Department now for 13 years, and I have seen great changes within our department. We have been through, persevered through the best of times and the worst of times, seeing all these numerous customer service requests come through and trying to accomplish all the construction projects that we have today.
 During my time, I've watched our divisions break down the silos within our department and break down our silos with the other departments, just so we can accomplish more with less, knowing the times that we've had. But during that, I would like to make sure we dedicate, or the dedication of our public works staff has been recognized through various individual, team, and project awards that many of you are not aware of.
 Our recent accomplishments have been Kyle Saunders, who is our newly appointed water superintendent, has received the AWWA Young Professionals Award. Mike Montana, one of our GIS technicians, received first place in the WaterCon GIS poster competition. Christina Peacock received the Women of Achievement Award from the YWCA. Austin Krall received its A Great Day in Rockford Award from the RACVB.
 Our stormwater team received the Stormwater Management Award for the Illinois Association of Floodplain and Stormwater Management. The UW Sports Factory project team received the Community Service Award from the Rockford Park District. The Buckbee Creek Improvement Project received the Environmental Award from the American Public Works Association.
 And just recently you've seen a consultant award for the Ingersoll UW Sports Factory Site Assessment and Remediation Project. And once again, our street division has received the Tree City USA through their Arbor Day Foundation. Most of that has all been within the last four months. So that's quite an accomplishment from our individuals and our teams within the Public Works Department that is more recent than we've ever had before, more accomplishments than we've seen. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thanks, Mark. Thank you very much. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next we have a proclamation for Safe Boating Week. I invite those that are here, including Robert Canfield and others that might be here, to accept the proclamation to please come forward. Whereas while being a marvelous source of recreation, boating to the unprepared can be a risky sport, and whereas our waterways can become crowded at times in a place of chaos and confusion,
 Whereas on average, 700 people in the U.S. die each year in boating-related accidents, with nearly 70 percent of these fatalities caused by drowning. Whereas one particular behavior that can reduce the number of boaters that lose their lives drowning each year by approximately 90 percent is wearing a life jacket. Whereas this is why we must continue to spread the message of boating safety, not only during National Safe Boating Week, but also through the entire year.
 Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 21st through the 27th, 2016, to be Safe Boating Week. And we urge our citizens to follow safe boating rules, including the boat smart, boat safe, wear it, practice safe boating habits, efforts. Would you like to say a little bit more? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I'm Bob Canfield. I'm past commander of the Rockford-Salem Power Squadron and current education officer for District 20. District 20 involves United States Power Squadrons in the state of Illinois, part of Wisconsin, and part of Indiana. I wish to thank the Mayor and Council for recognizing the importance of safe boating and promoting boating safety in this area. The proclamation is tied to Safe Boating Week, which is always the week just prior to Memorial Day weekend.
 Rockford-Salem Power Squadron is one of 350 local squadrons composed of the United States Power Squadron, which is the largest not-for-profit boating organization in the country. Our primary goals are better education and boating safety. We do this through many avenues. Each spring, the Rockford Power Squadron offers an American boating course, which was offered this year through Rock Valley College. The course provides basic knowledge, and we're going to be doing a lot of research on how to do that.
 to choose, operate, and navigate watercraft. We teach federal and state regulations, rules of the road, emergency situations, and basic knot tying. We also conduct vessel safety checks. These are voluntary to boat owners. The checks are conducted by trained examiners and cover all safety aspects of the vessel, including required equipment and recommended equipment.
 Squadron also helps Rockford area promote safety awareness through their activities as well, which will include the safety weekend at Swedish American Hospital. This proclamation is the result of our mission to promote safe boating in the region. The Rock River provides many recreational activities to boaters and non-boaters. We encourage the public to take advantage of these activities and to do so in a safe and responsible manner. That is why I'm honored to accept the proclamation on behalf of the Rockford-Salem Power Squadron.
 But before I leave, you will notice that I brought an inflatable life jacket. The main theme of Safe Boating is to emphasize the wearing of the life jacket through their, quote, wear it campaign. Last year, 257 events around the world, a new record was set with 10,917 participants who inflated their life jacket at the same time. This year, we hope to break that record. And speaking of inflatables, you should always test one before boating.
 Your Honor, could you join me? As you can see, he's done this before. He's practiced. Now, see how easy it is, how lightweight, how comfortable it is? You should always check it. Make sure that it properly inflates. And that's simply done. Now, what we recommend is that you leave it inflated for one day. So I will be back tomorrow, Your Honor. We'll see you then. Thank you very much.
 So if you've ever been aboard a plane when they're talking about pulling those cords, it's pretty cool, actually, so it gives you an idea of what it's like. But thank you, Bob, for your always entertaining presentation. Thank you, thank you. Our next proclamation is for National Emergency Medical Services Week. I invite those members of the Rockford Fire Department and others that are here to accept the proclamation to please come forward.
 Chief Bergstrom just advised me he has no inflatables, so. Whereas emergency medical services are a vital public service, and whereas the members of our emergency medical services teams are ready to provide life-saving care to those in need 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and whereas access to quality emergency care dramatically improves the survival and recovery rate of those who experience sudden illness or injury.
 Whereas the emergency medical services system consists of emergency physicians, nurses, medical technicians, paramedics, firefighters, educators, administrators and others. Whereas the members of the emergency medical services teams, whether career or volunteer, engage in thousands of hours of specialized training and continuing education to enhance their life-saving skills.
 and whereas it is appropriate to recognize the value and the accomplishments of emergency medical services providers by designating Emergency Medical Services Week, and whereas this year's theme for National EMS Week is EMS Strong, Call to Care. Now, therefore, I, Lawrence J. Morsey, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 15th,
 2016 to be National Emergency Medical Services Week and we recognize our firefighters who are emergency medical service providers and the vital contributions they make to the safety and well-being of our citizens. We encourage the community to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies and activities. Chief? Thank you very much. Good evening. How's everybody doing tonight?
 This is one of our favorite weeks, EMS week, that we recognize our emergency responders are out there every day, the men and women of the Rockford Fire Department that serve the citizens in what they do. And I think the EMS Strong definitely exemplifies not only the members up here, but the men and women out in the fire stations of the service they provide to the citizens of Rockford.
 We're provided with exemplary training and equipment, but without the individuals that stand here and the rest that serve on a daily basis to have what they see and face every day, the tragedy, the individuals that were able to help and what we're able to accomplish really embodies why we're here and why we took this job and followed this profession to serve the citizens of Rockford.
 and the individuals and everyone out in the companies that respond to roughly 75 emergencies every day and 80% of those are EMS, that we take this very seriously, the level of care that we provide the citizens of Rockford. And we're very honored and privileged to the service that we provide and take it very seriously. And today
 Like I said, this is the kickoff of the week. We have a lot of great things going on, especially this Friday. I know all the aldermen were invited, but anyone in the community, we have our EMS Survivors event, which is truly probably one of my most favorite events. It's very moving where the rescuers actually get to meet the individuals that might have been clinically dead or suffered some severe trauma.
 or any other type of incident that we recognize them and they're actually able to meet the individuals that were there to help them. And we get calls every week of citizens that want to say thank you to the firefighters, and they come and they say thank you for the service. And typically what the firefighter paramedic says, it's our job, it's what we're here to do. But this week we're able to truly recognize those individuals and stop for a moment and thank them for the service they provided the citizens of Rockford. Before...
 Bob, our EMS coordinator here, who oversees all of our paramedics and EMTs. He does a tremendous job in training and makes sure we have all the equipment and the skills necessary to be successful. So Bob plays a huge part in what we do, and I'm very thankful for him and for all the work that he does every day throughout the fire department. But Mr. Schertz would like to say a few words from OSF. Who is our resource hospital? So before we give out words, let him say something. Thank you, Chief. You're welcome.
 You as a community need to be very proud of the Rockford Fire Department. We're very proud to be their training partner, and they're demonstrating day in and day out their skills at one of the highest levels in the country. The Heart Rescue Program, saving people in the field who are victims of cardiac arrest, they have scored one of the highest scores not in the state but in the country.
 So this is an asset to this community. We're proud to be a training partner of this organization, and we will continue to endeavor to meet their needs and help them continue to expand their performance and keep on setting those nationwide records. So thank you. Thank you very much for your support.
 Now I'm going to let Bob Vertes introduce and recognize some of the members up here today. And just take a quick moment in the back if I could have our recruit class of 2016 stand up. Just want to introduce them.
 So part of going through your paramedic training, the individuals up here have served as role models and mentors to new recruits and candidates as they come up. And we have other paramedics, the individuals up here not working today that will serve the same for this group here also to pass on our strong tradition and commitment to our service.
 Thank you, Chief. I'd like to recognize the following six firefighters and members of our department for their paramedic licensure and dedication to the department and to the community. The Chief didn't want to be recognized, so I'm going to start with him, Chief Bergston. He's still retained his paramedic licensure. He became a paramedic about 20 years ago. He started on the job March 7, 1994, with 22 years in the department. To my right.
 To my right is District Chief Dan Zachert. Dan started on the job December 22, 1980. He's currently a district chief at B-Shift, and he's a 30-year EMT paramedic, one of the longest on the department, with 35 years on the job. Thank you, Dan. Applause
 To my left is District Chief Tracy Renfrow. Tracy came on the job February 23, 1993. Currently District Chief, B-Shift, 20-year EMT paramedic with 23 years on the department. To Chief Renfrow's left, Captain John Dempsey. John started on the job November 30, 1992. Currently a captain at Engine 2. He's a 20-year paramedic with 23 years on the department. To the left of Captain Dempsey is Lieutenant Rodriguez George.
 He goes by Mo, his nickname. Started on the job February 23, 1993. He's currently a lieutenant at Engine 8, a 20-year paramedic with 23 years on the job. And to Lieutenant George's left, Inspector Mike Rotolo. Mike came on the job March 1, 2001. He's currently an inspector and an arson investigator in the Fire Prevention Bureau, 10-year paramedic with 15 years in the department. Thank you, Mike. Thank you. One more round of applause for all of our EMS fighter-fighter paramedics. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. As our firefighters are leaving, one other point I just wanted to mention.
 Our work with OSF is a resource hospital. I think I mentioned this before, but we're the only department, I believe, still in the state that's accredited both as a fire department and as a fire EMS service. And I think we're the first public firefighting agency in the state to be able to license through the state to do mobile integrated health. There will be a lot more on that later in the year. Next we have Community Action Month.
 George Davis, our Human Services Director. Joanne Lewis, our Head Start Director. Jennifer Jager, Community Services Director. Please come forward to accept this proclamation. I'm going to look right over here at the camera a little bit.
 Whereas community action agencies were created when the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 was signed into law, and community action agencies have a 48-year history of promoting self-sufficiency for those on limited incomes. Whereas community action agencies have made an essential contribution to individuals and families in the city of Rockford, providing them with innovative and cost-effective programming. Whereas community action agencies are needed as major participants in the reform of welfare as we know it,
 And whereas welfare reform in Illinois has benefited from the state's partnership with community action agencies. And whereas the City of Rockford, the State of Illinois, and the entire United States must continue to promote economic security and opportunities engaging all citizens and building stronger communities. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morsi, Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2016 as Community Action Month in recognition of the hard work and dedication of the City's Community Action Agency.
 Thank you, Mayor, and thank you, members of the City Council. We come before you again this year, as we have for the last several years, to share with you some of the successes of the Community Action Agency serving Boone and Winnebago counties.
 We are privileged to be part of this statewide and national poverty fighting network that addresses a variety of different challenges faced by citizens in every community dealing with poverty. May is National Community Action Month, and so we take this opportunity to not only recognize
 the month and the services that are provided by community action agencies generally, but to also bring in front of you so you can get to know a little bit more personally some of these stories and some of the individuals who are behind these stories, including our partners, our volunteers, and the families that we have the privilege of serving.
 And so tonight I really would like to just, we will go through some recognitions and awards here and then as we do we'll say a little bit about each one of the individuals that's standing up here and how they represent the work that we are privileged to be able to do in this community on behalf of those that we serve.
 And again, with great thanks and appreciation to the City Council for the support that we've always had from this city as an organization, that although it is a city organization, allows us to serve a two-county region. So to begin with, we have a couple of individuals that we want to recognize who are part of what our
 or what we refer to as families of distinction. And, you know, one of those actually families is actually an individual here tonight, Mr. Gerald. And Gerald Pedersen is someone who worked with us in the Barbara Coleman Project. Many of you may recall the work that we did at Barbara Coleman last year
 that really was an attempt to take individuals that were facing particular challenges having to do with even dealing with incarceration and homelessness and really providing an opportunity and a path to employment. And Gerald's story, which you will not necessarily be able to hear all of tonight, is one that was one of those individuals who I would ask certainly to share if he would like to, as his experience.
 But Gerald was honored down at our state community action annual conference recently as one of our statewide representatives of this family of distinction group. And I would just maybe turn this over and ask Gerald if you would maybe say a few words of anything you would like to share about your experience.
 Well, through the help of this program, I've gone from less than 18 months ago leaving the gates of Lincoln Correctional Center with $50 in my pocket to finding an awesome job at Ingersoll and closing on a house next month just to show that people can't change.
 Joe was featured in a short video that was made of several of our families in distinction from around the state as one of the four that they featured as examples of the impact of the community action agency's work in local communities. And let's see, I think they're...
 So, in recognition of Gerald's accomplishment, we'd like to offer him a couple of tokens of our recognition for the accomplishment that he's really been the one mainly to achieve over this past year.
 So next I'm going to ask Joanne to introduce our second family of distinction, who is one of our Head Start families, and she's going to tell you a little bit about them. I tried to get them to speak, but they're all microphone shy, all right? And we couldn't get the worker that's here with them, one of our staff, Melody Harris, who has been with us for many years, also was equally shy. So Joanne got the short straw.
 So she's going to tell you a little bit about our family. Thank you. Yeah, the Alford Griffin family is our Head Start family of distinction this year. And the family started in Head Start when Bryce here in the red T-shirt, today is his fourth birthday. So happy birthday, Bryce. Thank you.
 And the family started in the program when Bryce was six months old. So they've been with us for a while and continue to be. And then prenatally with Christiane. So both of the children were in early Head Start. Transitioned to Head Start. And then now they are in one of our early, I'm sorry, our Head Start child care partner locations because Ashley is now a bus driver for the Rockford Public Schools. And they have been able...
 And they have been able to move out of Concord and now are in an apartment. And then their next goal, of course, is to try to purchase their own homes. So that's what they're working toward now. That's their next goal. So we want to congratulate them and thank them for their participation. Ashley is also a member of the Head Start Policy Council, the governing body of Head Start. So she attends the meetings and helps us plan for our ongoing work in Head Start. So thank you.
 And then next we want to recognize we have an award that we give every year to a volunteer that has really made a special contribution to the work that we do. Sharon DeBerry, or Sharon, I keep saying Sharon because it spells Sharon, but it's really Sharon, Sharon.
 I'm going to have her speak for herself, too. I want to say a few words about her. Sharon has been with us starting out as a foster parent of a Head Start child. When her child was moved out of foster care and back with her birth family,
 Rather than just saying, okay, I guess I'm done with this, she continued to serve as a member of the Head Start Policy Council. She continued to volunteer at the sites to provide parent activities and support and actually organize parent events. She now serves on the Illinois Head Start Association Board. She serves as a statewide Head Start Parent Ambassador.
 and has become a very vocal advocate for Head Start and the services that it provides. And so we, in recognizing this particular award, it's really named after one of our, you know, most outstanding volunteers from many years ago, we want to honor the work that Sharon has done over this past year
 and over really a couple of years with Head Start and continues to do every day. So really, thank you for everything that you are doing and continue to do for the Head Start program and for the community. And I'm gonna invite you to say a few words if you would like.
 I know that she's not microphone shy. George and I have met before, if anyone's interested in the name thing. I can't tell you how humbled and grateful I am to be here today among all of you. Rockford, I was not born in Rockford, I was not raised in Rockford, but Rockford has become so important to me.
 the people who live here, the beautiful city. Head Start has given me an opportunity to continue what I used to do before I retired, which is to focus on people at risk and vulnerable people and to put everything that I have in helping and supporting people who need something.
 People who deserve everything. And those people are the kids and the families of Rockford, Illinois. Thank you so much for giving me this humanitarian award. I appreciate everyone and everything that I've and all of the people at Head Start. You're so great. Thank you.
 And then our last recognition, which I'm going to ask Jennifer to actually not only give, but say a little bit about, is our volunteers and our partnership that really is, I think, captures this work that we've been doing this past year in addressing chronic homelessness among veterans.
 In order for that achievement that was really a national recognition for our city and as an organization and for the work of many people in this community to occur, it took the cooperation of a lot of partners. Among the key partners were those with the Veterans Administration, without whose support it would not have been possible to achieve.
 So I'm going to ask Jennifer to say a little bit more because she's a lot even more familiar in detail about some of the contributions that they've made and then we want to really offer them a recognition. Thank you. The Veterans Administration came to the table first when we started working on Veterans' homelessness. They were there right away even though we weren't really sure what we could share or what we could do when we started.
 but they stuck with us, they got all the permissions they needed, and we would not have made the functional end of veteran homelessness in December of last year without them, so thank you. Mary Ellen? Well, thank you for this honor. The work we do takes a team, it takes a community. As you know, our veterans served this country of ours and allow many of our freedoms to be in place.
 We're here to be of service to them. And our partnership with the City of Rockford and the Department of Human Services has made a difference in this past year. As Jennifer implied, we moved beyond the red tape of bureaucracy and what can we share and what can't we share. And we really...
 were able to align the veterans that we work with who are homeless to agree to let us release their name to the city so we could rapidly rehouse veterans that faced homelessness in this past year. I don't believe we'll ever be without individuals who are homeless, but the effort that this city is making, we will rapidly rehouse them. Thank you all.
 And again, thank you to the City Council and to you, Mayor. And then finally, I just want to recognize our staff who, as you see, are present here today, including Mr.
 Owen Carter who actually was involved both with the Barbara Coleman project in a very, very intimate way and day to day basis as well as in the fact that he was very instrumental in working with those individuals who were seeking housing and addressing other challenges.
 And, of course, our Head Start Director and Jennifer Jager who leads the Community Services Division and all the staff who work with them, without whom none of these things would be possible. Thank you again for the opportunity to come in front of you and to share a little bit of the story of the work of Community Action. Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you. Yeah, that's mine.
 Congratulations again to all the award recipients and to all the staff and all the partners who make our Head Start, our community action, all of our programs work. Congratulations. We have one final proclamation, and this one is a, I saved it for last. It's got a special meaning to me, but I invite those members of the Morrissey family and others that are, some of our other families that may be here to accept a proclamation on behalf of Food Allergy Awareness Month. Please come forward.
 So I'll say a few words afterwards, but this is my family and this is a proclamation regarding Food Allergy Awareness Month. Whereas as many as 15 million Americans have food allergies, with nearly 6 million being children under the age of 18. Whereas eight foods cause the majority of all food allergy reactions in the U.S. Shellfish, other fish, milk, eggs, tree nuts, peanuts, soy and wheat.
 Symptoms of a food allergic reaction can include hives, vomiting, diarrhea, respiratory distress, swelling of the throat. And whereas anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that is rapid and non-sense and may cause death. Whereas there's no cure for food allergy and scientists do not understand why. Strict avoidance of the offending food is the only way to prevent an allergic reaction.
 Whereas according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, food allergy results in more than 200,000 ambulatory care visits per year involving children. Now therefore I, Lawrence J. Morsi, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2016 as Food Allergy Awareness Month, and we encourage our citizens to increase their understanding and awareness of food allergies and anaphylaxis. So I'm going to say a few words, then turn it over to the lovely Sophia, who would like to say a... I'm not sure what Sophia will say, we'll check.
 But Sophia is our peanut. She's allergic to peanuts. And we found out when she was young that she's not just a little bit allergic. She's got a very serious allergy.
 She has high risks associated with any exposure to peanuts, including peanut dust, cross contamination that might be in foods. So we've been on a family journey that continued, started with Sophia, continued when Dylan was diagnosed as allergic to eggs and dairy. And my wife, Stacy, who's allergic to just about everything else, Stacy went...
 But it's all new, happened late in life. Stacey had an anaphylactic reaction to a, not a food, but to an antibiotic that was given to her while she was pregnant with little AJ. All of our family members have been touched by this, and I know there's just so many families in the community that are also touched
 It's something that our parents didn't necessarily understand. I certainly didn't grow up with. It was a process of trying to educate my parents that know a little bit about a little bit of a problem
 A cookie that's got peanuts in it isn't okay. We have to have zero tolerance for anything associated with it. It's tough sometimes in planes, in public spaces, in schools. I just want to thank, I think we've got a community that, especially with a lot of our partners at places like the school district, more and more restaurants are becoming aware of the issue.
 And I think Sophia, if she's still willing to do so, she got bit by her hamster earlier today. So she was a little unsure if she wanted to speak tonight. But do you still want to say something, Sophia? Okay. I am allergic to peanuts, as you all know. And at school, I only have my own treat, but...
 Um, if it's like fruit because that comes from a tree, like oranges or apples, I can have that. And when there's a treat for the birthdays, I have my own. My mom packs. That's delicious.
 Thank you, Sophia. Anything else? Yeah. Anymore? And whoever is allergic to peanuts, don't worry, because you're safe with your mom or dad. It's manageable. Thank you.
 So thank you, Sophia. You can take this home. That's great. And thank you to City Council for indulging us and to our family members. Thank you for everybody being here. This, by the way, is, again, Sophia Dillon, my lovely wife, Stacy, our beautiful daughter, Sienna, junior at Boylan High School, and little AJ, who just turned four, too. Thank you. Congratulations. Thank you.
 A lot of wonderful proclamations this evening. And we will now move on to new committee reports. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items I'd like to suspend rules on. I'm going to motion and second to suspend rules on the four Planning and Development Committee reports, room number 5A, items 1, 2, 3, and 4. I'm going to motion and second. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye.
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules will be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor. I have the following items placed up for passage. Under Roman numeral 5A1, the committee recommends approval of the proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel, LLC, 700 West Riverside Boulevard. Section 108 contract a note for loan guarantee assistance between HUD and the City of Rockford. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two. Number two.
 The committee recommends approval of the proposed Section 108 loan guarantee assistance to Cliff Breakers Riverside Resort Hotel LLC-700, West Riverside Boulevard, the loan agreement, mortgage, promissory note, guarantee, and security agreement between Aries Investors LLC and the City of Rockford. Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the proposed redevelopment agreement with Valencia Apartments 500,
 518 and 532 Fisher Avenue with transfer of property, which will include a request for alternative proposals. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And finally, number four, the committee recommends approval of the subrecipient agreement with Jeremiah Development NFP utilizing Federal Home Investment Partnership Program funds to administer a housing rehabilitation program for the Coronado Haskell neighborhood. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 place these four items up for passage. Thank you. Matters up for passage. Alderman Odo. I'd like to separate number three, please. Separate three. We'll do the others first. So we'll take 124. Alderman Newberg. Thank you. I'd like to lay one and two over. There's been a motion and second to lay over Roman numeral 5A items one and two. I believe these are the first time they've been up for passage, so it's subject to an automatic layover.
 I don't know if there's, let's move on. So item four then we'll take next, which is the subrecipient agreement, Jeremiah Development, NFP. Is there a discussion on that item? Hearing none, please call the roll. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newbert. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 13 I turn better passes Next we'll take item 3 which is the redevelopment agreement of Valencia apartments their discussion all in Oto I'm asking for a short layover for just one week. I have some questions for the developer I need a little bit more time And so I would like to have it laid over for just one week if that's possible. I
 So just a point of clarity and that's Mister Hayes that it's a I'll take it as a motion to live over one week. We would have to alter our normal schedule and have scheduled a council meeting for next week if that's the motion just want to make sure it's clear is that Mister Hayes in order.
 Correct in order to accommodate a single week. We didn't need a special city council meeting Which is fine. We can do so after the committee meetings next week So I'll interpret the motion as a also a request for special city council meeting that we could do prior to the start of next week's Committees if that's the request So there's been motion is there a second on that there's motion second is their discussion on that very none all's in favor Please say aye. Aye opposed no.
 Motion fails. So the matter is still before the council. Let me make this point of clarity. A motion that would be in order, if it would be a simple motion just to lay over, and it would lay over to the next scheduled meeting, that is an automatic layover if there is a motion in second. Mr. Hayes, is that correct? That's correct, Your Honor. Thank you. If that's not made, the matter is still before the council for consideration. Is there discussion?
 Any further discussion on the item? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getschis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 13 ayes for that. The matter passes. Thank you. The first two items then will lay over.
 I know there was some discussion about some folks who traveled from out of town to be here. I don't know if the council wanted to indulge any discussion on that while they were here. Understanding would be automatically subject to layover. So we will move on. Code and regulations. Alderman Shirely. On the Roman numeral 5, do I suspend the rules, Your Honor? Second. In a motion, second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 5, B, items 1, 2, and 3.
 All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Sabbath. Thank you, Your Honor. I place those three items up for passage. It is up for passage as their discussion. Alderman Durkee. Your Honor, on Roman numeral 5B1, I would ask that this would be laid over, and if Your Honor wants an explanation as to why, I'd be willing to supply that to the council. It's been a motion to lay over Roman numeral 5B1. Second. Second.
 It's been a motion, seconded again, that will subject to our automatic layover rule. Any of the other items, items two or three? Any further discussion on those? Alderman Durkee. Yeah. I'd like to make again some brief comments on Roman numeral 5B3 and again restate my opposition to this as just part of what's been happening in that area.
 to maybe review, some council members weren't here, to review what's happened out in that area. I would go back actually to the beginning of Myers, where Myers moved into the area and the pre-annexation agreement allowed for C3 zoning, which was unaware that the homeowners around there purchased property and they were completely unaware of that developer's ability to redevelop that property.
 As we, as a city, face this conflict between a developer and the homeowners, among city staff and myself and others, there was the comment, if we were to do it this way, we wouldn't have done it this way, as far as the Myers building. And so we sort of, unfortunately, the residents had to live with it, but we were kind of stuck.
 Well, on the other side of Red Oaks, this was on the north side of Red Oaks. Now, on the east side of Red Oaks is the current building in question. This property was originally zoned R1. The purchaser and investor bought the property and sought to have it zoned C2. This was denied, but under a planned unit development, it was granted a C1 permit
 for a special use for a restaurant at a time predating gambling and some other activities. But the thought, the process behind the city's decision and how this was approached was what was not done by the Myers property. The city staff decided that this property needed to be a buffer and it needed to respect the R1 zoning that is 186 feet
 behind the building, the commercial building. So they wanted to keep a buffer on Bell School Road and maintain the residential quality that was behind it. The building owner knew of these restrictions. Everybody had known this. However, gaming was not in play during this time, and what's happening among the homeowners is a sense of incrementalism.
 where slowly what the homeowners, interestingly, did not object. As far as being characterized as not compromising, that is an unfair characterization of these homeowners. When the original property came up for rezoning under a C-1 with a special use, nobody protested. They were fine with a restaurant with limited hours and limited impact on their neighborhood. So,
 Gaming now has come into play and has actually changed the character of what would happen there. The current business owner in her application touts her ability in the past to have a successful business there.
 and through an unfortunate set of life circumstances, she was unable to continue, but in her application states that she was able to do that, but now states that she cannot do it without gaming. I don't understand that conflict.
 Garrett's across the street is able to operate without it. But in other words, in its essence, the compromise was already made by the homeowners by allowing the special use for a restaurant. The area was also mischaracterized today. There is not a stop and go light in this area. It's a stop sign. And if Bell School Road is a major thoroughfare in Rockford, then Perryville is the Autobahn.
 There is a high level of traffic there, but at that point, it tends to dissipate after Guilford. So there's a stop sign there, and a second block up, there is also a stop sign. So this is not this high-profile area. So I would, when we look at the R1 and the impact, who better to determine what the impact and the quality of life is than the people who live back there?
 And so they have showed up here. They have made their concerns known. And I also think that the residents have been mischaracterized by some folks. I've met with them. I've never heard anything about prostitution or anything like that. In fact, there's a judge that lives up in that area among engineers, doctors, other folks, and that has never come up.
 So basically what they're looking for is to maintain what the city promised when this property was developed. The homeowners predated this development, and so they bought their properties with the understanding that there would be a buffer here. Regardless what folks, and again, I guess it's a matter of opinion, I would never buy a resident a home next to a gaming parlor. I just wouldn't. I think it's detrimental.
 And I think the opinion of the homeowners that are adjacent to that property where they fear an erosion of their property values, which we've all suffered in Rockford, but I think that their opinion as to quality of life, which is spelled out in the PUD, quality of life impact on their neighborhood needs to be respected. It is 800 feet from school.
 Christian is up the road. Rockford 205 has property behind it. The vast majority of the property surrounding that area is residential. In contrast to the letter you received, Red Oaks is not a homeowner's association of 17 homes. It actually extends from Rote Road to Guilford.
 and then east to Bell School Road. There's quite a number of neighbors there. It is a very good and active community. They are bonded. These folks take care of that area. And, you know, it's my hope that their impressions of having this facility close to their homes and their neighborhood would be respected. Thank you very much. For the discussion, Alderman Otto and Alderman Shirelli? Yes.
 This woman has had a business here in Rockford. She is a Rockford resident. So the front of the business faces Bell School Road. There's all this space in between the homes and this business field. Garrett's has a full bar, and they're open till 2 a.m. I would assume that that noise would travel. It's not a gaming parlor.
 They're allowed up to five machines. It is an upscale Italian eatery with pastries. Snack food are cheesy fries. That's not what's going to be there. Gelato and everything else, I look forward to that. We changed our liquor code, and so she has to have 50% come from food and liquor. I think she's met that.
 Alderman Durkee says that they were misrepresented, but I've got several emails where they did talk about possible from the residents in the area about the word about prostitution. And riffraff, I got the emails. So, you know, I see the bickering on both sides, but when are we going to stop? She's offered to meet with people she has. Yes.
 She has come down and has said, okay, you know, I will change my hours. We decided this when we changed our liquor code. She's met it. Now we're going to get picky for up to five gaming machines, and the state has to decide.
 Say yes or no, they're going to give it to her. When does it end? So maybe we should look at Garrett's. Maybe we should look at Tiger Tail's because I'm sure the undesirables go there and they drive through the neighborhood. So maybe we should look to modify those things.
 I'm in support of this woman. She's a resident here. It's not some out-of-state person that's coming in or somebody that has never had a business before. And I think that if there are problems or problems that should arise, she would be open to hearing from the residents and trying to resolve it. So I'm going to give her a yes today. Ms. Trelle. Thank you, Your Honor. I would just like to have a...
 Attorney Hayes clarify exactly what the application is for the council so they understand the terminology that The applicant has applied for not a gaming parlor but an Italian cafe with asking for a liquor license so that was and also the legalities of
 on denying this application where the city council would stand because the previous business that was located out in the same site, this, I'm not sure if this city council or previous city council approved a liquor license at that location. So I just want to make sure we understand what we're voting on. We're not voting on a gaming parlor, we're voting on, Attorney Hayes could clarify exactly for the council what we're voting on. Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shorley.
 The applicant before you is simply asking for a liquor use in an existing footprint. I think there's some confusion under the planned unit development, under that zoning that was granted in 2003. The staff had previously presented to prior owners of this building, prior operators, zoning letters and confirmation that they could expand that restaurant area.
 So the restaurant area with the liquor use is the same size as the previous operator. It hasn't expanded under this application. In this setting, what is of concern is whether a denial would be seen to be arbitrary and capricious. The zoning matter, in staff's view, is not an issue before the council. It's a liquor use issue.
 in a facility that was previously benefited with a liquor use of the same size. I would point out that this parcel, while it is a planned unit development, so it's C1 with special uses, the parcel is 1.16 acres, just a little over an acre. Immediately to the north, adjacent to this property, between this property and our water facility,
 on Roat Road are four different parcels totaling over seven, about seven, I'm sorry, about 600 feet of road frontage, 3.75 acres, so three times as large area. That's all Zone C2.
 So, when you're looking at the disposition of this request, and in building a record about why a denial might be appropriate, it would be if all the surrounding area was R1, that might be an issue. And this is a transition, thinking about this, the R1 to the south transitions to this PUD area.
 The PUD being restricted to a restaurant and other uses, this being a restaurant use, it's very difficult for us to say that this liquor application is out of step with what's occurred before. So we have a lot of privileges with regard to our liquor uses.
 and the character of individuals involving liquor uses are important, but there's nothing about the character of this operator that's at issue. What seems to be at issue is the gaming, and I know the aldermen have struggled with that.
 And you have previously legislated that with regard to gaming, you're going to hold liquor uses to be 50% non-gaming revenue. And this applicant has indicated they would do that. So with regard to guiding the council about a denial of this use...
 that may well be more difficult to defend than permitting the use. And because of the misapprehension about what the prior uses are, I'm concerned that the alderman might feel that the zoning issue is somehow going to be relevant in that discussion, and I don't believe it will be. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. I'll take the names in the order I saw the hands up. So Alderman Frost, Alderman Getchis, then Alderman Hervey.
 And I appreciate the thesis on what's arbitrary and capricious by Attorney Hayes.
 But I think the point of why we have been elected here as a policy goes beyond what's arbitrary and capricious. I think Alderman Durkee set out many points involving the policy of this issue, but I don't recall all of the detail on the property, what took place in 2011. But what I do know is when this matter came before the ZBA and the Liquor Commission that it was not recommended.
 And that was the first administrative act that was decided where there was a policy debate on this. I know that I received a litany of emails from both sides, but obviously more from the opposing side than the pro side. And that shows that there is clearly a debate of policy on this matter, nothing being anywhere coming near anything that would suggest arbitrary and capricious.
 Because the property to the north of it is Zone Z2, it's really irrelevant. We're talking about this specific piece of property that was Zone C1 through, I think, a PUD process in which it applied to that particular owner of the property. What I struggle with is the same thing I've struggled with before, and that is with respect to why we're here on this.
 I keep hearing it's going to be an Italian cafe and bakery, and no offense, but I love Italian cafes and bakeries. And I'd love to have another one come to Rockford, a place that I could go. But I don't understand why, to make a deal work, you have to add liquor and gaming to a bakery. I drive through Lois Park every day. I went and bought pool supplies this weekend, and lo and behold, at the pool supply store on Riverside, there's people playing gaming machines.
 I drive by a scuba store that has gaming machines. And why is that? Well, that's because things are different on the north side of Riverside than the south side of Riverside. And I think this council cares tremendously about the fact that we have a policy decision in not just gaming, but in how we give out liquor licenses to people.
 And it's not just that I'm not saying anything detrimental about the character of anyone, because why we give out liquor licenses goes far beyond the character of people. And we look at a litany of policy decisions, including many of the ones mentioned by Dr. Durkee, including a neighborhood directly bordering this property.
 and the buffer zone between that. And with respect to the Garrett's Cafe across the street, just so the record's clear, they're not open until 2 a.m. They're open until 11 p.m. on Sunday through Thursday, and on the weekends they're open until midnight. And again, that's quite a bit further. It's across the street a little bit to the north and bordering on I-90. So I don't think really that argument with respect to comparing this place to Garrett's
 is really appropriate and also due to the fact that Garretts has been there for quite a lengthy amount of time. So again, I always look at issues like this by looking to the Alderman of the ward and what that Alderman position is and we've done this before in deferring to the Alderman, whether it be Alderman Hervey
 Alderman McNeely, Alderman Shirely, no matter who it is, but when someone comes, when it's an issue in their ward, you want to look to the Alderman because those are the folks that are the closest to the people and the residents of the ward. And for that reason, I'd be voting no on this matter. Thank you.
 Well, let me guess. And just to piggyback on what Alderman Frost just said about deferring to the alderman of the ward, I feel very fortunate as an alderman that I'm at the lowest level of government. As we're coming up presidential elections, voters are coming out, they're expressing their opinions, and it's pretty clear that people in America are frustrated that their government's not able to do something they asked them to do.
 We here on the City Council, we're close enough that we can return phone calls, we can answer emails, we can dig in and find out what's going on, in this case, in one square block of the ward. Is this facility, if it goes through, going to have a big impact on the neighborhood? Yes. Why? Because the people in the neighborhood say that it will.
 All right, and people in this country should have a right to voice to their elected officials the direction they want their government to go. In this case, they've twice elected Alderman Durkee. He's drilled down. He's figured out what's going on in that neighborhood. I have confidence in him, and I think that he is speaking for the people that he was elected to represent.
 personally backed up many times by my colleagues for decisions that I've made for my ward, and I appreciate that, and I'll be extending the same courtesy to Alderman Durkee. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, the mistake that everybody's making is that they forget that I have all of South Main Street just right for restaurants and development, and you want to go stuff some more over in the far east corner. He doesn't need any more. I do. So...
 Seriously, though, my concern and real disappointment is that, once again, I'm being told as an alderman that I have to vote yes for something or I might get in trouble if I make a policy decision or a decision based on listening to residents because the way something is organized is
 I could get in trouble for voting a particular way. If that's the case, I need to stay home and stop wasting so much time here. I have never seen a city that seems to have so little ability to control what happens within its borders. I understood that our ability to deal with time, place, locations, density of gaming issues
 and liquor was how we vote on liquor licenses. So now it seems like I'm being told, you can't vote no on a liquor license or you might be arbitrary and capricious. I appreciate that, knowing that from our legal director, but it doesn't make me feel good from the standpoint that's not what I was led to understand when we were trying to figure out how to deal with gaming.
 I was not under the impression that just because somebody saunters in and says, I'll have 50% food and liquor sales, it sounds like now I'm obligated to give them that permit and let them have gaming. So we're going to end up with gaming willy-nilly all over the place. Somebody wanted to put a gaming facility across the street from Port Claire. And I said, absolutely not. Excuse me, that died as far as I know.
 But I don't think I'm being arbitrary and capricious. I don't care how it's zoned, because I don't want a liquor establishment across from a sacred facility, religious facility. I don't understand where things went willy-nilly. I don't need an answer on it tonight, but my no is based on...
 my opposition to this whole idea of density and the fact that we were told that was how we would have our voice to be able to control where these establishments were.
 So it's not about the person. I don't know about the zoning. I don't think I've ever been to this place. I just don't get into that neck of the woods very often. But I do defer somewhat to the Alderman of the Ward because I don't live there, because I'm not familiar with the area. But I'm really disturbed about how this is now being interpreted with regard to our ability to weigh in on where
 these establishments are located. Thank you. Mr. Hayes. Thank you, Your Honor. You have a lot of discretion in liquor uses. I was asked to express what my concerns would be defending any decision of this Board. You do have discretion. But there was a liquor use here, in the same footprint, the same square footage.
 That liquor proprietor, if they had stayed in business, could have added gaming at any time they chose. And we made that decision as a council that we didn't want to interdict existing facilities on the basis of gaming. So we're in a little bit different position than a brand-new liquor use on a footprint. And I wanted to express that concern to the city council. So if we get into a dispute with the petitioner, the council's forewarned that that's a difficult position to defend and why.
 And so it is, we do have a narrow path to walk here to deny this request. And as I mentioned, the path that the council has chosen to follow in the past
 is to limit this based on the quotient of gaming to other things. And so if the council wants to take another step here related to a specific use, we'll test that discretion and be happy to do so. So if there's a denial, we'll defend it. It's just I don't want the council disappointed in having been asked a question in public, not laying out the legal matters that we may face. Thank you.
 Paul Menderhie. Thank you, Your Honor, for letting me speak again. Just a matter of clarification, Garrett's across the street does not have gaming. It does not. And another matter of clarification, had this plan unit development with the C1 use, with special use for alcohol come with gaming, if this were to be voted on today, it would probably go down. It probably would not be approved.
 So, you know, at issue, things have changed. And, you know, as I stated before, this is not a use that the area is desirable in the area. Thank you. Thank you. Further discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. I am no on Roman numeral B3, I on B2. Gets you. No on B3, I on B3. McNamara. Ross. No on B3, I on B3.
 Hervey Aye Thompson-Kelley Odo Aye Newberg Beach Elliott Beck McNeely No On both Aye Chiarelli 6 ayes, 7 noes on number 3 On number 2, 13 ayes So item 3 fails, item 2 passes And item 1 was laid over Thank you Finance and Personnel
 All in back. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 5C, items 1 through 6, I ask for suspension of rules. You're on second. This is a point of order. I would call to your attention that committee action hasn't been had on item 5 and 6. I'm sorry, we're on new committee reports, Roman numeral 5C, and what did you say about 5 and 6? I'm sorry, I'm on the wrong area. Item 5 and 6 have not had committee action on them. I see.
 Okay, let me correct that if you can thank you miss race. So we are in Roman numeral 5 C Items 1 1 through 6, right? 5 and 6 we didn't get out of committee. Okay, so item is 1 through 4 correct. Thank you. So Most of the rules most of spend the rules on Roman numeral 5 C items 1 2 3 and 4 is our second item
 In a motion, second, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. The rules be suspended. That place holds up for passage. So, number 5C, items 1, 2, 3, and 4 are up for passage as a discussion. All in maneuver. Thank you. On number 2, it's saying reduce fine for divine drive and compliance be met within six months of the date of closing.
 I understand reducing fines, but I am opposed to reducing the fines until I don't understand why we're reducing these fines. It's due to compliance, correct? Mr. Cagnoni? Compliance at this time, or is it compliance to be done within six months? Mr. Cagnoni, you want to take that? Thank you, Chairman. Thank you.
 excuse me. So the proposal would be that upon the property coming into conformance within six months that the fine would be reduced down to $1,500. Until that time, the lien that's recorded against the property would stay in place. So what the action of the council does is predict
 that if the property is acquired by this individual, brought into compliance, that that fine will be reduced down to $1,500. We are not releasing our lien interest until the property comes into conformance. Thank you. Other comments? Hearing no further questions, clerk, please call the roll on those items. Goetzes? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Herbie? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye.
 Beech, Aye, Elliott, Aye, Beck, Aye, McNeely, Cirelli, 13 ayes. That is passed, thank you. Further reports, committees, officers, reports, I really don't have anything additional to make comment on tonight. Further officers' reports, Alderman Cirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. Over the past weekend, this is very timely because of the EMS,
 My mother suffered a stroke and from the moment I called 911, the professionalism and the time the firemen showed up, the skill that they had, the professionalism, the ability to calm my mother down and myself and my sister that was in the room, I can't say enough. I am grateful. I am thankful for what you guys do.
 They hit my family over the weekend, and with God's grace, my mother is recovering. And I just want to say again, with everything that happened tonight with the proclamation, the timing couldn't be better. So thank you very much. Thank you. Further officer's reports.
 Your Honor. Mr. Hayes. Your Honor, I should have made note during petitions and communications that we've received the Comcast quarterly payment of the amount of $474,018.42. You need to make note of that. Thank you. Thank you very much. Further officers' reports, motions, and resolutions. Alderman Shirelli. Yes, Your Honor. Under motions and resolutions, under B-1A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-A-1-
 One, two, and three, I have three items. First is a two block party scheduled for June 11, 2016. The second is Churchill Grove Civil War Memorial and Picnic scheduled for June 12th. And the third is River District 12 slash five mile bike tour scheduled for June 25, 2016. Place those three items up for passage. The motions and resolutions under Roman numeral seven B, items one, two, and three are up for passage. Is there discussion?
 Hearing none, all those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Alderman Beck. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Under C, items 1 through 6, I place these up for passage. Roman numeral 7C, items 1 through 6, up for passage is their discussion. Alderman Hervey.
 Question. I didn't see Mr. Is Station 1 out to bid? I can't remember what the status is on the District 1 station. Ms. Sackland, do you want to take that?
 It's not out to bid yet. We expect the bid to be released within the next week or so. I guess just to voice, District 1 is going to take probably the longest to get done. I'm just disappointed we've got Station 2 and District 3 going.
 And given the crime rate in District 1, it's just amazing to me that District 3 is going up and out before we get District 1. That priority just seems to be backwards to me. I'm just real concerned about the timing of getting District 1 up and going.
 Ms. Sackland, any comment on that? Yeah, I just want to note that we did not want to bid both stations at the same time. I think it would have significantly negatively affected our pricing. So there was a delay in the timing, intentional delay in the timing, but one bid opened, and then the bidders who were unsuccessful have a chance at the second station at that point.
 And I'm a little bit sensitive to just some of the delays going on in Southwest Rockford, South Main Street's off. It just seems like everything is pushed back and delayed. We just seem to be in West State Street is delayed for phase two and phase three. It's just bugging the dickens out of me. And at the same time, we're just losing so much out of the area.
 Other comments? I'm going to go around hands us off first. All the time to Kelly's next, then I'll go back. Ken, the question that I raised up in Finance and Personnel Committee, here is three different projects that William Charles is also going to be getting, and I will raise the question again. Will they have the manpower to have all these contracts, and will they be completed on time, and who's going to be watching the kitchen? Thank you.
 Because if we have the delays that we're having with the contracts that they're receiving, is the manpower there? Is the time for completion going to be completed? Are they going to be under contract for dates due? And if they are, I would like a list of all the bids that we're voting on for them to get and the dates that these bids are expected to be due.
 uh... not that I'm against William Charles, excellent company, we're very fortunate to have a local company to bid on such projects but I'm looking at the volume and the construction season and the completion of all the contracts. Either Mr. Vintner or Ms. Sacklin want to comment on any of those things? Well I can certainly say that William Charles did you know significantly more work for us last season
 and they completed everything within the parameters outlined in the contract. Actually, us putting these contracts together early in the spring and then them being the successful bidder actually makes it more efficient for them
 to go through the city when they have their subcontractor with the grinder, let's say, so they can actually consolidate the contracts and do all the work as they move instead of doing one contract in a linear fashion and then dropping back to start the other. So it creates an efficiency, and that's probably why they were successful at obtaining these contracts and their pricing. Want a cookie? To answer my question. Okay.
 Let me just interject myself. The delays in the projects that everyone's familiar with, William Charles, the South Main in particular, is one that is not our project. The ones that I'm familiar with, and Mr. Vintner, correct me if I'm wrong, they've been able to accomplish on time.
 see a capacity problem with them. They've got to be one of our largest, not the largest contractor doing road work in the region. So, you know, I've, staff felt that they had a capacity problem. I'm sure they'd bring it up, but right now we have no basis to deny them any of these contracts when they're the low bid and they're the
 and there's no basis if they weren't a responsible bidder and we have basis under our experience with them we could certainly deny them but we have no experience upon which to deny them your honor you didn't hear deny come out of my mouth i said i was concerned we have a one of william charles is a wonderful contractor from this community my concern is
 all the bids that they receive being done on a timely manner. You're talking all phases of this community that they're going to be receiving contracts. They're a very well qualified business. I don't doubt that at all. I don't doubt their ability to do the job at all. We're fortunate to have such a company in this community that can bid on such projects. My concern,
 is that they will be done in a timely manner in the construction season, and can I have a list of the dates of completion? We'll get you that list, and staff doesn't have any concern, nor do I. They'll be done in a timely manner, Mayor. Alderman Newberg was next. Thank you. I have to support Alderman Hervey in her frustration with us having Newtown District 3 up number one district
 Again, I am tired to death of the West Side, the Southwest Side. You know, if nothing else, to be fair, why didn't we do one, two, and three? Then we would have had our bid out there. Who, you know, arbitrarily we picked, well, we can't put two bids out at the same time, so we'll put out number three, and number one can wait. I have watched most of my life Rockford putting off
 Things to better the west side of town and I don't want to be known as a west side east side person I am for the whole city of Rockford, but it gets very very tiring that I Remember when I was a young child going out to Fairview and state and there wasn't a Fairview going north for three blocks try and tell kids that now and they're going what do you mean there wasn't a Fairview and state and
 that area built up in Rockford put money into that side of town and we are Alice Heights area we're trying to bring up
 the level of life in a certain section of town. And I think a big motivator to that would be to have District 1. So again, I am very upset that we have not gone ahead with that. And it's been put on the back burner again. I'm tired of the back burner. Alderman Frost was next, then I think. Alderman Beck?
 Thank you, Your Honor. I just had a question about C-6 on the District 3 police station. And I know we're approving or up for vote is the, for the bid of the $4.966 million, but when I read the information by staff, it indicates that's a base bid, but then in addition to the base bid, there's actual other budgets and costs that are real items, I believe, that bring up to a grand total. So I guess I'm just, I'm just wondering if you could
 I don't know much about who bid on it, how it bid on it, whether or how many alderates are not on the project, but when we're saying we're approving, when someone asks me, well, how much of the new District 3 police station, what'd you vote on? And I say, well, we voted on $4.9 million for it, but then when I read the literature here and it says right here the grand total without any contingencies is really $6.5 million,
 I'm just a little confused and hopefully someone can give me a little clarity on that. Ms. Eklund, do you want to take that? Yes. The design, engineering, and observation is – and this information was provided at the request of Alderman who wanted to know the total project cost and not the pieces that are voted on separately, wanted to see the whole picture. So –
 The building construction is this contract we're approving tonight. Design, engineering, and observation, you've already approved that contract.
 I have that funny is furnishings and equipment that that would be presented as a separate big separate award will be I'm getting all of the equipment for all of the stations around that district stations at once with one package so that will come back to you for approval I'm security system same thing we've got us one bed
 That covers all three of the district stations that will come back to you for approval. That one also will be let here shortly. So you'll have a number of approvals. We just want to make sure that you understand what the total cost is and how this particular vote fits into the entire picture. Over for us. Maybe in the future then when we're voting on it, maybe we could change it. So in this case, we would be voting on the Newtown Base Construction,
 bid solely for the only on the specific construction items that are just in the resolution does state of the 4 million 966 for Stenstrom for the district 3 police station at we can add the construction to that if you'd like but
 that the resolution does reflect just the construction portion of the total. This ultimately, the formal, this is our award of a bid that came in as our lowest bid and I believe it was significantly under budget. Yes. So you are absolutely correct that there's a number of other things that bring in the total costs of this site but the good news is this particular contractor award was under budget.
 But we'd be happy to reflect any of those other dollars so everybody understands the total cost. This is the only award that we're giving tonight, however, is to Central. Who's next? Alderman Beck, and then Alderman Odo, then Alderman McNeely. Go ahead. Thank you, Your Honor. I'm not here to question the judgment or staff about why, you know, they put one district over the other, but I do think it's important to commend them for...
 Getting a bid that came in under about $1.5 million under what the projected cost was. So I really appreciate that, and it's going to help us greatly moving forward. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Oro. Ms. Eklund said that this is for construction. Exactly what construction are we talking about since the post office is there? What are we constructing? This is all of the improvements to the facility, bathrooms, offices, windows,
 locker room, conference room, interview rooms, all of the drawings that were presented to council that reflect the improvements to the building. It's essentially an open, it's just an open space. So they're, you know, converting that big open space into a functioning police station, including administration, takes a considerable amount of work.
 I understand it is an open space. We're talking about putting up walls where they have bathrooms. We're talking about extending those bathrooms or making rooms.
 It costs that much money to make conference rooms and offices? Yeah, this includes electrical work, HVAC work. There's a number of modifications that need to be made to the space to turn it into an office as opposed to just a big open facility. The electrical and HVAC systems function completely differently. This part of, just as a point of information, this part of the process is consistent with
 What we previously proved from the Council, when the Council approved our report a couple meetings back after we got the report, and we're looking at the estimates based on those initial estimates, we went out to bid. Good news is we're coming back as a staff.
 and they were able to come in significantly under budget for this component of the project. But all of the, if you remember when we had the architect in town, we went through a lot of discussion over all three stations into, you know, what was exactly getting built, what were the price per square foot, why was it more expensive to do new construction as opposed to rehab. We have significant savings estimated on
 District 3 because it is an existing building, but as staff indicated, it's a shell. When it was used for post office purposes, if you ever went through it, or if you go through it right now, you can see there's not a lot of interior development design inside of it. It's pretty much a shell, but it's still, because it has a roof, it has four exterior walls, it has quite a nice footprint, we still expect that price per square foot to be,
 significantly under for example what will spend it district one is reminded to uh... was uh... the first that i think we went through uh... and many respects because we had acquired the building were able to quiet building and uh...
 started that process with RLDC as our partner in the development quite a time back and that one's always been estimated I think to be the first completed. I'll come back to you after I get to the others that had their hands up. Alderman, who's next? Alderman McNeely? I have received comments over the last couple years regarding Stenstrom. I believe Stenstrom
 is the company that's doing the school district construction. And there have been comments regarding air conditioning as well as the heating for a number of buildings that they have constructed, along with a number of other issues, including some of the furniture that's been supplied for the school district.
 So my concern is contrary to Alderman Thompson-Kelly that they're this great company. How great of a company is it when you have teachers, my nieces, other kids within the various schools that are saying that these problems are there? Having said that, I know I'm not asking for an answer, but I certainly have to bring that up as a concern.
 And secondly, I'm not sure I understand that the City of Rockford is not doing West 8th Street or South Main Street in totality. However, I do have to question the length of time that it has taken for West 8th Street as well as South Main Street. My concern, when you have that length of time and you tell people 10 years prior or five years prior that,
 they're going to, that the state is going to purchase their property, and the people decide, well, we're not making any large investment into something that's going to be taken by the state, the longer you wait, the condition of the property becomes worse. I don't think it's fair to the individuals that have those properties for the city or the state to put them off for such a long period of time.
 Those are my comments. Thank you. Thank you. And just as a background, I did have a joint staff in Alderman Thompson Kelly. We had a good discussion.
 Alderman Hervey couldn't make it, something came up. We recently talked about West 8th, South Main, and had some – a lot of those same concerns were raised about timing on the acquisition for the next phase of the project, and we're going to stay on top of that. Public Works staff is working with legal to make sure we have –
 appropriate resources to make sure the acquisition of those properties is completed on time to keep the project, phase two of the project, on course with what's been currently scheduled. I believe Alderman Newberg or Odo was next. Alderman Newberg. I have a question on number one, the award of the second contract to William Charles Electric. I don't understand when we put a bid out, it has,
 the terms of what, you know, for X amount of time and come back, this is what we need in this timeframe and this is the work we expect to be done. And they give us a person, business gives us a bid and we accept that. And in reading this, it says that based on the number of signals and street light poles that were damaged as a result of vehicular accidents.
 that we now need a second vendor to carry out expediently our contract. Don't we hold, if someone accepts a bid, don't we hold them to that contract? We don't go out and say, well, you aren't getting it done fast enough or in the right amount of time, so now we've got to put a second bid out. Mr. Grittner, do you want to take that? Sure. Thank you, Mayor.
 We've always had two contractors on board for this to create that redundancy in case there's multiple incidents. And the second part of that is different contractors have different specialties. As an example, William Charles can perform certain work that other contractors don't have the equipment to perform. So,
 We've typically had the two vendors so that we can have the backup for response, but also be able to call upon them to drill light pole foundations or do other specialty work. Was this an oversight that we didn't have the two identified last fall? Yes. They would normally come together for approval and this one just kind of slipped by without having the backup.
 vendor and include the award. Ms. Eklund? And I just want to point out too that the original awarded vendor is being held to their pricing, their bid that was submitted. The volume of work is just higher than what we anticipated for one vendor to keep, too much for one vendor to keep up with.
 Thank you. I missed a hand. Alderman Nutter, were you next? Yeah, Nutter. Yes, Your Honor. I really hate to sound like I'm beating a dead horse. You know, we do the geographical policing now. You know how I feel that the detectives should probably be over at the Sheriff's Department to all be together so that they can be downtown because they're the ones that go to court every single day. We're going to make them be traveling all over. It's a waste of time.
 But my concern is the $5 million deficit that we're going into with our budget for next year. And it just seems, correct me if I'm wrong, but the price of these buildings keep climbing higher and higher and higher and higher. And, you know, I'm getting a little concerned with it all. So...
 You know, not to sound like I'm being a dead horse, because nobody really listens anyway. That was just my concern. Thanks. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call again. As a reminder, we're voting on roll number 7C, items 1 through 6. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye.
 Ellie a back McNeely Cheer Ellie I'm 1 2 4 5 13 eyes items 3 & 6 12 eyes 1 no Thank you Thank You, I just like to suggest if I could that with regard to the Finance Committee matters that we take those up at committee next week and
 and that will add to the special city council meeting that was scheduled tonight for next week, those finance personnel committee matters that are on for tonight. Staff will use the additional time to speak directly to Alderman about the UW Sports Factory issues. I'd invite all of you to contact me during the week so that we can talk through the items and you understand them, and we can take action on everything next week all at once. I appreciate that. And I could also let Ms. Johnson go home because she's here waiting for the committee matters.
 Is that acceptable? I'll say your objection. That seems acceptable. Alderman Hervey? Not an objection. I just wanted to apologize. I got the timing wrong and I wasn't here at 515, so I apologize, Mary, that that had to be held over. Thank you. Further, we'll move on to new business, Roman numeral 8. Alderman Derby? Thank you, Your Honor. There are two items, Roman numeral 8A, it'll be 3 and 4, is 1 and 2 were held over.
 Number three is a proposed development agreement with Urban Equity Properties, UEP Valencia LLC, for the rehabilitation, redevelopment, and de-densification of 500, 518, and 532 Fisher Avenue, which will include the transfer of property and a request for alternative proposals.
 Number four, the subrecipient agreement with Jeremiah Development, NFP, utilizing Federal Home Investment Partnership Program funds to administer a housing rehabilitation program in the Coronado Haskell neighborhood. These would first like to suspend rules. Second. I suspend a motion and second to suspend the rules under Roman numeral 8A, items 3 and 4. All those in favor, please say aye.
 Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to place Roman numeral 8A, 3 and 4 up for passage. That is up for passage. It's their discussion. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Just a comment on 8A3. This is a great project. We heard it in planning development. It's market rate housing.
 with a developer that is now moving a little outside the core of the city, downtown, where some development is going. So it's kind of nice to see that pushing out a little bit more. So I'm excited to see this go. Thank you. Thank you for the discussion. Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getschis. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Odom. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Elliot, Beck, McNeely, Chiarelli. 13 minutes, Your Honor. That is passed. Thank you. Code and Regs, Roman Oral 8B, Alderman Chiarelli. Remember those items. I don't believe I have any items. Those items didn't move on. Thank you. You're correct. C, financing person, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I ask for suspension of rules. Let me make sure. C. Item 1. Item 1.
 So I'm sorry there's been a motion second spend the rules on room number of 8 C one all is in favor please say aye aye opposed no I said it was just enough for passing matters up for passage is there a discussion very non-clerk please color all dirty get just frost I could be coming Kelly photo your bird you bird new bird beach Elliot
 Beck Aye McMilley Aye Chiarelli Aye McNamara Aye Miller 13-9, Your Honor
 Thank you. I'll pass this. One other item I didn't report on in an officer's report, just want to make note, the fire department, you heard community services, I'm sorry, human services that issued, I believe it's a community action report. We have the fire department 2015 annual report that's also been distributed. If you need a copy, please see chief person. Thank you. Any further business before the council?
 motion and a second to adjourn the meeting. All those in favor of adjourning please say aye. Opposed no. I have the mean adjourned. Thank you.