2022 and we have Chaplain Roy Whitmore with us this evening for our invocation. Father God we thank you Lord for this meeting. We thank you for our counsel. God we know without you we can do nothing. Lord even give instruction on how to be about the city business. You are the one that knows everything and
 Just bless us all. Lord, we welcome you into our meeting. Lord, heal the land. Heal the land. Help us, Lord. And we thank you. Be with us in Jesus' name. Amen. The people of the United States of America, and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Thunberg. Here. Alderman Frost. Here. Tarina. Tarina.
 Wilkins? Here. Hoffman? Here. Rose? Here. Beach? Here. Quinones? Here. Meeks? Here. McNeely? Here. Bonnie? Here. 12 present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Strategic Planning Session held on January 31st, 2022? So moved. Second. We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. All right.
 Next, we're going to move to proclamations. First proclamation that we have this evening is for the 100th anniversary of the Rockford Navy Club, ship number one. I believe we have Bob LeMay, ship number one commander and family of George Church. I'm just going to stand right here.
 Whereas the Rockford Navy Club ship number one began operating in the year 1922, the club consists of U.S. citizens who have served or are currently serving in the United States Navy, United States Marine Corps, and the U.S. Coast Guard. And whereas in 1938, the officers of Rockford Navy Club established,
 contacted similar clubs formed after World War I in the interest of forming a national Navy organization. And after many efforts by newspaper ads and phone calls, a meeting was conducted to establish the National Navy Clubs of America. This new organization gave Rockford Navy Club the name Ship Number One. And whereas Rockford Navy Club Ship Number One is a service organization with a strong relationship to the United States Navy, each week,
 Each week, a National Club officer presents a top cadet graduating from the Great Lakes Training Center in Chicago with a wristwatch displaying the Navy Club logo. And whereas Navy Club ship number one supports the local community in many ways, such as providing meals to homeless veterans through a partnership with the Veterans Center and funding a scholarship program at Rock Valley College. And whereas, as part of the club's 100-year history, members are honoring George Church,
 who passed away March 29, 2022. George held the record for the oldest living member of any Navy Club in the United States, joining Navy Club No. 1 in 1944. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 16, 2022 to be the 100th anniversary of Rockford Navy Club Ship No. 1. Would you like to share a few words? Thank you.
 These three beautiful ladies up here. One of them, and they won't give their ages because we aren't going to ask them. But one of them is Ann Church. This was George Church's wife of 71 years in October.
 And this wonderful lady next to me is Debbie. That was one of his children, his daughter. And then on the very far end is Debbie's daughter, Dawn. And they were the ones that loved and took care of George in his entire lifetime. I'll say that. So George, just for the record, went on to become the chief pilot at Sunstrand Corporation for 33 years. But just a Navy thing, because you gave me the microphone.
 There was a guy in Rockford. He lived here most of his life. His name was Dufek. He went on to be a rear admiral. And he established in Antarctica a Navy base there, which is still there. It's called Little Rockford and was named after this city. And that was in the late 1930s.
 So he went there about six times, establishing bases for the Navy there. Also went to the Arctic a couple of times. You've probably heard of Admiral Byrd. Well, he went to the Arctic and the Antarctic more times than Byrd did. But his name is Admiral Dufek. He was from Rockford, Illinois. So all of you veterans, you're welcome to come down to the Navy Club and join the Navy Club. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'll let you get out of the air. I'm sorry.
 The Navy Club had some coins printed. These were 100 anniversary year coins, and I wanted to present our Mayor of Rockford one of these coins. On the 28th, me and Sarah are celebrating 11 years, and I think that's quite the accomplishment, but nothing to the churches.
 Our next proclamation this evening, it's National Public Works Week. I believe we have a whole host of folks. Director Kyle Saunders. Oh, man, the whole crew.
 Whereas public work services provided in our community are an integral part of our citizens' everyday lives, and whereas the support of an understanding and informed citizenry is vital to the efficient operation of public work systems and programs such as water, sewers, streets, and highways, public buildings, and solid waste collection, and whereas the health, safety, and comfort of this community greatly depends on these facilities and services.
 Whereas, the quality of effectiveness of these facilities, as well as their planning, design, and construction, is vitally dependent upon the efforts and skill of public works officials. Whereas, the efficiency of the qualified and dedicated personnel who staff public works departments is materially influenced by the public's
 or by the people's attitude and understanding of the importance of the work they perform. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 15, 2022, to be National Public Works Week. Would you like to share a few words? Hello.
 Thank you, Mayor. Good evening, everyone. Before we talk a little bit about the theme for this year, I wanted to take a second and just kind of identify what this week's all about. Obviously, you know, at the highest level, it's celebrating the staff members that serve our community day in and day out, providing a very, very essential service for the nearly 150,000 people that call Rockford home.
 I know that everybody kind of laughs a lot and says thank you Kyle a lot. I know Alderman Hoffman was I think lobbying for maybe a shirt that says thanks Kyle. And I'm certainly open to looking at that at some point. But in all seriousness, and I say this with 100% authenticity, nothing would get done in this city without the people next to me and the staff members that they lead.
 Jamie wrote our water superintendent, Tim Hinkins our city engineer, Moose Leatherby far left our street superintendent and a guy that you probably haven't seen a ton of, Mike Childers our business manager. They are the ones that when you say, hey Kyle could you help me get this done? They're the ones boots on the ground getting it done. Literally there is nothing that Kyle Saunders does
 It's the team, these five leaders, as well as 160 people that they serve with that get the job done. So the theme for 2022 Public Works Week is ready and resilient. I think it's very apropos, given what we've been through over the last several years. And the one thing that I am most proud of is...
 whether it's a global pandemic, whether it's just whether it's a tornado, literally a tornado, whether it's obviously just, you know, blizzards and snow and ice storms and having to rebalance CIP programs. This team has never capped out and said, hey, that's just too hard. They've always been up for the challenge. They've always been ready. And we've always stepped up to the plate to deliver for our community. So I just wanted to say thank you to all the aldermen and thank you to my staff for really pushing us forward. So thank you.
 and for the record thank you Kyle our next proclamation this evening is national emergency medical services week and I believe we have a couple of people here from our fire department so chief Pankow and others whereas emergency medical services is vital public service
 And whereas the members of emergency medical services teams are ready to provide life-saving care to those in need 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. And whereas access to quality emergency care dramatically improves the survival and recovery rate of those who experience sudden illness and injury. And whereas the emergency medical services systems consist of emergency physicians,
 emergency nurses, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, firefighters, educators, administrators, and others. And whereas the members of the emergency medical services team, whether career or volunteer, engage in thousands of hours of specialized training and continuing education to enhance their life-saving skills.
 Whereas, it is appropriate to recognize the value and accomplishments of emergency medical service providers by designating Emergency Medical Services Week. And whereas, this year's theme of National EMS Week is EMS, Rising to the Challenge.
 and whereas the Rockford Fire Department and all of its EMS providers work hard each and every day to provide compassionate, skilled, and valiant emergency medical services to our community. I could not agree more. Thank you. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. Magdamer, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 15th through the 21st of May 2022 to be National Emergency Medical Services Week. It was a mouthful. Thank you.
 But would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mayor. First of all, I do obviously have some of our staff here with us tonight. So our Division Chief of Operations, Tim O'Keefe, Division Chief of Training, Louis Duran, our EMS Coordinator...
 Brian Park for EMS Week, yes. District Chief Will Peterson, District Chief Jimmy Krein, and then our Logistics Chief Matt Cordenaire. I would like to say that this year's theme, Rising to the Challenge, really, really does sum up the –
 the work that the folks on the Rockford Fire Department do. I am so proud to work with each and every one of them. They really do rise to the challenge, whatever the problem is, they solve it and then we move on to the next problem and we solve that and then we look back and go okay three problems ago we've got this. So that's what they do day in and day out providing EMS service
 To this community, it is outstanding. We provide advanced life support across the board to our citizens 24-7, which is quite a feat. It is not something that you see in all communities. So we are very fortunate, and I am so thankful, again, for all of the men and women of the Rockford Fire Department and for the service that they provide to the community. Thanks. Thank you.
 Thank you. Next, we'll go to petitions and communications, and I'll first go to Legal Director Nicholas Myers. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. We are in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of $410,436.08. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Planning and Development Committee. Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Planning and development item number one memorandum from Carl Franzen community and economic development director regarding the regrow tier two recommendations from the Community Relations Commission Referred to Planning and Development Committee item number two memoranda from Carl Franzen community and economic development director regarding the development agreement with comprehensive community solutions incorporated and habitat for humanity for two new construction single-family homes referred to Planning and Development Committee and
 Item 3, memorandum from Carl Franzen, Community and Economic Development Director, regarding the development agreement and lease with Think Big, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item 4, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with African American Resource Center at Booker for capital improvements in partnership with Winnebago County, referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Item number five, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Northwest Rockford Neighbors Incorporated to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through youth programming. Referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Item number six, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, city administrator, regarding a proposed funding agreement with Community Life Center of Rockford to establish a crime reduction and violence prevention strategy through youth programming, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number seven, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, public works director, regarding an amendment.
 to City of Rockford's 2020 Comprehensive Plan to include the Auburn Street Corridor Study, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item number eight, memorandum from Todd Cagnoni, City Administrator, regarding the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau contract to service agreement, contract for service agreement and lease, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Next we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 Item 1 is a Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 17, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 23. Item 2, Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on May 17, 2022 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 23, 2022.
 Item 3, a memorandum from Megan McNeil, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the first quarter report from January to March on liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement. Item 4, the memorandum from Martin Bloom, Project Manager for Permits and Special Events, regarding an upcoming special event for a League of Their Own's 30th anniversary celebration.
 Item 5, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding a request for authorization to place for sale the city-owned parcel located at 1115 6th Avenue and
 Item 7, a memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the State of Illinois transferring the rights to the property containing the public parking lot on the southwest corner of Morgan Street and Main Street to the City of Rockford, all of them referred to Code and Regulation Committee.
 thank you alderman rose next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you number one is a memorandum from carl franzen community and economic development director regarding the acceptance of 1311 north main street property donation this will be referred to finance and personnel committee number two is a memorandum carl franzen regarding an architectural service proposal for renovations of 1311 north main street this will also be referred to finance and personnel committee and
 And number three is a memorandum from Michelle Pankow, Fire Chief, regarding the acceptance of the Winnebago County Mental Health Tax Board Grant Award. In this matter, we'll also be referring to financial personnel. Thank you.
 Thank you Alderman Frost. Next we'll go to public speakers. Just a reminder to our public speakers is that there's a microphone on the back right and back left of city council chambers. You have three minutes to address the city council. You'll hear an obnoxious cell phone ring meaning to bring your comments to a close. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening Mayor McNamara and all the persons and our citizens of Rockville, Illinois.
 So, so happened this coincidence I was going to be talking about critical racism and this here past weekend in Boston, Illinois, I mean Boston, we had 13 people that got killed through racism. New York had killers.
 California, even though they're not a church, they're not a church and a visible killer. And so I'm kind of hurt, but I got this book called The New John Crow Law. I also got the book on Criticism, Race Theory. This past week, this past couple of weeks, we had seminars here in Rockford talking about critical racism. All they did was talk about it. So the
 Brother John, what are the good and the bad things about Brother John? You are someone who always speaks from the heart, stand up for the truth. You are not going to lie to the people you love because you hate hiding things from them. You have an unstoppable voice for justice.
 Bad things about me? They thought good things that you are honest. You are sometimes too brutal and unapologetic about it. You never filter your words and you only speak your mind without hesitation and without a key concept of critical race theory. Lately in the city hall, you may have been cutting off the mic on me, which means that you're not really going to hear what I got to say.
 We had, I'm going to jump on down, that right here where it says, I'm jumping around, in the United States, the dominant approach to public safety is criminalization, policing, surveillance, court, jail, and prison. That's why our country has 5% of the world population, but maybe 25% of its incarcerated people.
 sixty eight percent is african-americans and we only make up thirteen percent of the population the police routinely target black peoples and browns in the neighborhood criminal race theory is an intellectual movement and a framework of legal analysis according to which race is culturally invented category used to oppress peoples of color two the law and legal institution of the united states are a hairy race and so far as they function to create
 and maintain social and time-backed the events of the Civil Rights era. After 304 years of enslavement, there has been formal slave gain. Protection under the law was passed in the 14th Amendment in 1868. The 15th Amendment in 1870 guaranteed the voter's right for men regardless of race, servitude, and between 1866 and 1877. But yet, our history and our race...
 critical racism has studied time and back the hands of time. I'm going to jump around and talk about Rockford. We, I went to the board education meeting and they was very impressed with me talking about that we need, we need a bike path going from Concord to East State Street. If I can just finish this real quick.
 I'll come back and talk about the bypass next week. Thank you, sir. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 121st chapter, the first verse, it says, I look to the hills which comes my help. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. What I want to speak about tonight, be a father to the fatherless.
 The breakdown of marriage and family has brought widespread fatherless to the United States. While only 1 in 10 American children live without a father in the home in 1960, approximately 1 in 4 children are growing up in a household without the physical presence of a father today. This means there are over 20 million Americans under age 18 living without a father in the home. The Cole Haas statistics show that children who grow up without a father are more likely to live in poverty.
 more likely to abuse drugs and alcohol, more likely to drop out of school, more likely to become violent criminals, and more likely to become single parents themselves. Children without a father tend to struggle in school, according to a social professor of social work at the University of British Columbia. A father's children generally score low in reading, math, and thinking skills.
 They are also more likely to leave school by age 16 and less likely to attain academic and professional qualifications in adulthood. Nine times more likely to drop out of school. They're more likely to be raised in poverty. My solution to solve this problem in the United States. I want all positive male followers up.
 Jesus Christ to stand up and be a father to the father. I also want to thank Pastor Jonathan Williams at Pilgrim's Baptist Church for having a job there for the people in Rockford, Sanford, May the 14th
 2020. I also want to thank Mr. Robert Bolchanian, recruiter for the Rockford Fire Department for keeping the children in Rockford out of trouble. I also want to thank Mr. Oliver Emerson for helping the poor people in Rockford. I also want to thank the professor, Donald Thompson, and his wife, Rosie, for always marching with me about stopping crime. I also want to thank Pastor Albert Smith and Sister Evangelist Brandy for always marching with me about stopping
 with me about stopping crime. We gotta stand up and do something for self. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. By the way, it's good to see you. Our next public speaker this evening is Reverend Earl Dotson Sr. The Bible. Amos speaks. Seek the Lord and live. O you who turn justice into wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth. Hate evil and do good and establish justice
 Let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever-flowing stream. Amos's clarion called to an unfaithful people for justice and righteousness, an apostate people if you will, very much like America. They repudiated its moral obligation to the poor and the needy. He warned of the inevitable consequences of a holy God to this renegade behavior. This was brought about
 to a large extent by a confluence of cultures, highlighting his earlier admonition, cultural assimilation results in political annihilation. Black citizens of Rockford are a prime example of this devastatingly sick behavior. They don't know who they are. And the resulting continued economic, moral, political, and social enslavement, even in bodies such as this, is palpable.
 Self-realization, dignity, and nationalism is a manner of every national ethnic group – Poles, Swedes, Germans, Irish, etc. – they understand their political, economic, and cultural interests, which appear lost to blacks here in Rockford, as they don't know who they are. And they are targets, like blacks killed in Buffalo recently. Targets.
 They're afraid, perhaps now, to go shopping, to go to a movie, to buy gas in racist America. None of the black legislators have a plan
 That goes for some of the city and county leaders as well, to address the poverty, disinvestment, or racism that leads to violence. We have a plan, and we're going to implement it, but we are anathema to local and some state leaders. They are driven by the same racist ideology that caused the Buffalo killings. Every black here is a target because of fear and ignorance. I know you get smiles and pats on the back, but so what?
 the black national anthem stony the road we trod bitter the chastening rod felt in the days where hope unborn had died yet with a steady beat have not our weary feet come to the place for which our father sighed we have come over a way that with tears have been watered we have come treading our path through the blood of the slaughter out from the gloomy past till now we stand at last
 where the white gleam of our star is cast. Thank you. Next we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll start with Planning and Development Committee, Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor. Under new committee reports, item number one, committee recommends approval of the license agreement between the City of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of the residence located at 312 Irving Avenue as a strong neighborhood house. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Committee recommends approval item number two committee recommends approval of the license agreement between the city of Rockford and Zion Development Corporation for the use of the residents located at 908 8th Avenue as a strong house the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and and
 Item number three committee recommends approval of the intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of 2221 North Winnebago Street for the resident officer program Rockhouse the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. So council we have three items before us Is there any discussion on those three items other woman, Terina? Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I
 Alderwoman Trina and I'll come back to Alderwoman. Can she go first, please? Absolutely. Alderwoman Meeks. Well, I was going to make a motion to lay over items number one and number two. Okay. So we have a motion. We have a second by Alderman Frost. That's all we need to be laid over. Yeah. So we have one. I'm sorry. I just had one and two, not three. Perfect. Yeah. Okay.
 So items one and two have been laid over. We have one item before us, item three. Is there any discussion on item three? No? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logman? Aye. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Prenti? Wilkins? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? Aye. 12 ayes. Thank you.
 Item passes next. We'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item. The committee recommends approval of the request for an honorary street name change of Concord Avenue. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. The request for an honorary street name change on Concord Avenue from Hudson Street to Liberty Street to Reverend Jesse and Mary Allen Way, former pastors at the Washington Park Christian Church.
 Thank you Alderman Rose. Council we have one item before us is there any discussion on that one item? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed same sign. Item passes. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee Alderman Frost. Thank you your honor. Number one the committee recommends approval of the vouchers the amount is $4,720,333.23 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting on May 9, 2022.
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of a tax exempt lease for 43 police vehicles to Huntington Public Capital Corp of Cincinnati, Ohio, for a lease term rate of 3.33% with the first year payment in 2023 of $340,514.54 for a term of seven years for a total amount of $2,383,601.78.
 The funding source is the police department operating budget. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee has no recommendation for the fine reduction request for 3604 Huffman Boulevard. Staff recommend reducing the original fine of $2,800 to $150 as the property was in compliance.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the release of liens to facilitate sale of Winnebago County Trust properties located at 301, I'm sorry, 304 Miriam Avenue, 417 Irving Avenue, Burbank Avenue, 713 Ashland Avenue, 1722 Latham Street, 2803 Fairview Avenue, 1328 Chestnut Street, 2116 School Street, 213 Soper Avenue, 2XX Ashley Avenue, 2115 Latham Street.
 Green Street, 2019 Green Street, 3XX Howard Avenue, 1104 Furman Street and Cherry Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an ordinance authorizing the City of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties to borrow funds from the Public Water Supply Loan Program or Water Pollution Control Loan Program and issue its Water Works Revenue Bonds to evidence such borrowing. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number six, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement with the County of Winnebago for pavement repairs on Bell School Road and Coliseum Drive. The legal director, again, shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the authorization to execute a lease.
 to France Farms on a city-owned property on New Milford School Road, a vacant parcel of land and its future use as the new well site for Well 38. It is a 27-acre parcel, and the lease rate is $175 per acre for a total of $4,725, consistent with previous years. The city staff is seeking authorization to lease the city-owned property to France Farms, as it is the best and highest use of the land currently. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number eight, the committee recommends approval of the 2021 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have eight items before us. I'm going to separate item three out and...
 We'll begin with item three. Is there a motion on the floor, Alderman Meeks? Yes, Your Honor. I would like to make a motion to approve the fine reduction request, reducing the original fine of $2,800 to $150, as this property is and has been in compliance. I'll second that motion. Alderman Frost will second that motion. Thank you. He's really a kind guy tonight.
 So we have a motion, we have a second on item number three, and is there a discussion? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I was going to make a motion to increase that. How do we deal with that now with a motion on the floor? We deal with this motion first, and then we go to your motion, correct, Director Myers? So you want to modify the reduction to something higher than $150? Yes.
 That's my personal feeling, as we've discussed it at some length at committee. And I don't believe personally that $150 is going to cover the costs of monitoring this situation from the time it got to us until it's here tonight. And my thought was $500 would be a cap or...
 what our actually costs were up to that point in time. And I can't believe in my heart that it's only cost us $150 to deal with this situation from them until now. Okay, let's have the discussion on the motion once we get to the motion. So, yeah, right, that would be a secondary motion to amend. So you would take Alderman Beach's motion first, whatever dollar he wants to set at it. That would require a second and a vote on that.
 If that fails, I'm going to revert back to Alderman Meeks' original motion. Really? He's got to make the motion to modify, correct? Okay. We have a motion by Alderman Beach to have the fine be increased from $150 up to $500 or what the cost was for city staff time. Right. Is there a second? We have a motion and we have a second. So now we have two motions. You have...
 okay do one at a time so if he's making if alderman beach is making a motion to modify we need to clearly state what that is a motion to amend alderman meeks's motion so is it 500 or is it staff time can't be both and if we're taking them one at a time do i get to choose which one i'm no i do i'm sorry i meant alderman beach's motion needs to come first and then alderman meeks's motion comes second
 All right. So, Alderman Beach, what's your fine? Give us the number. Well, I'm saying that if you look at the committee, they weren't able to come up with a decision. It wasn't 100 percent either way, so it came out the way it is. I don't think it's wrong, sir, and to this council, for us to at least recover our costs.
 costs for our inspectors that go out, the costs for the administration part of it, the costs of all the way around. And if someone can tell me that our only cost was $150, then I'll leave it alone. But that's why I'm suggesting that it be $500 or, as a cap, or whatever our costs were. Okay. So, Director Franzen, do you have an estimate of what our staff cost would be on an issue such as this? Yes.
 So we wouldn't have a direct documentation of staff costs on this. Certainly there was an initial inspection, a re-inspection that caused the hearing process, and we were back out there in January that confirmed the compliance.
 I would say that $150,000 is consistent with the administrative fee that we do put on for contractable cases with other code hearing violations. So in that case, it's consistent, but we wouldn't have exact documentation of exact staff costs.
 So really clearly, Alderman Beach, we don't have the exact cost for staff time on this specific item. Would you like to set a dollar limit? $500. $500. Thank you. So I feel like an auctioneer. $500. Thank you. We'll take it. All right. So we now have two amendments, which I don't get to pick which order I go. No. Very little. So you have to take Alderman Beach's first because it's modifying Alderman Meeks' motions.
 You seem confused, so I thought I'd make sure everyone understood. I'm just not happy. Okay. I understand. All right. So Alderman Beach has a motion of $500 to increase the fine. Alderman Rose, did you second that? Okay. So now we have that on the table. Alderman Bonney, did you have a comment? Question. Point of clarification. So if Alderman Beach's motion passes, then
 is that then what happens to all their main mixes motion it's passed as amended yes oh no it would be a second vote then on the underlying motion but don't they conflict with each other
 I mean wouldn't know you would you're voting now to modify her motion to raise a fine from 150 to 500 That modification first has to pass and then you would vote Essentially amended committee report, but so unless I'm misunderstood all their men makes his motion. Is that 150 you could vote? You're right. You could vote to Set the fine at $500 and then vote no to reduce the fine amount in general in theory. I
 I don't either but Alderman Meeks. I'm more than happy if Mr. Cagnotti explained that differently if I'm missing the mark on this. Legal Director, are you aware that Alderman Meeks' motion hasn't been voted on? Correct. It's not voted on because it's been amended. Her main motion has now been amended by Alderman Beach or is about to be. Sure. Alderman Meeks. Thank you.
 This is why I don't usually make motions. But I just want to kind of state we heard a little bit about the timeframe of when all of this happened. This is, to my knowledge, this is the only rental property that this individual has. It is a rental property. It is now in compliance. I personally have checked the compliance since we went through this whole process.
 He lives in California, which is part of the reason, and I know that's not an excuse, as to why he missed the hearing, but that is the explanation that I received as to why he missed the hearing. And had he made that hearing, this fine would have probably been reduced down to maybe $50 for not registering, which he says he was unaware of that particular situation, as this is his only rental property.
 So he registered, he became in compliance with this home, and I've checked this home pretty much three days out of this week since we brought this up, and prior to that, and the home is in compliance. So that is why I'm asking for this to be reduced to $150. Thank you. Alderman Frost. Thanks. So just to clarify, and I'll defer to Mr. Meyer, but I think the way it would work is since there's been a modification or amendment here,
 to the existing motion if the council wanted to have the fine be 500 and alderman beach's motion prevails then it wins you can't have both if we if we if if alderman beach's motion doesn't prevail then we go back and vote on the 150 dollar that's my understanding of all almond weeks
 It requires two votes. Correct. One is to modify the number 150 to 500 and then if the 500 is approved then the underlying item will also have to be approved. So unless no different than amending any committee report. Unless there was another motion to modify it like Alderman Thunberg would like to do, if we just leave the two then you it's kind of like a hopefully the same person won't you probably should flip their vote. Correct. Yes.
 We'll see how that goes this evening, but yes, that would be what we think. It makes sense. It would make sense. Just trying to help Nick out a little bit. Sorry. Alderman Beach. So, Your Honor, so there's no misunderstanding. I have no feelings, actually, one way or the other against the applicant. We have a process in which we operate, and—
 I can understand. He says it's in California. There's people that live in Rockford that don't comply, and we find them as well. The issue here isn't that, in my opinion. The issue is recovery of our costs. I really think we just don't have the luxury of not –
 getting into our coffers what is right and deserves and nothing more than to cover our cost salary time pension time overtime whatever time goes in to make this city work it's not wrong on part of the taxpayers to collect that sum of money and when we can't be given an in time well otherwise apparently that's not being tracked if it's not being tracked here probably not being tracked anywhere
 in terms of this kind of thing. I'm not being critical. I'm just saying $500 seems to me to be a reasonable recovery cost of what's gone on since last November and the time of the alderman and the phone calls and all that stuff that goes into making this thing work. That's why I'm asking simply to lower our original request from $2,800 down to $500. It's not to raise it.
 from 150 to 2,800. It's to take it down to $500. So that's my talk here. Thank you. Just to be clear, Alderman Beach, your motion actually did increase the cost of this from 150 to 500. Well, then if that's the way you read it, that's what I've done then.
 Just because so everyone understands what happened I saw here. It's the original fine with 2800 Yes, and then that was lowered to 150 and you made a motion to increase 150 up to 500 Which yes is less than 2800 but most recently you've increased it. Is there any other discussion alderman to work? Thanks mayor I just would like to inquire if the other woman happens to know I
 the information on the property registry. How, I guess not, this really wouldn't be, unless you want to elaborate, but how much, you know, how long ago were the rental units or rental properties supposed to register with the rental registry? How long ago was that? Three, four years, five years? When was this property purchased? Which staff member can tell me that?
 I believe it was 2016. In what year did we pass a vacant foreclosure registry? It was not, I don't think it's the, it's not the vacant foreclosure registry. It's the rental registry. Or rental, I'm sorry. Yeah, rental registry. And what year was that? I don't want to call. I believe it was 2015. Okay. So they've been in compliance, not in compliance most of the time that they've owned this property. Okay. And so they now are registered when they were caught? Yes, sir. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Any other discussion?
 so just to be as clear as mud we have multiple motions but the motion we're going to vote on first is going to be alderman beach's motion which is to increase the fine from 150 to 500 right sure clerk please call the rule alderman logeman timber frost terena wilkins hoffman rose beach quinones
 Meeks, McNeely, Bonnie. No. 6-6. No. All right, so now we have one item before us, which is a motion by Alderwoman Meeks. Alderwoman Meeks, would you like to...
 Just since it's been a while, would you like to repeat your motion? Just a reminder, I would like to make a motion to approve the fine reduction request reducing this original fine from $2,800 to $150 as this property is and will continue to be in compliance if I have anything to do with it. We have a motion. We've already been seconded by the kindness of Alderman Frost. Thank you. Please don't go.
 Not a deal. So we have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. No. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. Aye. McNeely. Bonnie. Nine ayes, three noes. Excellent. So 4-10 for us. We have seven more items that we can discuss. Is there any discussion on the seven items before us?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logman. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Staying on item four. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. From the public water supply. Sorry, Alderwoman McNeely, do you have a question? So that's the city. Aye.
 the public water supply program you have a question about uh number five number five director saunders thank you mayor alderman mcneely this is from the state's state revolving loan fund so it's actually capitalization grant from federal epa okay and they did the county didn't receive the same funding
 So the Rockford Water Utility is entering into a loan agreement with the Illinois EPA to fund a radium treatment plant. So the county is separate. This is just the authorizing ordinance that lists the counties that we operate in under that authorizing ordinance. All right. Thank you. I didn't understand that. So I... Alderman Bonney. Thank you. Aye.
 Items 1 through 3 are 12 ayes. Item number 4 is 11 ayes, 1 abstain. And items 5 through 8, 12 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to officers' reports. First, Chief Pankow, did you want to touch on maybe an event that's coming up this week? Thank you, Mayor. I did. Thank you.
 So due to EMS week, we do host annually a survivor event, and that is to honor the responders coupled with survivors. So it's really a neat event. We haven't been able to have it for the last couple of years due to restrictions. And so this is our first time getting back together in a couple of years, and that is Wednesday at 4 p.m.
 at NIU. I would just say specifically to those newer council members, if you haven't had an opportunity to attend this event, it's really one of the more moving events you will go to. You will see the survivors meeting with the EMS professionals who help save their lives. It's pretty awesome to be at. Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I just wanted to acknowledge that the Heritage Museum, Ethnic Heritage Museum, they are doing music at the museum for the summer every Sunday from 1 to 3. So it looks like it's 6-12, 6-26, and 7-10.
 oh wait no it's every sunday sorry it's it's every sunday until from 5 22 to 9 11. so every sunday until then there will be live music and again it's one of my favorite places in my ward so i just want to shout them out and let everyone to know it's a new place for you to be able to go thank you thank you other uh reports next we'll go to appointments laid over number one reappointment of the following individuals as directors of their municipal department in the city of rockford
 Kerry Haggerty for Finance, Cherise Hunter, Human Resources, Aquanet Parham for Health and Human Services, Todd Hughes, Information Technology, Nicholas O. Meyer, Legal Department, Kyle Saunders, Public Works, Carl Frandens, Committee on Economic Development. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Frost. Are we able to separate them out one by one, or is it a collective vote, Your Honor? No.
 If you wanted to separate Legal Director Myers, you could separate him. Funny you should mention that. That was the one I was going to ask to separate out. I had some further questions. After this evening, I understand. No. If I had been more clear, this wouldn't be a problem. Any other discussion? Yes, you can. Any other discussion? Thank you. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logman. Toomer? Aye.
 Frost Aye Tarina Aye Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Aye Quinones Aye Meeks McNeely All of them except for Anquanette Parham and Carl Fronson Alderman Bonney They all passed Excellent, they all passed I'm excited for that
 Next we'll go to motions and resolutions. We have nothing under planning and development committee. We'll go to code and regulation committee. Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor. Item 1, the committee recommends approval of the Coleman Scholarship Reception. This event is scheduled for Thursday, May 19th from 6.30 p.m. to 8 p.m. The event location will be at Barbara Coleman Complex Field at 1235 Rock Street.
 Item 2, the committee recommends approval of the RPS 205 run. This event is scheduled for Saturday, May 28th from 6 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. The run will begin at the end of North Water Street and East State Street. Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the Pascua Mercado. This event is scheduled for every Sunday beginning June 5th through August 28th from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.
 The event location will be at 5611 East State Street, Lino's Restaurant parking lot. And then item four, the committee recommends approval of the Festa Italiana. This event is scheduled for the following dates and times. Friday, August 5th from 5 to 11 p.m. Saturday, August 6th from noon to 11 p.m. And Sunday, August 7th, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m. The event location will be at 4000 St. Francis Drive.
 Thank you. We have four items. Before us, is there any discussion on those four items? Alderwoman Meeks? I just have a question. Can you tell me who's putting on the event for the Coleman Scholarship Reception? Yes. Alderwoman Tarina? The Community Foundation. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Logeman? Aye. Toomer? Frost? Aye. Tarina? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye.
 Thanks, McNeely Bonnie 12 eyes. Thank you. Next we'll go to finance and personnel committee alderman frost Thank you number one the committee recommends approval of the award of the RFP for the track building roof replacement to distinctive roofing in the amount of 160,000 and seventy five dollars the funding sources the River North tax increment financing district and
 Number two, the committee recommends approval of award of bid for the water quality testing to Pace Analytical Services of Peoria for an amount based on unit pricing, estimated annual value of $50,000. The contract duration is through June 30, 2023, with four one-year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI will be considered at contract renewal only. The funding source is the Waterfront Operating Budget.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the award of the joint purchasing agreement for the hazmat trailer to LDV of Burlington, Wisconsin in the amount of $172,313. I'm sorry. The funding source is the capital equipment fire department operating budget.
 Number four, the committee recommends approval of the resolution authorizing certain amendments to the terms of the outstanding City of Rockford Industrial Project revenue bonds for Wesley Willows Project Series 2011, approving the execution of a fourth supplemental indenture of trust. And authorizing and approving certain other related matters.
 Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of the RFP for the master lease agreement to Capital Equipment to Huntington Public Capital Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio. The term of the contract is one year with one year extension option. I place these five matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Council, we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Logoman. Toomer? Aye. Frost? Aye. Tarina? Wilkins? Aye.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Bonney, 12 eyes. Thank you. Next we'll go to new business planning and development, Alderwoman Meeks. Thank you, Your Honor.
 items one and two were laid over so item number three an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the city of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for the continued use of two to two one North Winnebago Street for the resident officer program or Rockhouse
 Thank you. Council, we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a question. Is there currently an officer living in this property? Chief Reddick. Yes, there is. Okay. Thank you. You're welcome. Any other discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. We have one item in ordinance approving the request for an honorary street name change on Concord Avenue from Hudson Street to Liberty Street to Reverend Jesse and Mary Allen Way, former pastors at Washington Park Christian Church. Thank you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Item passes.
 Next, we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one is an ordinance approving a tax-exempt lease for 43 police vehicles to Huntington Public Capital Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio, for a lease term rate of 3.3 percent with the first-year payment in 2023 of $340,514.54 for a term of seven years for a total amount of $1,000.
 $2,383,601.78, the funding sources, the police department operating budget. Number two is an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties located at 304 Miriam Avenue, 417 Irving.
 Burbank Avenue, 713 Ashland, 1722 Latham, 2803 Fairview Avenue, 1328 Chestnut Street, 2116 School Street, 213 Soper Avenue, 2XX Ashley Avenue, 2115 Green Street, 2019 Green Street, 3XX Howard, 1104 Furman Street, and Cherry Street.
 Number three is an ordinance authorizing the city of Rockford, Winnebago, and Ogle Counties to borrow funds from the public water supply loan program or the water pollution control loan program and issue its water works revenue bonds to evidence such borrowing.
 Number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement with the County of Winnebago to do pavement repairs at the intersection of Bell School Road and Coliseum Drive. Number five is an ordinance approving the authorization to execute a lease to France Farms on city-owned property on New Milford School Road. It will be the future site of the Well 38. It's a 27-acre parcel that will be leased for $175 per acre for a total of $4,725. Okay.
 This is the best and highest use of the land currently. And number six is an ordinance approving the 2021 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. I place these six matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Council, we have six items before us. Is there any discussion on those six items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Vogelman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Prunty. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye.
 Quinones, Meeks, McNeely, Fonney. Aye. Item number one, 13 ayes. Item 12, I'm sorry, item two, 12 ayes, one abstain. Items three through six, 13 ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion. We have a second. Any discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a good night.