Calling the meeting of the May 15th, 2023 council meeting to order. Is there a motion to nominate Alderwoman Frenzy as the mayor pro tem for tonight's meeting? So moved. Second. All in favor? Those opposed? The motion carries. Well, good evening, everyone. At this time, we will call the meeting to order. Clerk, would you please call the roll? Here. Here. Here. Thank you. We have a quorum present. At this time, we will have the acceptance of the journal, journal of proceedings for the city of Rockford. Excuse me. Let's go back just a little bit. We will do the invocation and the Pledge of Allegiance. If we could have Chaplain Roy Whitmore to lead us. Father God, we thank you, Lord, for this city council. Lord, we welcome your presence, your guidance, your direction upon the leaders of this council. God, bless us, Lord, to be about your business and the business of the people. And, Lord, we thank you for your grace. In Jesus' name, amen. visible and liberty. All right. All right. Thank you. And we will get back to the agenda. Now we're on item C, acceptance of the journal. All right. Thank you for that motion. Thank you for the second. Is there any discussion? Hearing none, seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Motion passes. Aye. Thank you. At this time, we will have proclamations this evening. We do have one proclamation this evening for the proclamation proclaiming the month of May 23 as Community Action Month in the city of Rockford. If we could have Director Parham and her staff come up. Thank you. Whereas the Community Action Agencies were created when the Economic Opportunities Act of 1964 was signed into law and Community Action Agencies have a 59-year history of promoting self-sufficiency for the limited income. And whereas the national network of over 1,000 Community Action Agencies have made essential contributions to individuals, families, and communities, including thousands each year living in Boone and Winnebago counties and the city of Rockford by providing innovative and effective programs and services and whereas community agencies build and promote economic stability as an essential aspect of enhancing stronger communities and stable homes, and whereas community action delivers innovative services and supports that create greater opportunities for families and children to succeed, and whereas community action insists on community participation and and involvement, ensuring that all sectors of the community have a voice and will be heard, and whereas community action is celebrating 59 years of innovation, impact, and providing proven results for Americans. Now, therefore, I... representing Thomas P. McNamara, mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 23rd, excuse me, May 2023 as Community Action Month in Rockford, Illinois, in recognition of the hard work and dedication of the city's Community Action Agency. Congratulations. Thank you for the proclamation and we are very pleased to be able to serve our community in this way. We are grateful to have a wonderful team and staff members that are committed to the work that we do. And actually one of our team members, April, is here with us tonight. And she actually started out as a parent in our Head Start program and is now employed in our office and also serves on the policy council. For our head start program. So this is the type of full circle outcomes that we like to see in community action And again, thank you for the council support for what we do throughout the community. Thank you Thank you for the wonderful work that you do in this community Next we will have petitions and communications will begin with planning and development committee alderman Wilkins. I A memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the Miracle Mile Running Funding Agreement, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Next, we have Codes and Regulations. Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Madam Pro Tem. We have five items for our committee. Number one, the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 16, 2023. And minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 16. 22nd, 2023rd, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number two, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding a vacation of drainage easement for lot nine and lot 15. Plat number two of Buckley Commercial Center Subdivision, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number three, a memorandum from Aaron Hannigan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the annexation of 28XX Searles Avenue, Westerly 452 feet of 2804 Searles Avenue, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Item four, memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a modification of an existing liquor license to add a sixth video gaming terminal at 513 East State Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. And lastly, number five, A memorandum from Jacob Rubin, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on non-residential property tax appeal cases before the Property Tax Appeal Board for its Accord and Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Tarina. Next, we have Finance and Personnel Committee, Alderman Farrar. Thank you. All these matters will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Number one is a memorandum from Owen Carter, Community Services Director, regarding the approval of an intergovernmental agreement with Rockford Township for emergency rental assistance funding. The second is a memorandum from the Central Services Manager regarding a resolution authorizing the Central Services Manager to execute a contract for street lighting and well pumping electric supply. Number three is a memo from Lisa Warren, Head Start Director, regarding the approval of a one-year extension of the collaborative agreement between the City of Rockford and Rosecrans to provide mental health services to Head Start students in a school-based counseling model. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Up next we will have our public speakers. I will set a three-minute timer. The chime will chime to end your speech. Our first public speaker is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, all the persons, our citizens of Rockville, Illinois, and most of all those watching tonight. Jesus Christ sat up on the hill and the disciples were nervous about 50,000 people that had showed up, that had disease, was sick, was hungry, and they were worried about how they were going to feed the 50,000. Jesus said, where is your faith? He said, the work is plentiful, but the workers are few. This past Thursday we had a Mother's Day dinner at North Lane Manor. We had the Fairgrounds family, had the community there. We had 65 families there. We had the police, the fire department there. We had the all-green tag that was there. And when the, but that's the thing we got out of that. Twelve of the youth that's in my program, teenagers, came there with their kids. Seven of the adults that was there, because they were on drugs, was able to listen to the firemen talk about Norcam. And he was able to deal with their situation. I don't have that much time to talk. But anyway, it was good that police and firemen was there. This past Sunday, we had a breakfast for the moms. And the first time we had a breakfast at this church, we gave away 24 roses, and we had a Mother's Day breakfast. The parishioners asked me, Brother John, you did not ask the church to fund your program. No. We did this on our own as men. Coming up, we study making history here in Rockford. Coming up this here Saturday, we're going to be meeting with 50 ministers at Dixie. Macedonian church and I'm going to talk about reach one, teach one. Our topic of conversation is going to be everything that Renewal Turning Point is doing and talking about eliminating racism, instead of talking about eliminating racism, we actually addressing that. So the fourth topic that we're going to address, we're going to address the large number of expulsions in our school among minorities, the large number of absentees, the big number bullying in our school and the social promotion that's going on in our school system. If each church was to take 20 or 15 arrival youth, we can knock down the crime by 80%. Mind you, our age group from 10 to 30 is committing the bulk of the crime. I'm doing good when it comes to going ahead with the system. I have never lost a battle going ahead with the system. And then I have never lost a battle with helping families. But my battle is, I got to stay on me. Our youth between the age of 5 and 12 years old, males have no respect for adults. And I marveled have been going through the system where they ask the kids what they want to do instead of telling the kids what to do. So we're working on two fronts and dealing with the drugs, the violence, the crimes that are committed in our community, then we're dealing with the system. I want to mention the fact that the Department of Human Resource, we had two families that went to the Department of Human Resource and called in on Monday. When they called in on Monday, they were not able to get through. When they did get through, they They told them that they was full. We got moms who need help and what have you. So if they can't get help with their rent or can't get help with their bills, what these moms gonna do? They gonna turn to drugs, they gonna use their body, and they gonna turn to crime. And so the Department of Human Resources need to find a way. That was three minutes? That's three minutes. Find a way to work with our families who need help. Thank you so much, sir. My timer will go off the next time. Up next we have Prophet Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 133rd chapter, the first verse, it says how good and pleasant it is when brothers live together in unity. This is a poem for veterans because Memorial Day is coming up. We came to quell the fine fury. We stayed until the job was done. We fought and died, our loved ones cried, and still we didn't run. From Vietnam, Bosnia to Syria, the Middle East and back, Iran and Afghanistan, and the desert in Iraq. We've seen the movies in all these theaters, spilled our blood upon the stage. So when other stars invite them in, you can imagine our fits of rage. How many flights must angels make before they get a clue? How many lives must conflict take before the flights are through? The answer here is simple enough. When the enemies of freedom are gone, only then will we rest in peace, which is best, and will our lives move on. We still with honor on the field of battle. We fell in death for human rights. We follow no fanatics like sheep and cattle and give no quarter in freedom's fight. And if we fall, We are all in the line of duty. Wherever our duty may cause us to roam, we know an angel is coming to carry the first and last and the bravest home. We hope and pray for the final flight when the need to fight is gone. Till then we watch the C-130 lift the fallen to the dawn. Let no man or woman speak ill of our dead, nor trample this nation's colors. If you did not serve, you do not deserve the right to disrespect my fallen brothers. Enjoy your freedom, enjoy your liberty. Maybe show some gratitude. Support our military and our troops because America, they fought and died for you. Fair for Veterans Wednesday from 10 to 3. If you know any veterans that's looking for a job, tell them properly you told you to come there. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Up next we have Diane Walker. Thank you. Good afternoon. I'm blessed again to attend City Council in person. Today I wish to address the manifestation of the latest buzz concept, DEI. Specifically, the acronym signifies diversity, equity, and inclusion. I'm puzzled by the clamor surrounding this concept in 2023, when in actuality, the foundation, as I as a teenager, college student, and countless others fought to implement 50 years ago. Yet today, we're still educating citizens on DEI in these yet to be United States. The substance and nature of lack of accountability and implementation must be addressed in a future conversation. I wish to address the I in the DEI. My medical challenge in peer mobility is enlightening me on inclusion in relationship to accessibility. I'm aware of and have countless instances of accessibility barriers in public places. In the interest of time, I will address four. Number one, a newly renovated facility at 915 Michigan Avenue in Ward 5, where the exterior sidewalk is not flush with entryway. Number two, the sidewalk outside of Rockford Orthopedic Appliance at 422 East State is deteriorating, difficult for anyone to maneuver with an assistive device, and potential for falls. Ward 3. The standard at 214 East State Street has ineffective access to upper levels. I was stuck in the lift for 30 minutes due to malfunction. No one on site to operate Ward 3. The embassy suites lacks access to the ladies room with a mobility device. On this past Saturday, I had to enlist a gentleman to stand outside, open the door for me, and wait for me to come out because there was no access. Ward 13. On July 26, 1990, President George H.W. Bush signed into law the ADA, a comprehensive civil rights law prohibiting discrimination on the base of disability. This protects the rights of individuals with disability, access to state and local government places, places of public accommodation, transportation, and other areas of American life. I've only identified four instances which deny access for mobility-challenged population. In turn, it challenges the I in DEI. These are not isolated incidents. If our goal as a city is to embrace DEI and be a welcoming community, we must need to actively address barriers by inviting and engaging all stakeholders in the decision-making process and implement accountability protocols under the American Disabilities Act. Just an addendum, I contacted the property standards of the city of Rockford on two separate occasions to identify this, and I have yet to receive a response. Thank you. Thank you very much. Up next, we have Reverend Earl Doxon. My son, attend to my words and climb that ear unto my saints. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. If a man has a spirit of compassion and kindness for other people, he is regarded as a person who has a heart in the right place. On the contrary, one who has a spirit and who cherishes feelings of hatred and dislike has an ailing heart. Today, Jonathan Brandon was inaugurated as the mayor of Chicago, and this black man has been relentlessly cautioned to the concerns of the business community concerning crime, public safety, and growth of downtown. Not one word of what causes crime, which is poverty. The Democratic Party, with the exception of the National Party, meaning Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, and a few others, is also silent about this issue. Thank God I am part of a coalition that includes Congressman Danny Davis that is confronting this issue head on. with this new mayor. And I have been invited by Congressman Davis to an event this week where we will be working with this young man in which I, along with our partners, are seeking the availability of 65 acres of city-owned properties to construct manufacturing facilities and industrial parks. Needless to say, we want these ownership to be by black citizens, and rightfully so, for the industrial parks and the manufacturing facilities. He has expressed a willingness to work with us And the project will reverberate across the state, especially given that Chicago, Illinois will be in the spotlight nationally and globally next year because of the Democratic National Convention will be there. Congressman Davis and I both and some of the others, we'd love to cite the statistic that says that the West Side District will have 2,500 manufacturing jobs paying an average of $95,000 annually. with an annual payroll of $245 million. The South side equally to almost one half billion dollars circulating three times in those areas. This will create a tsunami of creative wealth in communities that have been overlooked. The silence from the white business community is deafening, sad and frightening to them. You see, they have an ailing heart. Thank you. Up next we have Ken Dickens. Good evening to all the men in your respective places in the mayor and his absence. I just want to issue a personal thanks to the mayor. He's been dealing with me directly as far as calling me in regards to my pursuit with this program in regards to providing what I initially thought was a simple concept of vending machines for food pantries. But the goal was not to be only Rockford. My intention was to make it a statewide program as far as seeking – grant assistance through Governor Pritzker. Also, as he spoke in regards to the mayor of New York City, because they have the, excuse me, mayor of Chicago, because they have the four Walmarts closing there, I will be dealing with him directly to address that as far as implementing this program there too. So the reason why I'm mentioning this today specifically is many of the aldermen, you haven't been briefed on any of this, you haven't even read any documentation on it, but you will very soon. The implications are national. I pulled back a little bit just based on legal advising where there are some patentable aspects because certain things that I'm doing haven't been done before. And once we implement it in Rockford, there will be a national spotlight and it'll broaden. It'll go beyond Rockford. It'll go beyond Illinois. And certain aspects will be nationwide to address hunger in America and food deserts in America. mainly vending machines that will provide vegetables, fresh fruits and vegetables in their respective areas by the local organic farmers. So that will be a large program and a large goal here first in Illinois. So we will actually have a first on a national level. And the reason why I'm highlighting that as well as For Rockford to really move forward, we do need national positive attention, and this will be just one aspect. I'll also be reaching out to the Food Network as well, which is going to be a major component to the full aspect of this. If you happen to see Bobby Flay and other people here, you'll know that it's in regards to this program as far as discussing healthy eating and other things as well. But the whole focus is to show this and... showcase this on a national level of how we can address feeding the less fortunate in our community, because there will be others on a national level watching to see how this can be done in their respective cities. So I just want our aldermen to be prepared. And I want to issue a personal thanks to Carl Franz for responding because I will be also looking at doing some community gardens here with some of the property in Rockford and also implementing some greenhouses on those properties so we can have year-round food yield for some vegetables. I appreciate your patience with me. I have spoken a few times, but... Again, there are some legalities to make this patentable that I am addressing. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Mr. Dickens. Thank you to all of the speakers. Moving on, it's time for the new committee reports. Planning and Development, Alderwoman Wilkins. of the tax increment financing development agreement with Crusader Clinic for acquisition and demolition of 1327th Street. The legal director shall prepare their appropriate ordinance. So any discussion on this item? OK. Do I need a motion? OK, I don't need a motion on this one. OK. Any discussion? OK. Seeing none, clerk, please call for a roll call vote. 11 ayes, thank you. This item passes. Up next we have Code and Regulations. Alderwoman Tarina. The utility easement vacation within flat number one of North Rock. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Any discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk please call the roll, a roll call vote. Aye. This item passes. Next, we have Finance and Personnel Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $4,310,086.65 as approved at the Finance and Personnel Committee meeting held on May 8, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of the lease of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties at various locations. Legal directors shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of the 2022 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of 2023 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. The legal director shall also prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number five, the committee recommends approval of the Life Safety System Inception Report B. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five minutes before you. Thank you. Any discussion on these items? Seeing none, clerk, please call a roll call vote. Aye. Aye. Thank you. These items pass. Up next, we have officer reports. Are there any officer reports? Okay, we will begin with Alderman Bonney. Thank you. Just real quickly, I wanted to wish a happy birthday to Alderman Barrios. I won't disclose his age, but he is two years and two days older than me, which is definitely on the upper end of the council age range. But happy birthday. Thank you. Thank you. Next we will have Alderman Beach. I'm just going to say, should we break them in? There's a kind of tradition on your birthday, you bring treats for the council. So you might as well get used to that right now. Thank you. But I have a couple of things I want to say tonight. One has to do with the little vending treat cars that go along where the parks are. And I think I spoke on this several years ago. They should not be parking across the street. Where the kids would come off the park and run out in the street because they hear the little jingles of the bell and want to get a light cream cone or something. They'd get run over unless a parent is right there. So we ought to say if you're going to go to a park where the children are, park on the park side and not on the opposite side of the street for safety's sake for the kids. And that's the comment. I don't know how we'll get that message, but somehow I think when they get their permits renewed or something, we ought to make that known to be on that side. Second thing, I'd like to congratulate John and Pam Leck from Sunny Pancakes. Today they had their 15-year anniversary. The mayor was not able to be there, but sent a proclamation. They were really happy to receive that. They've been in business for, like I say, 15 years. 15 years and I've known him for a number years past that but they were very happy that this city recognized them and then the last thing I'd like to say is that Every year we have this police memorial week and it kind of centers right in the middle of of with a church service On Wednesday night. I'd like to really encourage the alderman if your schedule permits to to attend that. I've gone every year the 40 some years that they've had this and it's really a very moving experience as we count the people officers from this region that are given their life serving in this area and It's it's just an experience that you want to want to do so I know if you're busy you've got things to do I understand that but you just there's a note on your desk that That gives the outline of the things for the week. But on Wednesday night, this year, it's going to be at the Riverside Community Church on North 2nd Street. If you can, it's about an hour long. And if you want to stay after that for some treats, you certainly can. But to see and pay respect and see families who have lost loved ones come and be remembered. Thank you, ma'am, for letting me speak. Thank you. Next we will have Alderwoman Tarina and then Alderwoman Hoffman. I just wanted to thank several people. I hosted a ward meeting at the Jenkins Center where my ward office is on May 4th. Police, fire, public works, neighborhood standards, health and human services, ComEd. And the public library, Rockford Public Library was there. They also brought their mobile library. There was just an amazing amount of services and resources for the residents to take advantage of. And I just remember when I put out the call to all of these individual departments and department leaders, I literally got responses same day from everyone saying yes. So that type of just response was... Just it says a lot about the type of people that we have working for the city in addition to comment and RPL So I just really appreciate everyone and the services and expertise that you brought to the residents It was very very well appreciated very well accepted and people are looking forward to us Perhaps doing it again. So I just like I want to thank everyone so much for your contributions to that word meeting. Thank you Alderman Hoffman Thank you Mayor Forkham a culinary school for Rockford. If you haven't been there yet, you need to go. I know Alderman Prunty has already been there. I've been out to the Edgebrook Shopping Center and the employees out there in the stores are raving about it. They make food from scratch, not microwaved. They make real grits. They make real fried catfish. They make everything real. And so if you want good food and you want to see some kids that are really enjoying what they're doing, go to Sonny's at Edgebrook. I found it so pleasant to walk up to the register and get a smile and a person who actually gave me customer service. It was incredible. So again, Sunny's, that's what it's called now, and it's at Edgebrook, and it's in the Old Mary's Market. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman. Alderman, I'm in Torino. Sorry, I just thought of something else. I want to also thank... State Representative Maurice West he hosted He brought it back the mothers the annual Mother's Day brunch or luncheon that Chuck state representative Chuck Jefferson used to host and the community really looks forward to that every year and unfortunately with kovat and just other things that we Haven't been able to host it, but he brought it back. It was super well attended, but there was just such a beautiful energy everyone was just happy and you have so many mothers there just dressed beautifully and everyone was smiling and the pictures were great the food was great lieutenant governor Juliana Stratton was here and she gave an amazing keynote so I just want to thank representative West and his team for offering something like that for for free to the community it means a lot and it just needs to be recognized so thank you thank you Were there any other officer reports? Oh, yeah. I'm sorry, my screen is so big. Thank you so much, Alderman Tunberg. I would just like to... Hold on, hold on, hold on. Sorry. Very quickly, I extend a thank you to George Galrat from ComEd, who has been on speed dial with me for a number of weeks, as well as Kyle, Director Saunders of Public Works and their whole crew who continues to be on my speed dial from the storms from a few weeks ago and just following up on a lot of that. So thank you. Thank you. Alderman Toonberg. Anyone else? all right see none we will move on to motions and resolutions motions and resolutions planning and development alderwoman wilkins city recommends approval of the application and acceptance of the bloomberg philanthropy's asphalt art initiative grant for public art and traffic safety interventions in the amount of 25 000 the due date of this application is june 12 2023. all right Legal is, am I still on script for this? Okay, all right, thank you. Any discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk, please take a roll call vote. Aye. 11 ayes, this item passes. Thank you very much. Nothing for code and regulations. Moving on to finance and personnel, Alderman Frost. I recommend approval of the Board of Bid for Fire Department training facility repairs to N-TRAC of West Park in the amount of $218,253. The funding source is the American Rescue Plan Act funds. Number two, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for the Buckbee Channel Repairs at Kishwaukee City. The construction in the amount of $42,210, estimated to be completed by July 14th, 2020. Number three, the committee recommends approval and award a bid for the Mulford Village Conduit Installation to William Charles Electric in the amount of $56,000. The funding source is the CIP 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the plow blade repair parts to Vanell Industries and the new truck equipment for an estimated annual value of $100,000. The contract duration is one year from the date of award with four possible one year annual extension options. Annual price, just as received, will be considered a contract and will only the funding sources the equipment fund offering budget. Number five, the committee recommends approval of the award of bid for the salt dome roof replacement agency Anderson. In the amount of $74,510, the funding source is the ARPA funds. Number six, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for digital plan review to SAAS migration, sorry, to evolve. In the contract amount of $41,025 for the first year with annual extension options at a cost of $35,400. The contract is one year with four possible one year extension options. Annual price adjustments for CPI considered a contravenal only. The funding source is the Community Development Operating Budget. And number seven, the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing contract for hearing protection communication headsets for SWAT to CDW government in the amount of $39,909.06. The funding source is the drug asset forfeiture funds. I place these seven items before you. Thank you. Are there any, is there any discussion on these items? Seeing none, clerk, please take a roll call vote. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. These items pass. Moving on to new business ordinances. Under new business planning and development, Alderwoman Wilkins. Financing development agreement with Crusader Clinic for acquisition and demolition of 1327th Street. Any discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk please take a roll call vote. Aye. To vote, Hoffman? Aye. Items pass, or this item passes. Under new business, code and regulations, Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you Madam President, everyone aye. An ordinance approving a utility easement vacation within plat number one of North Rock. Any discussion on this item? Seeing none, clerk please take a roll call vote. Aye. Thank you. This item passes. Finance and Personnel, Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving the release of liens to facilitate the sale of Winnebago County trustee properties at various locations. Number two is an ordinance approving the 2022 supplemental appropriation ordinance. Number three is an ordinance approving the 2023 supplemental appropriation ordinance. And lastly, number four is an ordinance approving the descheduled amendment for the fire and life safety system inspection report fee. Is there any discussion on these items? Okay, seeing none, clerk, please take a roll call vote. Aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. Thank you. These items pass. Is there a motion to adjourn? So moved. Oh, second? Okay. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, nay. This meeting is adjourned.