Thank you. We have a quorum. We have ten present. The items that are attended for tonight are all related to the activity that just happened at committee regarding the UW Health Sports Factory and our partnerships with Park District. I will...
 At the very end, after we get done with this business, I want to make a quick announcement, but we'll start with taking those items up. Alderman Hervey, do you want to read those in? Oh, I'm sorry, Your Honor. Starting with the new committee reports.
 Excuse me, item number, Roman numeral two, item one, committee recommends approval of the amended and restated intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for the development and operation of the UW Sports Factory, UW Health Sports Factory. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item number two is the committee recommending approval of the first amendment to the amended and restated intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District to provide for grant compliance process prior to the transfer of title, legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Roman numeral two, item three, the committee recommends approval of the lease between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for the UW Health Sports Facility with the legal director to prepare the appropriate ordinance. I would request the suspension of rules for those three items. Second. And a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral two, items one, two, and three. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I would place those three items up for passage. Matters up for passage. Is there a discussion? Hearing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Getzis. Aye. McNamara. No. Frost. Aye. Hervey. No on one. Aye on the remainder. Connell. Oto. Newberg. McNeely. Chiarelli. That's five ayes and five nays on one. I will vote yes since it's a tie. Thank you.
 And two and three had one now and I thank you matter of past Mister Hayes were fine with a simple major on on committee reports yes we need 8 votes in the affirmative to pass the ordinances as well as tend to suspend thank you sorry all of them being all right we will report talk and so committee reports all past a new business all went her way.
 Yes, Your Honor. Under new business Roman numeral three, item number one is the amended and restated intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for the development and operation of the UW Sports, UW Health Sports Factory. Item number two is the first amendment to the amended and restated intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Park District to provide for grant compliance process prior to transfer of title.
 Item three is the lease between the city of Rockford and the Rockford Park District for the UW Health Sports Factory. I would ask to suspend the rules on those three items. I'm motioned and second to suspend the rules on enrollment number three items one, two, and three. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye. Savinth rules be suspended. I'm assuming you want to place those up for passage. Yes, I'm sorry, Your Honor. I would like you to place those three items. All in McNamara. What was the vote count for...
 Roman numeral 2 number 1 and what's needed for Roman numeral 3 number 1? Mr. Hayes? I had the vote count for Roman numeral 2 item number 1, 6 to 5. Included my vote. That included the Mayor voted. 2 and 3 there was one negative vote so it was 9 to 1 on each of those. And I'm sorry, what's needed for, I didn't catch it when you said it, for Roman numeral 2? In order to suspend the rules.
 We need ten votes to suspend the rules. The rules are suspended. In order to pass an ordinance, there needs to be eight votes in the affirmative, including the Mayor's vote. Eight members of the corporate authorities. So if we had seven council members vote in the affirmative, I could add my vote? Seven of the rest of the council. Any further discussion? Alderman Frost? Thank you, Your Honor. And I'm just going to address, um, Rule 1, Rule 3, Number 1. I know when it just came out of new committee that the vote was
 65 with the mayor casting the vote off the 55 tie and I would just ask all the other present tonight to consider now that it's actually in front of us as an ordinance to pass this with the eight votes we need because of the city and we as aldermen all of us have worked
 far too hard and too long to really bring up a great complex down to the city and yes I know when I first got on board I think the budget was 13 to 15 million dollars and then there were additional costs associated with it but there also were additional amenities added to the project including for instance one that I was initially
 I'm not a fan of and that was that the the riverwalk the boardwalk on the west side of the building on the river and I was concerned about the cost going up on the project and at the time I think the cost of that was approximately to be about 1.5 million dollars extra and I do think that was worth worthy of an extra
 I had the chance to walk that project last Friday and walk the entire length of the boardwalk and one is it came in under budget and two is that I stand corrected in my view of two years ago of thinking that it was a not needed extra.
 Touche. I think this project, for a number of reasons, is good, not just for downtown. I think it's good for the entire city. I think it's good for the region. I think it's going to put Rockford on the sports map, as we already are, but I really think it's going to ... We are going to ...
 get our investment back in space on this particular project if we can get a hotel downtown. Having said that, it's too late now to, I think, to turn back on it. And I know that I, as Alderman McNamara did, had questions for Mr. Hayes about some of the agreements, specific agreements in the intergovernmental agreement. And I think Mr. Hayes addressed those tonight.
 where some issues about the cost of the boardwalk and its capital maintenance. I think that hopefully the way it's built, it's not going to need any of those costs. There were some questions about the parking lot with the 75-25 split, with the Park District absorbing the 75%. So I'm comfortable with the negotiation of the Park District. I know some people feel like they're getting a free building, but you have to remember once this thing goes online in June, the City of Rockford really doesn't have much of an expense
 except those two particular items. So it's not as if this is gonna be something that we're gonna be coming back to the city council for asking the bond on a yearly basis for having a lot of capital expenses. For those reasons, I would just encourage all at this point to vote yes on all three items. Thank you. Thank you, any further discussion? Hearing none, clerk please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Getses? Aye. McNamara? Frost? Aye. Hervey? No, I'm not. Cahno? Otto? Newberg?
 McNeely, Chiarelli? No one. Nine ayes, one no one, number one. Ten ayes. Ten ayes on the other two. That is all passed, thank you. One quick announcement before we go very quick. Just want to announce our garbage collection schedule for this coming Monday is going to be delayed. Please refer to additional publication details.
 Household hazardous waste will be open as usual on the weekend of Saturday the 28th, 8 to 4, Sunday the 29th. Look forward to seeing you after Memorial Day holiday. All those in favor of adjourning, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes 7, ayes adjourned. Thank you.