All in favor? All opposed? Motion passes. Before we get started tonight, just wanted to take a second before we do our invocation and pledge. There was a gentleman within our community who has been an institution himself
 politics Chuck Sweeney passed away today and I'd like for us to take a moment of silence for him so if we could please stand okay for our invocation and pledge tonight we have chaplain Dave Zaremski of the Deaf Apostolate of the Diocese of Rockford thank you in the name of the Father Son Holy Spirit amen Oh Heavenly Father we thank you for this day we thank you for our families our friends
 We thank you for the work that you give us here tonight to do and the gifts and talents you give each and every one of us to get that work done. Help us to recognize your hand in everything that we do this evening. Please bless this council, the work that we do here. Help it build our community, unite us, make us stronger, make us better. Help us to overcome the challenges that we face. Please bless our firemen.
 Our police officers, we thank you for them. Protect them. Bring them home safe to their families. We ask this in your name, Jesus. Amen. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States. All right, we'll go ahead with the roll call. Clerk, could you call the roll? Here. Here. Ross. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Here.
 McNeely, Chiarelli, 12 present. Okay, we'll move ahead to the acceptance of the journal. Do we have a motion there? Second. All those in favor say aye. Aye. All right, journal passes. Under proclamations, we have three of them tonight. The first one is a proclamation proclaiming the week of May 19th, 2019 to be National Public Works Week. We have some people who will be
 Accepting that. And that is Mark Stockman. Mark, do you have any words? Okay.
 Sorry, my first time. Whereas public work services provided in our community are an integral part of our citizens' everyday lives, whereas the support of an understanding and informed citizenry is vital to the efficient operations of public work systems and programs such as water, sewers, streets and highways, public buildings, and solid waste collection. Whereas the health and safety and comfort of this community greatly depends on these facilities and services,
 And whereas the quality and effectiveness of these facilities, as well as their planning, design, and construction, is vitally dependent upon the efforts and skill of public works officials. And whereas the efficiency of the qualified and dedicated personnel who staff public works departments and materially influenced by the people's attitude and understanding of the importance of the work they perform, now therefore,
 Instead of Thomas P. Bacnamera, myself, Mayor Rockford do hereby proclaim the week of May 19, 2019, National Public Works Week. Mark? Thank you, Mayor Pro Tem, and thank you, Council, for another year of support for public works.
 The average citizen, when they look at Public Works, probably think more of road construction, pothole patching, snow plowing, things of that nature. But I'm proud to say that Public Works also touches the operation in one form or another of every department in the city, whether it be support for their buildings, their vehicles, what have you, possibly even support for events that they're having. So thank you once again for another year of support, and I guess we'll move on. Thank you, Mark.
 Our second one is a proclamation for National Emergency Medical Services Week, and I believe we have some firefighters and the chief president to accept this.
 Whereas emergency medical services is a vital public service and whereas the members of emergency medical services teams are ready to provide Life-saving care to those in need 24 hours a day seven days a week and whereas access to quality emergency care dramatically improves the survival and recovery rate of those who experience sudden illness or injury whereas the emergency medical services system consists of emergency physicians and
 emergency nurses, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, firefighters, educators, administrators, and others. And whereas the members of emergency medical services teams, whether career or volunteer, engage in thousands of hours specialized training and continuing education to enhance their life-saving skills.
 and whereas it is appropriate to recognize the value and the accomplishments of emergency medical services providers by designating emergency medical services week and whereas this year's theme for national ems week is ems strong beyond the call on behalf of the mayor thomas p mcnamara
 The City of Rockford do hereby proclaim the week of May 19th through May 25th, 2019 to be National Emergency Medical Services Week. Congratulations. Thank you. First, I'm going to have our Project Medical Director, Dr. Butterbach from OSF, give a few words.
 Thank you, Chief and Council Members. I'm Dr. Butterbach. I've been the Emergency Medicine Medical Director at OSF for about six years, and about a year ago I was asked to also take on the role of EMS Medical Director, which includes being the resource hospital for Rockford Fire.
 So in my 20 years of emergency medicine, I've had plenty of opportunities to interface with EMS, and I have a lot of experience with EMS. However, this last year has really reinvigorated my appreciation for the work that's done by our EMS professionals. I think the importance that they bring to the care of the patient cannot be underscored. Thank you.
 You'll see new innovations and technologies that will constantly change emergency medicine and the field of emergency medicine. However, the selfless dedication, commitment of the EMS pre-hospital providers remains unchanged. So it's really an honor for me to be able to work with these providers both as education when they're students, as a mentor during
 while they're learning their craft and collegially working with them once they've become professionals. So it's really a great honor. Thank you.
 Thank you very much. I just want to take a few moments to highlight the men and women of the Rockford Fire Department who provide EMS every single day out there. Begins when that 911 call comes in our 911 center with our telecommunicators, their EMS training, and then the men and women who respond out to the street every day. Approximately 64 times a day respond to an EMS call with over 20,000 transports a year in the city of Rockford.
 very busy so i just want to take a couple moments to highlight some of the people that make that happen our most valuable asset our personnel so the people that are responsible for all the ems we have division chief bob vertes he's in charge of training coordinator brian park and then we have operations chief michelle pancow down there and then we'd like to highlight six of our members this evening we have district chief will pedersen who has 20 years as a paramedic
 District Chief Louie Duran, who has 20 years as a paramedic. Arson Investigator John McGee, 20 years. Lieutenant Kathleen Macias at 20 years. Terry Robertson, driver engineer, 20 years. And Mark Reeser at 25 years, driver engineer on the Rockford Fire Department. So it's with their dedication and their commitment to what they do every single day that makes
 our survivability increased for the citizens when they dialed 911 and how proud we are to serve the city of Rockford. So congratulations to them, and thank you for this proclamation this evening. Thank you for your service. I have an old football coach in the crowd here, and I know you guys do a lot of work in the community as well. So thank you. Thank you.
 So we have our last we have our last proclamation and that is the community action month I believe Mr. Davis from our human services department is going to accept that Coming with a cast of uh Come on up Nice to meet you Bill, Bill Rose, nice to meet you Irene Who gets the flowers? Oh nice, okay, I'll get started
 All right, our proclamation states, whereas community action agencies were created when the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 was signed into law, and community action agencies have a 54-year history of promoting self-sufficiency for the limited income, and whereas the national network of over 1,000 community action agencies have made essential contributions to individuals' families and communities, including thousands each year living in Boone and Winnebago counties,
 the city of Rockford by providing innovative and effective programs and services and whereas community action agencies are needed as major participants in the reform of the welfare system as we know it
 whereas welfare reform in Illinois has benefited from the state's partnership with community action agencies, and whereas those with insufficient income continue to need opportunities to improve their lives and their living conditions, thus ensuring that all citizens are able to live in dignity, and whereas the City of
 Rockford, State of Illinois, and the entire United States must continue to promote economic security and opportunities by engaging all citizens and building stronger communities. Now therefore on behalf of Thomas P. McNamara, Mayor of the City of Rockford, I do hereby proclaim May 2019 as Community Action Month. Mr. Davis, would you like to share some words? Thank you Alderman Rose and I
 Thank you to the City Council. It's always an honor to stand in front of you all and to express the appreciation on behalf of our staff and our board for your ongoing support of the work of Community Actions.
 Since Community Action became a part of the city in 1975, really it's been a stabilizing influence on this very vital work of supporting movement towards self-sufficiency and the ability to assist hundreds of thousands of area residents every year. So tonight we want to recognize one of the families that we are serving.
 and actually tell you a little bit about her. I don't know whether she'll feel comfortable saying a few words on her own behalf or not. It's a lot of pressure to ask somebody to stand in front of this body and speak, but I would just like you to know who she is. Shalise Meadows and her family, who is with her here today,
 came to our attention and as someone who we were assisting back in 2014. And at that time, she was participating in a program called the Percentage of Income Payment Program. The Percentage of Income Payment Program is one that is designed to make sure that an individual, if they pay regularly on their utilities, they would be assured of not being cut off. But it also means that your income is not sufficient to be able to pay
 for the normal expenses of household living and still be able to pay your utilities. The beauty of that program is it reinforces the responsibility of the individual to do whatever they can, but ensures that they're not going to pay more than the same percentage that everyone else pays out of their household income and utilities.
 By participating in that program, you know, Shalise was actually not just simply receiving assistance. She was in the process of actually becoming trained as a licensed practical nurse, but it was something that took time.
 She really started out really working in a lower paying role in the nursing profession, someone who was an aide. And as she was training, she was able to get her degree. And by the time she got her degree, she was no longer eligible for the program.
 This is really the ultimate goal of providing these types of services where she was able to move herself forward to get into a profession that allowed her to meet the needs of herself and her family. And the assistance that we provided was a bridge. So we wanted to just recognize her tonight. Well, we have a couple of things we want to give you. One is...
 an award that was actually given to you on behalf of the Illinois Community Action Association as one of our families of distinction in Illinois. And then this second,
 for this is a plaque that we put together, a certificate from our local community action agency board, assigned by a board chair and myself, again recognizing your accomplishments. And then this is just a small little gift certificate for you to use as you see fit. And, you know, again, if you are comfortable and you'd like to say a few words, I'd like to offer you a chance if there's anything you want to say.
 I just wanted to thank my family for coming and showing up. All right. Thank you.
 So, and then the only other thing I would like to mention, two other things, is that we have a number of other members of our board of the Community Action Agency, as well as staff that are here tonight. You know, we have, of course, our two aldermen, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly and Alderman Linda McNeely, who served on our Community Action Board over this past year. In addition to that, Mr. John Tack Brantley, standing in the rear there, and Mr.
 Dennis Rich sitting in the audience there. And then we have our community services director, you know, as many of you know, Jennifer Jaeger. And then our Head Start Director sitting in front of her. And then Chris Greenwood, who works in our community services division. And then my assistant, Karina Valdez.
 And did I miss anybody? I hope I didn't miss anybody. Oh, Delisha Harris, you're part of the community action extended family and community services as well. Again, thank you for allowing us to serve this community. And we also have left you a copy on your desk of our annual report that just highlights a few of our achievements over the past year. Thank you. Thank you.
 All right, we're going to go ahead and move forward with our petitions and communications with planning and development alderman Durkee Numeral 3a from Todd Cagnone City administrator regarding the great neighborhoods project will be referred to planning development Thank You alderman Durkee
 Item B, Codes and Regulations Committee, Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, your honor. I've got the Zoning Board of Appeals agenda and the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's agenda for the meeting to be held on May 21st, 2019 and the minutes from those meetings for consideration at the Code and Rights Committee meeting on May 28th, 2019.
 I have a memorandum from Nelson show strum building code official regarding the proposed amendments to the ICC code sections Number four is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan assistant city attorney regarding the first quarter report for January through March 2019 Liquor license establishments with video gaming subject to the 50% requirement number five is a memoranda from Martin bloom project manager permits and special events regarding the upcoming special events and
 requests for Rock River Food Truck Fest and Labor Day Parade. Number six is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, the Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the plat of C and K Corners Subdivision. Number seven is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding the plat of Crusader West Subdivision. And number eight is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla, again, regarding the plat number nine of East Rock Industrial Park Subdivision. Refer those to codes and regs.
 All right, those items will be referred under C for Finance and Personnel Committee. We have alderman back. Thank you your honor I have one item that's the memorandum from Mike Hockinson land transaction officer regarding the proposed sale of XX XX East State Street pin number 12 dash 29 dash 277 dash 008 to remedies renewing lives for the amount of twenty two thousand dollars and I refer that to finance and personnel committee. I
 All right, I'm going to refer to our city attorney, Nick Meyer. Mayor Pro Tem, just reporting that we are in receipt of our quarterly franchise fee payment from Comcast in the amount of $441,716.60. Thank you for that update.
 Under item four for public speakers, we have five speakers tonight. You will have three minutes. Once those three minutes are up, you will hear a beep or a buzzer go off and we will move on to the next speaker. So our first speaker is Brandy Gardner. Hello, thank you for this opportunity. I wanted to talk a little bit about having three minutes to speak. I remember the first time someone offered me three minutes to speak, I thought it was an insult.
 But I was so glad to be able to learn how to speak in three minutes. So I'm thankful for this opportunity also as well. And I just want to let you guys know in case we stumble or we may not make sense to you, you already know it's difficult for us to even be able to get up here and speak. Some of us are not used to this. And also some of us are not used to speaking at all. And also, you know, it's just not easy, okay?
 Next, I will be speaking every other Thursday at Miracle Temple Holiness Church at 6 p.m. 2121 West Jefferson Street, Rockford, Illinois, 61102, starting last Thursday and on the 30th and every other Thursday from there. I was on Facebook, and my stepdaughter had put a sentence on there that was kind of, I don't want to say it because it was kind of like, um...
 not appropriate but I was trying to show her that you can be classy and still state your thoughts so by the show of hands can everybody just raise your hand if you like Maya Angelou thank you she did a poem called still I rise and it's a part in there with states my sex does my sexiness offend you does it come as a surprise that I dance like I got diamonds at the meetings of my thighs I
 I bring that up because she, like I said, my stepdaughter stated a sentence that was kind of not appropriate. And I wrote a poem that to show her that you can still be classy and state your feelings. And so I will be sharing that with you. But I want to let you guys know as far as the narcissistic awareness month or week that I would like to be declared. I did find a licensed clinical social worker, and I'm so glad that she will be accepted so that we would be able to do that.
 I will be traveling to different organizations as well as churches to bring awareness to the narcissistic behavior disorder. This poem is also going to bring out some of the narcissistic traits. Hopefully I have enough time to speak it because I did not time myself. So it states, it's called Wait and Exhale. I put a condom on his heart so I won't catch fillings.
 Well, he put a condom on my heart whether or not I was willing. They say the sky is the limit, but mine is the ceiling. You say I shuffled too much when really I was dealing. I was once told I'm spiritually attractive, but you say I'm appealing. Isaiah 60, 18, 22 could explain it better to you because I ain't. Better yet, I can't. I'd rather take your clothes instead of waiting to exhale paint.
 I see you spray dark colors all over me, but it's this anointing everyone can see. Sharper than a two-edged sword. Don't let it kill you trying to kill me. You pulled your own. Thank you. Our second speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of 2 Timothy, the second chapter, the third verse, it says, endure hardship with us like a good soldier of Christ Jesus.
 What I want to speak about tonight, a poem about veterans.
 We came to quell the flying fury. We stayed until the job was done. We fall and died, our loved ones cried, and still we didn't run. From Vietnam, Bosnia, Syria, the Middle East and back, Iran and Afghanistan, and the desert in Iraq. We've seen the movies in all these theaters spill our blood upon the stage. So when others start to invite the men, you can imagine our fits of rage. How many flights
 must angels make before they get a clue? How many lives must conflict take before the flights are through? The answer here is simple enough. When the enemies of freedom are gone, only then will we rest in peace which is best and with our lives move on. We still with honor on the field of battle, we fell in death for human rights. We follow no phonetics like sheep and cattle and gale no quarter in freedom's fight. And if we follow
 falls in the line of duty, wherever our duty may cause us to roam. We know an angel's come to carry the first and last in the bravest home. We hope and play for the final flight when the need to fight is gone. Till then, we watch the C-130 lift the fallen to the dawn. Let
 No man or woman speak ill of our dead, nor trample this nation's coast. If you do not serve, you do not deserve the right to respect my fallen brothers. Enjoy your freedom and your liberty. Maybe show some gratitude, too. Support our military and our troops, because America, they died and fought for you. Thanks for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Prophet. Third speaker is Amanda Hudson. Good evening.
 I attended the May 6th City Council meeting and I am here first to thank those of you who took a thoughtful, thorough, and sane approach to the whole Chancery debate, which often has been so fraught with emotion. I am here also because of my surprise when the Council voted to reverse a recommendation by one of its own committees.
 those committee members gave that task their time effort and thought and i was puzzled that some council members not only disagreed with their conclusion which certainly can be done but actually claimed to have changed the committee's recommendation such a claim made no sense to me although i do understand the motivation
 All of us want what we want, and what we want is important, just not to the point where we ignore rules, disrespect others, or deny the reality of the situations. Yes, there are people in the world who think that laws don't apply to them, and who think their agenda trumps others' rights. But we don't have to go that route. We are called to do better than that. Only we can fight our own sense of self-importance whenever it wants to grow too big.
 Those inner battles can keep us away from a lot of pain and distress and keep us from hurting others. And so I am here tonight to encourage everyone, myself included, to take a periodic, regular look inside and give our motivations kind of a reality check.
 And I say myself included because I do this and I did it over the weekend and discovered something that I hadn't noticed before, I hadn't really realized, and I think as I ponder it, it's going to make my life better. We can all become better people and true to all that we were created to be. Let's give it some thought tonight because tomorrow is not guaranteed for anyone. Thank you for your time. Thank you, Ms. Hudson. Our fourth speaker is John Tack Brantley.
 Good evening all the persons that are citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 28, God want us to identify with the needy, not ignore them. The second part of the Proverbs could be restated positively. Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply our needs. He usually does this to other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's needs?
 A billionaire investor, Robert L. Smith, the richest African American in the United States, earned some stunning looks on Sunday during his commencement address at Morehouse College. He told the graduate students,
 students, he paid off their student debt. On behalf of the eight generations of my family that have been in this country, we are going to put a little fuel in your bus, Smith said. He continued, I got the alumni over here and this is the challenge to the alumni. This is my class of 2019 and my family is making a grant to eliminate their student loan. So this weekend I was blown away by what Mr. Tony
 Turner, president of the Rock Valley College Black Student Union and chairman of the Rockford NAACP Education and Housing Committee, put the city's first all-black graduation, also known as, I can't even pronounce the word, ceremony, held at colleges and universities across the country.
 There are moments for members to gather, rejoice, reflect, re-energize, and put education attainment front and center in their lives. When we have so many of our youth that drop out of school or are socially promoted, this is a first for the Rockford all-black middle and high school graduation on Sunday at Riverview Inn Suite in Rockford. We in the community want to thank you, Mr. Tony Turney.
 Tony Turner for a job well done. Also, as a member of the NAACP, we in the Renewal Turning Point program look forward to working with you because our focus have always been on education, training, jobs, and going head up with black on black crime. And as of me being a former president of the Black
 Student Union at Lewis University from 1976 to 1978, we also want to salute you. Just at the graduation, then what? We still have a large number of unemployed blacks here in Rockford that want to work. However, some have records, single moms with four to eight kids.
 and that want to work and I can go on and on. Now it's the time for the city officials, the school system, the police department, and the community to work together on education, training, and jobs. More people from the minority community that can get a job. The number of crimes, domestic violence will go down to an all-time low. With Transform Rockwood and other organizations working together,
 like Project First Rate launching the Rebuild Rockford Initiative at the event in July of 2018. And this year, back in March, the Illinois Toll Road construction work is looking to hire a large number of minorities. We need to work and make this a reality. Thank you. Our fifth speaker is Mr. Dexter Vouchers. No applause now, ladies. I'm not Michael Jordan.
 Well, we just want to keep the teachers going. It's a powerful message to the young women and the young single men that don't know a better way to live. And this is my motto. We'll be going and doing some outdoor ministry with the parks and just trying to save one's soul. That's all I'll ask.
 I got on the back and tell you, hey you, who me? Yeah, you, you must be born again by the water in God's spirit, calling on the name of Jesus and you shall be saved. The mind is a weapon in heaven or hell. And it really has made a difference. And we got petitions. We're going out. We got close to 200 people that support me with these petitions here, all been signed by young people that,
 just love what I'm doing so it's not I'm not alone here and we're asking for just a hundred thousand dollars to start with to build God's kingdom number one number two to help the housing family fulfill their needs we've been out there for a while organ keys and fairgrounds and number three we need to make thousand t-shirts of different colors so we can just practically just
 Give them to them. Knock on their door just like a mailman and just say, here, here. And you don't know the powerful difference you're making. Not even a penny has to be involved. Just your thoughts on it is more than enough with God. Number four, we need to get a lot of games and toys for the kids. Number five, to help families who have lost their jobs.
 and to set up a bank account with two or three godly people so the money won't go to me. We have to vote it in and it won't go to a person in need. And number seven, to help all the polices so they can go home to their families and we have to protect them. Even though they have a bulletproof vest on, we need to honor these people that's in uniform. They're like God's angels here to help us. And number eight, to help the new generation
 to come. Young kids just out of control now. Babies making babies, wild parties because the sun is shining and barbecues in the backyard. Totally out of, they block my whole street just for a backyard barbecue. And so we need to just love them, no matter who they are or what they're doing. Now if we are the United States of America, then we ought to unite together. And Jesus said it best, let's put down the rock
 Jesus said, for we all have sinned. My Bible keeps telling me that life and death is in the power of the tongue, and it comes from within. Thank you, Mr. Vosler. That concludes our speaking portion tonight. We're going to move into new committee reports under B, which is our Code and Regulations Committee.
 First, as a committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation of no action to be taken on the following item, the request to establish all-way stop at the intersections of Reed Avenue and Cannon Street, thus repealing the existing Cannon Street stopping for Reed Avenue. Number two, the committee recommends reversing the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development.
 consisting of two single-family residences on one lot at 5471 rickswood lane place those up for passage your honor thank you thank you alderman Chiarelli is there any discussion on these items one and two no see no discussion uh clerk would you call the roll hi timber I am one no on two crossed Herbie I think it's a little different than I expected the zoning board of appeals
 had originally approved moved to approve not just allowing the house to be there but also granting a special use permit and making it a conforming use is that correct all of that is still wrapped up in this i'm trying to figure out what's still in and what's still and what's out mr kagnoni i voted incorrectly clerk
 I was known on B2. I'm sorry. I apologize. I read the wrong section. So on Roman numeral VB2, that would be a no for me. Thank you. Sorry for the... Alderman Frost. Before we take this vote over, once we get an answer, I think Alderman Hervin start over. I know what we're voting on.
 what's that i would just start the vote over here yeah let's let's do that but do you want to answer the question first mr cagnoni so as alderman hervey stated the zoning board of appeals recommended approval to support the special use permit for the plan unit to
 unit development consisting of the two single-family residences on one lot both both which currently exist on the property and by should that action be approved by City Council that would make the property conforming
 Because the property was legally established is currently non-conforming So the recommendation coming out of the codes and regulations committee was to deny it in its entirety And then the investor has advised us the property owner has advised us that they're going to continue to invest in the property Much of their plans will remain the same under the existing legally non-conforming status
 However, the property will not be conforming and they would not be moving forward with the full plan for the addition for the garage and driveway. Go ahead, Alderman Beach. So then I vote would be voting to reverse what was originally presented. That would be correct. All right.
 Alderman Durkee. Thank you. I just have a quick question for the city attorney This would only be conforming under a plan unit development status as far as our current residential Ordinances if this was a property without the plan unit development, this would be non conforming It's the PUD that establishes to be conforming having two full residences on one single lot, correct? Thank you
 Further questions. Alderman Beck. So if you're in favor of the recommendation from the Zoning Board of Appeals, then the vote would be yes? No. Okay. Because the committee then modified the Zoning Board of Appeals decision, reversed it, correct? So then we're voting. If you're voting that, you're saying no. Okay, I understand. Yeah. All right. Any further questions? All right, seeing there are no questions, let's take the roll call again on this.
 We'll start with Alderman Durkee. Durkee. Aye on 1 and no on 2. Tunberg. He's rehearsing. Aye on 1, no on 2. Frost. Herbie. Aye on both. Irvins. I have two now. Irvins. I said your vote yet. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Aye on 2, 1 and 2. Hoffman. Aye on 1 and 2. Rose. Aye on 1, no on 2. Beach. The Alderman of that ward?
 had a passionate plea against the original recommendation and the Codes and Regulations Committee voted to overturn the ZBA recommendation to reverse it. So in my opinion, if we were supporting the Alderman of the Ward, our vote would be yes, because that would be reversing the ZBA's recommendation. So with that thought in mind, I'm voting yes
 both one and two but on two to support the denial the reversing of the ZBA appeals approval all right you know nice I am one no one to make me Lee I am one no one to the building yes on two and now I'm gonna go jump
 Thank you. Thank you. Reverse psychology didn't work. Yeah, it didn't work for you. You tried to confuse us. Five ayes, eight noes. Five ayes, eight noes? Okay. All right. So 1a looks like it passed and 2 does not. Let's move to item C in Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. Let me just clarify that. So item 2 fails, which is the recommendation.
 To reverse the ZBA's approval, because it had been on as a reversal, it did not appear on the agenda as an ordinance. So we'll have that on the agenda in two weeks for approval of the underlying ordinance. Thank you. Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, your honor.
 Have three items the first is approval of the vouchers in the amount of six million three hundred eighty five thousand nine hundred four dollars and eighty eight cents Next is the approval of the sale of city-owned property Consisting of a narrow vacant parcel of land located adjacent to western boundary of 3108 and 3110 Auburn Street pin number 11 dash 15 dash 402 dash 001 and the amount of forty five hundred dollars the JBT properties and
 And then item three is the approval of the tax exempt lease for two ambulances with PNC equipment finance for a lease rate of three point three one six percent annual payments will be 127 thousand eight hundred thirty one dollars and seventy four cents for a term of five years total finance amounts to finance is sixty nine six hundred and thirty nine thousand one hundred fifty eight dollars and seventy cents funding sources the 2019 fire department operating budget and
 i place these three items up for passage are there any discussion or questions on that item alderwoman hervey ambulances we're not adding ambulances operating ambulances that's correct are we okay and then the second how many do we have in reserve that are less than eight years old ambulances
 right now that are less than eight years? Or with this replacement? With this replacement, we'll have four that are less than eight years, and we maintain a reserve fleet of four ambulances at all time for the seven frontline. That brings us up to where we want it to be when we start this program? Correct, yes. Further questions? Seeing none, clerk call the roll. Durkee. You sure? Toonberg. Aye.
 Ross. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Urbans. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. All three. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 13 ayes. All right. Those items pass. Under D, Legislative and Lobbying Committee, Alderman Frost. Thank you. The committee recommends the approval of renewing the professional services contract with McGuire-Woods
 For lobbying services in the amount of $120,000 over an annual period of one year, and it is a one-year duration, the contract, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Right. Any questions or discussion on the matter? Alderwoman Thompson-Kelley. I just want to note, too, that it wasn't mentioned last week that this is for state and federal lobbying.
 Seeing no other further discussion or questions, clear to call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Kirby. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. 12 ayes, 1 no. All right, that item passes. We're going to move into officer's reports. Ms. Alderman Hoffman. Aye.
 Actually, we're down to 67. 13 of them are going with Brockford Housing in some way, and we expect them all to be out by June. 54 have chosen to go without. So they're, by HUD's rules, are given additional time to find.
 have I think up to 90 days to make arrangements so you will hear about extensions coming we're doing it month by month but it's only because that 54 is given an additional 90 days when they find a property so to get people out just as quickly as possible but we're down to 67 and 13 of them should be out. There will only be those looking for private residences that will still be there.
 Go ahead, Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Is demolition still on schedule? Well, it all depends on how soon we get everybody out. We have to get everybody out, and then we do expect to demolish. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Curious, what was the maximum amount of people there at one point in time when it was in full capacity? What did that hold? It was more than something. I forgot. In multiple years, they were down to around 200.
 And it just kept deteriorating. And so then when all of this came about, pretty quickly got to 168. What held us up, of course, was the government voucher so that we could move people from, to another housing. But it's interesting that probably about 100,000 people... Elder Woman Hoffman, I didn't mean to interrupt, but can you pull your mic down for that?
 At any rate, most of the people decided to stay with Rockford Housing. Now, do know that these voucher folks, they can go anywhere, anywhere in the country. So they're not necessarily going to stay in Rockford. They have the opportunity to go move to where their family is or friends or whatever. So once they get those private vouchers, they can go anywhere in the country. Elder woman, Herbie.
 I would like to ask that the city give some strong consideration to purchasing that land
 It's in a prime spot adjacent to downtown We've talked about everything from the Madison Street extension to Being able to control that bluff in terms of what goes there so I'd like to ask that we we give some serious consideration to working with our ha to be able to purchase that and And have some control over what what replaces that that housing there sounds like a great idea. I
 Alderwoman Huffman. We would love to do that but I know there's some tricks to all of this and they're surmountable true but there is a problem with selling the land that HUD then once back every dime they ever put into all of that housing and everything so it is something though that we can work with housing on.
 something to consider with with president trump in office hud is not the hud that we once knew it as so some of the idiocy that used to be practiced
 in terms of what was permitted and what was not, and you had to rebuild there, and it had to be kept for public housing or something. A lot of those regulations are not just in flux. They're looking for it. That's why I want the city to pursue it. HUD is looking for people to come up with something new
 for housing and for areas that have been heavily impacted by housing and we've already got a housing project there they pretty much replaced right so i think there's a good opportunity out there so i'd like for us to pursue things that in the past would have been a flat out no alderman thompson kelly
 I would like to thank the various departments, the public works, the police department, property standard, code enforcement, the legal department. They all came together and did a sweep in an area that was very concerning to the residents of the community, and it was very successful, and I want to thank them and all their efforts because it's going to prove to be a very positive thing in the whole community. Thank you. CHAIRMAN BRYANT LIMAGE. Thank you.
 Alderman Beach sir This past week was police memorial week We did have a presentation last Monday night, but part of that was the memorial service They have every year Thursday night I had a chance to attended but this year was up in Roscoe and I just urge any alderman that's never been to go It's wonderful for an hour to sit still and
 see the honor they pour upon the families who've also from the very beginning back in the 1800s up till current this year that have gave their life and so thank you to the chief for your representation the interjurisdictional honor guard they were just fabulous and the whole evening was just a wonderful time thank you sir it was quite a moving event i got up there a little late but it was
 It was something to experience. Alderman Thunberg. Thanks, Mayor Pro Tem. Rose. I would like to thank everyone yesterday. I had the honor to emcee the Veterans Memorial Circle rededication, and I was very humbled to do so. We had plenty of veterans out there. I would like to again thank.
 Rick Westlake and his wife Lisa, Ernie and Helen Redfern for people that really stood up and took this under their wing. And wow, it was great. And if you've had a chance to see it, I hope you didn't get an accident. First, when you get up to the roundabout, please try to navigate, look to your left, and get through the roundabout.
 But if you can glance and even stop somewhere and look, it's a beautiful, beautiful area now. And it really is for the veterans in our community. And just to let them know they aren't forgotten. And we appreciate all their service to our country that allows us to be here tonight doing what we're doing. So thank you. Thank you.
 Any further ones? Alderman Beach. Thank you for allowing me to speak twice. I'm sorry. I forgot to mention, but I was driving downtown to look at these murals. I was going underneath Jefferson Bridge and spotted Alderman Frost's wife
 Lisa and daughter all scrapped up on one of these scissor lifts painting their heart out. Kevin, it's just wonderful what's going on down there. I just wanted to say thank you to all involved, but that was kind of special. It's brightened the place up, hasn't it? It's wonderful. Thank you. Did you want to share anything? All I was allowed to do was bring my wife a cup of coffee. Any further ones?
 I'll go last then I had two that I wanted to share. I'm sure Cindy Maddox She's a resident in the ward is gonna be happy to hear this But I've received a bunch of petitions for a streetlight some streetlight additions in the ward So I'll be submitting those to our traffic commission tonight in hopes that we can add some streetlights in some areas that I
 In past administrations were removed for whatever types of reasons. So I'm hoping that these petitions are taken seriously at our traffic commission. The second item is that we're really focusing in on getting some new trees through our forestry division and.
 If there is someone who is interested or wants a tree, I really don't care if you're in the ninth ward or not. I don't care what ward you're in. If you want to get a hold of our city team, you can get a hold of them by checking out the website. I believe they changed the webpage a little bit with a phone number that you can call if you're interested in a tree in your terrace. Otherwise you can get a hold of me through email or phone.
 quite a bit of response and for those people who i have not returned your phone call you will be hearing from me so um i've gotten a lot of calls and emails on it so uh looking to reforest the forest city and keep that uh moniker going in our region so
 If there is no one else that wants to share, we'll move on to our next item, which is under motions and resolutions, our Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Chiarelli.
 First is a text amendment to section 80-009 D of the zoning ordinance It's a request for authorization to allow the zoning officer to submit an application to the zoning Board of Appeals for the text amendment to section 80-009 D of the zoning ordinance miscellaneous non-conforming uses compliance for gravel driveways within the city of Rockford number two is a resolution for the settlement of
 Amy and sack versus the city of Rockford. I will be holding that over your honor item number two until later in this evening So I place item number one up for passage. Is there any discussion on item number one scene? Alderman Beach there could be again explanation I've received several calls that there's going to be an extension on this for a year from now for the gravel driveways and that there is some plan in place to
 or going to be in place to maybe offer some assistance. Maybe there could be a public statement. There's a lot of people are concerned about that. Mr. Cagnone? The proposal that's under consideration tonight would have our zoning officer file a text amendment and amend the zoning ordinance, which would go through the public hearing process in June, go through codes and regulation, ultimately come to City Council for a final decision.
 Staffs recommendation it will be to extend the compliance period for gravel driveways from the
 the end of this year to at least 2020. We're going to take the opportunity to get feedback from Alderman, but make sure we have a comprehensive approach of how to address these existing gravel driveways because the ordinance would also affect commercial and industrial uses. So we want to make sure we're bringing
 all the information back to city council for your consideration. Part of the delay being requested is in part, although we've evaluated opportunities for loans, we haven't come up with a solution that would work. So we are exploring what opportunities the city may be willing to provide or council can consider as we go forward. But a loan program has not been identified at this moment in time. Thank you, sir.
 thank you i'm going to go with alderwoman thompson kelly and then alderwoman mcneely thank you but could we also get feedback from the residents and have information going out to the neighborhood watch groups and organizations in getting their feedback and their suggestions on some approaches we'd be happy to engage your neighborhood organizations as part of the conversation thank you alderman mcneely all right thank you mayor pearl tim
 We had talked about the gravel driveways before and I had mentioned at that time that it would be great if the city could solicit companies that
 Would be willing to do the driveways to help Mainly the residential and not so much the businesses, but certainly they could participate in getting a reduction If we could come up with with one Business that would be willing to do all of them to get a reduction in cost and I hope that we would look at that in addition to
 To the loan. Maybe if we could come up with a vendor Maybe the loan wouldn't be necessary Considering that we're doing this throughout the whole city So I hope that we would look at doing that putting our out of RFP and and seeing who and what we come We can explore that. Okay any further questions or discussion
 Seeing none, clerk, will you call the roll? Aye. Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirelli? 13 ayes. All right, that item passes. Let's move on to Finance and Personnel Committee with Alderman Beck. I only have 16 items tonight, so hopefully I can still have a voice when I'm done. Item 1 is awarded a bid for 2018 Demolition Group to...
 4 to N track group in the amount of $11,768 for the demolition of 714 Bluefield Street.
 to rodman services in the amount of thirteen thousand eight hundred seven dollars for the demolition of 217 south pier pond avenue and aro enterprises in the amount of 58 738 dollars for the demolition of 30 14 10th street 522 14th street 3 10 31 10 15th street 9 12 south fifth street 6 20 trenton street and 412 north third street the contract duration is 45 days
 Next is the award of bid for Concrete Materials 2019 to Point Ready Mix for an estimated annual value of $130,000. The contract duration is one year. Next is the award of bid for Bruce Street and Lapport Water Main Replacement to N-TRAC in the amount of $379,045.36. Next is the award of bid for Wyman Street Water Main Lining to N-TRAC.
 in the amount of $194,388. Next is the award of bid for Blackhawk Park Avenue reconstruction to Northern Illinois service in the amount of $230,878.18. Next is the award of engineering agreement for Keith Creek Bank stabilization stabilization phase two to Willett Hoffman and Associates in the amount of $55,279.55.
 Next is the award of engineering agreement for seminary street bridge replacement over keith creek to hr green incorporated in the amount of 194,000 771 dollars and one cent next is the award of engineering agreement for church street and main street two-way conversion to trans systems corporation and the amount of 799,000
 Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for Digger Derek Poltruck to Altec Industries in the amount of $230,000. Next is the award of joint purchasing contract for Digital Plan Review System Hardware to Dell Computers in the amount of $88,305.44.
 Next is the award of RFP for digital plan review system software to evolve software in the amount of $176,000. I'm sorry $167,560 including software license maintenance services and training and $21,900 for the yearly maintenance service and
 Next is the award of RFP for fire alarm system monitoring to NORCOM public safety communications for an estimated amount of $200,000 the contact duration is five years next to the award of RFP for municipal enforcement software to IT stability systems an amount of $53,000 contract duration is one year with four possible annual extensions and
 Next to the award of RFP for a park parking deck security services to Metro enforcement for an estimated annual value of $70,000 the contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions Next is the change order for citywide Street repairs group number three 2018 to TCI concrete for an original contract amount of two million two hundred fourteen thousand eight hundred seventy eight dollars and sixty six cents and
 Previously approved change order was in the amount of $455,594.18. Current proposed change order is $198,619.28. The total amended contract amount is $2,869,092.00.
 and 12 cents. And finally, the award of bid for Keith Creek Bank Stabilization Phase 2 to civil constructors in the amount of $586,662.07. I place these items up for passage. Give you a break there. Any discussion on those items? Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. I've got a couple of questions. One on number one. Was the company that got the extended...
 um contract 58 000 were they also uh allowed to bid on the one on bluefield and um and on south pierpont because uh when you take the bid of 58 000 divided by six houses comes out about ninety seven hundred dollars a piece compared to the eleven thousand and thirteen eight on the other two i was just wondering if they were allowed to bet on those as well
 So we're recommending an award-based family.
 better for each property there are some pretty big differences from one parcel to another um you know for example as low as 6 600 for one address versus 23 000 for another so the conditions vary pretty dramatically from property to property we did get bids for each property for each from each vendor and we're recommending we will either award um all of them to one if that's beneficial or we will break it apart and
 Award property by property to the low bidder if that is more beneficial to us and that's what we're doing in this case Okay, thank you. Yep, and then One more comment on a number eight here. I've had Some serious conversation with Jeremy about about my feeling from from from my experience I
 here once we get this thing on the table even though we have public meetings it's kind of hard to get it off and um i'm not sure if my next statement is has been confirmed yet but um i'm under the impression that the rave board would like uh jeremy to come to their next meeting which is this week and if possible i would like to see if number eight could be laid over
 or held out until next time, until they at least get to have an audience with the board at Rave, and if they're going to have any kind of a definite written
 Statement concerns about yes or no to this. I think we should know that before we vote to go ahead and extend to two way from Cedar Street all the way to John, because I still have some definite concerns, even to the fact that when I ask what would happen during the events at the rave.
 How will you drink to traffic then well then we can get someone to stand out there and electronically handle the signals or direct people? Out of the gates that's all cost somebody and not sure that somebody would be and I know we may be a long way away From it, but we need to think about it now as well And I'm just asking if it's possible if we can just hold that number eight out at least a
 2 weeks because the tour next comes or a special. Meeting next Monday night, so would you be making a motion to hold that out? I would I'd like to make that emotion. You're on second. There is a 2nd. So that item will automatically be held out. Thank you. Other men, I'm sorry. Other woman Thompson Kelly item number 14. I have a question in regards for the Metro enforcement. Is these are these armed security.
 Yes, they are. And what decks are they going to be? They would be monitoring both the Concourse, well any of the decks that, all of the decks during a special event night considering that any of our parking facility, the structures could be utilized during a special event. So they would monitor all of them. Obviously the Concourse more so during a BMO event and Pioneer more so during a Coronado event, but they will monitor all of them.
 And the parking operation budget, could it handle $70,000 that we're committing to for four years? We will continue to struggle in the parking fund, but we feel that it's a necessary expense. Okay. Thank you. Real quick, just an issue of order. We'll come to you, Alderman Frost, here in a second, but
 The two alderman rule does not apply. We actually have to vote on the motion. So what do you call the role, clerk? What item? For item A, the motion that was made earlier with a second. Motion and a second to lay over the resolution. The two alderman rule only applies to committee reports, and this is under motions and resolutions. So we'll need a vote on the motion to lay over. Thank you. You can try a voice vote.
 Or is a voice vote okay? Voice vote. Okay. All those in favor say aye. Aye. Opposed? Item will be laid over. Okay. Alderman Frost, go ahead. I had a question about number 14. I presume that the Metro security force would be there primarily for special events. Yes, it would only be on special event nights.
 The most of those decks are for special events, I believe charge a fee for people parking in them, correct? They do, that's correct. So does that money also go into the same fund? It does. I'm just curious whether or not there's a way we can find a way to shift the cost to
 Yeah, we certainly can look at potentially increasing our special event parking rates to offset the cost of this additional service. I think it's probably important as we look at recommendations for the parking fund and our parking system in general and look to move some recommendations forward.
 as recommended by the finance task force and budget reports that we would consider that special event rate as part of the whole package because if I recall right when we passed an ordinance to waive the cost of parking permits for the Jehovah Witness Convention for I believe more than a year and I guess I would just ask you if
 If they're not going to contribute to that fund, then maybe on those particular special events we don't have the security. Yeah. These would generally be evening events that we would request security for, sort of on a case-by-case basis. But generally daytime events, there's enough. We would not have security. We would not have security. Perfect. Thank you. Thank you for the clarification. Alderwoman McNeely, did you have? Thank you. Thank you.
 on item number five for the black hawk park avenue reconstruction is that um a city or is that a ward um project mr stockman it's not coming out of ward funds that's coming out of our arterial and collector uh chapter of the cip okay and
 The same for item number seven for seminary street bridge replacement. Do we not have funding, a funding pot for bridges? Yes, there's another chapter in the CIP that's also been previously approved by council for this very project. And again, it's not attached to ward funds. It's part of the bridge and major structure chapter. Because it's listed under, both items are listed under sales tax.
 Yes, it would be. I mean, virtually every chapter of the CIP is going to be paying for infrastructure improvements out of sales tax or MFT. In this case, it's easier for us to pay for it out of sales tax rather than have to come under IDOT supervision over the project. So that's the reason why the sales tax and not MFT then? Correct. For both of them? That is correct. And then item number 9 and 10.
 Number nine the joint purchasing of digger Derek pole truck and
 No, I'm sorry, not that. But item number 10 and 11, where we have the purchase of a digital plan review system under a joint purchasing, and then number 11, we have the digital plan review system that's separate. Is there a reason why the second part, the review system, is not under a joint purchasing?
 The hardware associated with the system will be purchasing from Dell off of our existing joint purchasing contract. All of our hardware is standardized on Dell products. So the purchase of the software is separate from the purchase of the hardware. That one we went out for competitive proposals and the Community and Economic Development Department chose this Evolve software as part of that competitive process.
 okay thank you and so there's no discount even though we're purchasing the hardware under joint purchasing there's yes there is a there is a discount on the dell hardware built it on the hardware that's built into the joint purchasing contract yeah no no no on the software the software it's what the competitive i mean
 And we solicited proposals. It's the price that was submitted through that RFP process. I guess I'm getting to wondering why the company would not give a discount if we're purchasing the hardware and thereby purchasing the software but separately.
 Dell is the only company that will sell us Dell products. So we wouldn't purchase the hardware through the software vendor It's not the same right, right, right. Okay. Thank you. And then item number 15 Will we have a change order to change orders if I read this correctly? We're over 600,000 and between the two change orders should we not have gone out for bid again? Go ahead. I
 Mr. Solomon McNeely this was related to the addition of Bruce or excuse me lap court of
 to extend the Bruce Street water main and resurfacing project to lap court as well. Bruce Street was to have been done last year. Obviously, it didn't make it into the schedule for last year, so it was carried over to this year. And it just meant we could gain some economy of scale by having the same contractor working on virtually the same project a block apart as opposed to mobilizing a second contractor. Thank you. Pardon me? Yes.
 Any further items or questions? Alderwoman Hervey. I want to make sure I'm understanding on number 14. I thought that was, that's not Metro enforcement for just general policing of the parking decks like at night or something. This is all for special events? Yes, it's all for special events. Do the special event fees cover this amount?
 I don't have the answer to that off the top of my head I believe we generate at least that much in special event parking revenue, but I'd have to confirm Okay, just maybe not tonight, but I yeah, I'm not gonna make it a motion but I
 Sort of peeing off piggybacking off what alderman frost was saying with the jehovah's witnesses if there's a special event That's being hosted by some of these groups Whatever we're charging for parking at a minimum has to cover the cost of that of the security Certainly or else we don't provide it. I I can't see us taking on another cost for a parking space
 parking structure it's supposed to be an enterprise fund that doesn't even come close to certainly covering its cost so if we're gonna add on security I didn't remember us doing security before no and we've done we've we have had police
 to provide security over the last several months. Were they doing security or were they doing the parking in fourth? Not parking, traffic. No, security. So they've been patrolling the decks to make sure. Yes, yes. And obviously this private security, and it's outlined in the memo, but there's a significant cost savings to have. Oh, yeah, I understand the savings. I'm just saying we're adding a lot of extra money to the debt.
 well even if it's not adding a service to a system that's not even taking care of itself and it's supposed to be an enterprise fund so um as a part of those comments i if you could send us out that information on the absolutely well parking garage do we have something coming up soon to to address parking that i've been talking about parking since i've been on city council and it just keeps rolling along we're working on it right now
 Any further discussion on those 16 items? 15, sorry, the 15 items. Seeing none, clerk, will you call the roll? Kerkey. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Irvins. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Chiarelli. 13 ayes on all. All right, those items pass.
 Item 8 will move into next week. So for two weeks from now Under new business ordinances. We are going to go to finance and personnel committee with alderman back. Thank you your honor I have a couple items here first an ordinance approving the sale of a city-owned property in
 at 3108 3110 auburn street to for 55 sorry for 4 500 to jbt properties and item two is an ordinance approving a tax exempt lease for two ambulances with pnc equipment for a lease of
 Least rate of 3.316%. Annual payments will be $127,831.74 for a term of five years. Total amount financed is $639,150. I'm sorry, $639,158.70. I place these two items up for passage. Any discussion on those two items? Seeing none, clear call to roll, please. Turkey. Aye. Toonberg. Aye.
 Ross, Herbie, Urbans, Thompson-Kelley, Hoffman, Rose, Aye. Beach, Quinones, Beck, Aye. McNeely, Chiarelli, Aye. 13 ayes. Those items pass. Under D, legislative lobbying, we have Alderman Frost. Thank you.
 This ordinance approving the renewal of the professional services contract with McGuire Woods for lobbying services for both in the state of Illinois and at the federal level in the amount of $120,000. The contract duration is for one year. Any discussion on the item? Seeing none, clerk? Durkee? Aye. Tunberg? Aye. Frost? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Irvins? Aye. Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones?
 beck aye mcneely no shirelli aye 12 eyes one no okay that item passes um i believe we're going to need a motion to go into closed session pending and threatened litigation matters and labor negotiation matters all right uh we have a motion and a second on the floor clerk will you call the roll turkey hi toomberg frost herbie irvins thompson kelly
 Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Beck? Aye. McNeely? Aye. Shirely? Aye. 13 ayes. All right, we are going into closed session.