Speaker this evening is Roland Pascoe. Thank you. Come to the first economic conference hosted by Fishy Whales. This is an addition to what you are doing. Come to the first economic conference hosted by Fishy Whales, July 4th, noon to 1 p.m. Joe Marino Park, Rockford, Illinois, USA. 2015, a possible topic. How do we get the money supply to the great people who need the money?
 at noon on our day of independence, look up for a moment of interdependence with the whole world. When I, Fishy Whale Roland Poska, woke up this morning, I realized that this is all there is. This is all there is. But note, and it is a full note, it is a full note that makes everything happen. Now, tomorrow, note,
 the impossible will happen. Come to the first economic conference hosted by stupid fishy whales. Write a speech, write a speech. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is John Brantley.
 Okay. Good evening, Mayor Marcy, all the men, all the women, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Proverbs 29, verse 25 says, Fear peoples can hamper everything you try to do in a strange form that can make you afraid to leave your home. By contrast, fear God, respect, revenge, trust, and liberate you. Why fear peoples who can do no harm? Instead, fear God who can turn the harm intended by others into good for those who trust his word.
 Here's what people have saying about the Waco shooting and race relations.
 that sparked a lot of scrutiny over how police in Libya are treating the incident compared with how they approach the protests in Ferguson, Missouri and Baltimore. The relatively relaxed look police present in Waco was a big topic of discussion. Police taken by news organizations in the aftermath of the incident showed arrested bikers who were mostly white sitting about handcuffed and able to use their phone while law enforcement officers looked casually and minimally attentive.
 The prevailing image of protests in Baltimore and Ferguson, Missouri over police killing of a black man were of police in riot gear, handcuffs, protesters, tear gas, mass arrests. The main image of fatal gun battle between the armed bikers and police in Waco was a
 So this past weekend in Chicago, at least 56 people were shot over the morning of their weekend, according to officials. Authorities say 12 people died from their wounds between Friday afternoon and early Tuesday morning. The weekend of May 16, 11 people were shot in four separate weekend shootings in Rockford. Of those, 11 people were killed in the shooting
 One man is dead. One man also died Friday in an officer-involved shooting that wasn't really talked about on the news. This past weekend, we had one young man, 33 years old, that was shot with a single gunshot wound in the fairgrounds housing area. Also this past weekend, on Friday, a young mother, deeply angry with the way that Rockford Metro Enforcement
 ban her husband, talk with me about what she was going to do if they harass her family again. I asked her to let me look into this on Tuesday and I would get back in touch with her and ask RHA to have a family where they have a meeting with Rockwood Metro Enforcement and Abuse and Law Authority and see if we can find a meeting so the residents can express their feelings. Guess what? The next day Saturday, all hell broke loose. This young mom,
 beat the hell out of two Metro enforcement officers and took their mace away from them. Later on that evening, several incidents happened in the Fairground Housing area where several youth were sprayed with mace. That's another story. I only have three minutes to talk. The Rockford residents in the Fairground Housing area
 They're not afraid of Rockford Metro Enforcement. By the way, they say they hate the Metro Enforcement. It's another institution of racism. We have to see what happened in Baltimore. You can see what happened in Baltimore and other cities across the United States of America. We do not want to wait and see this happen in our own community. We have to start working together on Thursday.
 on Thursday at the Salvation Army at 2 o'clock, we are having a meeting to bring up deferred programs at the center to work with the youth, the young adults and the senior citizens of the Ellis Heights area. This year we are focusing on education, training, jobs and going head up with Black on Black crime. I'm coming to an end. We need to work together and this is not going to happen overnight. We need to start working with our community, with
 transform Rockford, in order to transform Rockford, we need to work with the police. The police cannot solve the crime by themselves. With the community working together, we can find a better way to handle this. I see I ran over. I just want to make one other comment. My kids got on my case, so I told them I'm going to apologize to the chief of the fire department. We went to visit, and one of the girls got on my case because I called the chief of the fire department, the chief of police.
 And they really killed me. And the 8-year-old girl said, when I grow up, I'm going to be the chief of the fire department. And Brother Brantley, you better call me by my right name. All right. So I'm apologizing for calling you the chief of the police when you're actually the chief of the fire department. And I had 25 kids enjoy that. And the news media interviewed the kids, and that gave a big theory out of the kids to do us here. You're talking in a next week's time, Mr. Brantley. Oh, I did?
 I'm joking. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you. I don't know if there's many insults more severe than accusing Chief Bergson of, I'm kidding, Chief Epperson. I'm kidding, but point taken. Understood. But as you brought it up, I just want to say, since I don't have officers' reports tonight, it was a great opening to the Fire Station 3. I appreciate that. Our next speaker is Nancy Gidowski. Mr. Brantley, you should run for Congress. You can filibuster better than anybody I know.
 Okay, several weeks ago this body passed the Right to Work Resolution. This council suspended the rules and quickly passed this resolution without any input from the public because they did not know about it. This administration is eliminating employees' rights to wages commensurate with their education, skills and experience. This is not about fair share as our governor is saying. It is about negotiating decent wages so they can support their families and or extended families.
 This brings me to my next point. Please give us the reason for this administration wanting a residence registry to include extended family members, such as elderly parents, boomerang children, and grandchildren. They are family, not renters, and should not be subject to the registry.
 President Obama commended families taking care of ill or down on their luck family members. The President also said there needs to be more of that compassion, but he never mentioned a registry.
 Is the purpose of this resolution to break up families so they can't live together in a single family dwelling? Will we have to put our parents in nursing homes? Will we have to reject our children and grandchildren moving in with us? Will they be forced then to live on the streets or in homeless shelters? Please don't force families to make these hard choices. It appears both these resolutions are examples of government overreaching into our freedoms.
 So what is the purpose of this registry? Is it to force people to pay more in property taxes or other fees for helping other family members? I just want to know the reason. Thank you. Well, basically, I don't come from this community. I just moved out of here. But I come from the city of Elgin, and it seems funny to me that,
 in like DeKalb, Sycamore and all the other communities, St. Charles, Elgin, we can have a great involvement with the city and housing and we don't have all the run down properties out here. If we were to charge for like a rental license instead of a rental registration $25, unless the city get involved in the properties, we could generate $62,000 for the city.
 You were asking the police department to deal with the shootings, okay? If you don't turn around and get the police department, the city, and everybody involved in the properties, how can you expect them to handle it on their own? They can't. For example, I mean, if you go into a property, and I've seen many of them,
 The neighbor right across the street, for an example, and I mean, I didn't put this out, but they had to put a board down to bring a refrigerator into their house, which they purchased. And it's because the porch is settling. This is not proper living for people. If you had the city officials going in, inspecting these properties, they would find these kind of things.
 Basically, you can find out how many people are living there, the type of people are living there, people sleeping in the basements. You definitely would find out a lot more that's going on in the properties by just having the city officials involved. Another thing is we can have a resident officer program. Put a resident officer in some of these crime areas.
 Of course, you know, of course you're going to have a lot of reluctance for the people to come to the officers, okay? But as they live there, you're going to find more involvement with the police department. You're going to find more involvement with the city, which is going to make a better place overall for all of us. Basically, I mean, if you have all this involvement, all of a sudden the gangs and all the crime doesn't want to be around. And I think that's our overall goal.
 is to get rid of the problems that we have and get more involvement with the police department, the fire department. I mean I'm sure when the fire department goes in, if there's a fire, what do they got to look in the basement and see if somebody's sleeping in the basement where there's non-escape windows?
 We should have windows in there that people can get out of if there is a fire. I think a lot more could be done if we actually have a rental license and get the city involved in the properties. Painting, keeping the upkeep of the properties. We wouldn't have as many properties in a deteriorated state and abandoned eventually.
 Thank you. We don't, as I mentioned, have a full agenda for council. We will next week, but just to be responsive to two of the points, and I know I saw a number of looks on council members as it was being stated. Number one, the landlord tenant registry that's up for passage next week, I believe it'll be on our agenda for next week, does not include the
 statement of having to get registered if you have a family member living with you, a Senate family member. And then the other point is that since we're not home rule, we can't do a rental licensing, but we can only do rental registration.
 Yes, Your Honor. I understand you're under office reports. I'd just like to add to it. I did give Mrs. Kodowski a copy of the ordinance that is being passed because a lot of information that was handed out was not factual to what we were doing. But I also would like to announce a town hall meeting on criminal activity and violence.
 Thursday, June 4th, from 6 to 8 p.m. at Rockford Health Systems Auditorium at 2300 North Rockton Avenue. We all agree that violence must stop.
 Let's learn what's being done. Let's address the facts, report suspicious activities and chronic nuisance. Be a part of the solution. And for more information, please contact me by email or phone. I passed out and I wanna thank my colleagues, those that are supporting and helping me with this.
 I appreciate it, but keep in mind and I would appreciate if you would pass it on to your residents that please come and join me in unfolding our process. Thank you. Thank you. Any other comments? Hello, McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I too would like to make an announcement on behalf of Liberty Baptist Church because of all of that criminal activity that's been going on, particularly in that part of the city,
 a lot of people, not just Auderman Thompson-Kelley, not just Liberty Baptist, but a lot of people are looking to have some type of forum to participate in and share their concerns and hopefully some great solutions. But again, it's at Liberty Baptist Church on June the 6th at one o'clock p.m., that's a Saturday. Liberty Baptist Church is at 3500 Preston.
 Minister is Clarence Holman, and you can contact them at 965-5122, 815-965-5122. The purpose is to speak out about the recent violence in the area. They want one community speaking and seeking solutions together.
 And finally, Mr. Mayor, I received and I know some of my colleagues received a number of calls regarding the rental property because in the local paper, Rock River Times, the article that was printed there, a number of people thought that it does affect their personal residency and not just addressing rental property.
 So I hope that people have all the information. If not, I suggest that they call here to City Hall and speak with the legal department. I did speak with our legal director regarding that and also the president of the apartment association because I was really upset because there were people that were calling that were so nervous, Mr. Mayor, that their family member was gonna be thrown out
 because they didn't have enough money to pay the $750 fee. So there are a lot of misunderstandings. So I hope that people do come or call the city or call your alderman to get the correct information. Thank you.
 Thank you, Olin. Herbie, then I'll go back to you. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to let people in the Fifth Ward know that we will have our Fifth Ward meeting this Thursday, the 28th, at 6 p.m. at Bonneau Branch Library. We'll start our regular ward meeting at 6. And then around 6.45 or 7, we're going to have a special meeting to talk about one of the proposed applicants who wanted to establish a board meeting.
 a restaurant and a convenience store at what used to be Maria's at the corner of Corbin and Cunningham. And I know there are several neighborhood groups that were interested in coming to speak with him. This is a gentleman who is applying to open a business in a place
 it's not going to be Maria's restaurant anymore. So we're either going to have a vacant building or a use. So I'm inviting people to come. He's there to answer questions, to describe his use, and people are welcome to come out. This is not an attack on this individual, and I just want to make it real clear that it's going to be a civil meeting and not some kind of pitchforks and we don't want you here. That I won't put up with.
 Second, I have to chime in on this misinformation that went out about the rental registry. Now that we do have our own communications department, we need to get some counter information out. It was absolutely ridiculous.
 some of the things that people were told directly when they called about information as to what the city was going to do. If you had someone spend the night with you, they would have to register. That would put a lot of us single gals in trouble, but, you know, if you had a relative coming to visit you,
 you had to register your relative. If someone came to spend a week, you were going to get in trouble. It was all a bunch of talk rot because certain people do not want to be accountable for how they manage their properties, residential properties that they are using as a business venture. And I agree with...
 The gentleman, Mr. Hennessy, who spoke tonight, there are other cities that have lots of rental properties that don't have the kind of blight that we do in Rockford. And we really have to get to the point where people stop attacking. And this is what we do in Rockford. Nobody wants to be accountable for anything. And because we don't have home rule, it's very easy to go to the state legislature and other places and get us, we get defeated.
 when we try to have something to do. I'm not pushing for home rule because this is Rockford's destiny and this is what we want. What I am saying is that when you hear something that really sounds ridiculous, it probably is, with regard to registering people or causing them to put their loved ones out into the street or pay a $750 fine. Thank you. Thank you. Hold a minute. Back to our chair here in Canada.
 Thank you, Mayor. I just wanted to remind my colleagues as well as those at home watching that beginning this Friday, May 29th through June 6th, the RACVB as well as the ShareFest group will be downtown working to beautify our downtown headquarters for volunteers. It's 102 South Madison on the second floor and you can sign up at RockfordShareFest.com if you'd like to volunteer.
 There's three different times for folks to volunteer this year, and that's 8 a.m. to noon, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m., and then 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. every day between May 29th and June 6th. Thank you. Thank you.
 I'd like to remind everyone that June 6th and 7th is Rockford Air Fest. Excellent, a good thing for the community. And we'll have the Blue Angels and the F-22 Raptors there. So it's going to be an excellent show and hope everybody can come out and join us.
 Thank you. So we'll move on to our agenda, on to resolutions. We just had the one item, which is the award of bid on the South Main two-way conversion. It was laid over last week and we specially set it tonight for action. So this item is up. Is there questions? Any additional information the staff want to provide before our vote on this item?
 Well, I sent out an email earlier today. I'm not sure if people had a chance to read it. I put a copy on your desk, but I don't want to belabor the point if it doesn't warrant further discussion. It's just punching the ball across the goal line at this point and completing a legacy of decision-making that led us to this. And it's a good project that needs to happen in a timely manner to continue to set the stage for meeting other deadlines down the road.
 Thank you. I was the one that raised some questions last week about this item and I do appreciate I did receive some input from the Mayor and his staff. The email is a little bit too late. Getting an email a day that we're voting on something I think is a problem that we've discussed here many times but still somehow seems to creep up more often than not.
 With respect to this road, I was not against the project. I think it's a great, this goes hand in hand with the Gorman project. I'm a big believer in the Gorman project. I really, really hope that it comes to fruition, that we have a wonderful hotel, convention, complex, rooftop bar, downtown Rockford. I think it would be great for Rockford. My only question was the timing of it. We have just recently modified a development agreement with Gorman due to a number of issues.
 One of them being financing. And so my concern was completing a $4 million take on a road investment before we really know the answer to the Gorman project and where we stand with it. And I don't really have any new information. What I keep waiting for is the day that I get the phone call to say two things. One is that we've locked in the embassy suites.
 as a franchisor in this hotel, and two is that we have financing and it's full throttle ahead. And right now we don't have that. And so my concern was protecting the taxpayers of spending $4.2 million. I know it's not all our money. There's some state money in there, but a small amount. Can we push this out a little bit to wait until we have more information on them going forward? The short answer I've been told is no.
 So, you know, I know we've modified the development agreement already. I'm looking at one of the exhibits in the development agreement. It states that Gorman was supposed to pull its building permit
 lost in reading here. I think they were supposed to pull their building permit by January 1st, 2015. I don't know the answer to whether or not they've actually have a building permit at this point. I know they've done some demolition work, but I don't know if they've had a building permit pulled.
 or even for that matter, apply for. So I understand. I don't want to slow anything down by being too detail-oriented here, but I am concerned about us spending $4.2 million on a short strip of road when we don't have the deal locked in yet. Thank you.
 Alderman Jerky. Just a follow up on Alderman Frost's comments. I have been trying to stretch my memory and it's lost. I've lost my mind. Alderman Hervey and I had a discussion after last meeting.
 City Council's meeting and somebody correct me if I'm wrong, but we at one point this project was also seen as uncoupled from the Gorman project in that the parking and the roadway improvement and some of that infrastructure on the west side of the river was also critical for the redevelopment of that area here. Regardless of whether Gorman came or not. I know we've had some discussion on that in the past and we did see that.
 I as a viable project like I said regardless of core man so I somebody with a better memory than me know of this discussion I'll do my part now as Mr fitter to chime in on some of the specific details of the project
 But when we did our original agreement with Gorman, we made the commitment to move forward on a number of capital investments. And you are correct that you could decouple at least two, if not three, of them from the project, Gorman project itself, and still identify the specific value they're going to bring. So we move forward with acquisitions of properties.
 to make way for the surface level parking. We went and moved forward with the intergovernmental agreement activity with the state of Illinois to be able to transfer ownership, to acquire property first, state property, and then be able to transfer ownership so that the Wyman Street crossover could be eliminated and we could return a two-way traffic on Main Street.
 The two-way traffic on Main Street was also part of a study that goes back years. I want to say 2009 or 2010 when we first looked at it. But what we have done instead of, because the price tag to do the entire one-way pair conversion was too high, is to take this down in bite-size tranches. And this project, I think, gave the impetus to be able to move another tranche forward on the two-way street conversion.
 The third piece of it in terms of capital investment, third and fourth arguably, one third is the parking structure and fourth is some of the improvements that we're looking to do at Chester Street and Davis Park. What we've held off on pursuant to the agreement we approved last week is that we would move forward on the parking structure that's scheduled to go adjacent to what we committed to do with Gorman until they've locked in their financing.
 But what our commitment is now is to move forward with the actual one-way street conversion. And Mr. Vintner can tell us a little bit more about the details and why the timing on that is critical. Thank you, Mayor. So it takes time to build a road, and that's why we've been working with IDOT and CONCERT with their project to the south.
 and entered into several agreements over the course of the Gorman inception here. With that, one of the things that IDOT has agreed to is to release the property and Gorman needs the property to show that they have, they're able to obtain financing ultimately. So it's a chicken or the egg thing type of deal here where we need to build a road to get it done by the benchmarks that have been voted on by council and established for me to achieve.
 We need to open Main Street before IDOT will release Wyman Street. And that all has to happen this summer because everything's supposed to be done on Main Street by March 1st and you can't do road construction in the wintertime. So it's just that we need to begin on this now. There is, you know, it's appropriate in the schedule. We've always been moving forward methodically since I was brought into this last May.
 And here we are to punch it over the goal line. The project does have merits. This is, the Wyman Swerve was part of a long-range transportation plan that was preempted and can never be completed, so there's really no reason for it to exist. And part of our long-range planning was, is that that's prime real estate there, and we want to create a more intimate downtown by shifting the Route 2 traffic over to Church farther away from the core to create a downtown between the river and Church Street. So, you know,
 We need to move forward to meet the goals established in the previous decisions and agreements by all the different parties. It all comes together. It's all part of the fabric of a complex redevelopment scheme that we began a couple years back here with Gorman. All the new work. Thank you, sir.
 First off I was against the two-way for South Main. I will say that but as Some staff and I'm looking at two of them right there Have helped me understand why whether Gorman's is a completed project or not This South Main is a good thing for downtown Rockford So I am really surprised you probably are too that I
 I, it's a lot of money, but this is not, this will be a success whether Gorman's becomes an actuality or not. This is not contingent on the two-way South Main isn't going to work if there's not a hotel there. This is still going to be a viable way for people to get from the north to the south of Rockford and back and forth.
 It's a lot of money, but I'm going to have to support it. Thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey. I just wanted to clarify, Mr. Vintner, you said shifting Route 2 traffic to Court Street? You're not talking about shifting Church. You're not talking about shifting South Main. South Main is going to be two-way, correct? North-South and it will feed right into South-North Main. We designed the section from Cedar to Chestnut.
 to eventually, it's a city street, and the agreement that was passed through council at the beginning of May is a route remarking agreement that puts northbound route to in the northbound lanes. The street was designed to be compatible with what our ultimate downtown two-way system and festival zones and moving pedestrians and people back and forth between the hotel and the Ingersoll and other places.
 What we're talking about when we say Route 2, we're just talking about the route marking and reconfiguring Church Street to handle two-way traffic so that the through traffic that's following their GPS or what have you that wants to go Route 2 will follow it and go around the central core on the west side of the river. And the people that actually want to be downtown and walk and park won't have to deal with that through traffic. Okay, thank you. Open issue.
 So help me understand here again. See on Church Street, are you talking about, in fact, from State Street south on Church Street going to Two Way? Because if this is part of that, that makes it difficult for me to go forward. It's not currently part of the program. We're doing this in sections.
 as we can get IDOT on board. And IDOT actually was willing to jump through some hoops for us because of all the partnering that we've done on South Main and North Main and West State Street. And we've helped each other kind of come along the way with our different projects.
 getting Wyman vacated and converting this little section into just part of a larger master plan that the mayor referenced T.Y. Lynn performed. So Church Street is not, just to be very clear, Church Street is not part of this at all. The only thing that's part of this right now with our agreement with the state would be to, for that small section, which is currently route two, when it's going north, takes that curve over to Wyman,
 when you get from South Main to Cedar and then you hit Wyman, that's the crossover. The only thing this does from a routing standpoint, as Mr. Vittner alluded to, is the Route 2 marking will currently, or the new version, would go to Chestnut, hang a right, and then take a left back onto Wyman. So it's just that crossover that changes marking.
 The other study that he alluded to is, because I know there's been a lot of discussion on whether or not we even need to convert Church Street, which I think is an open question we can take on later. I just don't want to take on more than we need to at this moment. Right now it's just the Wyman Street section, the small section. Altman, Thompson, Kelly. How much assistance are we to receive from IDOT on this? One point, and correct me if I'm wrong, but it's 1.2 million. On the project budget that's 4.1 or something like that.
 Will this $3 million roughly that we pay, will this be wound into other projects we have if we have to bond it? So it's currently part of our capital improvement plan that we passed last year. Takes care of this? Pardon? Takes care of this? Yes, it covers that and I believe that we did have a slight increase over our engineer's estimate of approximately 10% with Mr. Vittner and Mr. Holtz.
 identified before as you believe we'll be able to make up for that in other savings and other projects that we hopefully will have throughout the season. But go ahead and comment on that if you want to. We talked about all the projects that have been brought forward to council right now and we're trending even so we've made up for some of these changes in the market conditions as we come later in the spring with bids and now that we know the market conditions are different.
 we're gonna reevaluate how we're coming forward with the future projects so that we can kind of pace the market. And we don't want to spend more than what we've shown in the CIP. Right now we're even, all the projects that we have have balanced out. So one of the things we, hopefully our citizens recognize this,
 we've got more projects that have been let out more quickly in our actual under construction this year than any time that I could remember in my lifetime frankly in Rockford history and that's a great work of us getting our budget done our CIP approved and then council taking action to get those projects bids out and let and so that's why as he's alluding to or even right now for the year we'll be continuing to evaluate just based on here's the good news, good news is there's more market
 activity, which is good ultimately, but we're just making sure we monitor our projects throughout the season so that we can continue to stay on budget. Thank you. If there's no further questions, I'll ask the clerk to please call the roll. Durkee, Gatches, McNamara, Frost, Harvey, Connell, Thompson-Kelly, Odo, Newberg, Beach, Beck, McNeely, Shirely, 13, I think. Thank you very much.
 And that, believe it or not, is all for our special meeting. Unless you want me to hang out here for a little bit longer, I'm happy to do it. But otherwise, I'll take a motion to adjourn. It's been seconded all this afternoon.