Okay, we will call to order the City of Rockford City Council Special City Council meeting for Monday, May 24th, 2021. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Jerky. Here. Logman. Tunberg. Here. Frost. Here. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonney. Here. 13 present. Thank you.
 Excellence we have a quorum. We first have a public hearing and I would turn in the public hearing over to Alderman Rose Thank you, Your Honor. We
 We have a public hearing as being held tonight pursuant to 65 Illinois compiled statute 511-15.1-3 for the pre-annexation agreement for the following property, 1203 South Meridian Road. Notice of this hearing was given by publication in the Rockford Register Star on May 8th,
 2021 that notice informed citizens of Rockford that the Rockford City Council will hold a public hearing on Monday May 24th 2021 at 530 p.m. In council chambers on the second floor at Rockford City Hall Located at 425 East State Street Rockford, Illinois For the consideration of a proposed pre annexation agreement for 1203 South Meridian Road are there any comments or questions from the council members on the pre annexation and
 Are there any comments or questions from the public? Seeing none, the hearing is now closed. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Rose. Next, we'll go to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development, and we'll go back to code and regulation. Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval.
 for item A, zoning map amendment from County AG to I, One Light Industrial Zoning District in conjunction with a pre-annexation agreement and B, variations to allow deviations to the zoning ordinance for the pre-annexation agreement at 1203 South Meridian Road. That's it. Thank you. We have one item before you. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Alderman Durkee. Alderman Logman. Alderman Toonberg.
 Sorry, Alderman Thunberg. It's just the first item under new committee reports. Yes, sir. It's one item A and B.
 You're fine. I'll just say don't worry. So it's under City Council new committee items, code and regulations, item 1A and B, and it's a zoning map amendment for county ag to I-1 light industrial zoning district in conjunction with the pre-annexation agreement and item B, which is variations to allow deviations to the zoning ordinance. Oh, okay. I was one page down. I'm sorry. No worries. Aye. Excellent.
 Alderman Frost, Alderman Tarina, Alderman Prunty, Alderman Wilkins, Alderman Hoffman, Alderman Rose, Aye. Alderman Beach, Aye. Alderman Quinones, Aye. Alderman Meeks, Aye. Alderman McNeely, Aye. Alderman Bonney, Aye. Alderman Hoffman, 14 ayes. Excellent. Moving right along tonight. Under unfinished business, we'll go back to Code and Regulation Committee. Alderman Rose.
 Item 1, which is Committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a planned unit development consisting of 240 apartment units and a four-story, 146-room assisted independent living and memory care facility in a C1 limited office zoning district at 6654 Garrett Lane. Thank you. So we have one item before us. Alderman Logerman. Thank you.
 i would make a motion to lay this over once more i know i recognize that it would need 10 aldermen to support this um i see a letter here in front of us from mr o'keefe of midway village um i i personally have a few more questions that i wouldn't i would like answered so um yeah i would make a motion to lay it over thank you so we have a motion and we have a second to lay this item over is there any discussion on that
 Alderman Hoffman. Thank you mayor. I'm just wondering if there's any way to get the developer to meet with the community and answer a lot of questions and
 I've been reading next door this last weekend and the developer is being accused of everything including global warming. I swear. He's the reason they're closing Saturn Park and it goes on and on and on. And I really wish that the developer could meet with the folks and let them know what he really is intending to build. And then we have a discussion. Thank you. Alderman Durkee. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. The developer, the city staff, managed to get the developer to meet on a Zoom meeting that was very well attended. I did attend another neighborhood meeting. The developer obviously wasn't there, but the developer made himself accessible to the community. It was pretty well advertised.
 So and the developer actually answered quite a few questions. However, they kind of pretty much failed to assuage the neighbors, but he did, they did do it. The engineer was present and went over the development with them and their plan. Thank you. Any other discussion? We have a motion. We have a second to lay the item over. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina.
 Prenti? Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Bonney? 14 ayes. Excellent. The item is laid over.
 I'll move officers reports to the end. We have Rome numeral six appointments laid over item one appointment of Joyce Higgins to the Community Relations Commission's to fill the vacant seat or the seat vacated by Reginald Alexander this appointment will expire in June 2023 Pursuant to rule 18 this appointment is now up for passage Is there any discussion on that item alderman McNeely?
 Thank you Mr. Mayor and thank you for this appointment. I know Ms. Higgins and she would be excellent on this committee, this commission. She has done really great things here. She had started a magazine that was successful, that was, I thought was pretty excellent.
 And she's now heading up Booker Washington Center. I think she's doing a great job over there I know she helped put together a book Regarding the history of Booker. I know that she's now doing interviews Or her staff is doing interviews to get information to help continue building that history of Booker so I
 I am very proud to be able to vote for Ms. Higgins for this commission. Thank you. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Fronte. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 13 ayes, 1 no.
 Excellent. Thank you. Next up, we'll go to motions and resolutions. Code and Regulation Committee, Alderman Rose. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the pre-annexation agreement for the property located at 1203 South Meridian Road. Excellent. So we have one item before you, which requires 10 votes. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Tarina. Aye.
 Prunty? Wilkins? Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones? Meeks? McNeely? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 14 ayes. Excellent, thank you. Next up we will move to new business and back to code and regulation. Alderman Rose. Thank you, your honor. Item one, an ordinance approving a zoning map amendment from county AG to
 I-1 light industrial zoning district in conjunction with a pre-annexation agreement and variations to allow deviations to the zoning ordinance per the pre-annexation agreement at 1203 Meridian Road. Thank you. We have one item because the second item has been laid over. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing none, clerk will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Aye. Frunty. Aye. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye.
 Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Meeks. McNeely. Bonnie. 14 ayes. Excellent. Next up, we have officers' reports. Are there any aldermen who would like to share a report? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I'd like to report that it was a successful, I think for the most part, city market this last Friday. I would like to thank City Administrator Cagnoni for...
 hanging out with me and uh going around thank you god just i i as as alderman of the ward um i i owe it to a constituent who did want me to mention that uh there are businesses some businesses that uh are concerned with state street being closed i think a uh
 Everyone that I witnessed down there felt safe and secure with the COVID situation going on. There was plenty of social distancing opportunities. I think overall it seemed to...
 it was very encouraging to see people out and about after what we've gone through in the last year with people stuck at home and not being able to get out and it was just a very encouraging event to to go to and i'd encourage
 all that may have not made it down last week to try to make it down and enjoy themselves. There's a lot of great businesses down there that could really use your assistance.
 not only existing businesses, but businesses that are being part of the market themselves, that are kind of in the incubation stage, and this can either make or break their business going forward. So please get down there and enjoy yourself, and Bill will buy you a beer if he sees you down there. So thank you.
 Excellent and certainly was a nice market. I believe over 5,000 people registered in for the market So that was exciting alderman rose just wanted to say thank you to our public work staff I know Mitch Leatherby and Taylor Henley did a lot of work this past week on tree planting throughout the city of Rockford about it
 in my ward alone i know they've planted well over 100 new trees and and that goes to the hard work that taylor's put into that program and reaching out to citizens and getting the guys out there to to get those new trees out absolutely thank you alderman mcneely thank you mr mayor i i didn't know about the tree planting but i'm sure they'll be more than happy to to come through some other areas of the city
 Mr. Mayor we had a caucus a Democratic caucus meeting Very happy to say that Janessa Wilkins is the new chair of the Democratic caucus April Prunty is the vice chair of the caucus and the secretary is Bill Rose, so I wish all of them the very best. I'm sorry. We also have a
 Mark Bonnie for To represent the caucus for the redistricting map So I'm very glad that all of the individuals got those positions and I look forward to working with them Thank you. Did any of those individuals bringing cupcakes as you should have? Awesome, thanks alderman, Terina
 thank you mr chairman um i just want to say thank you to the ricvb and the creative initiative um because we are getting two murals um in south rockford and that is a big deal to the residents um big deal to me um so i'm just happy to bring some beautification and art into our space because it's something that i heard often that the residents want to see so thank you to everyone that contributed to that project well thank you
 Alderman Quinones. Yes, I just want to say thank you to Carl Sanders for putting on a very good presentation To the 6th Street neighborhood Association last week people really impressed with his answers Not recommend him any all have been here that wants a good speaker at your neighborhood watch meetings it like Carl Sanders So that's all Thank you. Alderman Wilkins did you have your hand raised? Yes
 Yes, I would like to thank the fire department located over on the Winnebago area. We had a neighborhood cleanup in the Coronado Haskell area, and they came out and provided us with some water, so we definitely appreciate that. Excellent. Thank you. Any other reports? Seeing none, is there a motion to adjourn? There's a motion, there's a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed, have a wonderful night.