Can you please call the roll? Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Herbie. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Here. Rose. Here. Beach. Quinones.
 thank you we have a quorum uh this evening we will begin with an invocation from chaplain dan persinger of christ united methodist and i just want to say congratulations to dan who graduated from rock valley college just uh two weeks ago let us pray most gracious and loving god thank you for bringing all of us together tonight for our city council meeting
 Please watch over the meeting so our aldermen and mayor can continue to provide a service to the city of Rockford residents and visitors. And please watch over all of our first responders that are coming on duty and leaving duty so at the end of their shift, everyone can go home. In your name I pray. Amen. Thank you.
 I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the special City Council meeting held on April 30th 2018 You have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion seeing none all those in favor say aye those opposed same time item passes Could I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for the strategic planning session held on April 30th 2018? You have a motion in a second. Is there any discussion seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye
 Those opposed, same sign. All right. One more for everyone's enjoyment. Can I get a motion to approve the journal proceedings for city council meeting held on May 7th, 2018? We have a motion and a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Okay. Motion passes. So we have a wonderful but also big night when it comes to proclamations.
 So first up, if Barbara Clements and Erica Hughes could please come forward and any other guests that you have. Come on. Awesome. How are you? So I have practiced this once or twice and I'm still a little nervous. So this is for ALS Awareness Month. Whereas...
 Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or ALS, is better known as Lou Gehrig's disease. And whereas the initial symptoms of ALS is weakness of the skeletal muscles, especially those of the extremities, as the ALS progresses, the patient experiences difficulty in the swallowing, talking, and breathing, and eventually causes the muscles to atrophy, and the patient becomes a functional quadriplegic.
 And whereas, on average, patients diagnosed with ALS only survive two to five years, and ALS has no known cause, means of prevention, or cure. And whereas, research indicates that military veterans are approximately twice as likely to develop ALS as those who have not served in the military.
 And whereas the Department of Veterans Affairs implemented regulations to establish a presumption of service connection for ALS, thereby presuming that the development of ALS was incurred or aggravated by a veteran's service in the military.
 And whereas ALS Awareness Month increases the public's awareness of ALS patients, circumstances, and acknowledges the terrible impact this disease has not only on the patient, but also on the family and our entire community. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the month of May 2018 to be ALS Awareness Month. Would you like to share a few words? I don't have much to say. That was awesome. Very good. So...
 Now, ALS is absolutely a devastating disease for many patients and families. I want to personally thank the Clements family, Erica and Barbara, for shutting light on this terrible disease and allowing us to promote advocacy in the city of Rockford and nationally and helping us.
 lived through the spirit of Al. For those of you who don't know him, Al was just an amazing individual. A lot of spirit, energy, daily he touched my life and changed the way that I practice forever. So thank you very much for this and thank you Mayor McNamara. Thank you. The next proclamation is for Community Action Month and George Davis will be accepting.
 Whereas community action agencies were created when the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 was signed into law, and community action agencies have a 54-year history of promoting self-sufficiency for the limited income. And whereas a national network of over 1,000 community action agencies have made essential contributions to individuals, families, and communities, including thousands each year living in Boone and Winnebago counties.
 and the city of Rockford by providing innovative and effective programs and services. And whereas community action agencies are needed as major participants in the reform of the welfare system as we know it.
 And whereas welfare reform in Illinois has benefited from the state's partnership with community action agencies, and whereas those with insufficient income continue to need opportunities to improve their lives and their living conditions, thus ensuring that all citizens are able to live in dignity,
 And whereas the city of Rockford, state of Illinois, and the entire United States must continue to promote economic security and opportunities by engaging all citizens and building stronger communities. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 2018 to be Community Action Month. George, would you like to share a few words with us?
 Sure. Thank you, Mayor, for the proclamation. And I just want to take a brief moment to thank the Council for its continued support of the work of community action in this community. Head Start, Early Head Start, Weatherization, Energy Assistance,
 self-sufficiency programs, neighborhood programs, community gardens, economic opportunities for those who are trying to make their way into the mainstream of employment. All of these and many other activities in Winnebago County that address issues impacting thousands of residents are part of what Community Action really is about supporting. And your continued support of Community Action as a city council
 having it be a strong part of the city's offering of service and assistance is, it says, I think, a great deal for the commitment and compassion of this city as a community. And so I just wanted to take the opportunity to express the appreciation on behalf of the staff, those of us who work in community action, and our board for your continued support.
 and really look forward to the many things that we still have to do, the work that has to be done to address all of the things that relate to the challenges that are presented by those who live without adequate income in our community. We're especially proud of the continued work that we've been doing
 to really improve the impacts and outcomes of services. It's not just about providing services, but what is the benefit and what is the impact? I think this council has helped hold us accountable to that as part of our community, and that's important as much as it is to say that we're providing services. So again, thank you all for your work in this community and for your support of community action.
 Next up, we have the one I've been waiting for all week, the safe boating week. Robert Canfield will be here. I've been a little nervous about this one myself. Oh, man. If anyone takes photos of this, your garbage will not be picked up. Great to see you. How are you doing? Pretty good. Thank you.
 Whereas, while being a marvelous source of recreation, boating to the unprepared can be a risky sport. And whereas, our waterways can become crowded at times and be a place of chaos and confusion. And whereas, on average, 700 people in the United States die each year in boating-related accidents, with nearly 70% of those fatalities caused by drownings.
 And whereas one particular behavior that can reduce the number of boaters that lose their lives by drowning each year by approximately 90% is the wearing of a life jacket.
 And whereas, this is why we must continue to spread the messages of boating safety, not only during National Safe Boating Week, but also throughout the entire year. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as Mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 19th through the 25th, 2018, to be Safe Boating Week. Would you like to share a few words? You sure you would. Never give an attorney a microphone. Thank you.
 On behalf of the Rockford Squadron, United States Power Squadron, also known as America's Boating Club, I wish to thank the Mayor and the Council for recognizing the importance of and for voting, voting safety. America's Boating Club or U.S. Power Squadron, the world's largest recreational boating organization with more than 35,000 members. For more than 100 years, we have worked with the Coast Guard Auxiliary to make the water safer through boating education, civic service, including teaching public boating courses.
 and conducting vessel safety checks. The proclamation read by the mayor indicates that most drownings involve boaters who are not wearing their life jackets. I understand that many boaters go out with their recreational day on the water thinking, it's a nice day, I don't need to wear a life jacket, or I'm an experienced boater, I know what I'm doing. But let me quote a few statistics. The great majority of injuries and deaths on the water relate to boaters between the ages of 36 and 55.
 Over 77% of the drivers did not have a boating safety course, but they had between 500 to 1,000 hours of boating experience. The boats involved usually an open fiberglass boat, less than 25 feet in length, and an engine between 75 and 150 horsepower. Your average boat, your average boater. And the weather?
 Most of the deaths and injuries, by a substantial number, occurred when the temperatures were between 70 and 89 degrees, in calm water, light wind, and it was daytime with good visibility. A perfect day to be on the water. The major cause for most boating injuries, improper lookout and operator intertension. The contributing cause for the majority of death is the consumption of alcoholic beverages.
 Again, taking advantage of a perfect day to be on the water and you're not having fun and a great day. Then, without warning, you and your passengers are in the water and injured. But that life jacket you were required to have is still on board, and it's not going to help you or your friends or your family. So as we celebrate Safe Boating Week, sponsored by the National Safe Boating Council, which is always before Memorial Day weekend, we are stressing the need to wear a life jacket.
 before i ask the mayor to help with the annual testing of an inflatable life jacket let me leave you these final numbers 80 percent of the boating deaths are as a result of drowning two-thirds of the drowning victims were good swimmers and 83 of those who died were not wearing a life jacket please wear yours so mayor i have brought a different life jacket than before
 This one is an automatic one. The last one we have is a manual. So this one, if you fall under the water and hit your head, it still works. But as required, we have to test these once a year. So could you model this for me please? He's already ready to do it. No. Okay. Yeah! Somebody have a glass of water? No. I'd be happy to do it. When testing a life jacket, especially inflatable life jacket, a couple things to note. It has to have, be in good quality and good shape.
 We test them once a year. If it's a type 5, you have to wear it for it to count. Type 2s and type 3s can just be on your boat, but you should wear it. Notice DNR wears them, the sheriff wears them, everybody wears them. You should also. But one of the things that we have to do every year is to make sure it inflates properly and it stays inflated. So normally by doing that, we normally have a little device here that you blow up things with, but given the time...
 We don't have that kind of time. So obviously this one works. Now, one of the requirements is that we have to leave this sit for 24 hours to make sure it doesn't leak. So, Mayor, I'll be back tomorrow afternoon if that's okay with you. Okay. Thank you very much. Jeff Kolke, I know what address you live at. Next up, we have National Public Works Week, and Mark Stockman will be receiving this proclamation.
 Whereas public work services provided in our community are an integral part of our citizens' everyday lives, and whereas the support of an understanding and informed citizenry is vital to the efficient operation of public work systems and programs such as water, sewers, streets, highways, public buildings, and solid waste collection,
 And whereas the health, safety, and comfort of this community greatly depends on these facilities and services. And whereas the quality and effectiveness of these facilities, as well as their planning, design, and construction, is vitally dependent upon the efforts and skill of the public works officials.
 And whereas the efficiency of the qualified and dedicated personnel who staff public works departments is materially influenced by the people's attitude and understanding of the importance of the work they perform. Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim the week of May 20th to be National Public Works Week. Would you like to share a few words, Mark? Thank you.
 Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, Council. National Public Works Week is just what it says it is. It's a national recognition for public works to further illustrate the impact that public works has on all communities, not just ours. Here locally, you see that profound impact all the time. Our road construction projects, improvements to our water system, street maintenance, forestry, sewer maintenance, traffic signal and lighting maintenance and repair.
 as well as a excuse me a host of services that we provide to other departments within the city such as vehicle maintenance and Property maintenance when you lump all of this together into one is a very significant impact that adds a level of safety economic impact as well as Quality of life issues for our citizens. So thank you again for allowing me to be here. I
 Next up, we have National Emergency Medical Services Week, and I believe we have a number of folks, including Trent Brass and Bob Vertes. I can't believe you're letting all the others off the hook. Come on up. How are you? Great to see you. How are you? Good to see you. How are you doing? Good to see you. How are you? Good to see you. How are you? Good to see you. Okay. I don't know if I need to wear a life jacket if I have one of you on the boat maybe. Okay.
 Whereas emergency medical services is a vital public service, and whereas members of the emergency medical services teams are ready to provide life-saving care to those in need 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, and whereas access to quality emergency care dramatically improves the survival and recovery rate of those who experience sudden illness or injury.
 And whereas the emergency medical services system consists of emergency physicians, emergency nurses, emergency medical technicians, paramedics, firefighters, educators, administrators, and others. And whereas the members of the emergency medical services teams, whether career or volunteer, engage in thousands of hours of specialized training and continuing education to enhance their life-saving skills.
 And whereas it is appropriate to recognize the value and the accomplishments of emergency medical services providers by designating Emergency Medical Services Week. And whereas this year's theme for the National EMS Week is EMS Strong, Stronger Together. Now therefore I, Thomas P. Maxmer, as Mayor of the City of Rockford do hereby proclaim the week of May 20th through the 26th, 2018 to be National Emergency Medical Services Week.
 Would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mayor. Thank you, City Council, for that proclamation. This week is definitely a week to acknowledge our guys for the professionalism that they exhibit as providing the medical service that we do to the community.
 And also with this week, the Illinois Department of Public Health recognizes our members that have years of service as a paramedic. And so I want to honor four of our gentlemen here that have years of service as a paramedic. The first is District Chief Charles Barnes. He's a 30-year EMT paramedic, and he's been on the fire department for 32 years. Next is Captain Jimmy Crine. He's 25 years as an EMT paramedic and 25 years on the department.
 And Lieutenant Dan Epcar, he's 10 years as an EMT paramedic and 16 years on the fire department. And lastly, Firefighter Joel Bradford, he's 10 years as an EMT paramedic and 12 years on the job. This week also...
 Also this week, one of the things we do for EMS week is have our annual survivor event, and that's going to be hosted this Friday at the College of Medicine on Parkview. So we encourage anybody to attend that. It's at 3 p.m. And we have nine survivors this year that we're going to recognize them plus the crew members that provided outstanding medical care to them. And lastly, E.J. DeLeonardo, he's our OSF EMS regional manager, and he's here to say a couple words.
 Thank you, Mayor. On behalf of OSF St. Anthony Medical Center and the Sisters of the Third Order, I want to tell you that it's both an honor and a privilege to train your Rockford firefighters in emergency medical services at the paramedic level, basic level, and their continuing education. I've been around the country, studied
 paramedics and services, and I can tell you as a council, as a city mayor, and as a community, that everyone should be very proud of your men and women on the Rockford Fire Department that provide this service to your community. They stand tall every single day. They're there no matter what. They visit your houses potentially or your place of business at the worst time maybe in your life or a loved one,
 and they perform, they do the job, and they stand right there with the top in the country. So we're very proud to be a part of this whole organization. Thank you. I would just add that the Survivor event is really one of the most remarkable events I think we have in the community each year. Next up, we have Catholic Charities Day, and Mr. Pat Wynn. How are you? Great to see you. Thank you.
 Catholic Charities was organized for the city of Rockford in May 1938, and later expanded to cover the entire 11 counties of the Diocese of Rockford. And whereas, in its 80-year history, Catholic Charities has fed, clothed, and cared for hundreds of thousands of...
 of people in need within the city of Rockford. Whereas, Catholic Charities has partnered with the city of Rockford, other faith-based and social service organizations, and the United Way to live according to its mission statement of serving people with compassion, dignity, and respect, and to work with people of good will in advocating for justice. Whereas, Catholic Charities continues
 Adult and children's programs at St. Elizabeth's Center, its adoption services, advocacy for residents of long-term care facilities, resettlement of refugees and victims of human trafficking, school and community counseling, pregnancy and parenting education, and immigration services. And they continue to be a great asset to our community.
 Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as mayor of the City of Rockford, do hereby proclaim May 21st, 2018 to be Catholic Charities Day. Pat, would you like to share a few words? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Thank you, Council and department heads and the people, the staff who make this city really run. Thank you very much. Catholic Charities began our 81st year today. We are the church's face-to-face presence in the lives of the neediest among us.
 Our mission statement has three components to it. First is to treat people with compassion, dignity, and respect. That's a good reason to carry the Choose Civility card. Our second mission statement component is to assist people in achieving a degree of independence consonant with their human dignity. That's really our operating mission.
 And finally, to join with other people of goodwill in advocating for justice. That's our activism mission. So service and self-sufficiency are regular and daily parts, important parts of our program. Our advocacy has been joined with many others as we try to end domestic violence and human trafficking, an important component of all of our missions, and now also with the city of Rockford.
 I don't have a birthday cake today to offer to you. The chief didn't think 81 flaming candles would really be that good of an idea, but I do want to say thank you to all of the aldermen that we have an opportunity to work with, to the staff, to the department heads. Thank you very much for this. Thank you for recognizing Catholic Charities, and God bless you and the city of Rockford. Thank you all.
 We are most fortunate to have Catholic Charities, but especially UPAT for all the time and dedication you give to our community. Thank you. So it's just made aware that we have six more proclamations. I'm joking. You get to read them, John. Okay, next up we have Codes and Regulations Committee Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have three proclamations, not proclamations, but I have three agenda items this evening.
 The first is a memorandum from Mark Stockman, Public Works Director, regarding the modification of driveway and sidewalk policy. The second is a memorandum from Vicki Manson, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the transfer of city owned properties to Rockford Corridor Improvement, RCI, under the Blight Reduction Program and Partnership Agreement.
 And the third is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney, regarding the proposed revisions and additions to Chapter 29, Taxi Cabs and the Code of Ordinances. All three of those items will be referred to the Codes and Regs Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirelli. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Xavier Whitford.
 Central Services manager regarding prevailing wage Resolution and I also have a memorandum from Andrea Henrik housing rehabilitation specialists regarding an application for the federal home loan bank of Chicago Competitive affordable housing program grant and both of those items will be referred to finance and personnel. Thank you. Next up. We have alderman Durkee
 thank you your honor i have two items for planning and development number one a memorandum from mark williams economic development manager regarding the proposed amendment to the sub lease agreement between the city of rockford and waksang american corporation this will be referred to planning development the second is a memorandum from nelson solstrom building code official regarding the proposed demolition of properties through the demolition ranking system this memorandum also be referred to planning and development
 thank you alderman durkin next up we will go to our legal director for hopefully some good news thank you mr mayor uh just reporting that we are in receipt of our quarterly franchise fee payment from comcast in the amount of 445 501.63 all right i love when we get checks uh next up we have uh public speakers this evening we have five public speakers i would just like to remind all five public speakers uh
 that you get three minutes to speak and you'll hear an alarm when your time is up. The first public speaker that we have is Brandy Gardner.
 Hello.
 Go look, I am sending you out as lambs in among wolves. Do not carry a money bag or a food pouch or sandals and do not greet anyone along the road. Wherever you enter into a house, say first, may this house have peace. May this house have peace. And if a friend of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if there is not, it will return to you.
 So stay in that house eating and drinking the things they provide for the worker is worthy of his wages. Do not keep transformed from house to house. Also wherever you enter into a city and they receive you, eat what is set before you and cure the sick ones and
 Tell them the kingdom of God has come near to you. But wherever you enter into the city and they do not receive you, go out into its main streets and say, we wipe off against you every, even the dust that sticks to our feet from your city. Nevertheless, know this, that the kingdom of God has come near. I tell you that it will be more endurable for Sodom in that city than for that city.
 For those that have an ear, let them hear. I asked the Holy Spirit what to talk about today, and the Holy Spirit told me to command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty nor to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who gives us richly all things to enjoy. My name is Brandi Gardner. I've been a business owner all of my life.
 However, I've been a business owner almost two years at Brandy's Candies, which is 113 North Rockton, right across the street from Rockford Rescue Mission. Brandy's Candies is a staple in a community where people come and get encouragement and also treated with the utmost respect. Importantly, they get positivity spoken into their atmosphere and into their environment.
 I'm also a transformational coach. I've actually spoken one of my famous messages, don't allow familiar spirits to kill you while not allowing unfamiliar spirits to heal you. At the Rockford Rescue Mission, where I fed 180 people out of my own pocket, DCFS, the Department of Children and Family Services, and many other churches throughout the community, thank you so much for this opportunity. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Skye Garcia.
 Okay, cool. It's working. Hi, I'd like to introduce myself as Skye Garcia, a Rockford resident, community member, activist, organizer, child, and young adult activist.
 This being the first time that I've addressed the council, I'd like to say that I'm 22 years old, and I'm constantly surrounded by other active community members that are seeking peace and justice within Rockford. We're striving for a community that actively stands to end discrimination, the spread of racism, while also looking to end many types of violence.
 With that being said, I should be responsible and only speak on my behalf, though. So one of my main purposes is to end racism, and I think that we can do that by focusing on the liberation of our youth.
 That's kind of the easy part, but the flip side is identifying and discussing systemic racism as it happens within social economic institutions. And I kind of say this with experience of past racism, whether it be from neighbors, friends, co-workers, bosses, and of course history. I hope that this is a minor occurrence.
 for this administration, but I do urge everyone, especially the mayor, to speak their free mind when combating racist critiques or modifications to policy and opportunity.
 I have limited time to speak and I want to speak like more. I want to continue to come here and kind of spread the work that I'm doing, but I just like to encourage inspiration and new ideas from the Council Women and Men. I'm pretty active with my alderman who is Jonathan Logerman and I don't think he's present right now, but um, yeah, I just want to stress the importance of outreach and true partnership.
 Rest in peace to Shannon Graves, rest in peace to Jovan Blake, rest in peace to Mark Barmore, and rest in peace to Eddie Patterson. Thank you for your time. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Zane Marshall. Hi all. Oh, there we are. Alright. I come to you today humbly as a person from Rockford. I've grown up here all my life. I'm originally from Haskell Avenue, but I've kind of lived all over the place at this point. I go to college in Iowa, but I'm here for the summer.
 And I love Rockford, and I think this is a great place. But I think with the events that have happened time and time again, from Javon to Mark Barmore to this recent Eddie Patterson thing, I think it's time to call for genuine... I think this whole city needs to strive to just better itself. And I think that there's been a...
 a nervousness to move forward with anything due to a fear of you know maybe doing something wrong but I think we could really make changes by perhaps instituting civilian review boards or over the police department to ensure that we can prevent issues of brutality from coming again we can call for oh sorry oh thanks yeah I think it would be good in the spirit of Rockford I think
 Rockford has been built up by lots of good people, and many of them have been black people, like from Germanicus Kent, the city's founding, to Charles Box, to my good friends Sky and Star, who I've been doing activist work with for the past couple years.
 I think that the city of Rockford owes it to that legacy because Rockford's always been a city with a strong black community, a strong sense of diversity in general. And that eliminating the scourge of racism and discrimination in this city ought to be a top priority for this administration and for our city council. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Isaiah, the 26th chapter, the third verse, the prophet said, thou will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind has stayed on thee because he trusts in the Lord. What I want to speak about tonight is the military video complex.
 In America, children are being drafted into war at about the age of seven. The military industrial complex that President Eisenhower won against is becoming a military video complex with insidious consequence for our children and our society. American military action resembles high-tech electronic games. While on our own soil, we are witness another war. The soldiers, our children, the battlegrounds, their schools and the streets, and they are
 engagement resemble the same violent electronic games that train our military and entertain our children. Doom will become reality, wrote one of the two Littleton terrorists before the Columbine high school killing began. Those two student killers won a place in history for the moment on April 20, 1999 by committing the worst school massacre in American history. They killed 12 fellow classmates, one teacher,
 and wounded 23 others in a five-hour siege. What they did wasn't about anger or hate, said their friend Brooks Brown. It was about them living in the moment like they were inside a video game. The two teenage boys were in the moment.
 boys were immersed in America's culture of violence delivered through television, film, the internet, stereo systems and electronic games such as Doom, which they played for hours daily including a personalized version of the game that one of the boys had modified to match the halls of this high school column. You're one of Earth's cracked soldiers, hard-bitten
 tough and heavily armed, describes the instruction manual of Dune which has sold about 2.7 million copies. When the late alien invaders struck Mars, you were the first on the scene. By killing, killing and killing. You won the ball. You, the boss, had linked their homes
 computers so they could play first-person shooter deathmatch against each other while sitting alone in their own retired lieutenant colonel David Ross an expert at desensitizing soldiers to increase their killing and firstly an art of on killing the psychological cost of learning to kill in war and society safe. Violent video games
 hardwired young people for shooting at humans. The entertainment industry conditions the young in exactly the same way the military does. Civilian society apes the training and conditioning techniques of the military at its peril. The two students mimic the game Doom in the Little Sun High School Mask, Time Magazine diagram of the boys' arts of weapons and pipe bombs. They use that
 black day look as if they were copied from the dual map. America's entrenched to the culture of violence. Our reputation in the world is a violent culture. It's based on crime statistics, but far more prevalent and damages a steady stream of violence on our screen. Film, television, internet, electronic games, and many electronic games, which grant the player the privilege of pulling the trigger and relentless violence and graphic living of technology intoxicated. Thank you, Prophet.
 Our next public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Tom McNamara, all the men and all the women of Rockwood, Illinois, and our citizens of Rockwood, Illinois. Proverbs 28, verses 27 say, God want us to identify with the needy. Now ignore them. The second part of this proverb could be restarted positively.
 Those who open their eyes to the poor people will be blessed. If we help others when they are in trouble, they will do whatever they can to return the favor. Paul promised that God will supply all our needs. He usually does that through other people. What can you do today to help God supply someone's need? By the way, if Obama had paid off a prom star, cheated on three wives, had kids by three women, married an immigrant –
 from another country have hosts of campaign staffers plead guilty to federal crime and spend one-third of his time in the office as a resort, the Republicans would have turned the world upside down. We are still living in a world of white privilege, racism, and dictator Donald Trump.
 This one white youth named Couch in Texas killed four people and injured nine others while driving drunk. He gets to serve two years probation and was released just this last week. Now, an African American sister in Texas named Crystal Madison is sentenced to five years in prison for voting while on probation.
 This past two weeks, right here at City Hall, we watched and saw white privilege firsthand. Ms. Cox and others made a public request to have the bridge renamed. The next day, the Rockford Register Star posted on the front page of the newspaper, support increased for the police memorial bridge. I beg to differ. We received a lot of emails, a lot of phone calls, a lot of people was highly upset.
 about that. We wonder where they get these 3,000 signatures from. Did they come from Rockford or did they come from out of the city? We have nothing against the Cox family, but history has it right. Officer Cox lived and went to school in Manchester,
 Why not name the school and the bridge where he lived and raised his family at? Why do you all pick Morgan Street Bridge of all the other bridges built in and out of Rockland? This will not bring the community together. They went over three-minute speech. Last Monday night, one of the manager staff from the BMO House and Bank Center spoke, and he went past three minutes and then had an open and question-and-answer period during this three minutes.
 I'm not complaining. However, I'm asking that we all get the same or only white privilege get that. The new Jim Crow is alive and well right here in Rockford. This past Sunday, I was on a special guest on Jeremiah 2911 cast at 4 p.m. on the Stella Award winning solar radio station.
 We talked an hour about how some people in the system and other startups, new organizations, by working and helping the people in the lower-income community, get thousands of dollars to help to start preventative programs or after-the-fact programs. However, you never see them come in the community every blue moon or during election time. I'd like to say what she said. They are just pimping the community. I'll be back next week. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a code under code and regulations committee for new committee reports alderman Shirely Thank you your honor first item is 46 28 South Main Street 33 xx us20 bypass highway the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a plan unit development to allow a truck stop convenience store and fast-food restaurant
 A variation to landscaping and design standards to permit development according to a submitted site plan.
 The committee recommends reversing the zoning board of appeals denial of the following amending and approving a variation to increase the sign height from 8 feet to 30 feet. A variation to increase the maximum square footage for a free standing sign from 64 square feet to 425 square feet. And a variation to allow a pylon sign with a landmark style base.
 And the committee also recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals denial of a variation to increase the maximum permitted square footage per wall sign from 240 square feet to 500 square feet at 4628 South Main Street. That's the Love's Travel Stops and County Stores.
 Subject to conditions, your honor. The second is a committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval of the sale of a liquor by the drink in conjunction with a tavern and video gaming at 1710 Rural Street that's rural on tap as the applicant subject to conditions. The third is the committee recommends approval of the plat of Swedish American Northwest Clinic subdivision.
 The fourth is the committee recommends approval of the plat of Lincoln Middle School Subdivision. The fifth is the committee recommends approval of the plat number two of Pineview Subdivision. Number six, the committee recommends approval of the plat of East High School Subdivision.
 Number seven, the committee recommends approval of the vacation of 12th Street from 2nd Avenue to Charles Street for the Platte Lincoln Middle School subdivision. The eighth, the committee recommends approval of the vacation of Michigan Avenue for Platte number two of Pineview subdivision.
 The ninth committee recommends approval of the vacation of 9th Avenue from 24th Street and a vacation of North South Alley running from 9th Avenue to 10th Avenue for the Platte of East High School subdivision. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances, your honor. Place those up for passage. Thank you. So we have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on any of the nine items?
 seeing no discussion uh seeing alderman heard sorry there um a couple of aldermen have asked um about my initial objection to some of the requests for the sign variations uh someone correct me if i'm wrong which number are you having a question i'm sorry i always do that this is number one and we're looking at the the second part where we're recommending reversing the zba denial
 of the following and amending and approving. What's written here are the amendments that staff negotiated and I thought were reasonable compromises to what they were asking for. So I withdrew my objection. I think they were originally asking for the sign at 50 feet or something. I can't even remember. So 30 feet was reasonable and the amount of the
 freestanding sign. Although I thought it was 240, not 425. Could someone help me out with that? Mr. Cagnoni. Thank you, Your Honor. As my understanding, it was 425 square feet. 240 would... That was the wall sign? Correct. Okay, I'm sorry.
 there were several and then the variation for the pylon sign they wanted just a straight pylon and we asked for the landmark base so i did withdraw my objection to those and the wall sign was the bottom one i'm sorry i got that one wrong seeing no further or is there any further discussion on any of these nine items before you no further discussion clerk will you please call the roll timber
 Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Abstain on four and six. Did you say no on one? Yes. Thank you. Beach. Quinones. McNeely. Chiarelli. Items 1, 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Items 4.
 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 5, 12 ayes. Item 6, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 7, 8, and 9, 12 ayes. Excellent. All items passed. Next up is Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is approval of the vouchers in the amount of $7,397,916.09.
 next is the approval of a professional services contract with Wayne dust for planning consult consultant cost every three months would be $11,231 next is the approval of the proposed revolving loan project with for the car Coleman village site cleanup components engineered barrier
 staff has received US EPA approval to move forward with the process of programming the city's supplemental revolving loan funds to prepare the site for the Rock Valley College campus staff is proposing the approval the site engineered barrier component of Coleman Village phase one using four hundred fifty thousand dollars of the available funds at this time next we have the approval of the city vehicle leasing plan
 Then the fifth item is approval of the contracts for purchase and sale to progressive development LLC For the vacant properties located at 436 North 3rd and 826 North 2nd Through the multiple listing service for the total amount of fifteen thousand dollars for both city-owned lots And I place these five items up for passage. Thank you. So we have five items up before us Is there any discussion?
 Alderman Toomberg Thank You mayor. I'd like to lay over c2, please We have a motion in a second So there's a two alderman roll rule for c2 So that'll be automatically laid over to our next to our next council meeting is their discussion now For the items before us items one three four or five alderman McNeely Thank You. Mr. Mayor item number five is
 progressive development LLC I don't recall that organization so I'd like to get description of that organization and the purpose of them purchasing the properties on our second so progressive
 Progressive Development LLC is an organization owned by a Rockfordian named Danny Lorden, who has been investing in and around the neighborhoods throughout downtown, more primarily and specifically over in the St. James neighborhood for years, turning them into single-family rental homes or typically duplex rentals. That's an organization that is purchasing these two lots. For-profit?
 Yes, that's his full-time business. Thank you. Yeah, any follow-up there? Okay, Alderman Herbert. For some reason, I thought these were just lots. These are vacant lots, correct? Yes, these are. Okay, all right. I was just given the background on what progressive development does. We discussed these at the meeting last week.
 for the multiple listing yeah that part i understood the only thing i wanted to just question as we go forward and again i don't think every landlord is a bad landlord but when we put these up in multiple listing or anywhere else i want to make sure we're not turning over properties to people who are going to be working using them or developing them for a purpose that's adverse to our plans um
 I always want to look at somebody who already owns properties, landlords. I want to see that those properties are well maintained, that they don't have a bunch of code violations. So I don't know if we're obligated to accept an offer through the multiple listing. If that removes our right to do that,
 ask that we consider very carefully whether we do it in the future. But if it doesn't, I think it's a good way of getting the advertising out and getting the best price. Yeah, we do not have to, and we have seen just in this one alone, we had multiple bids in a very short amount of time that seemed to perform far better for us than the RFP process, which has been somewhat failed in years past.
 I do know Mr. Danny Lord and just because a lot of his properties fell in the third ward and that's where I was alderman prior and I would say he's one of the more most conscientious Landlords that we could have in our community alderman McNeely. Thank you. Mr. Mayor I was I was at the committee meeting but I didn't question at that time, but I would like to know if I
 Any other joining property owners have bidded? That I do not know. Mr. Meyer? Well, we didn't go out for RFP on this, and I don't think we had any bidders. These just went out on the MLS. I don't believe we received. I think Mr. Lorden was the only one to bid on the North 2nd property bid.
 We did have another party interested in the property on third But it was not an adjoining property owner I know in the past we always tried to give consideration to the adjacent property owner Are these properties in such manner that the adjacent property owners may not? Have wanted it we made that determination and just opened it up to the public for
 No No, I would say from the financial task force one the item says they requested our council and administration To take under consideration was getting rid of the city owned lots and properties that we had so we reviewed Practices in the past that we've done the request for proposal the RFP process and found that we would get often not always a week or no responses and
 And it was a recommendation that we try the multiple listing services. And thus far, I mean, this is I think the first time or second time that we've done this, we have seen really good results. We got the asking price and we got it within hours.
 And we also, just from legal standpoint, from the legal department, we do, for those properties that are eligible for our Moda Own program, we do contact the adjacent property owners on a relatively regular basis to see if they're interested in taking those properties over or purchasing the properties. So I don't believe we received a response on either of these properties. And I don't believe the North Second Street property.
 It's a standalone property on its own track. I don't believe there's any adjacent property owners to take it. It's a relatively large parcel of land.
 I'm glad to hear that because I do know a number of property owners since I've been alderman have been interested in properties next to them and when the opportunity did arise to purchase it. So that's my reason for my questioning. And finally, Mr. Mayor, are these properties of such size that the purchaser would be looking to build on these properties?
 Mr. Cagnone. Thank you, Your Honor. So at this time, the purchaser does not have a specific plan to develop the properties.
 But it is the long-term plan from the developer that he'll be in a position, as the market continues to recover, to have construction, new construction on these lots. And I would note out that Mr. Lorden is an adjacent property owner to the 3rd Street property. I'm not positive if he's got property adjacent to 2nd Street property or not. Thank you. Thank you very much. No problem.
 alderman hervey i also have a question with regard to the vehicle leasing plan the list that we received from i think miss ecklin that was a listing of all the cars with the mileage and the annual mileage i noticed that some of them
 I'm sorry, let me go back and look at the right right page here some of these they look like they're probably Department cars or something have as little as 400 miles 3000 this is the annual mileage. I I'm looking at this and I got to start to think to myself Why do we have cars that are being used that little I don't know what the replacement is and quite honestly I don't remember the leasing plan because I was more focused on this one and
 I'd like to lay it over because having this list plus the leasing plan I think is going to help me a little bit more. I just had not so much with police cars, but what I think are probably department cars. What I would ask, and I certainly respect your ability to lay the item over, the only thing I would ask is that you consider...
 moving the police vehicles out of that layover because we have a June 6 letting date from the state police and we have on potentially to get the best price that we can 11 unmarked and 28 marked vehicles. So if you wanted to have that white the white fleet vehicles laid over We're up against it a time crunch. Okay, then let me ask a question with regard to some of the police vehicles also I
 And I don't want the number of police that are out on any particular shift or anything of that sort. But how many cars are, I just looked at the sheer number, and I just wondered, how many of these are out on an active use at any given point? Do we have a car per officer? Do we have...
 50% of cars to cover the force. What is the... Mr., yeah, we can definitely answer that question for you. What is that rubric for the number of police cars that we need? Chief O'Shea?
 So the marked police vehicles rotate through three shifts every day, 24-7. That's the marked, the normal police cars you see. Those are also, once we take those out of the patrol service, we move them down the line. Those become the community service officer cars, the school resource officer cars, the resident officer cars. We use those cars after patrol.
 the unmarked vehicles are assigned to detectives the detectives work monday through friday basically and essentially we're i think we're three or four short of detective cars and that's counting us using seized vehicles from drugs to help keep the gang unit in the business as well so those vehicles take a lot less of a daily use if you will but the marked cars
 through the shifts at any given point in time. Sometime there could be 16 on the street. Sometimes there could be 40 of Montessori and then there's different times with parades and other events. It just depends those bounce all over the place. Alderman Frost.
 With respect to this, I know it's called the Vehicle Leasing Program, and I've talked to both Ms. Eklund and Mr. Cagnoni about it. It's kind of a misnomer, especially to the public, because we actually, it's a vehicle financing program. We actually own these vehicles, which allow us to do some of the things that the Chief just talked about. In fact, this morning I was at Harlem Boulevard and
 some sort of traffic stop i don't know what took place but um there there was an individual that was arrested and there was three unmarked city squad cars there one of them being a black impala and one of them being an old black crown vic that i actually didn't know were still on the streets anymore since they haven't made that card about a number of years so i i do appreciate mayor and the administration's need to get us back on some uh instead of having a deferred purchasing program
 of getting caught up in replacing cars that need to be replaced. However, I looked at the same list that Alderman Hervey had and then I talked to Mr. Cagnoni for quite some time today about this. And I do understand the need, and I don't want to see the city lose any savings by not being able to purchase some of these cars. But when I look at the spend, $5.8 million worth of purchase this year,
 5.319, over the next four years it's 19.9, so I'll round up. That's $20 million worth of assets we're buying in sheer vehicles.
 And that to me, who's someone who served on the financial task force and tried to, as Alderman Tumberg said, count paper clips and cut color copying costs. This is a large spend for the city. And my only request, I guess, and I understand there was this Baker-Tilly study that was done years ago and that we needed to replace. And there was a number of years where we didn't properly replace cars and we're playing a little bit of catch up.
 But when I see us buying, we have 80 police vehicles on the road now and we're buying 94. It just doesn't seem right. And so I like having a policy. I like having a protocol. When I talked to Mr. Cagnoni about it, it was-
 And I do not want this falling on Ms. Eklund by any means. But having someone in our city be what's called a fleet manager. And someone ought to be able to track all, I mean, we do have a lot of cars, but it's not like we have 8,000 cars. Someone ought to be able to track these cars and determine and have the discretion to report to us or to you or to somebody. And say that car, number 429, needs to go. And 428, it may be the same year, it's in better shape.
 We can get two more years out of it. Because I really don't think we can really afford to spend or purchase and then finance $20 million over four years of vehicles.
 unless they really are all need to be replaced if we have some Impala squad cars out there at 50 000 miles on them and they can you know for four grand be fixed as opposed to spending 40 grand to purchase one then I think that's what we ought to do and so I again I'm not going to hold up um the ability to purchase some vehicles but I I would just ask for and I don't want to go through myself vehicle by vehicle but someone ought to be able to give us a little better way of of
 Having some savings as opposed to saying well, here's a spreadsheet and we're gonna spend 20 million dollars over the next four years Thanks, certainly. So just for clarity we had half a motion But not fully I just want to make sure Well, I didn't ask to lay it over yet But I guess what my motion would be is that we move forward with for the 2018 vehicle leasing plan that's part of our packet and
 For the 28 Mark sedan SUV cars for the police department in the 11 unmarked squad SUV to move those forward. And I would ask to lay over the remainder unless any of the departments.
 Fire sometimes has something if there's something that has to be ordered by next week in order to have it ready in the next 12 months. I don't want to. There's no rush to the other. So we have a motion in a second. All those in favor of that amendment say aye. Aye. Those opposed to that amendment. Aye.
 Okay, so now on the floor, just so I understand this, we have a motion to move forward with the 11 unmarked and the 28 marked police vehicles. In conjunction with that, a motion to lay over the rest of the remaining, provide some additional information along with a manager of that fleet and more detailed responses for each of you regarding each vehicle.
 Did I understand that correctly? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thank you, Your Honor. Along with what Alderman Frost had to say about the leasing, when we originally talked about that concept, we were told by the former legal department that we could not lease cars like could be leased for any one of us
 And I'm not so sure I agreed with that then. I'm not so sure I agree with that now. And I just wonder if it's possible, not this evening, but if we can maybe look at some creative ways in which we can have either a government-private arrangement to where the cars can be bought by private, leased back to our community, where we can actually save hundreds of thousands of dollars with our cars and light trucks. So I'd just make that comment and...
 whatever you care to do is it's fine but i would like to see if that's possible thank you uh any further discussion on the um on items one three the amended fourth item and uh item number five saying oh alderman toomer thank you mayor number five i just want to going back to number five uh i just want to clarify do we know how many bids we got on that north third property i know we got two bid well there was one property that we got one
 I'm sorry, one on North's second and two on the North third. Any further discussion? Alderman Tunberg, did you have another item? No. No. I just wanted to clarify we had multiple bids on that property. And generally we do take, I just wanted to clarify, do we take the highest bid most often for these properties? Yes.
 I'm not sure that I can tell you in this one. Mr. Lorden bid on both properties individually for the other bid on nor second if we were going to accept that bid the bid on the or the offer on the larger parcel the $10,000 parcel is going to be withdrawn so it made more financial sense for the city to accept the combined offer of the 15,000 rather than accept a slightly larger or higher offer on the smaller parcel but lose a
 It was the wholesale. Okay. And that was properly disclosed to the individual I trust. Is that a question, and what was that? No, I guess that's a question. So we conveyed that to the bidders? I don't want to speak very. I don't think it's necessary. I also don't.
 You know, we have to be careful on what we can ethically disclose to how much information we can give to people making bids on properties. Yeah, I meant after the process had already been made. I'm not sure. We're going to have to speak with Mr. Hackinson on how much he disclosed. All right. Okay. Thank you. Any further discussion? Seeing none, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No 1, 3, aye. Newman. Hervey.
 Thompson Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Shirelli. Items 1, 12 ayes. Item 3, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 4, 12 ayes. Item 5, 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up we have officers reports.
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you, Your Honor. First of all, I wanted to give a very special birthday, happy birthday, to a very special lady, Marie Yabro. She will be 90 years old Wednesday, which is my mother. We will be celebrating her 90th birthday dinner celebration on the 25th of this month.
 I also want to comment on the young individuals and make a request of you, Your Honor, and your administration. We're getting individuals that younger generation that are paying attention to what's taking place in city government. And also what's taking place in this community. And they want to get involved and have a stock.
 and what happens in this community. I would respectfully request of your administration that some type of summit or listening or roundtable discussion take place, especially with some of the young individuals that came here this evening. They're concerned, they care, they want to be involved, and I think this is the opportunity that we should take and get them involved instead of listening to the same old group of individuals with the same old issues.
 We have an opportunity now to expand upon not only on racism, but our younger generation, getting them involved in this community and being more active and positive in this community. And I think we should take advantage of it. Thank you. I appreciate that. And I'll definitely take you up on that. We are doing a summit with religious leaders coming up in about 30 days, and we'll do one for youth as well.
 Great idea alderman Hoffman. Thank you mayor. Well, first of all, I want to say about a week ago I had a wonderful Saturday. I attended the Cape Act and
 fashion show for those of you who don't know who K fact is it's keeping families and community together it represents about 250 girls that are living in difficult conditions they're usually low-income and these girls were so
 And that whole fashion show had people so pumped. You went out of there feeling great, even though these girls are living in some of the most difficult conditions. They had everybody really feeling positive about Rockford. The fashion show was to help these girls continue in high school and college, and they have amazing results today.
 100% of the girls graduate from high school and 98% of the group have already graduated from college. So the next group is going forward. We expect the same results.
 then this saturday i think the mayor he gave a great speech at the american association of university women and we had four more great students from the city of rockford that were absolutely amazing and the one girl brought her brother who sat next to the mayor i believe he's graduated graduated iowa state upper iowa state uh just a couple days before i met him on saturday
 And his sister is going on and wants to be with Doctors with No Borders or that group. And these kids are going to be studying subjects I can't even say. They're just an amazing group of young women. But next, Rockford, the Peaches. Our 75th, well, the Peaches are celebrating their 75th anniversary this year.
 And to start things off is diamonds, denims, and stars. And I presented this to all of you aldermen. What you should know, this is the only event that is going to cost. And you can get a ticket for $25. What that ticket does is pays for all of the people in Rockford, families and so forth, to attend all of the other events which will be coming up on Saturday and Sunday.
 Alderman Tunenberg is affected, Alderman Harvey is affected, Alderman Quinones is affected. These are going to be going on in your wards. So I hope you get on board and help finances. There is a VIP group. That ticket is $100, but for everybody else it's $25. And one of the things that you should know, this is kind of new, it's not on this little card.
 But Baseball Pioneer will help kick off Women's Baseball Cup Trophy Tour in Rockford, Illinois as part of the Peaches 75th anniversary celebration. Illa Borders, the first woman to start in a men's professional baseball game, is coming to Rockford on May 30th as part of the launch of the Women's Baseball World Cup Trophy Tour.
 The United States will host the Women's Baseball World Cup for the first time in the event's history, and the World Cup Trophy Tour will kick off in Rockford as part of the Rockford Peaches 75th Anniversary Celebration at the Coronado Theater. We stole this from New York, folks.
 They wanted it. We got it. So this is really amazing. So this World Cup tour is going to start here. Now, you don't have to love baseball. You don't even have to love sports. I don't. But I hope you love Rockford and will come out and support the 75th anniversary of the Peaches because it's part of Illinois' bicentennial celebration. So thank you. Awesome. Thank you. Alderman Rose.
 I just I wanted to take a moment to recognize all the young people who are graduating from both our area high schools and our area colleges
 You see on Facebook and Twitter and all over the Internet, these young people taking on the next step of their lives and I wanted to recognize them. But I also wanted to take a moment to recognize Rock Valley College's softball team, who is the only program to have five national championships. They're the only one to do that in all of junior college history. So wanted to recognize them on those efforts.
 We will be formally recognizing them as well. Alderman Hervey. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to let Fifth Ward residents know that there's not a meeting this week. It's one of those strange months. So we will have our Fifth Ward meeting. I promise I'm not gonna get sick this time. It will be on the 31st.
 So we're going to have it at the District 1 station, and we've got some people to introduce. We've got some interesting things, and we'll have some special things to get us back in gear. So that will be on the 31st. The other thing in conjunction with Alderman Rose's comments, kids are out of school as of Friday. They're going to be on the streets.
 They go wild. They do not look both ways before crossing. They do not follow rules of the road with regard to their bicycles. And I want to ask that we all just remember that.
 I think it's probably worse the first week. They go a little nutsy, because we did when we were kids. I still remember that. And just look out for them. I want to thank the mayor and whomever else had the signs. Slow down. Kids matter. Do we still have some more in the... I believe we do, and it was actually just...
 Jeremy Carter, our traffic engineer, I believe, and a number of other staff members last year worked with a number of schools, and Auburn High School students happened to win the award for that.
 Okay, yeah, the signs are really great. So I'm gonna have some at the ward meeting and if there are some more I would like to take a few more people are really good I think where they you have some impact where people see them it makes some it makes a big a big difference Just also for ward residents. We do not have the reverse 911 calls anymore. So I need people to get me their email addresses addresses if you don't have email I'll send you the postcard
 I still need some help finding, I don't know who we use or if that's the most efficient way. Because I mean, I'm going to do the calls one way or the other because it's just too hard trying to notify people the other way. It works in some wards, it doesn't in mine. So, but people need to know. Let your neighbors know about the meetings because the calls will not be coming in anymore. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor.
 Go Hogs! We have a game tomorrow night, 7 p.m. Game Thursday night, 7 p.m. Game Friday night at 6 p.m., I believe it is. So we're playing the Texas team. Unfortunately, we're down 0-2 in the series, but...
 A lot of great exposure for Rockford, and I see my alderman, my fellow alderman Beach over there with his Hogs jersey on. And Alderman Rose is overdressed tonight. He should be in his Hogs uniform. And I could make Alderman Hoffman a hockey fan if she would attend the game tomorrow night with me. So she has a standing invitation. That's probably why she left Chambers. That would be a duo to watch in itself.
 so thank you yeah thank you other uh officers report seeing no officer reports we'll move on uh we have an information only item uh director myers thank you mr mayor uh last week at committee we had several questions about uh the city's administrative adjudication process and what that's going to look like moving forward and
 how that is different than our current system of prosecuting through the criminal courts. Just a bit of background, coming through the budget task force, this was a recommendation I think from both the police department and the legal department,
 To start moving some of these low-level offenses that we are, frankly, we already have a lot of them on the books, that we already are able to prosecute through our adjudication system rather than as criminal offenses. In order to do that effectively, we've got to make some changes to our ordinance to make sure that we are safe under the law and there's no questions of our ability or authority as a non-home rule municipality.
 And the offenses we currently have would include sort of non-violent offenses, theft, offensive use of property, resisting arrest, trespass, disorderly conduct. There are some other things, battery assault, which would typically be misdemeanors, but we would not, our plan would not to move violent offenses as through our adjudication process.
 These types of offenses, these low-level offenses, make up a large, a pretty significant portion of the offenses that go through the criminal system. And as frustrating as they can be at some times if you have your car broken into or damaged a property,
 They almost never result in jail time for several reasons. One is the nature of the offense and the amount of them, but also, if you look at the issues we're dealing with as a city, we tend to want to spend more of our resources prosecuting the bigger ticket items. So even offenses such as the disorderly conduct, which is
 nothing more than a breach of the peace or alarming and disturbing somebody else is going to end up in, if it goes to circuit court, a fine of about $340 and sometimes a conviction, so it will go on the person's record.
 Right now, all of those cases, like I said, or most of them, are prosecuted by the state's attorney's office in the circuit court. And there's a big difference between what we're going to do through our ordinance violation and what's happening now. The biggest one is just like we say it. They're criminal offenses. They result in criminal convictions, which goes on somebody's permanent record. So a mistake you made when you're 18 or 19 years old or younger...
 Could if you take a conviction follow you the rest of your life? An ordinance violation they're prosecuted much less formally here at City Hall It's a it's a simple OV case that wouldn't follow you the rest of your life Wouldn't necessarily turn up in a background. It shouldn't affect your employment or anything moving forward those cases would be prosecuted at City Hall by one of our one of our attorneys our
 Our current ordinance results in a fine only of between $750 and $750. And we do have authority to order public service work.
 which we'll need to work with the police department to do that. The biggest issue though is what we're looking to save in terms of costs and also what we can gain in terms of revenue. So right now, disorderly conducts in these low-level offenses, and there's about over a two year period, just so you know the ones we're talking about, there's about 4,000 that were charged in circuit court.
 They range, their fines range from $340 to $350. All of those are court costs, which means that we don't, the city really doesn't receive any of that money back from the court system. It goes to pay other, the circuit court, the state's attorney's office, the county, a whole host of stuff in the statute. And if it's court costs, we get very little, if any.
 money back from that. It also results in what can be significant overtime for our police department, both in discussing the case with the state's attorney's office for preparing for trial, but also appearing at trial on a disorderly conduct case, which is a class C misdemeanor. Oftentimes what we'll see is if we'll get subpoenas for five or six officers to come to a trial on a case that's going to get $340.
 If we prosecute that same case here in the adjudication process, we will have a sworn report. We'll probably make a phone call from our office to find out which is the most important officer to talk to and get that sworn report admitted as evidence and very likely be able to go through a hearing process without ever having to call an officer to testify. And if we do have to call them to testify, it would be for a very short period of time. Thank you. So...
 When we talk about overtime for police officers, they are getting paid time and a half, just so everyone's aware. So if we prosecute these things as ordinance violations, they stay off the permanent record.
 They move through in about 45 days as opposed to six months to a year, oftentimes or more for criminal cases. We save on overtime costs and preparation, and we would keep every dollar of a fine. So if we had a $350 fine, we would keep every penny of that. We would also be able to work with the police department and other partners to order public service work and also keep track of all that. So it's a much more efficient.
 process. It's much more, it's a big cost savings to us and it's also a revenue generator.
 Our anticipation here is not to seek control or prosecute. If we have a pull over a vehicle with a large amount of drugs in it that's clearly meant for drug trafficking, our officers are going to be using discretion and not charging that as an ordinance violation. We're not talking about charging weapons violations as ordinance violations, domestic batteries as ordinance violations.
 it's very low level items disorderly conduct uh trespass to property um damage damage to property all those things that are already being charged we're not charging new cases rather than arresting somebody and sending the criminal court we're going to give them a notice to appear to appear in city hall so we can have we can control the situation frankly
 Um, that's about in a nutshell. Uh, our idea here is to start small with the police department and the state's attorney's office to make sure we can handle the the Amount of cases coming through and then gradually expand that as we go along. Thank you There's a number of questions So we'll do kind of one round of questions and if we have additional and we can follow up on the side uh alderman herby Do we have um?
 Any kind of framework for what it's going to require in terms of staffing? Obviously a hearing officer. I mean, well, let me, not just the framework, but also the costs attached, the collection efforts. My concern with the lower level offenses is, I think it's a much better way to do it, by the way, with the control and everything else. What I am concerned about is cost versus collection.
 Are we going to have an outside collection agency? How are we going to handle this? So right, our plan right now is to not increase any staff. So attorney Flores prosecutes our code zoning violations now.
 two days a week or three days a week we would add these we have two hearing officers uh we would not be hiring a third hearing officer right now we'd be again pushing as much on them as possible without having to increase our costs so right now for example there are days where we might be light for the 10 o'clock hearing call we start we are still paying our hearing officers sit around well they might as well increase increase the load
 For our collection efforts, we typically see, my understanding is that when we have, of the cases that we prosecute under our ordinance right now, we typically have a pretty good collection rate that we don't have to go to an outside firm to do. We also have access to the IZRAP program, which is not, which is,
 um for unpaid fines we can contact the department of revenue that would automatically intercept uh tax returns if there's outstanding fines okay but a lot of times people will leave right here and right they'll leave here and go downstairs and pay a small fine you know they're paying 150 as opposed to 400 500 they'll typically don't go downstairs and pay it right away i believe the
 I believe the iDrop, the success rate for collections in iDrop is 40% or 50%, which is, I think our collection rate for other judgments is 10 or 20. It's much lower. Okay. Three? I'm sorry, it's 3%. So the iDrop program is highly successful.
 much more effective than hiring a collection firm and going through that process. Okay, the other thing I'd like to ask is, I know you can't do it right away, but that we give strong consideration to a voluntary community service.
 exchange for some of it, especially for people of low income. I'd love to see people who are willing to clean up some of the fence rows, the river, banks, litter. I've never seen the Fifth Ward look as dirty as it does now. There's just trash. I don't know what's going on, but it's just trash. And there are people who would love to...
 make that exchange and and I think it would be a great thing um love to see us join with the school district maybe I know with kids it gets a little sticky but in sometimes as as restitution for uh something uh that takes I'm not I said school district I meant Juvenile Department Juvenile Justice to do some programs where kids could do something like that in lieu of
 Fines or something that really fall on the parents. Thank you Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you. My question is to find the amount of fines the dollar amount. Are we gonna? What are we going to be going by is Winnebago County? fines or the state fines That's gonna be
 All over the map. Well, right now our ordinance, the fine range is between $50 and $750. Right. We do that for a reason. Some offenses are more serious than others. Some folks come through as repeat offenders.
 I believe, and I don't know all the time I have, but I believe one of the amendments we are making that's on the table right now does set a minimum fine of $150 for one of the offenses. So we have the ability as a council to set minimum amounts for different offenses depending on what they are. And also, our hearing officers now, they have a contract with a set amount. Are they willing to agree to this additional amount?
 added which is we haven't uh i've discussed it with them uh the idea of pushing you know these coming through i mean that they are here as hearing officers on certain days um i don't believe we'll be negotiating a higher rate of pay or additional rate of pay based on the type of offense that comes through last question um individuals that you go through this process that we already have
 Code enforcement fines against them or their dwellings or something can't will we be combining those together? Say for instance if I came before you with a minor offense, and I already had five open cases against me Is there some way that you can combine well what we thought we could probably combine it We can also do is if we have somebody
 And this procedure is not working and they're not, it's not acting as a deterrent. It's not slowing down the behavior. We can always opt to refer these matters over to the state's attorney's office. So if we have somebody, for example, on a retail theft, if you're a frequent flyer on those and you've got 10 or 11 retail thefts, that ultimately can become an answer to a felony. And so, certainly, we're not going to.
 we're not going to lose that ability to look at a background and look at you know 15 open cases and and uh um refer those up for criminal prosecution criminal cases city code violations city code violations most of these city code violations can be charged criminally
 So we could say, for example, if we saw a theft or a criminal damage to a property, we've got somebody who's been in five times in the summer, we would probably refer the matter over to the state's attorney's office for prosecution. Thank you. Alderman Shirelli? Yeah, your honor, thank you. Has the city in the past prosecuted these types of cases? And if so, why did they stop or when did they stop? We do some of them now.
 Not a whole lot, but we do some now. I'm not sure. We used to prosecute our own traffic offenses. It was similar. It was over in the circuit court, but it was a similar arrangement with the state's attorney's office that when we recognized DUIs or driving under local licenses that would be enhanceable to a felony, those were referred out. But I don't know what the experience has been prosecuting ordinance violations cases here. Thank you.
 Alderman Neely, did you have a question? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Do we have a list of the violations that we plan on proceeding with? And if we do, if I can get a copy of that. Sure. I could tell you disorderly conduct would be one. We also are looking at
 Damage to property, simple trespass, some retail thefts, and very minor, small amounts of possession of cannabis. I can get you, you know, the, I think the process of which ordinance violations we start out with has to be in a conversation with the police department and the state's attorney's office to make sure we're all on the same page.
 know how long of a period we're going to have just looking at the different ones that you've selected to start off with are we going to do it for a year six months i don't i don't have a plan set out for how long we're going to phase it in i think it's meant to be a bit of a trial and error period
 I mean, if we can increase our capacity right away, we're being successful and we're able to do it effectively. I don't know why we wouldn't delay for the sake of delaying. And how, Mr. Mayor, how much would our, the amount that we receive, what are we going to do with that money? These are, they're fined to be general fund dollars. We will probably alleviate our massive deficit over the next seven years.
 Mr. Mayor, I hope that we have a discussion and we can vote on what we're going to do with that money. I know that in some of the areas I expect for certain areas to produce larger dollar amounts than other areas within the city. But no matter where the amounts come from, I think that we certainly have a need to address...
 the youth within our community, providing programs, not just for the youth, but for the parents of some of the youth that would help to reduce the crimes that we're looking at to find and hear and address. So I hope that we have a discussion about that and not
 Some group other than the alderman to sit down and discuss that no you're correct We I was being flippant, but yes all the items any expenditure will be coming before this body I hope that we could discuss it before we even look at saying yes to this I think it's significant that we are
 as aldermen, as representative of the public, be able to tell our constituents, yeah, we're moving forward with this, but this is what we're going to do with the money, other than paying for it. Well, if I can address that, you know, just so everybody's aware, I mean, we prosecute code violations and zoning violations routinely, you know, every three days a week here.
 including some of these low level offenses. So we're already doing it to an extent. Um, and like I said, this really shouldn't increase substantially if at all any of our, any of our hearing officers time sitting at city hall. Um, and certainly if we feel a need to to increase their time or increasing our days or higher another hearing officer that would certainly have to come through the the um
 Council for that certainly all discussions. Oh about any money that we bring in would be brought before you have a follow-up I'd like to know how how is the city doing with? ordinance for loud music Are we are we enforcing that and how much money are we? collecting
 We will make sure that we provide you a report. I don't think we know that off the top. I don't have that So I have I can certainly find out how many? Tickets we've written for that It would help me to understand to a certain degree how this program might go with certain offenses Thank you, certainly, thank you alderman frost I
 I was going to be more flippant and say there's 19.9 million ways we can spend money. We come up with that. I just wanted to thank Mr. Meyer and the entire legal department for bringing this to the table because the administrative code process works wonderfully here at City Hall. Both Mr. Partridge and I were
 Involved with that many, many years ago and it is the capture of the funds. I know it isn't the primary reason to do it, but it would alleviate a burden at the courthouse and be something where we would actually be able to take a more proactive role with it and maybe changing someone's lives and just sending them over to criminal justice center in room A, B, or C and get mixed up in that way.
 But I did talk about last week, I don't want to be redundant, but I do think it's important before we take another look at the offenses list. Because I know on the offenses list that was handed out, I think it was just last week.
 There was not just an amount of marijuana in there, but there was quite a bit of paraphernalia, which really was more involved in the manufacturing sale of marijuana. I don't think that's really the intent of what, at least with me as an alderman, and I don't speak for everybody else. But I think that's what the intent was, like other communities have done with that,
 Turning an offense like that on its head and or I think it was also mentioned about breaking, you know, someone that was going to break into a vehicle. I mean, just just the act of breaking into the car before they even steal something could be a felony dollar amount. So I just wanted to I really hope that before it gets rolled out the next time that someone can.
 Call me and call over all the alderman About that to kind of kind of get a lot locked out on the offenses list So we don't have a a major debate about each and every offense But I think we need to really take a good look at what offenses should be prosecuted here at City Hall versus the courthouse That's a great point and we did have a somewhat lengthy discussion this morning about one of the items that you brought up the paraphernalia I thought you brought up a great point any other discussion on this before we move forward seeing none I
 Thank you, Mr. Meyer. Next up, we have appointments laid over. We have an appointment of Becky Guerrero to the Community Action Advisory Board to serve a three-year term. This is up for passage as it's been laid over for its 30 days. Is there any discussion on the appointment laid over? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson. Kelly.
 Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. The item passes. Next up, we have motions and resolutions, planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Enrollment numeral 9A. We have one item, professional services agreement with Kane McKenna & Associates for TIF consultation to assist in the designation of a new tax increment district.
 This is the South Rockford TIF district. I place this up for passage. Thank you. Is there a discussion on item 9A1? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Berkey. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 12 eyes Next up under motions and resolutions. We have Code and Regulations Committee alderman Shirely. Thank you your honor We've got five items this evening The first is the Rockford peaches 75th anniversary event scheduled for Saturday, June 2nd 2018 The second midsummer fest scheduled for a Saturday, June 16 2018 the third is Midtown farmers market scheduled for Saturday, June 30th and
 The fourth is the Rosecrans Recovery 5K Walk Run, scheduled for Sunday, August 5th. And the fifth is the Ramp River Run, scheduled for Saturday, September 1st, 2018. On number three, Your Honor, also it's scheduled for August 18th, 2018.
 i had just have one request your honor to if going forward we can place the alderman and the ward that these takes place because it seems that the third ward is having a lot of partying going on lately and just want the public to know that so i place these resolutions up for passage your honor thank you uh alderman hervey for discussion just a quick point of order with regard to the rockford peaches it's june 2nd but also sunday june 3rd thank you great catch
 Any other discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Shirelli. Aye.
 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have 11 items. The first one is a temporary staffing services to the workplace. I'm sorry, award of RFP for temporary staffing services to the workplace. For clerical and program aides.
 Technical, direct hire, 12% of the estimated first-year compensation. Contact duration is three years with two one-year extensions. Next, we have the award of bid for summer food program meal provision to community kitchens for a not-to-exceed amount of $533,034.50. Duration of the contract is one year with two one-year extensions. Next, we have the award of bid for citywide pavement marking for
 for paint 2018 the precision pavement markings incorporated elgin and the amount of 223 410 and 57 cents next we have the award of bid for plow blade repair parts to bunnell industries of dixon and monroe truck of monroe wisconsin for an annual estimated value total of 110 000 based on unit pricing the contract duration is one year with four one-year extensions
 Next, we have an award of a bid for Brook Road Water Main Loop to N-Track Group of Loves Park in the amount of $118,053.68. Next, we have the award of joint purchasing contract for Copier Rental in collaboration with the Rockford School District to Marco Technologies of Rockford for an estimated annual amount of $118,000. Contract duration is four years. Next, we have an award of joint purchasing contract for Indash Water.
 Police squad cameras to CDS office technologies in the amount of $200,000 Next we have an award of engineering agreement for Spring Creek Road multi-use path feasibility study tonight EA incorporated of Rockford for a contract amount of 65,000 eight hundred forty nine dollars and eighty cents next we have the award of engineering agreement for Hartman Street reconstruction to IMAG
 IMEG of Rockford, Illinois for not to exceed amount of seventy three thousand seventy four thousand three hundred eighty eight dollars and Thirty two cents next we have the resolution to take bid bids for the fire station roof fire station for roof replacement and finally we have the corporate resolution to receive the grant in the amount of 125 thousand dollars for itis under the abandoned residential property municipality reef relief program I place these items up for passage. I
 Thank you. So we have 11 items before us. There's been a request to separate item 1, so we will do that. We will take items 2 through 11. 1st. Is there any discussion on items 2 through 11? Seeing no discussion clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey hi. Toonberg crossed Herbie Thompson Kelly Hoffman. Rose beach back.
 Surely I am 2 3 4 5 6 7 12 eyes item number 8 11 eyes We know items 9 10 and 11 12 eyes. Thank you So those all of those items pass so 2 through 11 pass next up We have item number one as their discussion alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you your honor This RFP went out and we had three in the three companies to bid on it the workplace and
 Um received the bid fair square. I would admit that Um, but the problem with it is the workplace to where the owner of the workplace Is a commissioner of the city of rockford and as our personnel office made very let us know that They refer individuals to be placed in the police and the fire department And I think that's a conflict i'd like to make an amendment that um
 temporary staffing service that the workplace not place employees in the police nor the fire department. It can be amended if the owner is no longer a commissioner in this community at any time. It can be brought back before us. But I placed that amendment up for putting that amendment on this agreement right now.
 Thank you. And so there's a motion and a second. Director Myers, could you please elaborate on a potential conflict of interest? Sure. City of Legals is taking some time to look at whether or not there is actually a conflict of interest. Ms. Logan is a commissioner for our Police and Fire Commission.
 Yes, to put it bluntly, there is no conflict of interest per se or otherwise. The position, the Board of Police and Fire Commissioners deals with sworn personnel, not folks that are placed in police and fire under a temporary assignment. So they don't come through that commission to be voted on by slogan.
 There's also a specific carve out in the municipal code that allows members of advisory boards or commissions to have contracts with the municipality as long as they are not voting on the contract or making votes as part of their duties that would impact the contract or the work being done. So in this case, because there is no direct vote on the contract,
 The folks that are being placed through workplace in those temporary positions. We don't see a conflict With with this contract, thank you So there's a motion in a second on the floor is there a discussion about the motion and second on the floor alderman Shirely? I don't think you is would there be any other impact with this amendment to the city of Rockford with this agreement? Agnone Thank You your honor certainly would be at the discretion of the
 City Council to amend the recommendation of staff as it relates to the RFP process There is language when we go out for RFP You know should the proposal be amended by the council we would need to discuss that with the vendor They would have the opportunity to engage in negotiations on whether that changes the remaining terms of the proposal or not
 and potentially as well assign those responsibilities to a potential other contractor and or go out for RFP again depending on the outcome of those discussions.
 it's a little bit hard to predict the full um outcome without having those discussions in advance further discussion on the amendment uh i'll go here and then come right back to you alderman thunberg thank you mayor uh is it my understanding that um miss logan's uh term ends this month no uh the understanding is uh and i've i don't know if this is needs to be public or not but uh uh
 miss logan has i think served the community pretty wonderfully on the fire and police commission for multiple years now
 So we've had discussions about a transition period of that position. More than likely, there's certain hiring and different times that are good to remove someone and not good. And one of my goals was to make sure that there was a transition of knowledge. And as someone who served as a past president of the commissioners, it was important for me to have that person on the commission for at least a year when that new member comes on.
 So, Miss Logan and I have had a number of discussions and Miss Logan will be coming off that commission and more than likely it'll be July, August time period. No, no.
 Part of that delay is also anytime I'm down to about seven or eight candidates I'm looking at to put before all of you and then when they're on in front of you You have 30 days how miss Guerrero today came up. She's been on the agenda for 30 days. We could I guess vacate that rule by a vote, but I'm not asking to do that at all. There you go Alderman Thompson Kelly had a hand up as far as the comment on
 That's a mistake. You only made this amendment couldn't possibly be in the RFP that we sent out for the three companies that did bid on it and by no means am I going has I
 said or discredit the owner of the workplace or the commissioner of this community nor have I discredit her service to this community what I have said the appearance of this is not kosher it hasn't been the comp there's been numerous complaints as far as the perception of it
 It is not, and I understand fully, it's not sworn officers. But when you have the ability to hire sworn officers and still have the ability to put civilians in jobs, there is a conflict. It may not be in our ordinance, but it doesn't appear to be kosher in no way, shape, or form. And that is my reason, and that is my reason only. Understood. And to be clear, there's no conflict at our ordinances nor at the state level.
 Did someone here have a hand up? No? Okay. Seeing no further dialogue, we are now voting on the amendment. We'll do. We are now just simply voting on the amendment, not the overall contract. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No. Toomberg. No. Frost. No. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. No.
 Seven eyes five nose. I got six six I'm sorry. I have words one three four is no five seven eight Nine is yes ten is no eleven is yes Twelve is yes thirteen and fourteen is no I'm sorry twelve is no. Okay. It's 66. Do you minus a no
 Okay, now moving forward with just a straight item in front of us is item number one. Is there discussion on item number one? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Shirelli. Seven to five. Aye. Thurston.
 Moving forward that item passes next up is new business planning and development. Did you have an item? I don't believe you did I
 alderman shirely for coats and regulations thank you your honor under new business ordinances the first ordinance is an ordinance approving the special use permit and variations listed below at 4628 south main street 33xx us 20 bypass highway is a special use permit for a planned unit development to allow a truck stop convenience store and fast food restaurant the second is a variation to landscaping and design standards to permit development according to the submitted site plan
 Third is a variation to increase the sign height from 8 feet to 30 feet. Next is a variation to increase the maximum square footage for a freestanding sign from 64 square feet to 425 square feet. And a variation to allow a pylon style sign with a landmark style base at 4628 South Main Street, 33XX US 20 Bypass Highway. That's the Loves Travel Stops and County Stores.
 The second is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the tavern and video gaming at 1710 Rural Street. That's the rural on tap.
 Third is an ordinance approving the vacation of 12th Street from 2nd Avenue South to Charles Street for the plat of Lincoln Middle School subdivision. The fourth is an ordinance approving the vacation of Michigan Avenue for plat number two of Pine View subdivision. The fifth is an ordinance approving the vacation of 9th Avenue from 24th Street and vacation of the North South Alley running from 9th Avenue to 10th Avenue for the plat of East High School subdivision.
 I place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. So we have five items before us, and just a reminder to all aldermen, we need 10 yes votes if we were to approve item number one. Is there discussion on any of the five items before us? Seeing no discussion, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Thunberg. Frost. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Staten Island. Aye.
 It's just a flat no on one, right? Yeah, we do not break no on one. So is no on one abstain on three and five? Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. Items one, two. So what number are you abstaining on? So please, clerk, note Alderman Durkee's abstention from item number 10B4.
 The vote is Items 1 and 2, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item number 3, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 4 and 5, 11 ayes, 1 abstain. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel with Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. First is an ordinance approving a professional services account. Whoops, that got laid over. So I have three items, two through four.
 Two is an ordinance approving a revolving loan project for the Coleman Village site cleanup components for engineered barrier. Three is an ordinance approving the city vehicle leasing plan as amended earlier.
 And four is an ordinance approving the contracts for purchase and sale to Progressive Development LLC for the vacant properties located at 436 North 3rd and 826 North 2nd for a total amount of $15,000 for both city-owned lots. I place those three items up for passage.
 Thank you. So we have four items before us and just a reminder to alderman item number three has been amended Uh for only the police vehicles, which is 11 unmarked and 28 marked. We have actually three items your honor item One was laid over. I'm so sorry. You're right item one's laid over wishful thinking, uh next up Uh, is there any discussion? I'm seeing no discussion clerk. Please call the roll turkey Toomer frost herbie
 Thompson Kelly? Aye. Hoffman? Rose? Aye. Beach? Kinones? Beck? McNeely? There was no just on four. Okay. Alderman Chiarelli? Items 1, 2, 3, 12 ayes. Item 4, 11 ayes, 1 no. Item 5, 12 ayes. Thank you. Those items pass and accept by Alderman Chiarelli. It would be a great pleasure to move to convene and to close session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters.
 Thank you. So we have a motion. Is there a second? We have a motion and a second. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Herbie. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye. 12 ayes.