Under planning and development are codes and regulations, so we'll move to finance and personnel. Alderman Frost. I'm sorry, you're after. Alderman Hervey. Here, you can have mine. Or Alderman Frost. First, your honor, is the award of the joint purchasing contract for the purchase of police vehicles, three Dodge Charger sedans, a Nableton fleet group of Oak Brook for an estimated $72,684. The funding source is the capital lease fund.
 Number two is the award of the joint purchasing contract for the purchase of police vehicles 33 Ford police interceptor Utility vehicles and three sedans from curry motors fleet of Forest Park, Illinois for a contract amount of 1 million $23,820 the funding sources of the capital lease fund and
 three is an award of joint purchasing contract for the police dash mounted cameras laptop computers and docking stations for patrol squad cars to cds office technologies of a task illinois for a contract amount of 286 916 dollars the funding source is the capital league fund number four is an award of non-competitive bid for the police
 Vehicle consoles, partitions, gun racks, and related accessories to ultra strobe communications of Crystal Lake for an amount of $92,550.92. The funding source is the capital lease fund. At number five is an award of non-competitive bid, police vehicle upfitting and lighting purchase to Federal Signal Corporation of Oak Brook, Illinois for a contract amount of $194,689. The funding source is the capital lease fund.
 Thank you. So we have those five items before us. Is there a discussion? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Roggeman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. No one to either remainder. Hervey. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. McNeely. Aye.
 Item number one 11 eyes item number two ten eyes one. No items three four and five eleven eyes Thank you. I know a couple of item Aldermen would like to do officers reports. I just want to make a special mention that We kick off the Rockford peaches 75th anniversary with a
 Large amount of events over the next week. Just want to highlight a couple there's a Diamonds denim and stars fundraiser tomorrow evening at the Coronado Theatre This event actually kicks off the for us to be the launch site for the 2018 Women's Baseball World Cup Which will be held for the first time in the United States this year then over the weekend on Friday the Rockford peaches day at City Market and
 And then there's several other events. And then there's an opening ceremony and an exhibition game on Saturday over at Byers Stadium. And one I am really looking forward to is the firefighters and police officers, maybe Home Run Derby is it. So I am looking forward to that.
 and alderman herbie can you add some items thank you your honor yes i have several things first um the fifth ward meeting is is back on track as i am so it will be this thursday may 31st at six o'clock pm it'll be at the district one police station um bring your appetite we are going to have a light supper just to say thank you for some things so we hope you can all make it we're going to have someone there from oak street health
 to talk about their business. Tony Smith from WREX is going to be there and raffle off a couple of ideas
 emergency weather radios and we're also going to meet assistant deputy chief Andre brass who recently has been assigned to district one so he's going to be there to say hi to we do not have our permanent community services officer yet that's chief O'Shea's fault go ahead soon he says soon I thought you were giving me a name so we will have one soon
 Other, and so feel free to give me a call if you need. The Graham Genestra House is going to have a St. Joseph's Altar. That's going to be Saturday, June 9th from noon till 5 and Sunday, June 10th.
 from noon till five and that's going to be at the jam grand janester house they redo a recreation of the altar used to be a yearly tradition at the janester house because lawrence janestra survived pneumonia at a time when many people didn't so the uh altar i've been to one they have a lot of italian pastries breads
 Floral arrangements, it's a free event and there's going to be a reception. So we hope you can make it Leving's Lake see the fifth ward is on fire Leving's Lake is back with live at Leving's if you can pick up one of these flyers June 3rd, that's this weekend. They're gonna have DJ rated AG. Um, just a little bit of it We got Big Daddy woo-woo
 Cantree's Jackson and Soul Review with Harlan Jefferson, the New Royal Travelers, Too Deep, the Fellows Reunion, Pastor Larry G. Hamilton. It's going to be cooking at the place. And, of course, you can always go on the...
 uh wake park the west rock wake park i will not be out there this year but that's going to be there too graham janester has a new flyer i've given one to all of the aldermen please take a look and i have some for the staff also there are safe kids signs the ones we ask people to put in their yard staff brought some more down and they are in the conference room if any of the altman would like alderman can take one i'm done thank you
 alderman around sorry did you have alderman i i just wanted to say um i know for a long time i was talking about this block party on the 26th we finally had it and it was amazing awesome opportunity
 just to see the constituents come out and gather together and everybody contributing to the block party and enjoying themselves, even though it was extremely hot, it was still just the kids with the...
 the water and the adults who's it was an amazing time so i just i'm i'm hoping and believing that we can continue to do things like this in the sixth ward and bring some more attraction to the sixth ward uh that will create opportunities for families to uh come together and just fellowship so that was funny thank you alderman hoffman thank you for bringing up about the peaches i like your shirt
 I just want to speak a little bit more about it and let people know that there will actually be ballpark fair tomorrow night. Now, if you didn't get your tickets already, the price tomorrow night is $35. But there's going to be all kinds of activities at the Diamonds, Denim, and Stars, including 40s and 50s cars and trucks and dancers.
 Then on Friday night, I'm working at the outdoor market and what you will do is come and you'll get a card and it's a punch ticket.
 We have a lot of businesses and I put them, I haven't, but they put them on the back of this card. And if you go to these businesses and get one of their special items and you get your card punched, you then get to drop your card into a basket and there's going to be, let's see, if you win, it's $500. It's a $500 peach crate, whatever. I think it's gonna be memorabilia or whatever. And then of course,
 Saturday and Sunday. It starts at as early as nine o'clock and there's going to be all kinds of events for families and they're all free. And it's the money that is coming from the Denham and Diamonds that is making it free so that all families in Rockford can participate. I think the competition over here is getting pretty heated, but you might win out after this weekend. Thank you. Alderman McNeely.
 Mr. Mayor, I would like to recognize Amy Hill. She passed away. She had her services ordered this past weekend. Amy Hill had worked at Chrysler and was very involved with the union there at Chrysler. She also was very involved politically here in this city for several years. I know that she had been sickly for several years, but I would like to recognize her and send our condolences to her family.
 I also would like to recognize Starbucks. Starbucks today closed all of their stores at, I think it was around 2 o'clock in the afternoon, to have sessions just to address racism because of an incident that they had at one of their stores.
 So I think that that was quite significant for a company of that size throughout the country to do that. And I hope that more international companies would take that same step so that we can become a better nation than what we currently are. So thank you. Thank you, and one thing I failed to bring up was
 City of Rockford lost a pretty phenomenal person and Ruthie Fairchild who I believe her visitation was today and services tomorrow. I believe she came to Rockford around 1999. I'm sure many of you may have known her far better than I did, but in the experiences that I've had the opportunity to interact with her,
 Couldn't think of a better person someone who gave more of herself to the causes that she believed in And so I just a huge heartfelt goes out to her entire family but at the same time a huge thanks to her entire family for letting us have Ruthie for the time that we did and that amount of work that She did in our entire community, especially to those who need it most alderman timber. Hmm
 Thank you, Mayor. Well said. I knew Ruthie as well. I got to know her a little bit. Yeah, an upstanding individual to say the least. Tomorrow, 6.30 at St. Peter's Church, the Rockford Park District will be holding a session for the Walker School. And I know a lot of Churchill's Grove residents are anxious to put in their input.
 And so Walker School will be knocked down here momentarily and or in the upcoming weeks. And so the Rockford Park District will be hosting a session for input from fellow residents. So I'd like to let people know that 6.30 tomorrow at St. Peter's, thank you. Thank you, Alderman Hervey had another item. Yeah, just one thing I wanted to say.
 I always somehow let it go past. I will never tell any citizen how they should think or feel about something. But I have to address some of the comments that were made about the police force tonight. I'll be 62, so I've seen a lot more than some of the young people who feel frustrated. I feel frustrated sometimes by the schism that I see between the African American community and police departments.
 The one thing I want people to never forget is that when we have to call someone for help, we don't call community activists. We don't call some leader in Washington, D.C. We call 911 here in Rockford. Peace officers are about the only people who go to work every day and get shot at for the privilege of doing their jobs. There are many people who die in dangerous jobs,
 They are the only ones who get shot at for it, who people hate, who people dislike, who people kill in the performance of their jobs because they're doing their jobs. And without them, we would all be in a world of hurt. You want to see chaos? You want to see anarchy? Wipe out police departments. Wipe out peace officers. And you'll see what the world would really look like.
 The frustration that we feel because events happen cannot override our sense that not everyone is bad. It bothers me when people label our entire police office as racist because something happens with one event. Dan O'Shea, for all I know, I don't know what his personal predilections are on anything,
 But I can tell you, I have not observed racism in his character. I haven't reserved, uh, observed it in his actions. Or I would have been the first one to say something. You and I just talked today about setting up a meeting because I'm a little tired of working to get more African Americans on our police and fire department, and we're not making any progress. I'm not going to stand up here and call Chief Bergsten or anybody else some kind of flaming racist because I'm frustrated. I'm going to get off my...
 Rear and try to figure out a solution. I'm getting a little sick and tired in the city of Rockford of so many people Screaming yelling name-calling. I don't see any action I don't see any people coming together and looking for solutions and
 God knows over the past 25 years since I've come back to this city, I don't know how many efforts, time, meetings, committees, groups that I've worked with, and we can never seem to pull it together to come up with solutions, to sit down with people and say, what are we doing that's wrong? Racism is the easy answer. The other stuff is hard, and those are the things that we need to take a look at. Those men and women in blue,
 have a tough job to do. I'm not excusing the people who do it wrong. They will be the first to tell you that I'll get up in their face in a second if I hear about mistreatment of citizens, somebody who had a bad day or whatever their problem is. And I'll go to Chief O'Shea, I'll go to the mayor and say, we've got a problem on our force. Did it with Chief Epperson.
 But please, for God's sake, stop tarring and feathering an entire group. That's what we had done to us for years. No one gave us any consideration as citizens, as individuals. If one person did something wrong who happened to be black, then they were all bad. They were all wrong. So let's not turn around and do the same thing.
 Everybody is free to walk in this chamber and make their comments and say what they wish. I for one will start turning my back when we engage in that kind of behavior. And I hope our police officers know that not all of us feel that way, that there are many in the minority community we respect, we honor, we appreciate the work that they do, and we know that we don't show it very often.
 Let's come together and come up with a way to do something positive and to work towards increasing minority presence on our police, our fire, and in the city of Rockford, and not just denigrate an entire workforce. Thank you. Thank you. Alderman Beach. Thanks, Anita. Appreciate those words.
 I also want to say something about Ruthie. I was at her visitation this afternoon, and hopefully be at her funeral tomorrow. She just, for those that knew her, she just took over your heart as she put into actions, put the so-called shoe leather to her convictions, if you will. And she wasn't talk, she was action. And the numbers of people in the life she affected is just, it's...
 We know she's happy where she is today, but it's still a loss for us here in this community. Now, on another more lighter note, we had some action in the 10th Ward. The Miracle Mile, the car show, started out to the Rockford Speedway. I'm telling you, I just loved it. I had a chance to ride in a nice fast car around that track. I don't know how fast it was going, but it was fast.
 and maybe it seemed to me it wasn't fast, but we probably had about 100 cars out there, and we had about 300 cars back at Dark Harters Lane. Had a great day, raised a lot of money, and the goal was to help in the veterans, but also to help supplement the surveillance cameras
 all the way from alpine and east state to fairview state we've got that job just about done so that we can help make that a safer quarter but it's not as many activities right now as fifth ward or third word but uh when we have them we have them good so thanks so much let me speak sir not quantity frank quality alderman frost thank you
 i i appreciate alderman hervey's tonight standing up and making the comments that she did about a particular speaker tonight and i do appreciate that i i would ask the legal department i i know i asked this a couple years ago and i don't think there was any true modifications but
 There seems to be a pattern every week of the speakers coming down here and getting louder and louder and bolder and bolder. And I do think it's worth addressing both the content of the speech and the topic of the speech. Because although I do think singing a birthday song is okay, but we're here to do the city's business. And people at home are interested in the city's business, and I think we really should look at the scope
 of what speakers are talking about. I mean, if someone doesn't like Donald Trump, there's other venues that they can go speak about. If they don't like Speaker Madigan, they can go say something else somewhere else. How?
 However, I don't know what the limitations are. I just think it's worth looking into because I seem to hear the same tunes playing week after week after week. And I just think it's detrimental to our entire community. I mean, for those people that are here, it's uncomfortable. Those people at home, either they turn it on for the shock and awe or they turn it off.
 and they stop really watching the true business of the city. It's a common denominator that people stop me on all the time and say, what is going on down there at City Hall? And I don't have an answer for what takes place. Thank you. Thank you. Seeing no other items, is there a motion to adjourn? Sure. Is there a second? All those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a good night.