Good evening. We will call to order the City of Rockford's regularly scheduled City Council meeting for Monday, May 20, 2024. This evening, we are fortunate that we have Chaplain Ken Henley with us to provide us with an invocation. Let us pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. We ask, Father, that you would come and make your presence known there in this council meeting. Amen. May things that would be discussed and voted on be to the ability of the city of Rockford and protection of the citizens of Rockford. We also ask, Lord, that you would be with the fire department and police department as they go about their daily tasks protecting us as citizens in this community. I pray that you would have your way in everything that's said and done. For we ask these things in your precious holy name. Amen. Thank You chaplain Henley Next we will have a roll call turkey tumor frost Tarina fronty Wilkins Rose I'm sorry. I didn't see you alderman Hoffman alderman Rose on a beach Alderman barrios meek Bailey 11 present excellent. So we have a quorum this evening this evening's council meeting We'll run a little bit differently. We have a We'll begin with the acceptance of the journals, then I'll provide the state of the city to council members and to the community, and then we'll move through our regularly scheduled city council meeting, and then we will also have a closed session this evening. So first, is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 6, 2024? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Second, is there a motion to approve the Journal of Proceedings for the Special City Council meeting held on May 13th, 2024? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next, we'll make this a bit of an awkward transition to a State of the City address. So good evening. I want to start this evening's State of the City Address with just a few thank yous and sincere thank yous. First and foremost, I want to thank you, the City Council. You are making decisions every single week that impact our community. I also want to thank you for your dedication, not just to your own ward, but to the entire city as a whole. I hope tonight you see the progress that we have made together, but also we outline some of the challenges that still remain before us. I also want to say a sincere thank you to our city staff. Your commitment to this community and to this organization is truly inspiring, and it's really an honor to work alongside of you each and every day. Also as mayor I have this wonderful opportunity and vantage point to see just thousands of individuals who volunteer Selflessly of their time and their talent And they provide those volunteer hours to so many different organizations who are working to make real tangible change throughout our community So I want to thank all of the volunteers. I Also, I want to thank the nonprofit organizations, the faith leaders, and the business community. They all play a critical role in leading and shaping our community, and I'm grateful for their efforts. Lastly, I want to say, although I'll be the one providing the State of the City address this evening, please make no mistake about it. This is a work done by so many other individuals and organizations throughout our community who are working tirelessly to make our community a better place for every single one of our residents. In preparing for this evening, I thought long and hard about successes. I realized that we as a community really don't celebrate successes all that well. We kind of just move on to the next item, the next task on our list. The work we are doing is not just impactful today, but it really will impact the trajectory of our community and also impact future generations. That's why tonight. I hope that we can take just a few moments and pause and reflect On those successes before continuing our incredibly important work tomorrow I also thought about why do I deliver this state of the city address? This is actually my seventh state of the city and it's really pretty simple. I do it for transparency I do it for accountability The community, I believe, should hear directly from me about the state of affairs of the City of Rockford. And tonight, I'm not going to tell you that everything is perfect, as we certainly face significant challenges. We're under the crunch right now of state and federal guidelines. We have more unfunded mandates placed on municipalities across the state of Illinois than I can even count. However, I can tell you that local government is stepping up to do everything that we can to make our residents and our community successful. Through collaboration and innovations, we're building a brighter future for all of Rockford residents. And I think we should all be proud of the work that we have accomplished in 2023. So tonight, I want to begin by talking about our residents and our neighborhoods. Before we talk about our many successes, I do want to make sure that we recognize some of the significant challenges that are before us. Today, far too many of our residents are living in poverty. They're struggling to put food on the table. They're struggling with housing. They're struggling to pay their basic utilities. Our Community Action Agency, which is celebrating 60 years this year, manages our federal and our state grant dollars. Through these funds, the City provides millions of dollars to ensure that residents in need stay housed, ensure that they have food on the table, receive crisis assistance, keep their utilities on, and make their homes safe and efficient and energy efficient. In the last year, Our team has assisted nearly 13,000 homes with energy assistance, food assistance, also with the energy assistance that included installation of weatherization measures to decrease their utility burden, as well as provide financial assistance to the ever-growing and rising energy costs. Since reaching functional zero with homeless veterans and chronically homeless individuals just a few years ago, we've maintained our role as a national leader in the fight against homelessness and have served as a resource for many communities across our nation who are trying to reach functional zero as well. We know that in order to help our residents, we must also invest heavily into our neighborhoods. After all, this is a place that our residents spend the majority of their time. Ten years ago, I want you to sit back and think. We were known as an underwater mortgage capital of America. Our property values were low. We had one of the highest property tax rates in the entire state. Our quality of life was nearly nonexistent. And we were literally driving people away from Rockford. Today, we're the country's top real estate market. People are drawn to our affordable housing stock, our growing industries and job opportunities, as well as our improving quality of life. So what has changed? We're, simply put, revitalizing our neighborhoods, and we're investing in our people and our current housing stock. In 2023, we invested a million dollars into existing homes and neighborhoods through our homeowner rehabilitation program. This program is really unique because typically our funding source requires us to only provide money to low income, which we are continuing to do. But this goes up to 150% of the average median income. We are expanding the pool of those who may qualify for assistance. Many of our residents, as we know, often make just over what they need to to qualify for assistance, but they constantly struggle to get ahead. This program helps fill that gap and helps us rehab their homes. We also continued our partnership with Habitat for Humanity with the creation of the Critical Home Repair Program, which completed an additional 24 home repair projects this year. OUR EXTERIOR REHAB PROGRAM HAS BEEN WILDLY SUCCESSFUL. 16 PROJECTS ARE UNDER CONSTRUCTION RIGHT NOW AND AN ADDITIONAL 24 WILL BE COMPLETED IN 2024. We know it's incredibly important for people to stay in their homes. We are providing them the dignity of being able to stay in their homes and ensure that their home is safe. We're stabilizing our current housing stock before these homes deteriorate to a point that the only thing and the only option that remains is demolition. Our public and private partnership that we've created with the Rockford Local Development Corporation has resulted in more than 150 homes being redeveloped in just the last two years. These types of programs are incredibly popular and we're going to continue to work hard to secure funding for even more rehab projects in the next year. While improving our existing homes is essential to strengthening our neighborhoods and our community, we also know we need to build new homes. A recent housing study confirmed that our growing economy and increased job opportunities are driving the need for new housing in Rockford. It is critical that we build new homes. We need both single-family as well as multifamily to sustain our growth trajectories. Our Community Relations Commission, as well as other city departments and community leaders and community partners, are exploring our housing needs as well as potential solutions. One such solution was the creation of the new three-year property tax rebate program for newly built construction. So now anyone who wants to build a new residential unit in the city of Rockford gets three years of their property taxes waived, as well as waiving all of their permit fees. So if a resident were to build a $200,000 property, these programs would help save that resident more than $26,000. This is a real, tangible incentive to tell people to build right here in Rockford. And I'm happy to tell you, it is working. Three new housing developments will be coming before this City Council in the very near future. We also together approved a permit to allow Rockford Housing Development Corporation to proceed with the 116 unit development, which will contain a mix of both affordable as well as market rate homes on the corners of South Avon and Cedar Streets. We have projects like Urban Equity's Water Power Lofts in 303 South Main, as well as Oliver Emerson's developments of Watch Factory in 134 North Main that will provide even more housing options for our residents. We have approved reconstruction of the Lafayette, which will turn a former hotel into an apartment complex with market rate and affordable housing. In addition to housing, we know that infrastructure is absolutely critical to our neighborhoods. In 2023, this city council passed the largest capital improvement plan in our city's history. This summer will be the largest single season of construction to date. It's going to include major construction projects like Whitman Street as well as Alpine Dam. It's also going to include the construction or reconstruction of nearly 200 neighborhood streets. This council also approved the largest water infrastructure plan in our city's history This water infrastructure plan is a hundred and sixty million dollars And it's not only just improving the quality of water for today's residents But it's including the the quality of water for our future residents We're also looking to increase the look and the feel of our neighborhoods with more public artwork We know, and this council certainly knows, that artwork contributes to a neighborhood's identity. It fosters community pride. It creates a sense of belonging and enhances the quality of life for our residents. We partnered with the Rockford Area Arts Council to create the City of Rockford's first ever arts and cultural plan, which will be unveiled just in a few short weeks. We're also working with the Rockford Area Convention and Visitors Bureau as they work to do a new City of Rockford Destination Master Plan. What we're trying to do with this plan is we want to capitalize on our current assets. We want to create new attractions, and we want to draw visitors from across the country right here to Rockford. And while visitors visits by outsiders are incredibly impactful on our community and our economy We know that residents truly are the heart and soul of the city of Rockford That's why we've also worked very hard as a council to hold the line on property taxes The city of Rockford has not increased our property tax property taxes that we collect since 2016 and In fact, we have left more than $53.8 million in the hands of property owners, that's homeowners and small businesses, and that's just since 2017. In addition, the property tax rate has dropped by 35% and our property values have increased by 56%. That's an incredible turnaround in a relatively short period of time that's gaining us national attention from across the country, from the Chicago Tribune to the Wall Street Journal. And when we talk about quality of life, we absolutely must talk about resident safety. The first thing that comes to my mind when we talk about resident safety is that horrific week that we all experienced as a community back in March. We had five residents in two separate incidents who were taken from our community and their families far too soon. It's something that's going to have a long-term, long-lasting impact on those directly and most impacted, those families, but also on our entire community. So let's not Let's not let Jason, Ramona, Jacob, Jay, and young Jenna die in vain. Let's remember them. Let's honor them. And let's make sure that we together make Rockford a better and a safer place for all Rockfordians. To do that, I believe we need to take two paths when it comes to addressing public safety. We absolutely must increase our investment in our police department. but we also simultaneously must invest in prevention and intervention efforts. We know that we have to stop the current violent crime that's taking place on our streets today, but we also have to stop the cycle of violence that has plagued our community for decades. I am proud of the work that we have done And I'm proud of the support we have given to our great officers. We've increased our police department budget by more than 40% since I've taken office. This has allowed us to increase our authorized police force, purchase more than 150 mobile and stationary license plate readers, and provide that we could more than quadruple the number of cameras that we have now in high traffic and high crime areas. Just recently, the City Council also purchased speed radar detection for all of our marked patrols, which will allow our patrol officers to step up that enforcement on our city streets. In addition to enforcement, we're also stopping crime at its roots by investing millions of dollars in intervention and prevention initiatives. And I want you to hear this clearly. We do not just dream up projects and hope that they may work. We talk to those with lived experience. We talk to our community. We follow the data, and probably most importantly, we listen. And then we work to measure that effectiveness, and this council has agreed to have a third party also measure that effectiveness. We don't do a program just to say that we're doing another program. We design projects and programs with the goal of making meaningful change in our community while increasing hope and opportunities and also decreasing crime. Our work has led to many new initiatives. This year we opened the Community Healing Center. It's modeled after the highly successful Family Peace Center. The Community Center is a multi-agency, multi-disciplinary facility where children exposed to violence and their families can receive healing and supportive services that promote trauma recovery, youth development, violence prevention, and interventions. We also launched the Violence Prevention Response Team. This is a grassroots team that's responding in real time to violence that's taking place out on our streets. The team connects shooting victims to long-term navigation and support in an effort to start their recovery, develop a pathway out of violence, and prevent the far too often retaliatory shootings. We also launched the Barbershop Project. If you're like me and probably most Rockfordians, you feel incredibly comfortable when you sit down in that barber chair or that beautician chair. What we are doing is providing these professionals with tools and education to promote mental wellness and interrupt violence in homes as well as our community. From police officers to barbers and beauticians, it is going to take every one of us to stop violent crime and the trend of violent crime. We also created a lethality prevention division at the city to coordinate initiatives aimed at preventing domestic violence and intimate partner homicides. We're also working closely with Rockford Public Schools on the school-based healing center framework. This approach acknowledges the deep impact that trauma has had on our youngest children and their learning. Implementing this framework will create supportive environments, including professional development opportunities, developing an infrastructure that supports each school, and building a set of resources that supports wellness and healing for all of our students and staff. In addition, we supported a number of youth organizations that are doing great work in our city. Just a few of those youth organizations, Comprehensive Community Solutions, YMCA, 815 Live, New Genres Art Space, the Boys and Girls Club, Northwest Community Center, Community Life Center, and the list could go on and on. These are agencies that provide youth with positive experiences and positive outlets in order to reduce the number of our children who feel that they must turn to violent crime. Our workforce development initiatives are also a part of our crime prevention efforts. We partnered with a local minority contractor to hire at-risk young adults to gain job skills while they're building sidewalks in our neighborhoods and across our city. We partnered with another contractor to establish a pre-apprenticeship program for vertical construction. These programs are providing amazing career opportunities for our youth and improving our community with really critical and needed projects. We also know that communities with higher educational attainment levels, they always, always have lower rates of violent crimes. and I believe education starts with our youngest citizens, our youngest residents. Our Head Start program has continued to serve about 700 of our community's most vulnerable young children and provide their families with education, support, enhanced health care access, and connections to numerous community resources. To help educational attainment beyond high school, we continue our support of the Rockford Promise NIU Scholarship Program. Under this Promise Program, if you live in Rockford, you attend Rockford Public Schools and you get a 3.0 GPA, you can now attend Northern Illinois University tuition and general fee free. There are currently, and think about this, there are currently 266 young Rockfordians on the campus of NIU who do not have the financial burden of college education. This past Monday, we had another 152 students stand up on the Coronado stage and sign on to the agreement for this upcoming year. That's a 31% increase from last year. I really believe NIU President Lisa Freeman said it best as she highlighted Rockford Promise in her testimony before the state Senate and House committees. In her testimony, she stated the power of our holistic approach is exemplified in the outcomes of NIU Rockford Promise program. Over the past three years, we have welcomed hundreds of graduates from Rockford Public Schools to NIU, tuition and fee free. Approximately 70% of those students are first generation college going students and 60% of the students are students of color. TO AID IN THEIR SUCCESS, ROCKFORD PROMISE STUDENTS ENGAGE IN MENTORING GROUPS, ATTEND MONTHLY STUDENT ACCESS SESSIONS COVERING TOPICS SUCH AS TIME MANAGEMENT, STUDY SKILLS, CAMPUS RESOURCES, NIU's Rockford Promise Scholars grades have trended upward each completed semester with their cumulative grade point average increasing from 3.04 in the fall of 2022 to 3.26 in the fall of 2023. And she continues, and impressively, at 85%, the first year retention rate of Rockford Promise Scholars is significantly higher than the average of all new freshmen. Rockford Promise highlights what is possible when institutions have adequate funding to achieve equitable access and success for historically underserved student populations. Folks, this program is having its intended impact. It is working. But it is not enough. I'm going to be bringing a proposal before this council in the coming weeks to expand this program. I hope that this council will support our students and support the city of Rockford's future. Another area that we have had long, long-standing concerns over is right now in Winnebago County, there's more than 25,000 people who don't have a high school degree or GED. This has been a long-standing challenge. However, this council decided to do something about it. We partnered with Goodwill Industries of Northern Illinois to bring an Excel Center to Rockford. The Excel Center is a free adult high school where students can obtain a high school diploma, get workforce training, and dual credits. It also offers free childcare and other supportive services to the students. This model works across our country. It will work here as well. So from new crime prevention initiatives to new opportunities for our youth, I'm proud of the variety and the innovation of the programs we have developed to improve public safety and create opportunities in our community. We're also making significant progress when it comes to economic development. Economic development, as you know, drives growth in our economy. It creates new job opportunities and facilitates an improved quality of life for all of our residents. I want to start by touching on two incredible announcements that brought us both state and national attention in 2023. First, Governor J.B. Pritzker announced a partnership between the Illinois Department of Transportation and Metra to once again provide safe, reliable passenger rail between Chicago and Rockford, restoring a service that was discontinued more than 40 years ago. The first passengers will be riding on that bus in 2027. Second, President Joe Biden came to our region to talk about Stellantis reopening and expanding. While Stellantis facility is located in Belvedere, its impact is on the entire region and it took all of us working together to land this deal. The Northern Illinois Council of Governments to which this council agreed to participate and to which I'm fortunate I was elected chair of was instrumental in this process. THE GROUP WORKED TOGETHER ON A PLAN WITH STELANTIS AND THE STATE OF ILLINOIS TO REOPEN THE BELVEDERE ASSEMBLY PLAN AS A PARTS DISTRIBUTION CENTER, BUILD A NEW ASSEMBLY PLAN FOR MID-SIZED PICKUP TRUCK AND BUILD A NEW ELECTRIC VEHICLE BATTERY PLAN. STELANTIS IS EXPECTED TO INVEST NEARLY $5 BILLION AND HAVE NEARLY 5,000 JOBS. THIS IS A HUGE WIN FOR OUR ENTIRE REGION. As you know, real estate developer Jay Jeffers broke ground on Coleman Yards, formerly known as Barbara Coleman. Construction is now underway in Phase 1A, a $106 million investment that includes a historic adaptive reuse of three historic buildings, along with a new parking structure that will have ground floor retail. PCI Pharma Services, a leading global contract development and manufacturing organization, also broke ground on two new facilities equating to more than 500,000 square feet out on Linden Road. PCI is investing hundreds of millions of dollars in Rockford, which will not just have an impact on our community through job creation, but will have a significant impact on delivering life-changing treatments to patients. This latest Rockford expansion is expected to bring 400 new jobs when it's fully operational at the end of this year. City Council, you also approved a redevelopment agreement with the owners of Prairie Street Brewhouse to rehab an existing building into a commercial and family-friendly space. This $5 million project is a welcome transformation along Madison Street. AAR Corporation out at the airport announced an investment of $2.6 million to support and expand their workforce training, their pipeline development, and 80 apprenticeships at AAR's maintenance, repair, and overall facility. We're also beginning our work on the first phase of Davis Park renovations. Our goal is to make this park a destination that is constantly activated throughout the year by developing it as a neighborhood amenity, a downtown riverfront catalyst, and a regional attraction all in one park. We also approved the reconstruction of Auburn Street. From Veterans Memorial Circle all the way to Springfield Avenue, which is more than three miles. This isn't just going to resurface and fix that road. It's going to build a multi-use path. It's going to replace a 100-year-old water main. It's going to replace 400 lead service lines that currently go to businesses and homes. It'll improve public safety along that roadway. Sci-fi networks to which we have talked a lot about as a council began construction on Rockford fiber City project This is the first in the state revolutionary fiber optic Infrastructure investment that will bring fast reliable and affordable internet to every single home business and organization In the city. It's a more than 200 million dollar private investment that will actually be saving our residents money and The long-awaited Hard Rock Casino, the permanent casino that I think we waited nearly as long as I've been alive to open. It opens in just a few short months. It's going to have multiple restaurants. It'll have live as well as electronic gaming, and it will also have a new live entertainment venue. It will also, at this attraction, employ more than 600 Rockfordians with an average wage of more than $50,000. The Think Big Small Business Incubator will also open later this year. As you recall, we've transforming a former Jerome Furniture Building at North Main and Auburn into now the Small Business Incubator. This facility will provide technical assistance, training, and other business development services to entrepreneurs and small businesses throughout the city of Rockford. We believe that this project will lead to more entrepreneurs opening their business here in Rockford as well as hiring local Rockfordians. So as you can see, we're seeing a lot of economic growth in our community. It equates to more jobs. It equates to more opportunities. It equates to more income for our residents. So tonight, you have heard a lot of details. You've heard a lot of details about our neighborhoods, details about our public safety, details about our economic development. However, if you leave here understanding or taking away one thing, I want to be clear. I want you to know and to remember our efforts are working. Our efforts are making a difference. So here's some proof. In 2023, we saw a 20% reduction in violent crime. Since I've taken office, we have seen a 34% reduction in violent crime. We've seen a 29% reduction in property crime. In addition, our residents' perception of crime is also improving. The RACVB did a survey back in 2018. They now did a survey just recently in 2023. And the number of residents who feel that they are safer has increased by 70%. We're making progress. Our residents are starting to feel that progress. Since 2017, our residents are now also making more money. We've seen a 20% increase in our median household income. In 2023, we had 7,000 more jobs in Rockford than we did in 2020. We had 7,000 more jobs in 2023 than we did in 2020. Last year alone, we had $377 million in construction projects. That's up from just $165 million in 2022. Our crime is going down. Our residents' income is going up, and there's new business and developments all around us. As we continue on this journey of progress and growth in Rockford, it's important that we recognize our incredible potential. The belief from international brands, if it's the Chicago Blackhawks or Hard Rock, is a testament to our endless possibilities. These brands see something special in Rockford, and it's time that we too see something special in Rockford. It's time to believe in ourselves and to believe in our capabilities. We must start carrying a chip on our shoulder proudly and no longer as a burden. Rockford stands at the precipice of a new era poised to continue our climb in 2024 and beyond. Let us seize that moment, embrace our potential, and work tirelessly to realize our collective vision of a brighter, more prosperous future for every single one of our residents. Together, with unwavering belief in ourselves, our people, and our city, there is no limit to what we can achieve. I am proud to tell you the state of our city right now is strong and just getting stronger. I appreciate all of your time. Thank you. So we'll do a real smooth transition into our petitions and communications. We do have one item under planned development, so I'll go to Alderman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. We have a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding a proposed redevelopment agreement between the City of Rockford and Mulford and State Development LLC for 5909 and 5949 East 8th Street, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you, Alderwoman Wilkins. Next, we'll go to Alderwoman Trina for Code and Regulation Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. zoning board of it number one the zoning Board of Appeals agenda for the meeting to be held on May 21st 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 28 2024 referred to the Code and Regulation Committee I remember to the liquor and tobacco advisory boards agenda for the meeting to be held on May 21st 2024 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulation Committee meeting on May 28th 2024 referred to the Code and Regulation Committee and Item number three, a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding authorization for a resolution to grant temporary easement and right of way to the Illinois Department of Transportation for city-owned property located at 1105 North 2nd Street, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number four, a memorandum from Scott Capavilla, Planning and Zoning Manager, regarding a modification of an existing liquor license to add an additional video gaming terminal at 2327 kishwaukee street referred to court and regulation committee number five men ramble memorandum from jacob rubin assistant city attorney regarding the annexation of 4640 west state street referred to court and regulation committee number six a memorandum from nelson so strim and Building code official regarding the adoption of the 2021 International Council codes family of codes and related codes with amendments for its code a regulation committee and Lastly number seven a memorandum from on behalf of alderwoman April Prenti regarding proposed amendments to chapter 29 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances To create a process for licensing pedal bar buses within the city of Rockford referred to code and regulation committee. Thank you. I Thank you, Alderman Trena. Next, we'll go to Alderman Frost in the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. First, I'm going to open a bid for the sale of property located at 323 Sofer Avenue. It is from Mr. Ricky Lloyd and Luchita Lloyd, and they have enclosed a check in the amount of $110. I will give this to our clerk. and refer that matter to the Finance and Personnel. Number two is a memorandum from Sharice Hunter, Human Resources Director, regarding revisions to the City of Rockford rules and regulations. We refer to F&P. Number three will be a memorandum from Sharice Hunter regarding the adaption of the rewritten City of Rockford 457 Deferred Compensation Plan document. We also refer to Finance and Personnel. And there's an add-on number four is a memorandum from Anne Wilkerson, Central Services Manager. regarding the approval of resolution authorizing the central service manager to execute a contract for electrical municipal aggregation supply and This matter will also be for the finance of personnel. Thank you. Thank you Next we will have our public speakers want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of council chambers, you'll have three minutes to address council and I'm hopeful that my kids did not break my phone and I can provide an alarm that should stop at three minutes and Ask that you close your comments. Our first speaker this evening is Brad roots Thank you your honor and thank you members of the City Council for this opportunity to speak I'm here to again I ask you to approve the waiver of parking fees for the parking lots around the Embassy Suites for the Solar Conference and Expo to be held on July 18th of this year. That Solar Conference and Expo will attract a lot of people, hundreds of people, and we expect many of them to be folks from disadvantaged neighborhoods and households, and we don't want the parking fees to be an impediment to their attending the conference where they can learn how they can obtain the benefits of solar in various ways and save significant amounts of money on their power bills. I have two requests besides that in mind. One is that members of the city council and staff please attend the conference. If you don't yet have solar, you can have solar. Everybody can have solar and save significant money on your power bill. And the second thing I would ask is that you encourage your friends and family to also attend. In the end, we will have to electrify America by 2050. That means we'll all be getting solar. So now is a good time. The benefits of solar in the state of Illinois are among the very best in the United States. There's never been a better time to get solar than there is right now. Thank you very much. Thank you. Our next speaker this evening is John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. It's very interesting that you did your State of the Union address. I'm not a Republican. I'm not an independent. I am a Democratic. But I have a slight homework for you, Tom McNamara. Your father, John McNamara, back in 1980, the Book of Washington was a corral. Black people could not go in the downtown area. Black people could not open up any business on the east side of the river. Your father, John McNamara, opened up them doors, and also Charles Box opened up them doors. We was able to open up business. The first time a black police officer was in 1979 could arrest a white person without a white officer being present. I'd like for you all to check your home. This is an observation. We haven't had one mayor since your father and Charles Box that have done anything for the grassroots. What we have seen here on the west side of the river, we have seen all these people. get moved. We have seen business close. We have seen a hospital look like a ghost town now. We have not seen any grassroot organization have gotten anything. What we have seen was that you have taken away colleagues, I don't even know her from Jack, but what I do know is that she's doing a great job with working with the individuals who's on drugs that would never go to your Peace and Justice Center because the Peace and Justice Center follows rules and regulations that DCSF follows. and a lot of our people despise DCSF because DCSF is the historians of family. Yes, it's a good idea for the Peace and Justice Center, but College Place was a place that should never be closed down. What should have been done was the two million dollars that y'all have went in there and fixed up her infrastructure and allowed her to continue to do what she's doing. When the corona hit, she was the one that notified the police when two felons was loose. The other individual who opened up his house for the homeless people, y'all went after him. Instead of going after him, that family were helping homeless people. You should have been working with him to open up, you know, to help more homeless people. A lot of our homeless people is not going to go to the rescue mission. They're not going to go to some of the other facilities that we have around town because to five organizations. And so I just want you to look and do what you want. Every gas station, grocery store, and liquor store on the west side of the river is owned by foreigners. A foreigner went and bought the same amount on Riverside, on Riverside, now that's like a ghost town. He has the audacity to tell people that if you don't have the proper change, he's not giving you your change back. We have not seen any project on the west side of the river. Thank you. Our next public speaker I believe did a last minute cancellation, but I'm just going to double check. Is Jacqueline Landrett in? Okay. Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs written by a wise man named Solomon, the 29th chapter of the 7th verse, it says, the righteous care about justice for the poor, but the wicked have no such concern. What I'm going to speak about tonight, the power of increasing the minimum wage. Imagine the debt we could make in educational outcome disparity if every working parent had access to one living wage job. Imagine the plethora of... troubles, this one change could quell. All parents could spend more time with their children. They could avoid the anxiety of working multiple jobs. More would have benefits like paid leave, which is helpful for visiting their children's school. An employer provided health insurance. Housing stability among lower income people would drastically improve. This might be the single most important out of social change we could advocate for economic modularity. Have you heard somebody say that people experiencing poverty ought to be responsible for themselves and get a job? Most working-age people experiencing poverty do have jobs. Often they have four jobs, trying to piece together a living for themselves and their family. Many work more than equivalent. of full-time. Unfortunately, they disproportionately are working part-time jobs with such low pay that even if they spring together 40 hours of work per week across multiple jobs, they do not make enough money to get out of poverty. The reality is bleak. There are not enough living wage jobs in the United States for every working adult to have one. About 40 percent of jobs pay below $15 per hour, a common approximation of a living wage, even a person with a full-time job at that wage would not earn enough to afford a part. In many parts of the United States, there are sometimes more job seekers than there are jobs paying $15 a month, leaving workers seeking better wages but few are my solution to solve this problem. Increase the minimum wage all over the United States. This would lower the homeless rate, this would lower the poverty rate, this would lower the crime rate, it would increase the high school and college rate at the same time. And thousands of Jesus Christ should stand up and speak up and say, we're not going to go along with you, the government treating the poor people like you're doing. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. I believe our last speaker did a last-minute cancellation as well, but I want to make sure. Is Felicity Cowgill in? I'll just go back. Is Jacqueline Landrett? Thank you. We will move on. Thank you to all of our public speakers. We'll move on to new committee reports. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulation, so we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. number one the committee recommends approval vouchers amount of 12 million 372 thousand 178 dollars and 99 cents as approved at the fmp meeting held on may 13 2024 number two the committee recommends approval of the 2023 supplemental appropriation ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number three the committee recommends approval of 2024 supplemental appropriate appropriation ordinance the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number four the committee recommends approval of the fine reduction request For property located at 2206 Broadway, the owner is requesting the fine total of $2,800 be reduced to zero pending the sale of the property. The property is not in compliance with the appropriate building and sanitation codes at this time. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number five, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Housing Authority for an amount to be determined to facilitate weatherization services and measures on RHA scattered site properties. The agreement does not require a cost match. The term is from execution of the agreement with a possible additional year extension option. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these five matters before you. Thank you alderman frost, uh council got five items before us. Is there any discussion on those five items alderman bonnie? Thank you mayor Um number four We had some discussion last week about this And I think there were some Unanswered question about the reason This was the repairs to this home Couldn't be made couldn't be afforded whether there was insurance, uh either auto or homeowners coverage that um or whether there wasn't any, or whether there was just an inability to maybe meet deductibles. I also was under the impression that the person requesting this while the owner, this was also the occupant. And I'm curious if that, I believe that maybe that is not the case, that this is a rental. I was wondering if you have any more clarification on this since we went through finance. Yes. I am uncertain if we have any further clarification, but I can promise you I'll work to get it to you if you wanted to lay it over I know what alderman logan was supportive of it beyond that. I don't know a lot of the details. I apologize Back to number four I was gonna make a motion to lay the matter over a second Okay, we have a motion and we have a second to lay over and it's been legal. I'll make sure I get those for you Thank you Okay, we have items one two and three and five remain any questions any discussion other men Durkee Thank You your honor just as relates to number five As I I'm going to reiterate Know some thoughts that were raised at the committee meeting the I lost it. I I have some trouble with it. First of all, I'm assuming, I'm hoping that when the dollar amount is determined, it does come back to the city. But I'm a little reluctant to approve an ordinance specifying money to be determined later. But I am troubled. I've often had a little bit of conflict. problems with some of these weatherization these roofing programs because While it is good that people get into a home I think sometimes we encourage people to get into homes and only they find themselves struggling to to maintain their homes and when the Prep, you know perhaps some pre-purchase counseling would have helped that had them hold off on a home purchase until they were better prepared and So these repair projects, they've always had a little bit of trouble. Not for folks that, for instance, through no fault of their own, either illness or disability or something, have come upon some trouble, and I guess the government can step in and help them. But I find it a little bit troubling that we have our own needs in the city as our governing body and our residents, transferring money to another government agency who has full capability for grant writing to receive grants and Find their own federal funding I'm also curious as to why the RHA has left these homes to get into disrepair someone once said that the biggest slumlord owner in the United States the federal government and I'm curious as to Why are we bailing them out? Why weren't these homes maintained? I? These are F these are RHA owned homes and they should have taken care of them with their budget I think when I look at some of the activities that RHA gets in and I think that probably is grant driven but there's a little bit of missions riff in Moving from you know housing people to other things that they do So I'm opposed not to the overall concept, but I'm opposed to the city of Rockford transferring a Funding that we would use directly to work for our residents to subsidize government-owned Properties, you know federal government should take care of through, you know, their direct pipeline those properties not us So and lastly again to reiterate we don't know you don't know what we're spending Well, I know it may not have been a question, but we'll tell you, I think our staff won't agree with every single thing that you just said, but overall the idea of providing the funding over to Rockford Housing Authority. I know Director Parham, a long discussion about that. with our funder and ultimately we did not get what we wanted and I would say the broader idea for us although not what we want and I can't speak to the condition of our AJ properties and I can't speak to that but what I can speak to is those are still our residents and this program will still benefit them. And we're now faced with the decision, do we spend those dollars here in our community to benefit residents here, which I think we could agree and argue that maybe a different body should have handled, or should we lose those funds? That's really, to me, the way I've kind of rationalized it for myself. And I think we fought the battle to just have them come here. We did not win that battle. So this was the next best option is that we could at least keep them here as opposed to them going back into some other community. Your Honor? Alderman Bonney, I'll come right back. Or, yeah, Alderman Durkee. Thanks, sir. Is there another outside government agency driving this? We've had discussions with the Fed. Is it Illinois? Is it the Feds? Is there somebody driving us or pressuring the city to do this? Dr. Parham. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Durkee, this initial proposal came to us from the Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity. So they presented the proposal to us. We had some issues with our production levels not being where they needed to. And so they came to us initially. And actually, during our HUD visit last week with the assistant secretary who was here, I did learn during that visit that the state's weatherization program had reached out to HUD for assistance. So some of the same directives that they had given to us as a potential option for boosting production in our local community, they made those same suggestions to entities that were providing weatherization services all over the state. as a result of conversations that they'd had with HUD about providing those services. Now one of the caveats of weatherization is that if you spend all of your grant allocation, they reallocate additional dollars to you. So with regard to this proposal, again, like Mayor said, this was not our primary option or what we wanted, but what it does do is kind of creates two tracks for weatherization. So if we actually expend all of the grant dollars that have been initially allocated to Rockford, we actually get more. So ultimately we may be able to serve more people than initially thought at the start of our grant year if all those dollars are Expended whether that's through the traditional track of serving the individual homes that we do internally And then also working with on these larger scale contractors and the RHA properties to actually serve even more homes The was this a proposal quotes I Proposal, unquote, or was this do this? What was the sense? And I have another question. So initially, we were, the suggestion was made, and we declined, and our program was de-obligated some funds as a result of that. So this particular IGA presents the opportunity to recoup those funds that had been deobligated in that process and Ultimately possibly be able to serve more homes if we meet The if we expend our full allocation, you know, just a further comment that is one of the knocks that taxpayers have on government bodies and We haven't spent the grant. Let's find all kinds of different ways to spend it so that the federal government keeps giving us more money. That's a little bit disturbing to taxpayers. That's where government waste comes into play. Let's find out different ways to expend the money so that we keep getting more stuff. It's like, let's buy the copier. Let's buy this. Let's buy that. So that next year they won't cut our budget because we didn't spend it all. So that's essentially what you're saying. Right. And I get it, but I think when we're using taxpayer money, it's kind of hard, if they're listening, to swallow. I will say that's not a fair assessment. I mean, one, I understand where you're going with it, and I can understand the path that you are traversing down, but we do want more money. But it's not like we just want more money to spend it. I think it's unfair to throw that out there because we want more money because as, you probably weren't listening, but as I just got done talking for way too long, the need is so great that we need more money to help the current folks in our housing stock. A, we need to help the residents. B, if we don't do these things to these homes, they're just going to deteriorate even further which then we'll be on the hook to demolish them. And so I agree wholeheartedly with, I think, your premise of giving it to RHA. I can see the frustrations and deeply appreciate that. But I don't think it's the same as, you know, let's buy another copy because we don't have money. I mean, that's just wasteful. This is still going to impact people who are Rockfordians, who live in Rockford. Yeah, I know. But, see, the money is not a nebulous pot. It comes from taxpayers. So we have people that are struggling to make their own bills make their payments We have people who may or may not be in homes that they really could have afforded to begin with and now we have another Government body, but so people are looking at this and saying I'm paying that this tax So it's it's almost like we're gouging some folks are raising taxes then to shift, you know to shift the the investment into homes that that should have been taken care of by somewhere else that Tax it doesn't come from nowhere taxpayers have to pay this so we have people who are marginally making it potentially Having to pay money for other people who are marginally make it but in this case, it's our own federal government That's not doing it. So I get what you're saying Yeah, I would also just add like if we gave this money back and At no point will the federal government be like, you know what? We reduced taxes because Rockford gave back $500,000 or whatever it's going to be. This is money that they're taking. I mean, as you monitor the debt probably closer than I do, as it explodes exponentially over the last 10 years, they're not going to return it. My thought process is since it's already been taken in, we in Rockford need as much of it as we can get. So lots of folks. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. You took the wind out of my sails on a lot of these points. But, I mean, Alderman Durkee does make some good points, including that the  why isn't the RHA doing better care of its property? But I think it still comes down to the loss  the funds if we don't do this and in addition to the fact that the occupants of these homes are our residents and They have needs. I think it's important to remember that the improvement to these homes It's a benefit not just to our tenant occupant and presumably the RHA, but to their neighbors. It lifts all boats on that street and maybe beyond. Director Parham did contact me to see if I had any other questions about this. And she mentioned, and can correct me if I'm repeating this poorly, but that to address this future and contractor capacity issue that is behind some of this, that her staff is negotiating with Johnson Controls to be able to contract directly with the city in the future so that we don't necessarily have to go down this path again if we don't want to. She also pointed out that something that, that there is a path to ownership if you are an RHA tenant, to homes. And I know, I'm not sure how it's done now, but I know in my ward there are a number of former RHA single-family homes that I think were built, you know, as RHA scared site property that are now in private ownership. And so it does happen. uh you know so i while it's maybe not best case scenario i think it is all things considered definitely worth doing thank you thank you alderman rose yeah i just wanted to reiterate to what the mayor said um in regards to the allocation is you know anytime that those funds are allocated those those funds are spent They don't get, you know, the taxpayer does not get a refund on that. And I think it's important for us to understand that when those funds are spent and we don't use them, they go to other communities. They go to places that are aggressive in getting those types of dollars. And so it's important that when we have these opportunities before us that we take them when we can, especially when additional funds are created from it. So just wanted to share that two cents. Thank you. Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. In regards to, and I'll follow the Roberts rules of order here, the first ward alderman. Yes, I mean, that is very apparent in so many cases where, whether it's municipalities, universities are absolutely guilty of this, even somewhat in the private sector. If a department does not use enough of its funds that were budgeted, then the... Finance Committee at that appropriate entity will say well, we don't they don't need that many funds We can bring down their funding for next year and many and that can be the case So there is instances where those departments and such would tend to use those funds accordingly to expend them So that does occur, you know, I And that goes to a deeper issue, which I won't get into, but obviously the United States pays $900 million to almost a trillion dollars in interest a year in debt. So at some point, they're just going to have to come to the realization. Ninth Ward Alderman just mentioned that yes that that money is spent considered spent and that is true in most cases So it but it's just a matter of then coming and doing the budget for next year and and realizing that and And maybe cutting back a little bit but in this case regardless I just wanted to make a point that I did talk with director Parham For an extensive period of time after council last weekend and today. I appreciate the time And I will be voting for this tonight With the caveat that that we do our best Going forth. I appreciate the the reaching out to Johnson controls I would like to see the city of Rockford if we are given money for this purpose That we use it for the city of Rockford for for the city of Rockford instead of in conjunction with RHA, but I Appreciate that effort going forth. Thank you. Thank you Any other discussion alderman turkey one last comment? I And that is to dovetail on the third Ward Alderman's comments that as a federal government, we face immense economic challenges with debt and printing money. And if we just a philosophical self-assessment that we all should consider, and that is if every city in the United States does what we do, this is why we have incredible debt and incredible printing of money. Is that we don't want to give the we don't want to give the money back But if if these American cities would adopt more austere measures and how they budget and not Overspend and not seek to spend every dollar Perhaps we get our spending under control all good points were raised in the discussion and it is It's a challenging. It's a challenging vote for me. It's it's Good ideas all the way around on both sides. I First, I thought I saw a hand over here. Alderwoman Meeks? I guess I just want to make a comment. I just find it interesting how long and repetitive our discussions can get when we talk about programs that help people. Then we have so many other facets that we vote on and talk about and we can snap through them in a second But when we talk about programs that help people help people get people help get people out of poverty Help weatherize homes to save money on their bills, then we want to have deep discussion about What I what I heard were good points, and I just I don't find them to be good points I'm just gonna leave it there. Thank you other woman fronty. I i'll leave it there as well no other comments one more round no um anyone oh no that was a joke very short and to the point it's like no toomberg has ever said before yeah don't worry i won't blow v8 bloviate on this one too much uh it's simply it's not it's not the money being spent on our residents it's a matter of the city having that money to spend that was designated for the city, and now we're coming into this intergovernmental agreement with RHA. I would ideally love RHA to have their money. They're their own taxing body. They have their own board of directors. We are our own taxing body here. We're city council, but it's a situation where The city of Rockford was not able to expend that money. Now we're, based on state, federal, combination of both, giving this money back for this intergovernmental agreement. I'm going to vote for it tonight. But ideally, it would be a matter of the city and us as council deciding on where that money goes within our city, let RHA do their thing, they're their own entity. And that's why I just, I'm encouraged at going forth that we have those conversations to, whether it's Johnson Controls, but there obviously, from my understanding, there was cases where we just could not get the qualified entities businesses contractors whomever to do the work that we needed done and if we can find those Qualified entities to do the work. We wouldn't be in this situation where we're then now Intergovernmental agreement ting with our H a and all that's it. So it's not that yeah, thank you Thank you turkey Timber frost Serena printing Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Mario's Meeks Bailey Bonnie I'm swung through three thirteen eyes item number five twelve eyes one no Excellent. Thank you officers reports other woman Trina and Thank you. I just wanted to highlight the South Main Mercado that's coming up in my ward. They're going to be shutting down South Main Street. That hasn't been done in, I believe, over a decade. So it's really exciting. It is on Sunday, June 9th, and the hours are from 12 p.m. to 7. So it's kind of going to be a half a day affair, but lots of food. Music vendors it's gonna be a really great time It's just it's a welcome invitation for all of our city to sort of visit a different side of town And get a taste of some different culture, so I want to welcome everyone to the again the South Main Mercado Sunday June 9th 12 to 7 and it's gonna be a great time. Thank you. Excellent. Thank you alderman rose and alter one Wilkins and Beach and Real quick, I just wanted to say thank you to Jessica Anderson and her team in code enforcement. They've been doing a lot of work in my ward to stabilize some housing that has sit for multiple years and Had a few issues with that in the past month or two with really great citizens who have been integral in saving these properties. And I wanted to just share this real quickly because it was the citizens who called in, they had been calling into code enforcement or calling me to, um, Put in reports on the various homes that were having issues, but also they were very vigilant about the criminal element that was coming to these homes and Calling that both emergency number and non-emergency number to address some of the situations there and I just wanted to put that out there that I For citizens who, like sometimes they'll say, well do I call the non-emergency number or do I call the emergency number? I always say you can always call a non-emergency number if you think something just isn't right. But if you know that it's an emergency, call that. But it was because of those citizens that two homes were actually saved from total disrepair. And I just wanted to highlight that, but also highlight Jessica's team and their work in doing that. And also, I just wanted to also share that for obviously aldermen are probably getting these calls right now and certain individuals are probably facing these types of citations, that it is time to mow your lawn. And that, you know, there are a few areas in my ward that have seen some issues with that and we will continue to address those as those types of needs take place. So thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman Wilkins. um marissa the owner of the new community center that's opening up this saturday was here last week and i just wanted to remind everyone um that the west end community center is having their ribbon cutting ceremony this saturday at 3 p.m be sure to come out if you if you can to support alderman wilkins could you email that to me and i'll make sure everyone also gets that uh alderman beach oh thank you uh we just went out of the week of the police memorial. And I just wanted to talk about that for a minute. The event on Wednesday where we went to the church and had that very touching service. And then, of course, the breakfast this past Friday and then out to the mall. And just for myself personally, I want to thank the many aldermen that did go up to several of the events. But from my point of view, it's once a year that I can sit down very quietly in a church setting. Thank you. and really think about the fact that our police officers, literally the ones that we honor, lost their lives to defend us. I mean, that's what their role is, but nonetheless, it's a time we sit and actually just do it. And so I want to thank our chief police for handling the arrangements that make all these things happen, and I hope we never have to add another name to the list. But it really is very sobering when you really think about it. So thank you so much to Chief. Thank you so much for the officers that are in this room. Thank you so much for our police and our first responders, your service as well. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. Alderman Prentice? He did what I wanted to do. So thank you, Alderman Meeks. Any other reports? Alderman Meeks. I want to thank the terrible drivers in the city of Rockford for forcing us to have to solve the roundabout situation on Auburn and Main Street. But I really genuinely want to thank Traffic Director Jeremy Carter for his efforts and just, you know, trying to find a solution to the problem. I mean, this is a roundabout that has... close to five accidents a month, I want to say. I mean, it's something that I really would have liked... citizens to just be able to figure it out because I do feel like there's the potential of delays that could come with Shutting down one of those lanes, so I'm not like jumping for joy for this solution But I definitely know a solution needs to be made because of the number of accidents So I hope that this time that we have with the changes to the roundabout that are coming I believe June second or third That our citizens will use this time to pay close attention to the rules of the road. Thank you so much. Thank you and right in my neighborhood and I know Alderman to bird probably others and I know Legal director Meyer was out there a big thank you to Ernie Helen and all the volunteers who plant all those flowers Each year and then maintain them. So any other reports? I Alderman Bailey. Yeah, I just want to inform the council in the community that the 13th Ward is having Westgate Coalition is having an energy panel discussion. We have experts coming in from elevate out of Chicago we have the faith in place group and Zion West participating in a panel discussion along with our Urban Energy Group out of Indiana talked about electric vehicles and we also have invited Cultivate power a community solar farm that's interested in coming into this market So it's going to be the 29th of this month and it's open to the public 1030 1130 at district 1 Headquarters. Thank you. Thank you any other officers legal director Meyer. Do you have a report for us? I? i do we are in receipt of the comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of 343 166.46 thank you next we're going to move on to motions and resolutions we have nothing under planning and development so we'll go to code and regulation committee all the moment arena Committee recommends approval of the request from sustained Rockford for a waiver of parking fees and city-owned parking lots around embassy Suites Located at 416 South Main Street the 2024 gold solar 815 conference and Expo that will be held on July 18th 2024 thank you. Thank you Alderman Trina. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion that one item clerk? Could you please call the roll? tumor for us Trina Aye. Prunty? Aye. Wilkins? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Barrios? Aye. Meeks? Aye. Bailey? Aye. Bonney? Aye. 13 ayes. Thank you. Next we'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee and Alderman Frost. number one the committee recommends approval and award of bid for water division led service line replacement to end track uh an amount not to see not to exceed four million dollars based on unit pricing the contract duration is one year the funding sources the iepa state revolving loan fund number two the committee recommends approval of a word of bid for the keith creek flood hazard mitigation and northern service in the amount of 148 thousand eight hundred and seventy two dollars and fifty cents The contract is through August 9th, 2024. The funding sources, the Illinois Department of National Resources Hazard Mitigation Grant Program. Number three, the committee recommends approval of water bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number two to TCI Concrete in the amount of $2,138,635.94. It is through October 4th, 2024, and the funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. Number four, the committee recommends approval of a bid for temporary staffing services to workplace for various hourly bidding. The contract durations for two years with three subsequent one-year extensions. The funding source is various department budgets. Number five, the committee recommends approval of non-competitive contract for police portable radios and accessories in motor oil solutions. In the amount of $942,407.95, the funding sources the Police Department Operating Budget. Number six, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract to Gelota Software. In the amount of $93,950, the contract is for three years. The funding sources the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Tax. Number seven, the committee recommends approval of a non-competitive contract for household hazardous waste. facility canopy construction, distensory petroleum, in the amount of $70,750. The funding source is the Construction Development Services Operating Budget. 8. The Committee recommends the approval and renewal of a non-competitive contract for neighborly grant management software to benefit in the amount of $25,220. The contract duration is from July 1, 2024 to June 30, 2025. The funding source is CDBG and Illinois Housing Development Authority's Homeowners Assistance Fund Home Repair Grant. Number nine, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for natural gas supply. Number ten, the committee recommends approval of resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for street lighting electric supply. Number 11, the committee recommends approval of an application acceptance of the Weatherization Health and Human Services Grant Award from the Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity in the amount of $790,097. If awarded, the grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 1, 2024 to September 30, 2025. The grant will provide funds for approved clients' weatherization work order, client energy usage, education... and other issues. Number 12, the committee recommends approval of an application acceptance of the IDHS Emergency Solutions grant award, the amount of $25,000 if awarded. The grant does require a 100% cost match from the CSBG. The grant will provide funds for approved clients, landlord, housing, search placement, budget education, and other services. Number 13, the committee recommends approval of the Rosecrans Contractor Service Agreement in the amount of $40,000. The agreement does not require a cost match to the grant terms from June 1, 2024 to May 31, 2025. The grant funds will be utilized for clinical supervision from licensed Rosecrans staff in the event that a client may need hospitalization due to a mental health crisis. Number 14, the committee recommends approval of acceptance of an Illinois DCO grant. grant in the amount of 1.5 million dollars the mayor's office of domestic community violence prevention previously received council approval to accept the grant from dco in the amount of 1.38 million the city of rockville received an additional 119 016 bringing the total award amount to the 1.5 million this grant does not require a cost match the grant term is from July 1 2023 through June 1 2025. the grant will provide funds to pay costs associated with administration and improved projects Number 15, the committee recommends approval of the subrecipient service agreement with the Rockford Park District amount of $130,000. It does not require a cost match. It is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2025. This agreement is funded by the Illinois DCO grant. The funds will be utilized to engage with youth in the Learning Labs Intervention Project. 16. The Committee recommends approval of another subrecipient service agreement with the Boys and Girls Club and of $200,000. It does not require a cost match. The agreement term is from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2025. The agreement is funded by the DCEO grant. The funds will be utilized to retrofit a former parochial school built in 1958 with accessible entrance and restrooms. 17. The Committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Winnebago County Community Mental Health board grant award for the Family Peace Center in the amount of $882,700. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 1, 2024 through May 31, 2027. The grant will provide funds to support and expand mental health and wellness programming for survivors, staff, and partners at the Family Peace Center. Number 18, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Winnebago County Community Mental Health Board Grant Award for the Crisis Co-Response Team in the amount of $6,995,786.10. The grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from June 1, 2024 through May 31, 2027. The grant will provide funds to continue the collaboration between the City of Rockford Police Department, Loves Park Police Department, and Winnebago County Sheriff's Office and ROSE grants to provide a 911 police response to incidents in which there may be a mental health or substance abuse crisis occurring. 19. The Committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Fiscal Year 2024 Illinois Department of Commerce Economic Opportunity Grant Award for the Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention in the amount of $500,000. This grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2023 through June 30, 2024, through an extension to June 30, 2025, as anticipated. The funds will provide costs associated with one full-time program coordinator, two full-time medical response advocates, facility costs, and rent for a portion of the 2024 year to sustain the City of Rockford's efforts at the Family Peace Center. committee recommends approval of a sub-recipient contract the amount of fifty thousand dollars to the northern illinois blood bank as part of the fiscal year 2024 illinois dco grant award for the mayor's office of domestic community violence prevention grant the grant does not require a cost match the grant terms from july 1 2023 to june 30 2024 though an extension to june 30 2025 is anticipated the funds will be used for security fencing And number 21, the committee recommends approval and acceptance of the Illinois Community College Board Appropriated Funds Grant Award in the amount of $100,000. This grant does not require a cost match. The grant term is from July 1, 2023 to December 31, 2025. The grant will provide funds used to reimburse graduates for tuition that successfully complete the basic law enforcement training and a possible second reimbursement once they successfully complete the field training program. I place these 21 matters before you. Thank you, Alderman Frost. Counsel, there's 21 items before us. Is there any discussion on those items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Tunberg. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Rose, Beach, Barrios, Meeks, Bailey, Fonny. 13 ayes. Next we'll go to new business ordinances. We have nothing under planning and development or code and regulations, so we'll go back to finance and personnel. Great. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Number one is an ordinance approving the 2023 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. Number two is an ordinance approving the 2024 Supplemental Appropriation Ordinance. And number three is an ordinance appro- Oh, that one's been laid over. Moving on to number four is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and RHA for an amount to be determined to facilitate weatherization services and measures on RHA scattered site properties The agreement does not require a cost match. The term is from execution of the agreement with a potential of an additional year option. I place these four matters before you. Thank you. So just to be clear, there's just three matters. We have items one, two, and four because item three was laid over. Is there any discussion on those three items? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. No, item four. I have the rest. Toonberg. Frost. Tarina. Prenti. Wilkins. Hoffman. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Vargas. Aye. Meeks. Bailey. Bonnie. Item number 1, 2, 13, ayes. Item number 4, 12, ayes, 1, no. Thank you. We're going to go back to Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. At this juncture, I would make a motion to convene in the closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor of going to closed session say aye. Aye. Those opposed all right, we'll take a recess for closed session, okay? We are back into open session clerk. Could you please call the roll to bird Ross? Tarina Prunty Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Barrios Meeks Bailey got a quorum. We're doing great I Does someone have a motion to adjourn? So moved. Second. We have a motion. We have a second. Anyone want to discuss it? No? Thank you. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, have a great night.