Good evening, everyone. We are going to get this evening's meeting started. This evening, we have an invocation. I don't see Chaplain Henley with... Oh, there Chaplain Henley is. Perfect. We'll start with our invocation. I'm here. Let's pray. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we come before you tonight asking... Your blessing upon this meeting and all that will be done here. We pray that you will be able to guide the minds and those who speak and those who are here to accept those things that are said. Most of all, Lord, tonight we want to ask you to take your hand of protection and put it upon our police officers and our fire department as they go throughout their shift, protecting us and keeping us from harm and danger, that they might be able to go home the same way they came to work. Lord, we just pray that You'd have Your way in everything that's said and done. For we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. We have five public speakers this evening. I want to remind our public speakers there's a microphone on the back left as well as the back right of council chambers. You can use either microphone. You have three minutes to address the city council. You will hear an obnoxious cell phone ring, which will mean I'll have to close out your comments. Our first public speaker this evening is Connor Brown. Good evening, Mayor, City Council, City staff, and citizens of Rockford. My name is Connor Brown. I'm the Chief Executive Officer of Northwest Illinois Alliance of Realtors. Used to be known as Rockford Area Realtors. We've gone through a couple mergers the past couple years with the Belvedere Board, as well as our friends in Freeport. So we now cover a six-county region from Boone County all the way to the Mississippi River. I've asked a couple handouts to be distributed this evening to you, so it might be kind of helpful going along with some of the numbers. I do apologize, the second handout, you might have to get your cheaters out on that. It's just a lot of numbers packed in, but if you'd like any of this emailed to you, I'm happy to provide that. If I can, with the first colored copy, as we report our statistics throughout the region, as we do our monthly reports with our news partners, we cover an area primarily of Ogle, Winnebago, and Boone counties. So when we report those three-month rolling averages and what the overall market's doing, this kind of represent the Rockford regional market. You know, some people are very specific on where they want to live, others are a lot more flexible, and certainly, you know, what happens in Rockford and benefits Rockford benefits the region. So, in this report you can see we've really been suffering a lot through new listings as well as our overall sales. National statistics that you'll see is the housing market's cooling off. Well, you got to drill down a little deeper on that. The demand is not cooling off specifically for the Rockford market. In fact, demand is incredibly high. The issue that we're facing right now is an inventory shortage. It's happening nationally and regionally and specifically within the city of Rockford. I was talking to someone earlier. today that a realtor pointed out that there's only six houses on the market between 200 and 250,000 in the city of Rockford. So if you're a buyer that's qualified in that range and you're talking to your realtor, show me what you got, there's not a whole lot. And so if you're looking for a two-story that may cut out half those choices. You're also competing against a large pool of very hungry buyers. and just another quick story you know I think any of my members would trade five buyers for one listing right now because we are off significantly in terms of the the amount of inventory. We've been hovering right around a month's worth or less of inventory and what we consider a balanced market is between four and six months of total inventory. So the speed that we're selling things and that that rate is what factors in to what we consider a balanced market. So it's definitely favoring the sellers. With that, we've benefited from a price increase, 6% throughout the region year over year, through the median price at $159,000. We do report rolling averages that tends to be higher, so we're looking at close to about $180,000 in that. With our extremely low inventory, and that, is that the annoying alarm? Okay. All right, the last page breaks it out by zip code. So you can look at that and we can also provide that information more specifically to you. I'll also apologize my phone is not doing a very loud ringer so my apologies. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Jeff Arstrom. Good evening Mr. Mayor, Council, fellow citizens. Thank you for this opportunity. I am Dr. Jeffrey Arstrom and serve as the CEO of Ingersoll Machine Tools which has been in the same Edgewater location since 1892. We're a global manufacturer of very large, complex machinery and sell complex machining services to numerous industries. Ingersoll employs over 200 people in professional, technical, administrative and engineering roles with full benefits and industry-leading pay. For the Illinois Manufacturing Association, each direct manufacturing job generates 2.7 additional jobs outside the manufacturing firm. We are fortunate to survive where so many American machine tool manufacturers have not. Aside from normal business requirements, an organization must have a strong and supportive community to survive. We are here today because Rockford is that supportive community. Through the tough times and the good ones, the City of Rockford continues to be a strong and intelligent partner. I would like to specifically mention a recent example of this strong partnership and a great example of smart public-private partnerships. Ingersoll dedicated two new multi-million dollar buildings last July. We justified the project, bid it, permitted it, and executed on schedule and cost. But we didn't do it alone. These buildings house one of the hemisphere's largest machine tools, producing components for our nation's defense, space exploration, our machinery, and large structures for others. A second building was purpose-built for construction of the world's largest Gregorian telescope. An instrument that will look into the eyes of God and reveal secrets from the earliest moments of our universe. Tall as a space shuttle and more powerful than any space-based instrument. It is built and engineered in Rockford by people living in the area. We can do these things because of intelligent and continued support from our city's leaders. Government processes must support business in an intelligent and reasonable manner if the city is to retain and grow business investment. Continuing and direct support from the mayor, his staff, and council made our investments possible and keeps us in Rockford. Ingersoll is fortunate to have such support from the mayor and city leadership as partners with a similar interest in mutual success. The mayor is a partner and understands success in the business community means success for the city and her citizens. So thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your leadership in fostering a successful public-private partnership that makes it possible for Ingersoll to remain in Rockford. You, the staff, and council have an open invitation to visit us at Ingersoll anytime and see all the cool stuff that we do in our city of Rockford. Thank you for the time. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Kayleen Groh. Good evening. I'm here to thank our mayor, our city council members, city staff, and citizens of Rockford, Illinois for your support of full tuition scholarships for youth in our area. Thanks to your forward-looking commitment and investment, Rockford Promise will welcome our third cohort of incoming students to Northern Illinois University this fall. That represents almost 300 freshmen, sophomore, and juniors enrolled. Higher educational attainment in a community means better outcomes and gives our city an increased competitive edge by addressing the need for a skilled workforce. We are so appreciative of your continued support and your continued commitment to education, yet another powerful indicator of the quality of life to be found right here in Rockford, Illinois. These students are more than just a number, however. They represent lives, families, and futures that are being changed right here in our community. It is about barriers being removed, barriers that might typically keep students from going to college, getting through college, and graduating with meaningful degrees and coming right back here to our community to work. Tonight I have with me one of Rockford's Promises Scholars at NIU, Kalila Cheers, to tell you more about her experience. Hello, my name is Kalila Cheers and I'm a junior at Northern Illinois University studying human development and family sciences. First, I would like to thank each of you for making college possible for me. I was part of the first class of students going to NIU under Rock for Promise and I don't believe college would be an option for me if I didn't receive this scholarship. Rock for Promise helped me through the college process and lessened my anxiety about being a first generation college student. Secondly, Rockford Promise has not only helped me with getting into college, they have also helped me with skills needed for my future. For many students, college life is a person's first experience of the independence they will soon have in their adult life. This lifestyle involves applying several life skills, including organization, time management, and cooperation. One of the ways I improved these qualities was through my social media internship with Rockford Promise. I enjoyed collaborating with Rockford Promise staff and publishing new social media campaigns, which resulted in significant growth of the... of the organization's online presence and enhancement of my personal skills. This experience will be a valuable resource for me in my adult life, the rest of my collegiate journey, and my future career as a social worker. I endorse Rockford Promise and their mission and I'm excited to see this organization grow and improve. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Sheila Hill, Dr. Sheila Hill. Good evening City Council, good evening Mayor. I first of all would like to say thank you to the City Council for your support, for your continual support in everything that Think Big has done thus far. We are very appreciative and we are grateful for everything that you've done. Think Big is the leading resource for minority and women-owned businesses and we are committed to removing barriers that prevent minority and women our minority and women community from business growth and development. As barriers are removed, existing and aspiring entrepreneurs will be inspired and encouraged to think big. Since the launch of the Think Big School of Business in 2019, we have registered 425 minority and women-owned businesses. We have graduated a total of 125 individuals and a total of 96 businesses and a total of 15 brick and mortar businesses. Just recently in May, May 20th, we graduated 31 additional students. This upcoming August 5th at 10 a.m. and you'll get more information, Think Big will be holding its largest Entrepreneur Expo. We are expecting over 100 vendors, small businesses that will come and do business-to-business networking as well as services. And then once again, I just want to thank you all for your continued support in Think Big. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Tretera Flowers. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, as well as City Council. Thank you so much for this opportunity to talk about the work that is being done in the city of Rockford. My name is Tratira Flowers, and I am the founder and executive director of a local nonprofit here in Rockford. We help reentry individuals. Our mission is to help individuals that have been impacted by incarceration successfully enter into the community. having self-sustainable options and opportunities for growth and development. I wanted to talk this evening about all of the support that is coming out of the Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention, as well as give a special thanks to Janessa and Gina Meeks for always supporting us. Mayor McNamara, we are ecstatic that your office continually supports our grassroots nonprofit to be able to offer free services to reentry individuals coming home to the Rockford community. We also have participated and collaborated with the opportunity to bring our table to yours and in a collaborative effort, make sure that we have collectively I'm sorry, collectively brought about an award-winning grant of $451,324 to be able to reduce the violent crime in Rockford as well as provide victim services to victims of gun violence. Our objective is to reduce the violent crime within the city of Rockford by helping those folks reenter who have been impacted by incarceration and also help the victims of gun violence with services that are free. We also have implemented many mental health measures. programs within our organization to help with the trauma that is here in the Rockford community. I always say that our city is a city of continuous mourning with all of the violence, and we are here as a pillar in the community to combat that violence. We have been helped by the city of Rockford in submitting several grant applications and also informing the work for youth violence prevention. And we thank you so much for the opportunity to collaborate. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you to all the public speakers this evening. Now we'll transition for the State of the City address and then we will adjourn. All right, we'll try it. Ooh, that works. We'll try it one more time. Good evening, everyone. Appreciate the opportunity to be with you. Every year I have the opportunity to provide the State of the City Address. I provide highlights of the work that we've done in this past year while also looking at some areas that we as a community can improve because there's always areas that we can improve. I think it's incredibly important that our residents hear directly from me about the state of our community. I want to start this evening with just a couple of thank yous. I want to say a sincere thank you to our city council. You are making decisions every single week that influence our community. I want to say thank you for your dedication not just to your ward, but to the entire city as a whole. I want to thank our city staff. We have an amazing city staff at the City of Rockford and I want to thank you for your commitment to your job and our community. It inspires me every day and I'm honored to get to work alongside of you. And I also want to say as I will be the one providing the State of the City Address, make no mistake the work that I'll be discussing has the work of so many other hard-working individuals and wonderful community organizations throughout our city. But before I dive into my top three priorities of neighborhoods, public safety, and economic development, I want to talk to you a little bit about financial stability. As a city, we can't make significant progress out in our community if our own house isn't in order and if our finances are not strong. When I took office back in 2017, we faced a five-year cumulative deficit of $156 million. We faced decreasing property values and nearly all of our funds were moving in the wrong direction. So we immediately got to work. We started by having a national expert review our budget line by line. Then we asked our employees. There's no one better to know where we could cut expenses or increase revenue than those who are living it and working it every single day. We then asked our greatest asset, our residents, to come together and they formed a citizen-led task force. Since then, I'm proud to tell you that we have passed six balanced budgets. We are making significant investments in deferred maintenance as well as capital replacement. We have also stabilized our reserve funds. We rewrote our reserve fund policy and today we have more than $38 million in that fund than our policy requires us to have. In 2022, we even had a surplus which did not include ARPA funds. I'm proud to tell you that our house is in the best shape it's been in in decades. With strong finances in place, it allowed us in 2022 to focus in on our neighborhoods. Research shows that Americans prefer living in places with a strong sense of community. Tight-knit communities actually boost a person's mental health. They also improve the resilience to difficult life events, if that's illness or job loss. we believe partnerships help us magnify excuse me so I won't have everyone listen to the whole speech again but I wanna first start out and say really happened first I'm sorry that for the interruptions we will not be tolerating any interruptions if there are interruptions officers will score individuals out I will say it happened at the perfect time as we go through and thank city staff so I'll do it again and say a sincere thank you to our city staff who have dealt with harassment for now going on three years from the same small group of individuals throughout our city As I discussed, we've made great progress as it comes to our financials at the City of Rockford and has made us have a much more sound financial footing and probably the strongest that we've had in decades. These strong finances that we've had in place has allowed us to put focus on our neighborhoods here in 2022. And as I mentioned earlier, research shows that Americans prefer living in communities, tight-knit communities that actually can help boost an individual's mental health. And we believe that partnerships help magnify our neighborhoods' efforts and leverage our city resources. To begin with, we partnered with the Rockford Area Habitat for Humanity and the Rockford Housing Development Corporation to offer a home repair program to low- and moderate-income families. We know that for many Rockfordians, their largest investment that they have is in their own homes. We wanted to help those who were struggling financially to make critical home repairs in order to keep the integrity, safety, and quality of their own homes. last year we funded work helped more than 20 different properties throughout the city of Rockford and this program is keeping people in their homes and helps prevent neighborhood deterioration We also started reimagining a long, unfinished subdivision near Auburn High School. And this is in thanks to a partnership that we've had with the City of Rockford, Region 1 Planning Council, Habitat for Humanity, and Rockford Public Schools. Now 25 tax-delinquent vacant lots are being converted into tax-paying single-family homes for working-class families. These homes will be built in large part by the Rockford Public Schools construction trade students. and they'll be creating new, safe, affordable housing, which, as we all know, is a critical need in our community. We also partnered with the Rockford Area Arts Council to launch the City of Rockford's first ever comprehensive arts and cultural plan. The plan will help foster a stronger arts and cultural sector, and with this work still being done, I want to urge our elected officials as well as all citizens to get involved in this work and make sure that your voices are heard in this plan. But I'll also say we're not waiting for this plan to be done. We've already partnered with the Convention and Visitors Bureau and the Arts Council to install public art in many locations throughout our community. We now have 34 murals in the city of Rockford and we now have plans for nine more coming this summer. And we're also working on wrapping 55 traffic signal boxes across our community with artwork by our very own local artists. Public art does so much for a city. It inspires, it enhances values, and it creates a sense of place for our residents as well as our visitors. We also launched a new neighborhood improvement initiative. This project focused on six neighborhoods that have been most negatively impacted by violent crime. One neighborhood at a time, a team of City of Rockford employees and our community partners brought resources directly out to the neighborhood, but also they brought these resources out to the doorsteps of our residents. And at the same time, we improve the overall environment of each of these neighborhoods by enhancing the sidewalks, street lighting, and even bringing community art to each one of these neighborhoods. We're continuing this effort again this summer. And this council also implemented the largest capital improvement plan in our city's history. And if you think back in 2018 and in 2019, we focused some of our resources on engineering in order to make sure our projects were shovel ready when funding became available. Those early decisions and work are now paying off and paying off in a big way. Because of our early focus on engineering and planning, we're able to leverage our local funds to accomplish more public improvements with the assistance of both state and federal dollars. Think of this, for every $1 of local taxes being spent on infrastructure, we are now receiving an additional $3 from state and federal matching funds. In 2022 alone, we resurfaced or reconstructed more than 230 neighborhood blocks, and we're doing that again this summer. In addition to that enormous capital improvement plan, our public works team is also managing more than $34 million in state and federal grants. And we know that in order to have strong neighborhoods, we must also have clean, affordable drinking water. I'm proud that we are leading the state in replacing lead lines and securing funding for lead service line replacement. In fact, we received $4 million in forgivable funding from the IEPA to replace more than 960 lead service lines within our distribution system. What makes us unique is not that we're replacing those lines, but what makes us unique is that we are paying the full cost of that line replacement from the right-of-way all the way into our residents' homes, which the majority of other municipalities in the state are not doing. We are proud to eliminate this financial burden from our residents and this exposure to our system and our residents. Our Public Works team recently received what I believe to be the highest of compliments when the United States EPA Administrator Michael Reagan came along with Senators Duckworth and Durbin and they visited facilities and singled out us, Rockford, as a model for other American cities to follow in addressing lead line replacement. In addition to our historic infrastructure investment, this City Council also made historic investment in our water infrastructure. We often only talk about drinking water when it's too late, but this Council has actually already approved a $160 million multi-year water infrastructure improvement plan. This is twice as big as the city of Rockford's previous $75 million investment made back in 2008. And at the same time, we're also ensuring, at the same time we're doing these huge investments, we're also ensuring that our water is affordable for our residents. In fact, in Rockford, an average family of four is spending less than $35 per month to access clean water. In fact, our water rates are less costly than many of our peer communities. If that's South Beloit, Elgin, Naperville, Peoria, Champaign, we're less expensive. We're also working with Sci-Fi Networks to lay high-speed fiber optic cable network in front of every home and in front of every business in the city. This helps bridge the digital divide for our residents. It helps us attract more high-tech businesses and provides greater choice to our community. And that greater choice will ultimately lead to lower rates and improved access for our residents. attracting more businesses to our community means we have increased our need for skilled employees currently less than 23 percent of Rockford residents have a college degree and just in this last year we had more than 7,000 job openings in the city of Rockford that required a bachelor's To increase educational attainment for our residents, we at the City have continued our support of the Rockford Promise NIU Scholarship Program. Under the Promise Program, as many of you know, a student who lives in the City of Rockford, attends Rockford Public Schools, and earns a 3.0 GPA gets to go to Northern Illinois University tuition and general fee free. As we close out the second year of this program, I'm proud to tell you that we have more than 205 students taking advantage of this program. Of these participants, nearly 65% are students of color. Of these participants, nearly 70% are first-generation college-going students. Earlier this month, I had an amazing opportunity to join Rockford Promise on the stage of the historic Coronado Theater as they celebrated the class, this year's class of 154 scholars and they'll be attending NIU, Rock Valley College and Rockford University. When I sat on stage, they showed this video montage and every student said their name and you could see their face. It was absolutely beautiful. It was beautiful because it looked like Rockford. It was diverse and it was filled with hope and opportunity. Rockford Promise is extremely beneficial to everyone. It changes the lives of individuals, it changes their families, and if we can change the lives of individuals and we can change the lives of our families, we can certainly change our community. However, if you're like Barbara and John McNamara, who I am big fans of, who worked hard and chose to send their kids to private schools, Rockford Promise also directly benefits you. First, you now live in a community with higher educational achievement levels. Communities with higher educational attainment levels have lower rates of violent crime. Communities with higher rates of educational attainment always have more thriving economies. Second, when you go to sell your home, it now comes with free college tuition for every school-aged child in that house. That's an incredible selling point and a competitive advantage that only the city of Rockford has in the state of Illinois. However, we know that college isn't always the path for everyone, and that's okay. That's why we have also invested in workforce development programs. For example, we partnered with LT Construction, a local minority-owned construction contractor, to provide mentorship, experience, and workforce development skills to young adults that represented at-risk and underserved populations in our city. Last summer, the interns built more than two miles of sidewalks. But more importantly, each one of these interns were accepted into a union apprenticeship program. We're continuing that program this summer with a new group of young adults. This program again is changing the lives of these young adults and their families while simultaneously improving the infrastructure in our neighborhoods. Another way that we've looked to improve our neighborhoods was by launching the Forward for Fun initiative, which allocated money to each one of the aldermen to create new free events for their wards. After two years of the pandemic, which isolated so many people in our community and across the globe, the goal of this initiative was to bring residents out for new fun events while supporting local businesses and our entrepreneurs. This program was a huge success, resulting in more than 50 events and brought people from all corners into every single ward of our city. Approximately 10,000 residents attended the many events throughout our city. Residents are truly the heart of our neighborhoods. They are often concerned about their property taxes, and honestly, I don't blame them. However, I'm happy to report again, we passed a balanced budget that did not increase property taxes. For the last six years, we have kept our property tax levy flat or reduced it. In fact, we will collect less property taxes this year in 2023 than we did six years ago. By holding the line on property taxes, we have saved our residents $72 million. We have made great strides in improving our neighborhoods. And in 2017, our property values were $1.4 billion. So in 2017, they were $1.4 billion. This year, due to our efforts as well as our partners, they have risen to $1.9 billion. That represents a 35% increase in property values over just the last five years. And in fact, homes in our region sold at the highest prices and moved off the market at the fastest place ever in 2022. City property taxes are lower now than in 2017. Property values are up 35% and our tax rate is down 23%. Collectively, we are making undeniable progress. And as we look to 2023, we know that new housing stock, and Connor mentioned that this afternoon, is essential for our city. That's why we will continue to partner with community organizations and other governmental bodies to create new opportunities to spur new residential construction and strengthen our neighborhoods. The next priority I'm going to talk to you about is the one that probably we are asked about the most often, and that's public safety. Most state of the city addresses for the last four decades have included the same talking points about public safety. Increasing policing, increasing lighting, increasing enforcement, etc., etc. But we are never going to achieve success by saying or doing the same thing over and over again. I'm happy to tell you Rockford, we are doing things differently. We are taking two paths. We are increasing our investment in our police department while simultaneously investing in prevention and intervention efforts. We must stop not only the current violent crime that's taking place on our streets today, but we also have to stop the cycle of violence that has plagued our city for decades. Our crime issues did not start overnight. They will not end or be solved overnight. However, I believe we have strategies in place that will make a significant impact today and for years to come. On the enforcement path, we continued investing heavily into our police department. Over the last several years, we've increased our police budget by more than 35 percent. This includes a heavy investment into technology. We purchased additional gunshot detection and license plate readers. We now have 150 license plate readers in the city. We quadrupled the number of cameras in our city. We have purchased social analytics software so we can track violent criminals online. We have budgeted for more officers and increased our officer wages. and the amount of recruitment sessions done each year while making it easier and more advantageous for lateral hires to choose the Rockford Police Department. We also know that improving community relations with the Rockford Police Department is imperative to establish long-term relationships that lead to trust and also lead to better safety outcomes. So in 2022, we launched the Civilian Oversight Board. The board is made up of seven Rockford residents reflective of our community, and they will review completed internal investigations of citizen complaints and certain use of force incidents. The board is tasked with working with me, the Rockford Police Department, and the City Council to identify areas for improvement and offer solutions in order to continue building trust between the police department and our community. They are currently in training right now and plan to begin reviewing cases later this year. We also strengthened our partnership with the state police and our federal partners at the FBI, the DEA, and the ATF. In addition, we are working to ensure that our officers are not asked to do everything. We led the effort in our region to create a we led the effort in our region to create the mental health co-responder programs where we pair mental health professionals with first responders. For example, our CCRT teams have served nearly 1,500 individuals. Of those, 56 percent were referred to supportive services and other help. 15 percent were referred to the emergency room, while less than 4 percent of the responses resulted in an individual going to jail. Our mobile integrated health teams have also served an additional 955 individuals. They have literally redefined how some members of our community seek healthcare. And in doing so, they have created relationships with agencies throughout our region to establish a more holistic approach to mental health and substance abuse recovery. These programs are working and they are improving lives. We also worked with the state's attorney, the juvenile probation department, the circuit court, to modify the process to which we are able to hold minors who commit major felonies, felonies such as carjackings or gun-related crimes. By temporarily holding them, we can both ensure that they're not immediately released right back out onto the street, but also that they can be immediately assessed for services and interventions. On the prevention and intervention path, we continue to follow the data and listen to those individuals with lived experience. In 2022, we began working to establish a community healing center. This is a multi-agency, multi-disciplinary facility where children exposed to violence and their families can receive healing and supportive services. We are one of only seven communities in the nation to have received this grant. The final product will look somewhat similar to the highly successful Family Peace Center model, but this one is designed really for youth and their families that have been impacted by trauma. Earlier this year, as Tretera highlighted, we helped local grassroots organizations like Get Connected receive a $450,000 grant to engage individuals at the highest risk of firearm violence. The Get Connected team will soon provide 24 hour a day response to gunshot victims in an effort to help end conflict and prevent the retaliatory shootings that have been taking place. We also collaborated with the Rockford Public Schools to create a notification system called Handle With Care. Handle With Care provides school staff with notice that a student may have been impacted by a traumatic event the night before. Here's just one example. Before this notification system was implemented, a father of one of our local students was tragically shot on a Sunday evening. The child went to school that week and got in all sorts of trouble. He was disciplined for his behavior. The staff had no idea that this young person was impacted by trauma and was grieving. With this notification system, staff would have been given the heads up that something was going on with this child outside of school. What we're trying to do is to make sure that the school knows if kids are going through trauma, that discipline may not be the best or right answer. Since this program began in the spring of 2022, school staff have received notifications from more than 3,500 Handle With Care recipients. This notification system is improving our response to our children who are absolutely in crisis. We also supported youth in many other ways. We partnered with Comprehensive Community Solutions, 815 Alive, Northwest Rockford Neighbors, the Boys and Girls Club, and Community Life Center. These agencies provide youth with positive experiences and outlets in order to reduce the number of youth who feel that they must turn towards violent crime. We also worked with the Park District and the YMCA to embed navigators into their afterschool youth recreation sites. These navigators help connect youth and their parents to additional services and resources throughout the city. And in 2022, we also continued many of our other ongoing efforts that include the Family Peace Center, who has now served more than 1,400 survivors of domestic and sexual violence. Camp Hope, which helps youth learn to process the exposure that they've had from domestic and sexual violence. We also continue our efforts with our no entry program and our reentry program. I know there's still a lot more work to be done. But I will say we should be proud of the progress that we have seen. Statistically, 2022 was better than 2021. We saw significant reductions in property crime, violent crime, aggravated assaults, robbery, and shots fired. This trend is continuing through 2023. Through April of this year, violent crime is down 16%, property crime down 9%, aggravated assaults down 12%, robberies down 23%, shots fired down 29%. However, we know that we're just one piece of this puzzle. We need parents. We need schools. We need courts. We need the faith community and the business community to step up and be part of the solution. There was a recent study done by Harvard that said to have thriving and resilient children, the number one thing that you can do is have one caring adult. They didn't say mom. They didn't say dad. They didn't say auntie. They didn't say cousin. They said one caring adult. I would urge all of us, we can be that one caring adult and help mentor and love on our youth. And while we know public safety is so critical to our city, developing our economy and making Rockford a stronger place to start and expand a business is absolutely essential to our success. So I want to take a moment and talk to you a little bit about economic development. That's my Marco Rubio moment for the night. Logerman got it, great. Economic development is a critical tool that drives growth in our economy, creates new job opportunities, and facilitates an improved quality of life. In 2022, we created our region's first community development financial institution, and we did it in partnership with the Rockford Local Development Corporation, the Northern Illinois Community Development Corporation, local financial institutions, and the Community Foundation of Northern Illinois. We were able to leverage our initial investment of $1.2 million into a $2.5 million fund to allow local contractors to acquire and rehabilitate vacant and dilapidated homes in our low and moderate income neighborhoods. In its first year, they got off to a great start and now have rehabilitated more than 30 different homes in our neighborhoods. And we often talk about these large developments, but we know that small business is really the backbone of the United States. as well as the Rockford economy. And in part thanks to a generous building donation from Peter and Heather Provenzano, we partnered with Think Big to establish a small business incubator for women and minority-owned businesses at the former Jerome Furniture Building that has sat vacant for far too long. As you heard tonight, the numbers have actually only increased, but Think Big is already hard at work. By the time I wrote this not long ago, they had 92 graduates, They already had 11 businesses open brick and mortar storefronts. Two of the graduates, Ambience and TMT Funnel Cake, recently opened stores in the heart of our downtown. And Think Big helped Crossover Motorsports take a vacant auto repair shop on Auburn Street and turn it into a productive parcel as well as a flourishing small business. Our downtown continues to thrive. In 2022, construction began on water power loss. The renovation of the five-story building at 700 South Main includes 60 residential market rate units as well as a rooftop deck. And 301 South Main Street, a 40,000 square foot mixed-use new construction building, has been built on the former Hanley lot. It will offer a mix of one and two bedroom luxury apartments and retail space on the first floor. Construction also recently started on a new grocery store and mid-century lofts at Church and Jefferson streets. City Council also approved the redevelopment agreement to advance adaptive reuse of buildings along Cedar Street, known as Mac Paper and the Condon-Shumway building. The redevelopment of these unique spaces will establish residential lofts, commercial workspaces, and art galleries. We began to complete the, do a complete transformation of Davis Park. Davis Park is the only City of Rockford owned park. And thanks in large part to Senator Stottleman and Representative West, once complete, Davis Park will feature an urban beach, boat docks, splash pads, a playground, multi-use trail, a skate park, canopy stage, and a plaza with space for food trucks. We also continued the construction of the new Rockford Public Library, the 68,000 square foot building which is being constructed on the banks of the Rock River. The Rockford Ice Hogs and the Chicago Blackhawks, they opened new commercial office space here in downtown Rockford. The Rockford Ice Hogs, in partnership with Rave and BMO, also announced a multi-year partnership for downtown Rockford Arena and also unveiled a new name, the BMO Center, along with $23 million of renovations. But downtown isn't the only place seeing new development. In 2022, we broke ground on the permanent Hard Rock Casino on the Far East side. This project will employ 1,000 construction workers and completed 800 permanent jobs with an average wage of $50,000 a year. West State Street from Day Avenue to Independence Avenue was totally reconstructed. On the south side, the Chicago Rockford International Airport continues to be one of the world's fastest growing airports and it supports today 8,700 jobs for our residents and that has grown from the 4,500 jobs it supported back in 2017. We also helped AAR Corporation secure an additional $2.6 million to build and continue to build a future pipeline of aviation mechanics for their jet repair hub out at the airport. Other businesses and manufacturers are thriving in Rockford. Collins Aerospace opened a new $18 million wind tunnel in Rockford, and soon they'll be cutting a ribbon on a new $50 million electric systems lab. This facility is a key component to ensure that Rockford continues to be a leader in the aerospace industry. Viking Chemical, a phenomenal local family-owned business, is relocating and expanding by taking over 230,000 square feet of the vacant Rockford Products building. Ingersoll Machine Tools, as we heard earlier, expanded by more than 40,000 square feet. And Ingersoll built the world's largest telescope, the Giant Magellan Telescope. It's the most powerful telescope on Earth, and it was built here. in Rockford by Rockfordians. PCI Pharma Services continues their heavy investment in Rockford. They plan a $50 million, 200,000 square foot facility on the city's south end to bolster its capacity to assemble products used in the treatment of diabetes, obesity, and autoimmune diseases. This expansion also comes with 250 new jobs. These are just a few of the examples. In each one of them, they're all backed up by statistics. In 2016, in Winnebago County, we had about 1,400 new businesses. In 2021, the year that we can get the most recent data, we had nearly 3,800 new businesses open. That's a 168% increase for new businesses. That's incredible. The new development and new activity is also bringing more visitors to our community. In 2021, we saw an increase of 21%. That money goes directly to support the livelihood of nearly 3,800 Rockfordians that bring in a collective wage and income of $130 million. Our region has recovered faster from COVID-19 than nine of our 12 comparable cities. And while the 2022 data isn't available, I am sure that we'll continue that recovery. And as we look to the rest of 2023 and beyond, I think there are a couple items as a community we need to have on our radar. We need an Excel Center. We need a place where adults can earn a high school diploma and get ready for future employment. We need a plan to address behavioral health in our community. We need to get all the experts in one room and look at how we can holistically address our residents' mental health needs. And we also need to strengthen our business districts to help draw in residents and visitors alike to a variety of areas throughout Rockford. And before I close this address, I should say this before I close this very eventful address, I want to talk about one final enormous opportunity that we have before us. In my six years in office, we have had several important votes at City Council. However, I would be hard-pressed to find one vote that has the potential to be as transformational as the one that we will soon take. Unfortunately, Rockford has a long and storied history of missing out on transformative projects because we often let perfection get in the way of our progress. We let the naysayers win. We vote too often out of fear and not with our hearts and with our brains. The Barber Coleman complex has been vacant for nearly three decades. It sits along the main entryway to our city along the banks of the Rock River. It is a constant reminder of the decay that has plagued Midwestern manufacturing cities for far too long. We have a once in a lifetime opportunity. We can make Barbara Coleman a shining jewel of reinvestment and resurgence. We can and we should support Jay Jeffers and their efforts to create a thriving $420 million dollar mix of apartments, townhomes, and businesses. This is the right thing for Rockford. Starting this week, we will be meeting with Alderman to discuss the details, and a development agreement will be before City Council soon. The construction of this massive project will create jobs for our tradesmen and women, including our unions. It will also create jobs for women and minority-owned businesses. We have an amazing opportunity on the West Side, and the people of the West Side deserve this investment. But this isn't just a win for one side of town. This is a win for the entire city of Rockford. We want to leave our mark on our community. And if we want to make Rockford better tomorrow than it was yesterday, if we want to improve the quality of life for our residents, specifically those residents who live on the southwest side of Rockford, we need to approve this once-in-a-lifetime project. Council, staff, residents, I am optimistic about Rockford's future. I know that working together, we can make Rockford a place that every single person who calls it home is proud to say they are from Rockford. Thank you for this opportunity. So now we need a motion to adjourn. Motion second, no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Those opposed, have a good night. Thank you.