this evening we have Chaplain Kenneth Henley to provide us with an invocation. Let's pray. Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.
 Father, we ask that you'd come and be in this chamber today as the city council makes the decisions that need to be made. Lord, we pray that you would guide their minds and their thoughts and all that goes into it. And Lord, we pray that you'd help them to make the wise decision for the city.
 We also want to say, Lord, thank you for those who go about protecting us daily. We think about the fire department, the police department, who lay their lives on the line every day. And, Lord, we just ask that you'd send them home safely after the end of their shift each day. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen.
 good evening everyone just want to well our next order of business is public speakers and i just want to remind all the public speakers that there's a microphone on the back left and the back right of city council chambers and that you'll have three minutes to address the city council if it does go long you'll hear an obnoxious cell phone ring and ask you to close up your comments our first public speaker this evening is prophet yusuf good evening ladies and gentlemen
 In the book of Proverbs, the 13th chapter, the 20th verse, it says, The one walking with the wise will become wise. What I want to speak about tonight, mass shooters let you know what they are going to do before they explode. A cliche about violent offenders is that someone often will say, What a nice, quiet neighbor the person was before they ruptured. My study of mass attacks in America suggests quite the opposite.
 and that perhaps more of these rampages can be prevented. I studied 27 incidents when I was in the Navy in which a total of nearly 200 people were killed or injured in public spaces, including Mercy Hospital in Chicago, Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. The finest
 don't at all suggest that perpetrators had gone unnoticed by others or that they had shown no previous signs of strain. Rather, I found that most attacks were motivated by specified grievance. Two-thirds of offenders had history of mental health issues. Nearly all were men and nearly all had made threats or said or done things that raised concern in people around them. Seventy-five percent had experienced a major stress event.
 such as a death, divorce, or homeless, or lost their job, or kick out of school. The future, for whatever reason, looked bleak and disturbing. Behavior was escalating. In suburban Aurora, Gary Martin killed five co-workers and injured five police officers at Manufacturing Henry Pratt Company. He had a history of violent behavior, going back 20 years including stabbing one girlfriend and threatening to kill another. On the day of the shootings, he warned a co-worker that if I get fired,
 fired. I'm going to kill everybody here and I'm going to kill the police too, according to the Kane County State's Attorney Office. An observer might even think that if someone was really serious about wanting to commit a crime, he'd have the sense to keep quiet about it. But rather than plotting in secret, these perpetrators tend to let you know what they are going to do before they do it. The need for people to pick up on clues and report to school officials, police, and to bosses, this would help to reduce the mass shootings in America. If police
 have a unit like they did in the Navy that study the Facebook and study these perpetrators, they could prevent a lot of mass shootings in America. And anybody who's been in the military, CID, OSI, ONI, they know this. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Dante Matthews. Good evening, everybody.
 i'm dante matthews i represent a non-for-profit called think big i also own dlm manufacturing who've been around for 19 years um i just like to speak on behalf of our not-for-profit think big we are a organization that's come in to help fill the barriers of helping
 entrepreneurs of minority businesses and women grow, sustain, or scale to the next level. We have been in business four years and we have created 20 businesses in actually eight months. Right now we are looking forward to scaling up and actually having opportunities to work in our community because our community has had a lot of barriers for minority business as a business owner
 I had a lot of, had a hard time having access to capital, cash, collaboration. Just because I'm in Rockford doesn't mean that I, you know, I don't have a chance to be in the city and make economic wealth like everybody else. Think Big has created money.
 and feel the barrier that's been missing. We have connected with minority businesses from our perspective, and we thank the city and administration for recognizing that there is a need in our community for creation of entrepreneurs from our minority perspective. And right now we are on a momentum that's been very, very good, trending very up.
 We have a school of business that's created 20 to 30 per class and we're only in our third cohort. So I just like to say from the perspective of the city, we appreciate the opportunity to
 have a potential partnership and be able to grow and let's see wealth of Value across our city from entrepreneurs not just on this side of River But not on that side of riddle on this side of a river too So I just like to say thanks for the opportunity and we hope to be able to have an opportunity to help our businesses That's needed things. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Sully Condeno. I
 good evening everyone um i am here my name is julie cadengo founding president rockford regional hispanic chamber of commerce uh similar to dante i'm here to represent my community and we are very grateful for the support that the city of rockford has provided us
 uh... we were able to receive funding through the are three grand uh... it was funny for ten thousand dollars and with that funding we were able to contract uh... professional consultant that allowed us to establish a foundation so that we could build and scale our htc
 Our plans were to structure the organization in a way that it would continue to not just be in place, but continue to help the community. So after launching on September 14th, also known as Support Latino Business Day,
 We have been able to sign up 30 new businesses. We've helped 13 businesses apply for grant funding. And with us being a new organization, we are trying to continue to collaborate with existing organizations so that we can continue to support our communities. We have also...
 established a board. Initially, it was only founding three members. It was Armando Cardenas, Ricardo Montoya-Picasso, and myself. And now we have a board of 11 members with four open positions that hopefully in the next six months we'd be looking to fill, again with the guidance of a professional consultant. Our goals are to continue to bring financial literacy.
 business 101 classes and continued technical support for minority entrepreneurs and established business owners that didn't have access to certain information in regards to business growth. So again, thank you for your support, and we hope that we continue to collaborate, and I will definitely be applying for more funding, so hopefully you continue to support us that way. And again, thank you for everything. Thank you.
 Thank you. Our next public speaker is Bobbie Holsworth. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.
 I'd just like to say that in the last three weeks I've been at a college graduation and a high school graduation, and I've been reminded that the sweetest words in any public comments typically are in conclusion. So I will take much less than my three minutes and simply say thank you, Mr. Mayor, thank you, members of council, thank you to all of the employees and staff at the city.
 In these really challenging times, it's reassuring to me and to many I know that we have a team in place at the city that is thoughtful as they consider the challenges in front of them, that tries to engage others in our community,
 that looks for solutions that get to root causes and tries to implement those solutions by working with partnerships like we've just heard and collaborating with others and aligning resources among the various entities in this community.
 So thank you again for all of the work that you have done. I know there is much still in front of you, and I'd just like to encourage you to always continue to ask, you know, who's not at this table who should be, and who do we need to be listening to that we might not yet have heard from?
 But thank you for trying your best and doing these things, and I wish you the very best. And always also remember that those of us in the private sector are willing to help in any way that we can, and please don't ever hesitate to ask. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Nikki Lynch.
 Good evening. As Mayor McNamara stated, my name is Nikki Lynch. I am an operations manager out at Washington Park Community Center with the Rockford Park District. And I'm here on behalf of the Park District to say thank you to the city of Rockford, to the Family Peace Center, to the staff, to council members for helping us be able to expand our reach to youth.
 Throughout this past six months, we've been meeting together as a collaborative group of individual organizations trying to see what we can do to increase increase support to youth and families in this area that there may be limited access to. And this summer we are going to be able to expand some of our partnerships to create more robust and inclusive recreational environments that
 And I'm sorry, I totally have no to you like that. That will create more independent, self-confident, inquisitive, enthusiastic youth in our community. Through these environments, we'll be able to, because of this collaboration, address trauma, mentoring, bring additional social-emotional supports, academics, and of course, with the Park District, we already have kind of the fun there, right, with the recreation.
 so i just want to let you guys know a couple of the outcomes that um are happening because of this not only will we be able to extend and do reach around programming so it's not just school or summer but some of our sites will actually have total reach around summer school year programming we will be able to connect youth to more mentors we'll be able to activate summer programming with underserved neighborhoods for example one of our new programs will be in the haskell neighborhood
 We are being very, very strategic in who we hire at these sites, making sure that the staff that are working with these youth have lived experiences come from the neighborhoods, and also being able to give opportunities for 13 to 15-year-olds to be junior leaders, of which one they are at these sites. They'll also learn skills that will only help them for future job development.
 In addition to the city of Rockford, we also are getting to partner with Youth Services Network. And they'll be coming and helping host the different types of group sessions that'll bring in additional social-emotional support. And due to this expansion, it's not only Haskell with Washington Park with where I'm at.
 It also helps us be able to bring additional supports to the families that are there when it comes to trauma-informed. The best thing about this, too, is that this has also given us the ability to expand what we currently do by offering surveying for both the youth and the families. That will then give us the ability to continue to follow up support, not just, once again, for a summer camp participant or a school year participant, but something that will offer year-round support.
 So on behalf of the Park District, I just want to say thank you guys for the support of this. We're looking forward to this and think that this will be the first summer of money. Thank you. Thank you. Next, clerk, could you please call the roll? Alderman Toomberg? Here. Alderman Frost? Here. Alderman Tarina? Alderman Prunty? Here. Alderman Wilkins? Here. Alderman Rose? Present. Alderman Beach? Here. Alderman Quinones? Nine present. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you.
 So now the next piece in our agenda is I get to provide to all of you the state of the city. And so every year I have this opportunity to provide all the citizens the state of the city. And we've done this in community spaces. We've done this in our schools. We've also had to do this virtually.
 And I really think it's absolutely critical that each year we come before The citizens of Rockford as well as this City Council and share all the work that we've done in this year We've chosen to do it here at City Council chambers because of all the work that this City Council has done over their first year Together I want to start off the state of the city this year addressing I think everyone's biggest concern and everyone's biggest concern is certainly my top priority and that's public safety
 In 2021, I was thrilled that we were able to hire a new police chief and a new fire chief to lead our public safety efforts. Beyond being the first females in these positions, they are remarkably qualified and absolutely have my support. They, along with their staffs, are working tirelessly to support and make sure our community is safe.
 As long as I am mayor of the city of Rockford, we are going to continue to invest heavily into the public safety of our citizens. Unfortunately, right now, we are seeing more and more violent crime committed by our youth. Our officers are arresting 13, 14, and 15-year-olds who are carrying guns, stealing cars, committing armed robberies. Even children as young as 8 years old are causing major property damage.
 As a father, this is absolutely heartbreaking. As mayor, it's just troubling to know so many of our young people lack a sense of belonging. They don't have hope, and they feel that there's too few opportunities for them to succeed. We must get to the root cause of this violence if we are ever going to stop the cycle of violence that has plagued our community for decades.
 Without intentional intervention, violent juveniles far too often grow up to be violent adults. The common factor with most of these youth is a history of trauma in their lives. And our data is showing us that this trauma is most often caused by physical and sexual violence that takes place in their own home. This trauma can be worsened by things such as poverty, health issues, and even environmental conditions.
 When trauma goes unmitigated, it leads to lower educational attainment results and higher violent crime rates in our schools, in our homes, and in our neighborhoods. A wise person recently told me, when you know better, you do better. We know now that trauma is a basic component of the violence that we're seeing in our streets. We must do better.
 And in 2021, this city council began to put a new emphasis on youth by allocating an additional $1.75 million to the Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention, and then expanding that office to be called the Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence Prevention.
 The office worked with the Rockford Police Department as well as grassroots organizations to develop the expansion so that we can reduce our youth crime rate.
 So we've created a whole host of youth initiatives to help curb this violence. First, if we're going to address this, we need to make sure that we know when trauma has occurred so that we can get our young people these resources. So we've partnered with the Rockford Public Schools to establish Handle With Care,
 That program just launched just about over a month ago district-wide. And in the first six weeks, school staff have received 600 alerts, which help them better identify and provide resources and interventions to youth who have witnessed or experienced trauma. We also launched Camp Hope, a trauma-informed camp and mentorship program for youth impacted by physical and sexual violence.
 We created Step Up, which allows youth who have been involved in minor crimes to enroll in an adolescent family violence intervention program as an alternative to entering the criminal justice system. We're also hiring at-risk youth to work at the city to gain marketable job skills while performing critical core city duties. We've partnered, as was mentioned earlier, with the Rockford Park District to create a new edu-rec summer curriculum
 This program will work to identify and mitigate trauma carried by those campers. It will also use evidence-based strategies to prevent future crime from taking place.
 We also continued many of the programs that we all launched here in 2020. Some of those programs include the Juvenile Recovery and Crime Prevention Program, which aligns children and their families with whole family case managers so that they can help them navigate through the criminal justice, education, health, and social service systems.
 Our reentry program that's a collaboration with Winnebago County is designated to intervene with high-risk, violent individuals who are returning to our community from incarceration.
 and the No Entry program, which seeks to lower the racial and ethnic disparities at the point of entry into the criminal justice system. This program helps interrupt the school-to-prison pipeline by providing and increasing access to effective trauma-focused treatment and service systems that are here in our city. I am absolutely confident that our work with youth will be successful.
 But we also have to understand that that is the long game. It will take a long period of time for us to see the impact of these programs and how they help reduce violence in our homes and in our streets. So that's why we also have to simultaneously focus on the crime that's taking place in our streets right now. We're going to continue to recruit more officers to our police force.
 Just last month, we swore in 10 new officers. We're also going to continue to equip our officers with the latest technology so they have all the tools necessary to keep themselves safe as well as keeping our streets safe. And in fact, next week, this council has the opportunity to double the number of license plate readers in our community as well as double the number of cameras that are truly force multipliers for our police departments.
 And in 2021, we also implemented body-worn cameras for all of our officers. Body cameras improves evidence collection, strengthens officer accountability, it helps enhance our transparency and provide better documentation and assist us in investigation of complaints.
 And we approved a civilian oversight board. And we are evaluating the applicants right now for that critical board. And we will bring those appointments to our city council over the course of this summer. I believe all of these tactics together, helping survivors of domestic violence, addressing childhood trauma, building trust in our community,
 and holding and arresting violent offenders accountable will have a significant impact on us not just reducing violence today, but truly stopping that cycle of violence that has plagued our city. But at the same time, the city of Rockford is a significant piece to this entire system. But we need to understand we are just one piece of this system. Violent crime is a systematic problem and it's going to need a system-wide solution.
 That means the courts, the schools, clergy, the probation department, law enforcement, yes, us at the city, the county, DCFS, social service organizations, citizens, parents, and the state of Illinois must all do our part. And with the statistics today, we must all do our part better. And we must do it better now because lives are literally at risk.
 So another way that we are constantly working to enhance our community is by improving our neighborhoods.
 Last month we kicked off the Neighborhood Improvement Initiative, where we've targeted six neighborhoods this spring and summer that have been negatively impacted by violent crime and could benefit tremendously from being better connected as well as bringing more community services to their doorsteps. One neighborhood at a time, we're assessing the neighborhood and each one of those residents who live in these specific areas.
 Then we're coming back to these neighborhoods for a planned workday. And we're not just coming back by ourselves. We're coming back with 20-plus partner organizations to deliver these services. And at the end of that workday, we are ending the day with a block party so that we can help build that sense of community.
 I will say just at that first neighborhood cleanup day that we had, I had a resident come up to me and say, man, you all have inspired me. I've now cleaned up my yard and I've cleaned up my neighbor's yard. And all I was thinking was that's exactly what we want. We want those residents to know that we care about them and that we want to invest there, but we also want them to know that they too can take charge of their own neighborhoods.
 So we're also continuing to reduce blight that has been dragging down our community for far too long. On the commercial side, it's not easy and it's not quick to go through the court system and to hold business owners as well as insurance companies accountable for the demolition of their properties. However, our legal department and our community and economic development department have done an exceptional job in getting that accomplished. We recently just demolished 1,800 Broadway.
 Doesn't sound like a big deal until you hear it's a hundred and forty thousand square foot building that has been sitting there for more than a decade Decaying and being vacant we also Finally completed the cleanup of the former Atwood building on North Main Street Which then cost a single dollar of taxpayer funds and that had sat there for partially demolished for far too long. I
 On the residential side, we are providing financial assistance to homeowners to help make critical home repairs.
 In 2021, we partnered with Habitat for Humanity because we know so many Rockfordians can afford their mortgage and can afford their car insurance, but they don't have a savings account for those critical home repairs. Now, thanks to this council and that partnership, now 50 families throughout our community this summer will get those critical home repairs covered. And all they simply need to do is live in their home for three more years.
 Another initiative that's improving neighborhoods and is also encouraging economic development is the creation of the community development financial institutions.
 This is a CDFI. Last year, City Council approved a $200,000 long-term loan to create the CDFI, our region's first CDFI. And we did that in partnership with the Rockford Local Development Corporation. Its primary purpose is to finance the rehabilitation of vacant and dilapidated homes. This truly is a win-win. This is helping small local businesses get the capital that they need, but it is also strengthening our neighborhoods.
 And the initial investment that this council made absolutely is a great start, but we are going to need to continue to fund this important tool if we want to see its true success in our community and in our neighborhoods.
 Our land bank is focusing on clearing titles of vacant and abandoned and blighted properties. The land bank returns properties to the tax rolls, and it helps generate revenue for all of our taxing bodies. Since its recent creation, there's now been 14 properties sold for a value of over $400,000. This city also led the effort to reimagine the Winnebago County Trustee Program.
 This program takes the title of tax delinquent properties that have failed in the private market and it returns them to productive use. Think about this. In the last 18 months, more than 700 parcels have been sold. More than 213 structures have been sold.
 All for a total of more than $2.4 million. My understanding is that this item is now back before the Winnebago County Board, and I would urge the Winnebago County Board, and I think I can speak on behalf of the hundreds of residents who have positively benefited from this program, not only to approve the extension of this, but approve a long-term extension with Region 1 Planning Council as the administrator.
 I'm also very proud of the work that this City Council and previous City Councils have done to be good stewards of our tax dollars. We have not increased property taxes at the City of Rockford since 2013. We have actually decreased property taxes two of the last five years. In fact, our property tax rate is going to be reduced by 22% since 2017.
 and i'm really proud to say that this administration will bring to this council yet another balanced budget and yet another budget that does not increase property taxes for our residents so as we're decreasing property taxes we're right now absolutely increasing our investments in roads sidewalks and our water system in 2021 the city council passed the largest capital improvement plan in our city's history
 With additional innovations and technology that's available to us today, we've been able to take a much more data-driven approach towards programming our infrastructure projects. This is resulting in more efficiency and sustainability. This same technology has also allowed the city of Rockford to be even more transparent with how we spend our 1% infrastructure sales tax,
 I will tell you this, no one's going to need to ask the city of Rockford how we spend our 1% sales tax. And over the next five years, this plan will allocate $62 million to major critical road repairs and infrastructure projects, $30 million to repaving residential streets and alleyways, $10 million to make sure that Rockford is more pedestrian and bicycle-friendly,
 and more than $3 million to improve our stormwater facilities. This summer alone, our city will see $48 million of infrastructure projects taking place. That means 220 neighborhood blocks will be resurfaced this summer. That means long-awaited projects like Charles Street and finally West State Street will be completed this summer.
 And we've also secured more than $12 million in funding through the IEPA State Revolving Loan Fund to help with lead service line replacement program. We are one of the only cities in the entire state that covers 100% of that lead line service cost for our residents. And we are saving them thousands of dollars by doing this.
 All of these infrastructure improvements that I've mentioned has really put the city of Rockford in a great position when it comes to economic development. Over the last several years, we've worked very hard to work on a larger field when it comes to economic development. So we're working with the governor's office, we're working with DCEO, as well as Intersect Illinois and developers to help attract businesses to our communities.
 Those partnerships are starting to pay off. We've been able to secure $23 million to revitalize the BMO Harris Bank Center, and that investment helped lay the groundwork for the acquisition of the Rockford Ice Hogs by the Chicago Blackhawks, which also, by the way, keeps the Rockford Ice Hogs playing hockey in the city of Rockford for the next 15 years. Another big development for our community is an approved agreement between the city of Rockford and Jay Jeffers to purchase the Barbara Coleman Complex.
 Jay Jeffers is proposing an adaptive reuse campus in multiple phases over the next 7 to 10 years. This is a project that is much needed for the city of Rockford. It has sat vacant for far too long. This is important not just for our entire city, but specifically to those residents on the southwest side of Rockford.
 And there's also additional economic development projects that are taking place throughout our city. You can look downtown at the nearly 100-year-old industrial building on Cedar Street that's now being transformed into loft apartments. Or you can look at 301 South Main Street, which is nearing completion. It's a former Hanley Furniture Store. That property will now be home to 33 apartment buildings downtown.
 And also in 2021, on the banks of Rock River, the Rockford Public Library is now slated to be open next year. We hope soon that we will be bringing new life to Davis Park. Davis Park is the only park owned by the city of Rockford. We were able to secure funding from the state of Illinois, thanks to Senator Stottleman and Mr.
 If you think about it, as the only park for the city of Rockford, this must be a welcoming place for all of our residents. It must be a true gathering place. So we will be asking city council to help move this project forward. And in 2021, we also as a city increased our contribution to the arts council by 50% and helped fund their recent economic impact study.
 And the study confirmed what a lot of us know. Arts do more than just improve our own sense of pride in where we live or our culture. They make a true economic impact on our city.
 and in 2021 this council authorized plans to bring the international women's baseball center museum to the city of rockford on the southeast side with a children's activity center as well as enhancements to buyer field that's more than 15 million dollars worth of investment taking place on the southeast side
 And on the northwest side, we're seeing growth there with the former vacant Bonton facility that now houses 800 jobs at the new Amazon Fulfillment Center.
 We're still continuing to rebound from the impacts of the pandemic. In the latest jobs report that was just issued last week, the Rockford area saw the second largest increase in jobs across the state since April of 2021. And we saw the third largest decrease in our unemployment rates.
 This is really encouraging news for us here at the city. However, we also know that when we want to attract more businesses, we need our residents to be workforce ready today. This is why back in 2021, we worked with the state of Illinois, we worked with the Rockford Airport, we worked with AAR to secure $2.6 million to fast track workforce development training for in-demand aviation mechanics.
 And for decades, for decades, we've known that our community needs to do a lot more when it comes to supporting women and minority-owned businesses, especially our entrepreneurs. But truthfully, all we've done for decades is talk about it. We are about to change that. This city council has an opportunity to make history.
 And with council support, we're going to partner with Think Big to open a minority and women-owned business accelerator here in Rockford, here on the west side of Rockford. So no longer do we need to hear that people need to move to Atlanta or Chicago or Nashville to start and expand and grow their businesses. They can do it right here in the city of Rockford.
 I want to also say I really believe when all of us made that really difficult decision to run for public office, I don't think any of you made it, and I know I certainly didn't make it because I love Monday night meetings. I don't think any of you made it because you absolutely love the rubber chicken dinners you get to attend. I kind of believe that you made that difficult decision because you love the City of Rockford. You see the amazing potential that our community has.
 You want to make progress and you want to improve the lives of our residents. I think both of us, all of us know that this place, our home and our people are absolutely worth fighting for. I truly believe that we are making progress every day to improve our community. We're making decisions that we know are impacting the lives of our residents. And I believe we're literally changing their lives for the better.
 We're changing the lives of those residents who are experiencing a mental health crisis situation when we were awarded a grant this past year from Winnebago County Mental Health Board to create the crisis co-response teams.
 These teams are made up of specially trained personnel that respond to calls as well as provide follow-up care and intervention so that they stop the next crisis from happening. In just a couple of pieces of their information to highlight some of their good work, they've served now more than 1,600 patients with more than 2,600 interactions.
 Of all of their interactions, now 61% have resulted in linkages to long-term care. Think about it. 1,022 residents, because of this program, are now getting the help that they need. We're also changing lives for those who have felt excluded for far too long. We really need to be a leader in the discussion of equity and inclusion. To do that, we need to look at ourselves first.
 That's why we participate in the Human Rights Campaign's annual Municipal Equality Index. This index examines the laws, the policies, and the services of municipalities, and it rates them on the basis of their inclusivity, of the LGBTQ community, and who live here as well as those who work for us. Our score has increased by 30% in just the last four years.
 And that's not by happenstance, that's because we've implemented best practices like employee resource group. Now all of our employees are also getting diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging training. And now we have LGBTQI plus liaisons for not just the police, but us as a city organization. We've also been changing the lives of veterans.
 by offering all of our veterans free rides on RMTD buses. By providing this free transportation, we are giving these individuals more opportunities when it comes to their work, when it comes to their education, when it comes to being able to get to their health appointment. Veterans will no longer be limited because of the cost of their fare or the distance of their destination because they'll have free transportation.
 In addition, we're changing the lives of those hurt most by the failed war on drugs. Our ReGrow grant program uses the 3% local sales tax on cannabis to help aid, strengthen, and foster community reinvestment. With these dollars, we're funding programs like a prison reform initiative, an economic stability class.
 enrichment sessions to develop career pathways for minority middle school students, for youth programming in northwest Rockford, for innovative after-school programs across our city, and for life coaching for those who are formerly incarcerated. And we're changing the lives of those impacted by the pandemic.
 During COVID, we provided millions of dollars of rental assistance, and we provided that to those in the greatest need. 25% of those people that we supported with our rental assistance were from the manufacturing industry. 19% were from the healthcare industry. And 14% were from the terribly hard-hit restaurant and hotel industry.
 And we're also continuing to impact and change the lives of domestic violence survivors. The Family Peace Center, in less than two years, has now nearly served 1,000 survivors. And they just recently got an additional $500,000 from the federal government so that they can continue developing and expanding the services that they provide at the Family Peace Center. We're also changing the lives of students and their families in our community.
 The revenue the city of Rockford receives from the casino goes to our NIU Rockford Promise Scholarship Program. This program is really simple. If you live in Rockford, you go to Rockford Public Schools, and you earn a 3.0 GPA, no longer will finances be a barrier to you furthering yourself with education.
 So in its first year, we had 98 students take advantage of this program. 59% were students of color, 79% were first-generation college-going students. This fall, in our second year, 175 students will start at NIU because of this program. That's a 78% increase. That's not just changing that student's life, that's changing the dynamics of their entire family.
 We're also changing the lives of at-risk youth. We're offering them workforce development opportunities through our partnership with LT Construction, a local minority-owned concrete construction contractor. Under this program, LT Construction provides mentorship, experience, and workforce development skills to young adults that represent at-risk and underserved populations of our city.
 After this summer internship, these mentees will have a jump start in entering the union's apprenticeship programs. We're also doing a similar program when it comes to our water department, and we're expanding that program. I'll just say, as Bobby said, the best three words are in conclusion. I'll say I'm proud of the work that we've been able to accomplish together. However, I think we all know that work is absolutely not done.
 I'm confident that we are going to continue to make positive changes in the lives of our residents. Our residents expect and deserve to be able to say with pride that Rockford is their home. And I know that with the City Council, this administration, and all of the residents, we will absolutely deliver. So I want to thank you for letting me provide to all of you the state of the city for the city of Rockford. Thank you.
 i think bobby could have been wrong the best words at a city council meeting is there a motion for adjournment we have a motion we have a second is there any discussion have a good night thank you