Our Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Father, we come before your presence tonight asking that your guidance will be given to the city council.
 May the decisions they make be good for the community and the citizens of this community. Lord, bless them and help them make the right decisions. Then, Lord, we pray that you'd be with our first responders, with the fire department, the police department. Lord, as they go throughout the city each day, protecting us from harm and danger. We pray, Lord, that you'd give the firemen and the police officers the protection they need so they might be able to go home to their families at the end of their shift.
 Be with the city council tonight, Lord, and give them the wisdom they need. For we ask these things in Jesus' precious and holy name. Amen. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Okay. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Here. Clerk. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America.
 Wonderful. We have a quorum. We will begin. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for our city council meeting held on May 15, 2017? All right. All those in favor? All those opposed? No? All right. Journal passes. We'll move on to public speakers. First, we have two publics. Yes. Oh, thank you. We actually all need a motion for the
 All right, we have a motion for the journal proceedings for our City Council strategic planning session that was held on May 30th. Any discussion on that? All those in favor? All those opposed? All right, second journal approved. Excellent. I want to take credit for that. We'll move on to public speakers. We have two public speakers. Each will have three minutes. First public speaker that we have this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Amos, the fifth chapter, the 14th verse, it says, See good and not evil, that you may live, so the Lord God of hosts will be with you. What I want to speak about tonight, the United States are ran by a bunch of clowns. Don't you be one. I applaud Snoop Dogg, the hip-hop artist, for his new video that's political.
 The video shows Americans, a nation of clowns, being led by a lying clown president in the White House. At once, the image of adults and children, black ones, white ones, brown ones, wearing clown makeup, brought to mind the Batman movie starring Jack Nicklaus as the notorious villain, the Joker. That character was written to be a mentally and morally sadistic wannabe funny man who was lethal, self-centered, and prone to violence. The man.
 man holds the future of Godmode City and Pearl by threatening to release an airborne toxin that literally has the effect of clowning people to death. If there ever was a metaphor to describe what's happening politically in the United States, I think we've found it, or should I say Snoop Dogg has. Certainly one can reasonably argue that rural white voters are clowns who vote against their interests to achieve the perception at least of Americans fueled by white power under white male control and they continue to support the Russian Manchurian
 despite mountain evidence that he's a pathological liar, if not mentally and morally a sadistic person. What blacks who voted for him hope to gain from this is still news to me. Hey, let's ask those who didn't vote. Our clowns themselves. Meanwhile, the peanut gallery goes on cheering the clown president and fighting the people who don't like him. They sop up every lie of his. He tells counties who create millions of jobs by revitalizing dying industries they argue against the Affordable Care Act because we're...
 Republicans were clever enough to slap President Obama's name on it to make them hate it. Even as millions of the naysayers enjoy his coverage. There's a toxic people in the air that has a percentage of the voting population getting small every day. These clowns who are defending Trump produce strains that can penetrate anyone, outcome, and outlook. Black ones, brown ones, white ones, everyone. That's what disease and toxins do. Block one point of entry and they will find another. In just the past few weeks, Medicaid, Meals on Wheels, and Cespas,
 have been on the chopping block. Public education in peril and the new secretary of education who doesn't know the difference between school choice and historical black college university. Think about it. Black Americans are still fighting for equal quality education more than 60 years after Brown versus the Board of Education. A crying shame for black communities. The stakes are higher than ever and they include everything from healthcare, economic development, education,
 and our legacy of wealth creation for our very own free. It's time for blacks to do for self and have our own and separate from these devils
 And I got a, we're having a job fair, and I want everybody in Rockford, because the people keep asking me about jobs, I want everybody to come at the Courtyard Merritt, Rockford, 7676 East State, Rockford, Illinois, June 10, 2017, 8 a.m. to 2 p.m., because all these are hiring. United Airlines is hiring 900 people. American Airlines is hiring 1,000 people. I want the people in Rockford. I ain't worrying about the people in China, Mexico. I'm thinking about the people here in Rockford. They need jobs.
 and they need them now. Thanks for allowing me to speak. And this is where you all would be. Okay, thank you, Prophet Yusuf. Our next public speaker is John Brantley.
 Believe in uh, Mayor McNamara, our Aldermen and the citizens of Rockford, Illinois. Uh, God love uh, and ours. Uh, John chapter uh, John, 1 John chapter 4 verse 7 through uh, 9. Dear friends, let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and know God. Whoever does not love does not know God because God is love. This is how God shows love among us. He sends his only
 He said there's one and only son in the world that we may live through him. This is love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son as a torment sacrifice for our sins. I won't talk about Donald Trump, but I will take my hat off to those citizens in England that stood up to the three assassins.
 But I won't go any further. But what I want to do is talk about right here in Rockford. I want to take my hat off. We went to a movie with a whole great Wonder Woman with a private screen and fantasy movie and superhero fundraiser for our original Wonder Woman, Stacey representative Dr. Leticia Wilder.
 Saturday night at the movie with Dr. Leticia Wallace and Wonder Woman with the family, plus the Renewal Turning Point Program and Youth and RHA Neighborhood Network, we want to thank our sponsors for helping to make this day happen. Wow, we don't ever go to the show hungry. We brought a bucket.
 of popcorn, two hot dogs, two drinks and it cost $33.15. Lord have mercy. I was glad to see the youth go back over seven times filling up that big bucket of popcorn and the two drinks we had, they went back so many times I lost count. I was cracking up but I was glad that we got our $33 worth.
 I also want to thank our van driver for bringing our 12 youth that we took there. And most of all, we took 11 females and one male to this event. And that's why I said it's very important that I have a female van driver. On the other thing I want to speak about and what have you, I went to a meeting and they were talking about Black Lives Matter.
 It was nothing about Black Lives Matter. It was over 56 peoples there, only six of them was black.
 Three of them was from out of town. Most of the people there was from out of town. The person that was leading the meeting had a lot of negative things to say about the city, to say about the chief of police, and whatever. Had nothing positive to say. She did not want to hear from the older people that was talking, people like myself and proper Houston, that had the answers for them. So we was in a verbal battle with her. I resent we had groups that didn't fund,
 run around living off of people's misery and pain or people's lost loved ones. I even asked her, won't you have a dialect with the Chief of Police? He would love to have a dialect with you. Don't use what happened to someone and mis-screw them, talking about Black Lives Matter, because that is not what Black Lives Matter. It's not about hating the police. I want to end by saying that this here weekend is coming up as Sharefest.
 And we are going to participate in Sharefest. We have to clean up our own neighborhood. 11th and 8th is our house. We shouldn't be expecting for somebody else to clean up our house. Thank you, Chairman. So on Sunday, if you can mention about the 11th and 8th and talent show, the grand finale. And thank you. Thank you. You may be the only group to ever get their money out of popcorn at the movie theater.
 Under petitions and communications, we'll move to planning and development with Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. I have two items. Under Roman numeral 3A, 1-2, memorandum from LaFecaria Vaughn, Assistant City Attorney regarding the Rockford Area Economic Development Council, also known as RADEC. It's a quarterly report for 2017.
 This will be referred to Planning and Development. A second memorandum from Mark Williams, Economic Development Manager, Community and Economic Development Department, regarding proposed development agreement with First Midwest Group, DYN, Rockford LLC, for rehabilitation and redevelopment of 326 West Jefferson into a mixed-use historic building. This will also be referred to Planning and Development.
 We will move to Cotes and Regs and Alderman Shirelli. Thank you, Your Honor. I have five items this evening. One is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter, the Traffic City Engineer, regarding the honorary street name change for Green Street, Church Street to South Main Street. The second item is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 14th and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regulations meeting on June 26th.
 Third item is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding upcoming special events which include Midsummerfest, Support the Troops, Solo Italiano, Rockford Chamber Business Networking Event and Tricotchi Barber Beauty Battle Against Domestic Violence. The fourth is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, Land Transaction Officer regarding North Main and Whitman Intersection Project.
 And finally, the memorandum from Vicki Manson, the Housing and Project Program Manager of Community Economic Development Department regarding the transfer of city-owned properties to Rockford Corridor Improvement, RCI, Blight Reduction Program. All those items will be referred, Your Honor, to codes and regs. Thank you, Alderman Chiarelli. And for Finance and Personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Four items. First is the memorandum from Xavier Whitford.
 Central Services Manager regarding ascertaining the prevailing wages for laborers, mechanics, and workers employed by the City of Rockford. The next is a memorandum from Mike Hawkinson, Land Transaction Officer, regarding tax abatement on foreclosure properties. Third is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney, regarding a resolution reaffirming that elected official positions meet with 600-hour requirement for IMRS eligibility.
 And finally, a memorandum from Angela Hammer, city attorney, regarding an agreement with Cherry Valley Fire Protection District for the rental of Fire Engine. These four items will be referred to finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. There are no proclamations this evening, so we will move to new committee reports and planning and development. Alderman Durkee. Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 4A, number 1, the committee recommends approval of the First Amendment to the annexation agreement and development agreement between the City of Rockford and Mercy Health Systems Corporation. The interim legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place this up for passage.
 Is there any discussion? Alderman Thompson-Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I do want to voice my opinion on this. For a couple of years we've had meetings with Mercy Rockford and I was repeatedly told that they're not asking for anything from the city. They didn't want anything from the city. It's not going to interfere with the construction of this hospital, nor is it going to interfere with their future plans.
 And that was the conversation that Mr. Bay and I had at length, that he wasn't expecting anything from the city. So I will not be supporting this because I don't feel that we can afford not to support this because it's going to be paying the cost for this hospital to be built. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Alderman Beck. I'd like to move the ladies over. Second. Thank you.
 Okay. With the alderman rule of being able to lay this over, we will lay this matter over to the next scheduled council meeting in two weeks. Okay. Moving to codes and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli. Several items this evening. The first is the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval of a modification of a special use permit for 707 West Riverside Boulevard.
 Second, the committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval of the sale of tobacco products at 828 Broadway. The third, the committee recommends sustaining LTAB's approval of the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with a restaurant and gaming facility with outdoor seating area at 514 East 8th Street.
 The fourth is committee recommends approval of amendment to vacation ordinance of an alley line along the west and north sides of 709 Dickerman Street. The fifth, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval for no parking any time on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue. Committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission approval of a traffic on Maeve Lane
 be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane. Seventh, this committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval of the traffic on Shea Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane. Eighth, this committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval of the traffic on Brett Place be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane.
 The ninth is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of the traffic on Carl's Court be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane
 The 10th is committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of the traffic on Madeline Trail be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane. The 11th is the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of traffic on Joyce Avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane. A lot of action on Garrett Lane.
 12th is committee recommends sustaining the traffic Commission's recommendation of no action the first request to the tenth war to establish traffic control at the intersection of Harney Court and 28th Street And the second no action is request in the first war to establish traffic control at the intersection of with Wishart Drive and Heather Lane place those items up for passage around Okay, is there a discussion on any of those items? I?
 Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. So, one, please, move three, aye, the rest? Aye. Aye. Okay. All items pass. Thank you. Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Your Honor. First item is the...
 Approval of vouchers in the amount of $3,222,123.98. Second is the approval of the fine reduction request at 1801 17th Avenue to $500. And the third is the approval of a memorandum of understanding with Rock River Water Reclamation District for the installation of storm sewer between 2808 and 2912 Spring Creek Road.
 during the district's sanitary sewer replacement project, which is currently underway. The estimated cost of the installation is $35,517 in the funding source of CIP sales tax. And I place those three items up for passage. Thank you. Is there any discussion on any of those items? Alderman Hervey? Thank you, Your Honor. With regard to item number two,
 I think the attachment indicated that the individual owned some other properties or at least one in Rockford, but I didn't get that we had actually checked those to see if there were other violations. The other thing I want, I'm not going to hold this one up, but I want to have a discussion about they're getting almost $55,000 from the sale of this property going to the person's estate.
 And these problems were not abated for, looks like almost two years, or more than two years. And when we have those, I think a $500, or reduction to $500 is too small. Neighbors, people have to put up with that blight.
 And this place was in pretty bad shape for a while. So I want to have a discussion about some parameters for reducing these. And I don't think $500 just personally is enough for a violation that was this severe that lasted for this long. Certainly not. Mr. Pagnoni, do you want to add anything about this property?
 Thank you, Your Honor. When we had published our original memo related to the fine reduction, we did not state who
 individual was acquiring a property and it's Zenith Cutter LLC controlled by Mark Blazer and he has begun to acquire properties within the Rockford area and our experience has been very positive in regards to being responsive should there be a code violation because he's picked up some properties that have been in distress and moved forward at a quick time frame to bring those properties
 into conformance. So we do feel and recommend that he is a positive property owner and someone that we want to see continue to invest within our community. As it relates to evaluating our fine reduction practice, we're more than happy to do that.
 And if it's the desire of the council to come back with an alternative amount, we can start to evaluate that and maybe do a little bit of history on what we've done over the last 12 months and the outcomes to provide some information. MR. Fowler? MS. My concern is that I don't want us to get to a point with these fine reductions where we reward people for doing nothing. And that's what my concern is.
 If it's your estate, just let it sit there. Let the city mow it. When it's done, they'll reduce the fine to $500. So don't spend money. Don't keep the property up. And that's just going to encourage a lot of really bad behavior. Some of the neighborhoods and some of the aldermen don't deal with this at all. But for those of us who do, it is a nightmare when you have these blighted properties just sitting there for three it doesn't matter if it's three or four, even two years.
 is a real burden on residents. So thank you. Great point. Alderman Thompson-Kellett. I also have a concern. I will yield a lot of my questions to the Alderman of the Board, but one of my concerns is how many properties have this property owner been reduced in fines and have purchased in what time span?
 Mr. Cagnone? Thank you. I don't know the specifics to all those questions, but I'd be happy to gather the information so that we're accurate. I would say that it's been over the last...
 24 to 12 months that Mr. Blazer has started to acquire properties in the city of Rockford. I'm not certain if he's had other properties that have had fine reductions or not. I don't believe that there's been any, you know, fines reduced for properties that he owned that went through the code hearing process, but because he's picked up properties that have been distressed,
 such as this one, there could have been some possibility of that. This was somewhat of a unique case because the previous owner had passed away and then the property went into an estate. And what we've seen that when a property goes into an estate without the proper paperwork, it falls into distress. But I can pull that information up for you more specifically. In the community and if there was any charges against it.
 Present property that he operates Any other questions or discussion, okay clerk, will you please call the roll timber Herbie? Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Q known as back cheer really 11 night. Thank you all those items pass and I
 We will move to motions and resolutions. Plenty in development. I'm sorry. Thank you.
 Skipping over officers reports. I just have a few that I'll just say give here and then go around the horn one I do want to remind everyone that sheriff us is still going on it goes on I believe through the 11th of June They have three different shifts typically during every single day. It's out at Leving's Lake I want to thank alderman Toonberg and alderman Hervey. I know alderman Hervey's been out there a ton and
 And it's just amazing to see so many individuals coming from all over the community to go out to one dedicated place every single year. And the impact that you can see just in the time period that you're there is really pretty wonderful.
 Also want to make sure everyone's aware that there's live at Levings that is starting, looks like, on June 11th. And it's on select Sundays from June 11th through August 6th. And there's talent shows and bands. So I believe that's what Mr. Brantley was mentioning that's taking place on June 11th out at Levings Lake. Okay.
 Couple of other items is the financial task force will begin meeting tomorrow at 1pm here in city council chamber so I'd urge any alderman who wants to be part of that to come on down at 1 o'clock otherwise community members it's open to the public.
 And that's the first meeting of that group. Also wanted to provide some updates on some questions that were presented last week and the week before. There was questions about getting fire station maintenance updates and vehicle program maintenance updates. We're redoing all those calculations. We should have those to you within the next two weeks. There was also a question about abandoned homes and staff is working on creating a list of those kind of perpetual
 long grass homes. One thing I would be remiss not to mention is that we have Miss Joanne Lewis, who has worked for the City of Rockford for 28 years. We're honored to have her at City Council tonight. She's the head of Head Start, so she has not only been a wonderful city employee, but also has
 really made a tremendous impact on the lives of not only the kids but the families that the Head Start program serves. So thank you so much for your dedication to the city and to the families that you serve. It's greatly appreciated and we're a better place. Thank you.
 And officers' reports. Alderman Thompson-Telly. Yes, Your Honor. Could you please share with the public, as well as our constituents, the new electrical supplier that we are adopting so that's made aware? Because I know we all will be receiving phone calls. I would love to do that, and I'm going to let our finance director, Carrie Eklund, do that because she'll do it so much better than I will. Okay.
 So we had a press release go out today on the program. We have, again, partnered with Loves Park to select a new electric aggregation supplier. The notices will start coming out in –
 June and the opt-out letters have to be returned by July 5th of 2017 Notices will be mailed to every participant in the city any eligible account so that would be anybody on the current aggregation program are currently with comed if A resident has signed up for their or a small business have signed up for their own supplier contract They will not automatically be switched
 The new rate is .06203 cents. I'm sorry, the current rate is .06203 cents with Dyna-G, and that will run through September. The new rate is .07114 cents per kilowatt hour, and that is a one-year program. There is a renewable power option at .07314 cents per kilowatt hour.
 And again, just a reminder that this vendor will not solicit door-to-door or call directly any resident as part of the city's aggregation program. The communication will only come via mail and the information will all have the City of Rockford logo on the documentation as well.
 And if residents want to participate in the program, they don't have to do anything to participate. It's an active opt-out program, so you'll automatically be switched if you do nothing. So any questions that you can reach out to the Customer Service Center, the phone number, 779-348-7300. I was gonna say all that, but I thought she was gonna do it. Alderman Thompson-Gill.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Were you on your mic too? I'm sorry. Give me a second. I just don't want to get all the e-mails I get. Yeah, I know. I also want to thank the Chief of Fire for following up with my request and my concern about the facilities that we received last week, and we are going to be meeting to go over some of those facilities. So I want to thank him for that.
 Any other officers report? Alderman Hervey. Very quickly, a couple things I want to piggyback on to the mayor's comments about ShareFest. And they're there all this week. There are three shifts, 8 until noon.
 I think one till five and then six till nine. So there's just plenty. I'll be back out again on Wednesday. And I have to, give me your hand, dear. I have to, my colleague here, we work side by side. Frank Haney was there. Sheriff Caruana was there. Mayor Breslin.
 McNamara was there, just a number of people. And Alderman Thunberg was with us side by side. I punked out early. He stayed even longer. The emerald ash borer has devastated the trees out there, and they're cutting down into the hundreds. So they need to clear out branches, get those
 logs and things to the chippers, picking up the smaller sticks. They're painting, what, 300 and some picnic tables. They're planting environmental islands, believe it or not. They're artificial islands that will help filter and clean the water. Levings is getting a total remake. I want to thank the folks of ShareFest.
 and also the Rockford Park District for investing in it. And if you haven't been out to see West Rock Wake Park, paddle boarding, everything that you can do in some of the big cities to have water sports, you can do right here in Levings. It is safe, it is beautiful, and I encourage everybody to come out. I would like to ask if the mayor could follow up. I had two lots of calls from people. One was about the airport's decision to cancel Air Fest.
 I hope they will reconsider, or that as a group we can ask them to reconsider. It did not sit well with the community. I got calls from people that aren't, most of the calls were not from people in my ward, who basically said, you know, 10,000 people, huge plus for the city,
 And how does one group just decide to cancel? People feel like we're losing things. You know, we lost on the waterfront. Now we're losing Airfest. There's that sense that we need to maintain and move forward. They don't want tourism just for tourism.
 other people. They want those events for us and those of us who live here. So I'm hoping we can work with the airport. The other one was with regard to the circus that was in town. And I know people have widely differing views on this. I'm not going to advocate one or the other, but I'd like to have a community discussion about what our standards are for venues, circuses, animal treatment,
 Some performers who are known to be kind of vile in different ways. I don't think it's a discussion we've ever had. And we've got a lot of independent boards and groups like the Airport Authority, the Rave Authority. They make decisions about those things. But I think we need to have those conversations as an overall community. Lastly, Rock River School I talked with Mr. Partridge about. I want people who live in that area to know we are going to be looking into it.
 It's been there. We've got vagrants breaking in. It's becoming a perennial dumping ground. The grass is out of control, and it's just a total eyesore. So you are not forgotten, but there are, at one time, I believe there were 13 litigants involved in the three fires.
 for insurance companies and then all other people who have an interest. So it's a nightmare. But I've asked Mr. Partridge. He offered, actually. I mentioned it, and he offered to pick up that mantle and see if we can't force some kind of forward action because it's stagnating. Thank you. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Alderman Beck. Thank you, ma'am. Your Honor, just to follow up on the –
 the Levings information. It's live at Levings, and there's also Domingos en el Parque, which is held out at the Levings Park during the summer. It's part of the Park District Sounds of Summer entertainment series. It's a free entertainment series throughout the summer. And the others also, Tunes on the Terrace. And then, of course, the flag staff would be the Music in the Park concert at the San Jacinto Music Show, which is starting tomorrow night in Phantom Regiment.
 traditionally kicks that off and they will do it again tomorrow night at seven o'clock and then it'll be every tuesday and thursday through the first week of august where there'll be concerts and from various different bands also the rockford concert band plays six dates which is comprised of about 60 local musicians and so just encourage people to come out it's a beautiful venue we've got
 concessions and you can have a glass of beer or wine if you want, but it's a great place to be on a Tuesday or Thursday night and hope people will come out. Wonderful. Thank you. Other officers at Alderman Beach? Thank you, Your Honor. I just want to check on the time again. The task force tomorrow I have it on calendar at 1.30. Oh, 1 p.m.? All right. I'm happy that was mentioned. So again, the finance task force is 1 p.m., conference room A.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you. Alderman Shroth. Thank you, Your Honor. Last year we had discussed some potential resources that could be available for homeowners that they have...
 the dead ash trees on their property that they are financially unable to take these trees down. There are some very large trees out there in different areas that unfortunately the residents can't afford to take down and they're in danger of falling down on top of other homes and things like that. So I don't know if anything ever happened with that on those resources that we were potentially investigating.
 I appreciate that. I do not know if there has been anything done, but I'll see if Mr. Cagnone knows anything about those resources. Thank you, Your Honor. We did evaluate to see if there's opportunities outside city funds and have not come up with a solution that would allow us to work with our
 residents in those regards. If this is something that you'd like to pursue, we'd be happy to discuss options offline and talk about bringing something back to the committee and council. Really, these trees are very large. And one of the residents that called me was talking about over $7,000 to remove three trees in her yard.
 which they can't afford. And they're completely dead. I don't know, I'd love to continue that conversation and see what type of resources we can come up with, some kind of help. Thanks. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Alderman Thunberg. Thank you, Mayor. I would like to elaborate on my colleague, Vanita Hervey. Alderman Vanita Hervey.
 Thank you, Mayor, for yourself coming out. And to ShareFest, we had a great time on Sunday. We also had some members of the county there, Nicolosi, McDonald, Haney, and a great time had by all. I'd also like to stress, sometimes members of our community may be a little bit confused. They think you have to be an attendee of Heartland or something because generally they're, but that is not the case.
 Everyone's invited out there. It is a great satisfaction when you leave there, but a great sense of community in participating in such an endeavor and Leavings Lake is truly going to look remarkably different afterwards. That ash borer disease just
 annihilated most of that park. And by the end of this week, it's going to look quite a bit different, thanks to your help and those who participated. I kept an eye out for Alderman Frost, but didn't see him anywhere. So he must be working a different day. Thank you. Any other officers' reports? Okay. Motions and resolutions. Plenty in development. Alderman Durkee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral 6A, we have proposed properties for demolition using the approved ranking system, which is batch number 2 for 2017. We place that up for passage. Is there any discussion? Okay, no discussion. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Item passes. Codes and regulations, Alderman Shirelli. Thank you.
 Tonight, the first is the 59th annual Labor Day Parade, which will be held Monday, September 4th from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m.
 Second is the Rocktown Brewdown, October 1st from 3 p.m. to 10 p.m. at Rural on Tap parking lot, 1710 Rural Street. Third item is St. Edward's Summerfest. The event will be scheduled July 30th from 11.30 a.m. to 7 p.m. at St. Edward's Church. Thanks for those three items up for passage, Your Honor. Any discussion? Alderman Cunio? No, second, no. I wanted a second item. Okay, sorry, thank you. Any discussion?
 All those in favor say aye. Aye. All those opposed? Item passes. To Finance and Personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. Item eight items. First is award of bid for Head Start Learning Materials to discount school supply for a not-to-exceed amount of $40,000
 Funding sources, grant funding from the Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Head Start. Next is the award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group 3 to William Charles Construction for their bid of $574,723.88.
 Next is the Citywide Sidewalk and ADA Repairs number three to Stenstrom Group for their bid of $36,312.20. Next is the award of sole source contract for South Main, Barbara Coleman overhead utility relocation between Loomis Street and Knowlton Street to AT&T for a contract amount of $93,911.10. Next is to rescind the award of bid for MCGP.
 PI mowing contract for Blocks D, J, and N, and award a contract for Block D to A&A Lawn Care, Block J to Reyes Rodriguez, and Block N to Legion Service Provider. The estimated annual value of the entire contract is $130,000. Next is the engineering agreement for North Alpine Box Culvert to HR Green for a contract amount of $244,875.12.
 Next is the Engineering Agreement Amendment for the North Main two-way conversion from Park Avenue to Whitman Street to Misman Incorporated for an additional $35,897.46 and a new total cost of $143,545.56.
 Previously, Council approved two amendments to the original contract for an additional $54,228.10 for a contract cost of $107,648.10. The original cost for the project was $53,420. And next is the resolution to take bids for paving and sidewalk at 3223 Sawyer Road. And that's it. Please close up for passage.
 Thank you. Is there a discussion on any of those items? Alderman Hervey. Just a quick comment with regard to the item number 7, the engineering agreement amendment.
 You know, we had talked about that the other week. I know there are things that happen, and some of these costs, you know, there's something hidden or you run into an old vault or something. But with these, I think we all kind of felt that some of this should have been foreseen. And just as a comment, some of the aldermen have talked, and this is the kind of thing that we can't do with a $6.5 million deficit. So we're going to have to.
 These companies that are doing these bids and some of the ones that are doing the investigation for us, they're going to have to step up their game because we can't deal with this kind of unknown where we're tripling our contract amounts.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Okay, I'm concerned about number eight. This is just a resolution to take bids, not the approval of the sidewalks for the Fire Department of Station 7 reconstruction budget, because we have not yet seen that list, to look at that list on the priorities for the fire departments. So why are we moving ahead on taking bids? Ms. Ackland, I think
 This project is being done in conjunction with the reactivation of the previous fire shop as a fire station that was part of our mercy agreement. We were obligated to make that change. The paving of the parking lot was originally part of the construction bid.
 and we realized that more work really needed to be done than was originally outlined in the specifications. Decided to pull that out of the construction bid with the thought that we would get broader pricing if we bid that separate from the actual construction in the fire station itself. So this is part of that conversion of the shop. Thank you for reminding me. I do appreciate that. Absolutely. We'll get the total cost of the bids
 Yeah, and we will bring that and how we intend to pay for that work back to council once the bids are opened. Thank you. Any other discussion? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Hervey, Urbans, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Chiarelli.
 And it's one two three four five six eight eleven eyes and I'm number seven ten eyes one no Wonderful all items pass and we will move to new business planning and development alderman Durkee that matter was held out here Oh, thank you. We move to codes and regulations alderman Shirelli. Thank your honor I got several ordinances this evening first is an ordinance approving a modification of a special use permit and
 for 707 West Riverside Boulevard. The second is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products at 828 Broadway. The third is an ordinance approving the sale of beer and wine by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant and gaming facility with an outdoor seating area at 514 East State Street. Fourth is an ordinance approving an amendment to the vacation ordinance for an alley lying along the west and north sides of 709 Dickerman Street.
 The fifth is an ordinance approving the no parking any time on the east side of Kilburn Avenue from 160 feet south of Parkside Avenue to 240 feet south of Parkside Avenue. The sixth is an ordinance approving the traffic on Maeve Lane be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane. Seventh is an ordinance approving the traffic on Shea Drive be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane.
 The eighth is an ordinance approving the traffic on Brett Place be required to stop prior to entering the intersection of Garrett Lane. The ninth is an ordinance approving the traffic on Carl's Court be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane. The tenth is an ordinance approving the traffic on Madeline Trail be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane. The eleventh is an ordinance approving the traffic on Joyce Avenue be required to stop prior to entering the intersection on Garrett Lane.
 Place those ordinances up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. Is there a discussion? Okay, clerk, will you please call the roll? Jerky, Thunberg, Hervey, Irvins, Thompson-Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, Chiarelli. 11 ayes, Your Honor. Excellent. All items pass. Thank you.
 Alderman Beck with Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item. It's an ordinance approving a memorandum of understanding with Rock River Reclamation District for the installation of storm sewer between 2808 and 2912 Spring Creek Road during the district's sanitary sewer replacement project, which is currently underway. The estimated cost is $35,517. I place that off the page. Excellent. Is there a discussion on that item?
 Seeing none, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Thunberg. Herbie. Aye. Irvin. Thompson. Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Chiarelli. 11 ayes, Your Honor. All items passed. Wonderful. Is there a motion to Alderman Thunberg? I apologize. I got sidetracked on going back to the officer's reports on the...
 Item C, number 7, the North Main Two-Way.
 Yes, we had covered and my colleague, Alderman Hervey, had mentioned about this cost tripling. We had covered that in a previous meeting and our concerns working with IDOT going forth that we keep this in mind when we work with IDOT and submitting plans and such. Also there has been some concern.
 from a member of the museum campus, from an entity of the museum campus, on two-way, on this becoming a two-way. I would like to say to members of the council and to the community that
 There has been talks with the city, including, and hopefully if IDOT has their fingers in the jar too, that we will be working with the museum campus in implementing the entry-exit modifications of the museum campus onto North Main. That was a concern of theirs, especially at
 5 o'clock hour with everyone leaving at once so The city hopefully will be working with them in implementing an entry exit Issue and over in the within the overall plan. Thank you. Thank you. Is there a motion to adjourn? All those in favor those opposed