Ogobashi from the Muslim Association of Greater Rockford for our invocation. Let's pray. We pray to our Lord, our sustainer. Our Lord, we pray to guide us to live our life according to your will. Help us to do what's good for us and for all the human beings. Let us all enjoy our life here in this blessed city with peace and harmony. Our Lord,
 Help all these ladies and gentlemen to do and decide what's good for our blessed city and all people. Amen. Sir, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Here. Toomer. Here. Frost. Here. Irvins. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Here. Hoffman. Rose. Here.
 Beach. Here. Quinones. Here. Beck. Here. Chiarelli. Here. 11 present. Excellent. We have a quorum this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings? Second. So we have a motion and a second for the journal proceedings for the city council meeting held on May 20th, 2019. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. Aye.
 Next up, we do have two proclamations this evening, but before we get to the proclamations, I would like to ask if the Rockford Rimrockers would please come forward. We want to see it. Here, if you could stand just a little bit this way, folks at home. Okay. So this is really exciting for the city of Rockford. We have national champions in our presence, don't we? So...
 So first,
 At the City of Rockford, we've started handing out challenge coins. Challenge coins are given to individuals or organizations who go above and beyond and we just want to recognize you with the challenge coin and say congratulations, thanks for your tremendous work on the court but also your great work off the court and just say thank you and you certainly make all of us Rockford proud today and congratulations on your national championship. It's really phenomenal.
 Would you like to share any words about the Rimrockers or about your season? My name is Chan Parker. I'm the coach with the Rockford Rimrockers and also we have an AAU program, the Rockford Ambassadors, which is through Reggie Bielful and myself. But these kids on off the court, I mean they are great kids. I mean it's more than basketball.
 We teach them academics. Like, you have to have grades. Like, everybody can put the ball in the hoop, but if you have your grades set, like, you set the bar high for everybody else. So I'm going to introduce everybody. This is Christian Cummins right here. Ice power. That's Champ Parker. He goes to Ellis. To Mariah Davis. He goes to Kennedy. Sterling. He goes to Flynn. That's Champs. That's the baby, the team manager right there. Thank you.
 And then that's my wife, Quartisha Jones. She takes care of everything. Thank you guys so much, and we're going to continue to keep getting champions. Oh, well, back in...
 Yeah, well, March, it all started in March. We had to go to Aurora, Chicago. We had to play against different teams from all over the cities. So once we won those tournaments, we advanced to Dallas, Texas. So April 14th, which was a Saturday, it was a one-day event. We had to play eight games. It was 20 minutes. The first one of 21 wins, a running clock. You only get one timeout. So three on three, eight games.
 It's tough. Like, you have to play defense because if you don't play defense, like, the score will go quickly. But these five – Millian, I'm sorry, we had one more player, Millian. He's not here. He's with his dad this summer. But these five, they went in there and played eight games back to back to back. And I'm talking about they worked hard. It wasn't easy. It was tough. We met Sean Marion. He was there. We met Sam Perkins. He was there. We also played in the Drive Nation facility, which is owned by Jermaine O'Neal. So, yeah.
 They've seen a lot and they know it's more than Rockford. Like, it's worldwide around here, so keep fighting. My name is Lamont Jones. I'm the youth sports manager at the Rockford Park District. I oversee so many programs at the Rockford Park District. I like to tell people I oversee everything that's not on ice or at a golf course. And with so many kids and so many different programs, one of the things that we want to do at the Rockford Park District is...
 is to help kids enjoy life and also develop experiences. This is an experience that these kids will never, never forget, the travel going down to Texas, but the hard work they put in for the Midwest qualifiers and also the regional tournament. But with all the programs that we have at the Rockford Park District, a lot of them would not be possible without awesome volunteers. And Team Q, please step out.
 I probably have about 60 volunteers and sometimes it's so hard to corral them all, but if I had to give one mom or one dad volunteer of the year, it would be this lady right here. She's responsive, like even for this event tonight, I said, Q, can you get them together? No problem. And I got to tell you, Mayor, I'm proud of you.
 I sent the email to Jason D. So they'll be at the Rockford Park District Board meeting next. So and she's already has these guys lined up. So but like I said, none of this would be possible without the volunteers that we have. And I appreciate these guys a lot. What's next? Yeah, well, we have a lot of football. You're ready to kick off. You got about 700 kids that play that year round for the summer.
 We have a big dedication coming up. Southwest Park, out in that Teresa Middle School, that is our home for NFL ball. We started this program 16 years ago with 160 kids and like I said, we're up to over 700 throughout the year. But that park over there, Southwest Park, is going to be renamed after a gentleman that dedicated 47 years to this community. Mr. Clarence Hicks. And it's going to be here this park. I'm quite sure Jay Sandeen will be sending out invitations.
 So that's what's next for us. Thank you. And thank you, Alderman Beck, for making that connection for all of us. Next up, we have a proclamation for National Gun Violence Awareness Day, and I believe we have members of the Rockford chapter, members of Moms Demand Action, if you'd like to come forward.
 Whereas every day 100 Americans are killed by gun violence and on average there are nearly 13,000 gun homicides every year. And whereas Americans are 25 times more likely to be killed with guns than people in other high-income countries.
 And whereas protecting public safety in the communities they serve is a mayor's highest responsibility. And whereas support for the Second Amendment rights of law-abiding citizens goes hand-in-hand with keeping guns away from people with dangerous histories. And whereas mayors and law enforcement officers know their communities best and are best positioned to understand how to keep their citizens safe.
 And whereas a national coalition of organizations has designated June 7th, 2019, the first Friday in June, as the fifth National Gun Violence Awareness Day.
 And whereas anyone can join this campaign by pledging to wear orange on June 7th to help raise awareness and honor the lives of gun victims and survivors. And whereas we renew our commitment to reduce gun violence in the city of Rockford and pledge to do all that we can to keep firearms out of the wrong hands and encourage responsible gun ownership to help keep our children safe.
 Now, therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford, do hereby proclaim June 7th, 2019 to be National Gun Violence Awareness Day. Would you like to share a few words? I would, actually.
 On behalf of the Rockford Area Moms Demand Action Group and those who have been affected by gun violence, we want to say thank you to Mayor McNamara for this proclamation. Gun violence ravages too many families and neighborhoods, especially in our cities, and disproportionately affects communities of color as well as other marginalized groups, including the LGBTQ community. We are dedicated to working together to make our city and our country safe for all people.
 National Gun Violence Awareness Day and the Wear Orange Movement were inspired by Project Orange Tree, an awareness campaign to commemorate the life of Hadiyah Pendleton and other victims of gun violence. Orange is the color that Hadiyah's friends wore in her honor after she was shot and killed in Chicago at the age of 15, just one week after performing at President Obama's second inaugural parade.
 In June 2015, on what would have been Hadiya's 18th birthday, a broad-based coalition launched the first National Gun Violence Awareness Day. Participants were asked to stand up, speak out, and wear orange to honor Hadiya's life and the lives of all victims and survivors of gun violence. This year, June 7th, marks the fifth National Gun Violence Awareness Day, and the first we have the honor to recognize here in Rockford.
 Wear Orange honors the lives of Americans affected by gun violence and elevates the voice of every American who demands an end to gun violence.
 To honor the more than 100 Americans shot and killed every day and the hundreds more wounded, the Wear Orange campaign invites everyone who agrees we can do more to save American lives from gun violence to do one simple thing, hashtag Wear Orange, a color that symbolizes the value of human life. On this Friday, June 7th, 2019, on National Gun Violence Awareness Day. Thank you.
 Next up, we have a proclamation for World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, and we have retired Judge Rosemary Collins and Anna, I always say this wrong, Krizalek.
 Whereas, older adults deserve to be treated with respect and dignity to enable them to serve as leaders, mentors, volunteers, and vital participating members of our communities. And whereas, in 2006, the International Network for the Prevention of Elder Abuse, in support of the United Nations International Plan of Action, proclaimed a day to recognize the significance of elder abuse as a public health and human rights issue.
 And whereas 2019 marks the 13th annual World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. Its recognition will promote a better understanding of abuse and neglect of older adults. And whereas ageism and social isolation are major causes of elder abuse in the United States.
 And whereas, as our population lives longer, we are presented with an opportunity to think about our collective needs and future as a nation. And whereas, preventing abuse of older adults through maintaining and improving social supports like senior centers, human services, and transportation will allow everyone to continue to live as independently as possible. Now therefore, I, Thomas P. McNamara, as the mayor of the city of Rockford do hereby proclaim
 June 15th, 2019 to be World Elder Abuse Awareness Day. Would you like to share some words? On behalf of all the members of the At-Risk Adult Committee of the Family Violence Coordinating Council, which Judge Collins is the chair of, we'd like to thank you, Mary McNamara and the Rockford City Council for recognizing World Elder Abuse Day. This is the first time that we're aware of that this is being recognized in our community
 and also through the Abuse and Later Life grant that we now have for Winnebago County. We're looking forward to increasing our efforts and enhancing our response to this important issue.
 Well, thank you so much for inviting us here. Elder abuse is a serious problem in our community. We were able to get a federal grant to start addressing that. Right now we're doing a community needs survey, so if any of you have any information or community groups that would like to participate, please reach out to us and let us know. We know elder abuse is a problem that's often hidden, and it's often a different type of abuse. We often see elders who are specifically targeted financially and abused in that manner. So it's a really serious problem that we're recognizing,
 really going to work on and try to get to make our community the safest place in illinois to live next up uh... we have the petitions and communications and for code and regulations i'll turn to alderman show think you're on a couple of communications mean the first from lafayette area on assistant city attorney regarding the proposed ordinance banning electronic sweepstakes machines within the city of rockford
 Second is a memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager for permits and special events regarding the upcoming special event requests, which include Booker Fest, Alpine Kiwanis Brat Days Tour de North End, and St. Edwards Annual Summer Fest. Number three is a memorandum from Mike Hackinson, land transaction officer, regarding the proposed sale of eight city owned properties under the City Mow to Own program.
 Number four is a memorandum for Mike Atkinson again regarding the proposed sale of the city-owned parcel located at 1116 24th Street. Number five is a memorandum for Mike Atkinson again regarding the proposed sale of the city-owned parcel located at 4XX Short Horseman Street.
 Number six is a memorandum from Kelly notes engineering operations manager regarding arterial and collector sidewalks snow removal policy Number seven is a memorandum from Scott Capovilla the zoning and land use administrator regarding a right-of-way dedication plat Guilford crossings
 Number eight the traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 12 2019 and the minutes for that meeting for consideration at the codes and regs committee meeting on June 24 2019 Number nine is the ZBA agenda for the meeting to be held on June 18 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration the codes and regs committee meeting on June 24 2019 and
 Number 10 is a Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board agenda for the meeting to be held on June 18, 2019 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on June 24, 2019.
 And number 11 is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, legal director regarding the amendments to section 19-3, section 19-4, and article 3, division 2 of the city of Rockford code of ordinances. All 11 of those items will be referred to codes in red, your honor. Thank you, Alderman Trelli. Next up, we'll have finance and personnel committee. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Alderman Beck.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items. The first is a memorandum from Matthew Flores, Assistant City Attorney regarding a request for exception to the fine reduction policy to reduce the property standards fine against 3138 9th Street from $2,500 to $1,000. Next is a memorandum from Deb Dorsey, Housing Program Manager, regarding the approval to execute a $73,000 grant agreement with Illinois Housing Development Authority for round four of their abandoned property program
 Number three is a memorandum from Chief Derek Bergsten regarding intergovernmental agreement with Winnebago County for the services of a coordinator in the Winnebago County Emergency Services and Disaster Agency. And number four is a memorandum from Chief Derek Bergsten regarding the approval for agreements with private ambulance providers to assist when resources are unavailable. And I would like to refer all four of these to finance and personnel.
 Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have public speakers. We have three public speakers. No, I'm sorry. We have four public speakers this evening. Just a reminder to the public speakers, you'll have three minutes and there's a microphone in the back right and back left of the council chamber. Our first public speaker this evening is Lois Ginter.
 Good evening. I thank the council for reading the statements I made at the ZBA and codes and regulation meeting that I provided you I'm here to ask the council to overturn the recommendation of the zoning Board of Appeals and codes and regulation committee To grant a special use permit to Jacob brush at 1121 Fifth Avenue If I'm willing to burn my community goodwill to oppose this, please take what I'm going to say very seriously I am NOT anybody special. I'm just a retired accountant telling my story to the people that can make a decision. I
 My intention is to preserve the gains in safety and quality of life in my neighborhood that we've fought for for many years. A neighborhood that has a reputation as one of the most dangerous in the city. Mention the place names South 3rd Street, Union Street, and Jane Adams to a longtime Rockford resident and see what kind of reaction you get. I love my neighborhood, and honestly, I depend on the vibrancy of my neighborhood for my well-being. I could have been another absentee property owner in a low-income neighborhood. However, I decided to be...
 a resident stakeholder in the neighborhood I invested in. Tonight, I'm telling the city leaders of Rockford that my neighborhood experiences problem behaviors from the applicants' clients. The applicants have consistently stated in the media and at these meetings that the number of people showing up at their home is constantly growing. The applicants so far have enabled people to remain camped in my neighborhood for months. They supply bedding, tents, clothing, and other items that are left behind for the city or the property owner to clean up.
 The surrounding residential neighborhoods have a high concentration of vacant properties that can be used as squats. Just within two blocks of my home, there are 12 vacant houses. Two of these condemned properties have the OSB removed and now the city won't repair that after multiple requests. How does concentrating people with problem behaviors in a residential area with scores of vacant buildings and long plagued by blight align with the city's goal to build strong neighborhoods? This should be a huge red flag to the city.
 The behaviors of the applicant's clients ripple beyond the block their home is located on. The day after I spoke to the city council committee last week, my elderly tenant was panhandled in our front yard by two men. They told my tenant they were on their way to get a plate of food at Ms. Carly's. Yesterday, one of their clients and his companion that was only wearing her underwear took a lawn ornament from the property next to my home and placed it on their push cart. When I said put it back, he threw it on the sidewalk and broke it. The people the applicants want us to welcome to our neighborhoods don't respect us.
 My neighbors and I should not be compelled to devalue our personal safety and neighborhood standards. This isn't a matter of some problems could happen. Problems have already happened and will escalate with more foot traffic in our neighborhoods. I also want this council to consider how this center aligns with the existing ordinances regarding home-based businesses and maintaining neighborhood standards and public safety.
 If the applicants had approached the city about compliance before they began, would the city have approved this special use permit? If this ends up being an experiment that goes off the rails, how does the city unwind this situation? Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Psalms, the 41st chapter, the first verse, the psalmist says, blessed is the man who helps the poor.
 The law would help him in time of trouble. What I want to speak about tonight, the poor get prisoned. A new report provides a new understanding of the growing ways in which those in poverty are disproportionately targeted, marginalized, and prosecuted, according to the Institute for Policy Studies.
 people, especially people of color, face a far greater risk of being fined, arrested, and even incarcerated for minor offenses than other Americans. A broken taillight, an unpaid parking ticket, a minor drug offense, sitting on a sidewalk, or sleeping in a park can all result in jail time. The problem is a multifaceted growing phenomenon of the criminalization of poverty. In many ways, this phenomenon is not new.
 The introduction of public assistance programs gave rise to prejudice against beneficiaries and to system efforts to obstruct access to assistance, wrote Karen Dolan, a member of the Institute for Policy. She directs the criminalization of poverty project, assists the economic hardship reporting project, this form of criminalizing poverty, racial profiling on the target of poor people
 black and Latino single mothers trying to assess public assistance in a familiar reality less well known are the new and growing trends which increase the criminalization of being poor that affects or will affect hundreds of millions of Americans. These troubling trends are eliminating their chances to get out of poverty and getting resources that
 a safe and decent life possible. The report warned, the report sought to show the true breadth and depth of this national crime. Key elements in the report include the target of poor people with fines and fees for misdemeanors and the reserves of debtless prisoners. The imprisonment of people unable to pay debt resulting from the increase of fines and fees, mass incarceration of poor and neglected minorities for nonviolence and the barriers to employment, housing and reentry into society. Once they have served their sentence, excessive punishment
 children that creates a school to prison pipeline, increases in arrests of homeless people, and people feeding the homeless, and criminalizing life-sustaining activities such as sleeping in public when no shelter is available, and confiscate what little resources they have through civil assessment
 True followers of Jesus Christ should stand up and speak up and say we are tired of this garbage, the way you are treating poor people and homeless people, and we are not going to put up with this garbage anymore. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Our next public speaker is Mr. John Tack Brantley. Good evening, Mayor McNamara, our portions, and our citizens of Rockford, Illinois.
 Proverbs say, it's human nature to hide our sins or overlook our mistakes. But it's hard to learn from a mistake if you've done a knowledge making. And what good is a mistake if you don't teach you something? To learn from an error, you need to admit, confess, analyze it, make adjustments so that it doesn't happen again. Everybody makes mistakes, but only a fool repeats them.
 Editorial noted back in March the 10th of 2019, in recent days, this 2011 story has been circulating on social media with an alternate Facebook headline that was not created by NPR. The headlines story published here are accurate as originally published in 2011. A Pennsylvania judge was sentenced to 28 years in prison with connection to bribery scandal that rolled the state juvenile justice system.
 Former Louisiana County Judge Mark Cleverer Jr. was convicted of taking $1 million in bribe for development of a juvenile detention center. The judge that presided over the case that would send juveniles to those same centers. The case came to be known as Kids for Cash.
 The Mayor's Office of Domestic Violence and Human Trafficking Prevention and the 17th District Circle Domestic Violence Coordinating Court are proposing the creation of a Family Justice Center. A centralized trauma information facility will organize specialized work together so survivors and their children may safely and more easily have access to service they need. I was there last week for a two-day seminar at the Heartland Community Church.
 I believe that it's a great first step. However, will it have any real teeth? Reason, looking in the room out over the 200 people that was there only counted 12 blacks and a few other minorities. Most, everyone that was there was from their job, a clergy, or most worked for the system. Only four of us that are community activists that don't work for the system have a very strong relationship, respect, and power in the community attend this event.
 this event. My biggest concern, it was not answer. Where is the diversity on the board? And most of all, our deep mistrust of the second largest slave plantation in America. I face off with domestic violence on a weekly basis.
 Unless you have walked a mile in our shoes, you will not know what we are going through. We have seen so many politicians, people that work for the system, make promises that they do not keep. Once they are out of office or leave their job, we don't hear or see them anymore. If we are not at the table and we do not have a voice, we will not trust you.
 Many, if I myself feel, that you act funny towards me because I'm telling you how we feel What makes you think that the streets are going to trust you if you cannot win my trust? A lot of people in this community are asking, Brother John, you need your own building and a bus You are one of the few people that we see out here in these streets that's trying to make a difference Thank you
 Our next public speaker is Brandy Gardner. Brandy Gardner. Is Brandy Gardner here? Okay. Brandy Gardner. We'll move on. Next up, we have new committee reports, and that is not Brandy Gardner. Mr. Myers can give me a ruling on this? No, we typically don't allow substitutions. Yeah, I'm sorry. Okay.
 Next up, we have new committee reports and we have code and regulations. Alderman Chiarelli. Thank you, Your Honor. That's several.
 Committee reports this evening the first is the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for an auto dealership and in site parking and landscaping plans with deviations from the regulations at 3220 kishwaukee street subject to conditions number two the committee recommends sustaining the zba's approval for a special use permit for an artist and
 live workspace on the ground floor in an office use that provides goods and services such as food, clothing, and resources and other forms of assistance to those in need at 1121 Fifth Avenue. I'm going to stop at this moment, your honor, at that item and refer to Attorney Nick Meyers. Mr. Mark? Mr. Mayor, we've had some questions and concerns raised recently in regard to what safe, excuse me.
 what safeguards the applicant is going to have in place as it relates to potentially serving folks that are on the registered sex offender list and we want to make sure that there's adequate safeguards so that there's any children being served there living in the building that they're not going to be placed at any risk of harm so we have asked to have that item held out tonight to discuss that with the applicant and her attorney and bring that back shortly
 So your ask is for the chair to hold this item out this evening? Correct. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Is there a juction to that for the chair to hold this item out for the concerns from staff? One second, Alderman Thompson-Kelly, let me turn your mic on. Oh. Alderman Thompson-Kelly? You don't have to turn it on.
 I just want to understand why legal is making the suggestion that they is not a part of feeding an individual. It's adding more to what she's asking for. Sure. I'm.
 We're bringing the issue up because it was an issue addressed to the Human Services Department prior to this EBA hearing. There was a lot of discussion about the three conditions, but there was a concern at that time that there are folks that we believe are receiving services there that are required to register as sex offenders. And the issue is, the application is for an artist to live workspace in addition to the business.
 living being the operative word here, if you have minor children living there or being around there, typically when we have services in this regard, there are steps taken to make sure that there are not any potential issues, or there's situations where the children and adults are not commingling.
 That issue has come up a few times now. It wasn't something that was discussed at the committee or I believe even at the ZBA. And so before we move forward with this item, we're asking additional time to just address that with the applicant to find out what safeguards can be put in place to make sure that those aren't going to be an issue. So it is certainly a part of the overall plan of the use here.
 question have you discussed this with the applicant we i addressed it with their attorney shortly before the meeting here today um i don't anticipate uh having to set this over for more than a week or so but wasn't able to get it discussed in any uh detail very good so is there any your honor do you want alderman kinyones uh how long how long do you want this laid over i
 My understanding, Alderman Quinonez, from listening to Director Myers, he just simply wants time to connect in greater detail with the applicant's attorney. Mr. Myers? I would think we should be able to schedule time to meet with the applicant within the week or their attorney. I don't think we would need more than a week or two at most. Any further questions, Alderman Quinonez?
 Okay. Okay. So the chair, acting as chair, will hold this item out for one to two weeks, depending on when Mr. Meyer is going to bring that back. Okay? Okay.
 Alderman Thompson Kelly. Thank you, Your Honor. Could you let the members of this council know of the discussion and what is said before prior to this coming back on the agenda for us to vote on it? Because I would not want another issue before we get ready to vote on something comes up and it's not discussed. We most certainly will. Thank you.
 Thank you move on to item number three the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a mural at 1236 and 1238 East State Street subject to conditions number four the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a variation to increase the maximum allow fence height in a front yard at a long Cottage Grove Avenue from four to six feet and
 At 2304 Harlem Boulevard, subject to conditions. Number five, the committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a special use permit for outdoor storage of building supplies at 2730 East Rock Drive, subject to conditions. Number six, committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for a modification of a special use permit.
 for a new 4 500 square feet worship center including site parking and landscaping plans with deviations from regulations at 2737 and 2747 9th street subject to conditions
 Number seven, the committee recommends sustaining the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board's approval or sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating at 124, 124 North Main Street, subject to conditions. Number eight, committee recommends reversing the LTAB's approval for the sale of packaged beer and wine in conjunction with the grocery store at 1701 West State Street.
 Number nine the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station and the sale of tobacco products at 5965 Columbia Parkway subject to conditions number 10 the committee recommends approval of plat number nine of East Rock industrial park subdivision number 11 committee recommends approval of the plat of Crusader West subdivision and
 that's at 1200 west state street number 12 the committee recommends approval of the plat of c and k corners subdivision that's at the southwest corner of 11th street and willis avenue wills avenue number 13 is the additions to chapter 5 article 3 division 10 adult entertainment establishments of the city of rockford code of ordinances and i need we need to suspend the rule 15 on that last item your honor
 Second we have a motion a second to res to suspend rule 15 for item number 13 Do I need a roll call or just voice vote all those in favor say aye aye Those opposed same sign. Thank you. I place all 13 items up for passage your honor. Thank you So there are actually 12 items well by before you because item 2 has been held out for about a week So is there any discussion on items 1 and 2?
 Then three through 13 alderman Thompson Kelly. Yes your honor item eight. I want to make sure that I'm very clear that I'm voting for the correct thing. It is to deny the Sale of beer and wine at a store on West 8th Street. Yes. Okay. I just want to make sure Alderman frosted you have your hand raised?
 With regard to number four, which is the height deviation for a fence on the property located at Harlem and Cottage Grove. I know the property's on a double lot and I know it's on a corner lot, so it's considered to have two front yards. I've read the applicant's proposal to ZBA and I struggle with anyone in the city of Rockford putting a six foot fence up in a front yard. And I just didn't know if,
 And there's a photograph of a six foot fence, it looks like though it's behind a home. And I don't know whether that is going to be the type of fence that's going to be placed in the front yard or not. It looks like it's a privacy fence with a piece, a two foot piece on the top of it. But I just didn't know what exactly the fence is going to look like that's going to go, I guess it looks like it's going to go to the west of the home in the front yard on Cottage Grove.
 thank you uh director franson can you address that correct the intent is to match the design of the existing fence so I believe it's a five foot um uh straight wooden structure with the one foot um kind of blurred obscurity uh on top of that so it is going to be the it's going to look just like the the photograph that's in the back of the house correct that's the intent
 i just for what it's worth i just i struggle with anyone putting a six foot fence i voted on this before um but it in this case putting up a a wooden fence in someone's front yard i mean drastically deters from other homes and in what is a beautiful neighborhood and a front yard thank you thank you other discussion uh alderman beck thank you your honor i just want to reply to alderman frost concerns which i certainly respect um
 I did visit with the homeowner and explained his plans and the nature of the property. I just want to make sure that everybody knows that it's on Cottage Grove from the corner of Harlem to the neighboring property. And the portion that's going to have the fence is going to be from his driveway.
 Away from Harlem. So the actual corner from the driveway to Harlem on Cottage Grove will not have a six-foot fence So it is truly in my mind more of a backyard because he also has some pretty tall shrubbery Right in that along that same sidewalk area I also know you know that Other people in the neighborhood have taken a look at it and talked to him and I thought he's done a good job of reaching Out to people and the neighbor across the street thought it was gonna be great so
 If I understand if you're you know, just opposed to six-foot fences no matter what and side yards or backyards I mean that earned front yards. That's that's fine I just want to make sure that everybody knows that I support it 100% Back is there any further discussion alderman Toonberg? Yes, a number nine on the save a lot. I don't know if other aldermen received email from the save a lot organization and
 and gave it a read today um you know i think they have a compelling argument in in the sense they are a business that does tend to go into lower income neighborhoods uh to try to fill a gap and give groceries and and fresh fruit and fresh food and and meats and such um and i and i think there is a they did fill a void in that immediate neighborhood and i commend them for that
 They did mention also that their business model is in the process of changing and to be more competitive with other companies. That they do intend to, and this is just what they say, that they do intend to lower prices and to make that feasible. They do want to offer a full array of products which would consist of wine and beer products.
 you know an organization like that I do commend them for going into the neighborhoods they do they are a large organization so I imagine they do do their homework pretty extensively so I I think I will support the organization in this matter thank you further discussion Alderman Thompson Kelly
 I had the opportunity, yes, I received the email and I had the opportunity to speak with John Guest, which is the Director of Compliance for Save-A-Lot Stores. And we had quite a nice conversation today and I explained to him that we have spent millions of dollars cleaning up West State Street.
 And if you go two blocks down, we have problems to where beer and wine and alcohol is sold. And we do have problems there with panhandling. We do have problems with individuals drinking on the premises that do sell alcohol and beer. We're getting ready to go for a second phase of West State Street where we've got to clean up some more blight
 on West State Street, but I want to read to you the response that Mr. Guest wrote to me today. Thank you very much for your telephone call this afternoon, Alderwoman Thompson-Kelly. I really appreciate your considered response to my outreach. I certainly understand the sensitive issue this is, and really I'm genuine in saying that we do not want to do anything to worsen the crime situation in the neighborhood.
 I also appreciate your feedback on the store conditions and the customer experience there. I am forwarding this on to the operation manager to request that the issue you identified be addressed immediately. He understood very much my concern. It's not against Save-A-Lot and the organization itself.
 It is against what we're trying to do for West State Street. And also, Save-A-Lot was offered incentives just like any other developer in this community. So I would hope that the alderman would understand that. In order to clean up garbage, you can't keep putting garbage back. Thank you. Thank you. Is there any further discussion on the 12 items that are before you?
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Turkey. Eight. Abstain on number 11, no line eight. Toomer. Frost. No on. Irvins. No on four, no on eight. Can you repeat that? No on four, eight, and 13. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. No on line eight, aye on the rest. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye.
 Chiarelli. Aye. Item number 1 and 3, 11 ayes. Item number 4, 9 ayes, 2 noes. Items 5, 6, and 7, 11 ayes. Item number 8, 9 ayes, 2 noes. Item number 9, 10 ayes, 1 noe. Item 10, 11 ayes. Item number 11, 10 ayes, 1 abstain. Item 12, 11 ayes. Item 13, 10 ayes, 1 noe. You're not told it enough, but you are exceptional at your job.
 Alderman Toomberg. I'm sorry. It seems like it's going on in a week. Can you move that mic? Just sorry. Sure. Didn't know if you actually wanted to hear me. I can mute you if it gets too long. Of course, it seems like it's being a weekly basis where I call who's on first. So it looks like, yes, I'm going to hold my word on what I said on item number nine. So I guess I would be voting no on...
 On 8 and 9. No, 9 wasn't was okay on West State Street that I am voting to not reverse. So number eight, Alderman Toomberg's going to be voting no. So what is that? The new vote is eight ayes, three noes. Thank you. So it didn't. Moving right along. Next we have Finance and Personnel Committee. Alderman Beck.
 thank you your honor i have two items first of the vouchers on the amount of four million six hundred and seventy nine thousand nine hundred and four dollars and one cent and the next is the approval of a contract to sell city-owned land uh at xxxx east state street to remedies renewing lives of rockford illinois an amount of twenty two thousand dollars and i place these two up for passage thank you alderman becca so you have two items before you is there any discussion on the two items before you
 Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Toomer. Aye. Frost. Aye. Irvins. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. Levin, aye. Thank you. Those items pass. Next up, we have officers' reports. Prior to me just turning it over to Alderman, I would just say,
 I know many of you have had the opportunity to follow. I know some of us were texting over the weekend and calling each other and communicating, but I just wanted to say...
 I believe from a city council perspective, we had a tremendously successful legislative session down in Springfield. I believe if you look back at the legislative agenda that you all outlined and approved, nearly every single item was brought forward and approved down in Springfield. A couple of those that I just wanted to highlight is, and thank you for all of your advocacy,
 Gaming machines that currently exist in our community. We have the ability to charge a maximum of $25 legislation through our efforts as well as and I want to be very clear and thankful to Jade Gessner and the local ILBA For their support of increasing that from $25 to $250
 So, that is a really tremendously helpful for all of us. Second is the money has been allocated for the airport. And more importantly than that, in my discussions with Governor Pritzker, those monies will actually be released to the airport, which is a big win for us in the airport because that saves them about $80,000 a month on interest.
 Second major win was through a lot of hard work by Senator Stadelman, in particular to secure about $270 million for rail from Chicago to Rockford. Next major initiative was, and I just want to call out a couple of people specifically, Governor Pritzker, Senator Dave Severson, and then,
 Representative Maurice West and Senator Steve Stottleman for their really valiant efforts in bringing us a casino, which has been decades in the making. Also, as you're aware, a capital plan was approved as well as recreational use for marijuana for adults.
 Want you to know that our staff is already Working to review all these bills as you can imagine many of these bills are hundreds of pages And some language still being developed So we will update you it'll take us several days to get you that update and I know many of you are getting some of the same updates that we are through
 Mike Cassidy and McGuire Woods, but we'll also provide you some more localized updates as well as we move throughout this process. But I just want to say thank you for your advocacy and I think I hope you'll agree that we had a really fine session in Springfield. A couple of other items I just wanted to mention is one, congratulations to Alderman Urbans. I had the opportunity to
 See Alderman Irvin's this weekend at SOAR Assembly's first service, so congratulations to you for all the hard work you've put into that. And second, I just want to ask Tim Hinkins to just provide a very quick update on what I believe is a really wonderful initiative that the Department of Public Works has embarked on.
 Thank you. On the front page of our website right now, you'll see a new web tool we call the CIP Web Map. This map was just created thanks to Director Trammell's team, IT department, the WNGIS and our GIS asset management team.
 The map shows, it's basically a graphical representation of our CIP book. It shows the location of every CIP project that we are doing in the city currently and in the next five years. We think it's a wonderful tool for people to go on site and take a look at the construction that might be going on in their neighborhood. It does show all 200 plus neighborhood program locations that we're doing just this year.
 opportunity for people to see that that the there were their one percent sales tax dollars and MFT money are going. Thank you Tim and thank you to Public Works and also thank you Director Trommels for your hard work on this initiative. I know last year we did 17 public meetings on our capital improvement plan.
 But I don't think there's any other way to be more transparent with what we're doing Folks may like not like certain projects and love others But to the way that they have outlined it and made it so easy to click through to see those projects that are being done Kudos to all staff involved. Thank you very much alderman Thompson Kelly then alderman frost. Thank you your honor Yes, there's a there was a lot of text going on this weekend. I
 And I do appreciate it. A couple things that you acknowledged, but you failed to acknowledge the work that you've done as far as going to Springfield, lobbying for. I don't consider going to Springfield work. It's just so much fun. I know that's right.
 But I want to thank your efforts in sitting through committee meetings and supporting things that were sent down to Springfield 15 years ago. I also want to let all the aldermen know that if anyone had any doubt about the contract that we have with our lobbyist for $120,000.
 He has made his salary tenfold over the weekend. He has gotten his return for what we've paid for, and I want to make sure that everyone knows the job that he did, working all night long. I talked to him late one evening, and we've been texting, and Alderman Frost, he kept in contact with both of us and letting us know what was going on in the community. And I also want to thank Alderman Frost for his input and his support.
 and contacting everyone. And I have to say thanks, Dave Severson. I have to do that. Ah! But, um...
 They've reminded me over the weekend that we've been at this for over 12 years and I can't possibly believe it's been that long But I want to thank him because he did meet with the governor and they did add out Air out some sticking points so that it would get past the Senate so I want to thank him and I will be calling him for lunch for Alderman and Frost and I to and
 Meet with him. And I also thank the staff for starting to work on some of the issues. Alderman Frost and I discussed this evening that we will be calling a joint caucus with the aldermen so we can be discussing some of the issues, but we will wait until your staff give us some guiding points if that's okay with Alderman Frost. Understood. Thank you. I'm sorry, I've got one more thing. Sure. Sure.
 the friends and the army of the Salvation Army.
 We'll be having a luncheon tomorrow to celebrate the volunteers that rung the bell during the Christmas holiday season. While the neighborhood group, West Gateway, we had a day of ringing the bell at Farm and Fleet, and we will be receiving an award from the Salvation Army tomorrow at their luncheon. And I want to thank the members of West Gateway Coalition for volunteering to do so. And then next year, it will be a challenge.
 According to Beverly Pearson, which is the Director of Development with Salvation Army, she wants me to challenge all the aldermen and their neighborhood watch groups to ring the bell this Christmas. Thank you. Awesome. Thank you for your efforts there. Alderman Frost. Thank you. Not to get redundant here, but I do want to…
 to congratulate the city of Rockford and our lobbyists and our entire team, including Mr. Meyer, the mayor, and anyone else behind the scenes that I don't know that was involved.
 What happened, I guess, yesterday over the weekend in Springfield is pretty historic and I think great for Rockford. There are obviously things about the budget and us as Aldermen can appreciate this. On Friday, I think the state representatives were given a 1,550 page document, thrown on their desk and told to vote on it the next day, so a little sympathy goes out for them.
 In the proposals that were passed and the budget and the capital plan was obviously bipartisan, but as Mayor McNamara mentioned, I mean, and Alderman Thompson-Kelley, the casino has been worked on since the day I moved back to Rockford, I think in 1996. I've heard about the casino. So it predates even 12 years and it's a great day for Rockford and more importantly, you know, this City Council
 I think has had a great relationship with our local team of state representatives, no matter who they've been because some have changed just like some of us have changed. But we've always done what's best for Rockford. And I think maybe my own personal opinion may differ on maybe let's say the recreational marijuana, but saying that aside, the airport, obviously the casino,
 mayor mcgrew mentioned the ability to increase the video gaming which was a big part of our our home rule campaign which we lost and at least it's nice to know that we got something our message got heard and cleared and and we were now able to take advantage of that which will help out the city
 But there's other items such as the blight reduction that was included. I think there was a little bit of piece of river edge that made it through. And even though there's an online sales tax, so the city of Rockford can capture some retail sales tax when people choose to shop at Amazon sites instead of going to Best Buy to buy whatever they need to buy.
 But I do want to, I'm no longer the chairman of legislative and lobbying. The torch has been passed back to Ann Thompson-Kelly and she'll do an outstanding job because the two of us have been on this committee for a long time. And work behind the scenes and with our lobbying group as well as everyone else into getting things done for the city of Rockford. So it really truly was an epic day for the city of Rockford because most of these items
 are really going to help out our jobs is alders alderman here and being able to hopefully have a little bit more money to spend and have more money to save so uh hopefully we won't take that lightly secondly i just want to put something to bed on um you know the chance rebuilding was knocked down over the weekend it made its way through the court system and ended in friday and i know the vote was close and uh it was seven to six and i just wanted to
 Reiterate again what I said before, when this city council, I'm proud to be a city council member because when we have a contentious vote and it's 7 to 6.
 And we're divided the next day, whatever the outcome is, we all stand behind. And I want to I know our mayor was on the opposite side of maybe the stance that I took. And our legal director did an outstanding job of defending the city when the city was sued and taking the position of the majority of the council. And I really appreciate that because it was I don't think there are any.
 backdoor games played or you know there was a lot of misinformation out there uh i think on both sides and i just i really wanted to commend the entire city organization and the administration for uh for doing frankly what was right and what was legal and i and i i do appreciate that thank you thank you alderman frost uh alderman hoffman
 Thank you, Mayor. I just want to thank everybody that was involved with the Family Peace Center seminar that went on for two days. I wish more aldermen had been able to be there because it's so much more than a convenience event.
 That's what it sounded like in the beginning of one-stop shopping But what we found during those two days is that it is going to involve just so much more It's going to be for the offenders. It's going to be for the children. It's going to be for the victims and It's going to help our entire community with violence. So I thank everybody and I can't wait for more seminars I think it's just a great first start to
 The next thing is in April I attended the state conference for aauw and there we found out that we were given $500,000 by coca-cola for the purpose of Helping women to learn how to negotiate their first salaries or ongoing salaries and the program is called work work smart
 And I brought that back to Rockford Housing. We already have some programs working with moms that are trying to get back into the workforce, or some it's their first time and they don't have those skills.
 They took a look at it, it's free, and they now have decided to incorporate it into both their life force development class and their bridges over poverty. So AAUW is now a benefit to our HA, and I'm very excited about that. Thank you. Wonderful. Thank you. Alderman Rose. Thank you.
 i'll be real quick i just wanted to say uh thank you to taylor henley our forestry division operator who he received numerous requests for trees uh over the last few weeks so he'll be having the fun job of planning those and he got over 100 responses from residents which was really nice to see that happen i also want to say thanks to roger durham he's uh just a local resident from the nesna neighborhood he
 He's identified a few properties in their neighborhood that aren't getting mowed. They're not—
 you know oftentimes getting reported and he just grabs his lawnmower and goes ahead and does it himself and it's something that those are the type of people that we need in our neighborhoods that are going to continuously make them look great and and take care of them and even save the city a little bit of money for for contract work so kudos to him i also just wanted to bring up that share fest is coming up here in the next um
 pretty much next week, June 7th through the 10th, they're working at the YMCA. And June 11th through the 15th, they'll be working on the project over at Davis Park. And you can sign up for that. You just go to their website. It's rockfordsharefest.com, and you can sign up for that to be a volunteer. Do you have that? I know they do shifts, and I'm blanking on what time they have the shifts. Do you have that available? No.
 Can I look for it real quick and then come back to you? Did I miss someone over here? Alderman Beach, I'll come right back to both of you. I'll come all the way around. Thank you, Your Honor. This discussion on the Family Justice Peace Center that you named, thank you so much. This has been going on for some time. And the seminar that Alderman Huffman talks about, there's just right at 200 people there for the two-day event.
 And I challenge you to go ahead and Google the whole operation. It's really very wonderful to think what's happened, but I just wanted to back up a little bit. I remember Judge Roseberry Collins had invited this counsel, must have been three years ago, to come up to her courtroom for one of their monthly meetings. And I just happened to be one of the all of them that went up there.
 And I got tempted to go back again. I've been going back for about three years now. But to see the process, to see that group apply for that roughly $500,000 grant towards this project, and to see the seminars and all the work that's been done, it's just not a report from this weekend. This has been going on for a long time. And I really think that Rockford will ultimately benefit the people of Rockford and the children of Rockford.
 We'll benefit from it. So for your vision to set up an office here and bring Jennifer Caciapaglia, who has a passion for this along with, I mean, I don't know how to describe her. She's compelling, along with the former retired Judge Collins. We have a good team, and I think we're going to see big things happen as a result of it. Thank you for letting me speak, sir. Thank you. And Alderman Rose, were you able to find that? Yeah, I did.
 I was able to find the shifts for Rockford Sharefest. The first shift starts from 8 and will go till noon. The second shift, they take a little break for lunch. Second shift is 1 to 5 p.m., and then they have a third shift, which is 6 to 9 p.m. Awesome. I'll just add to that.
 I don't volunteer at Sharefest as much as I would like to, but each year I try to get in a shift or two. And I'll tell you, one of the neatest things, not just giving back to the community and whatever project they're doing, but meeting the folks that you're working with. You're going to work with folks from all different walks of life. They're not all from Heartland. They're not all from one place or another.
 They're from all over the community and it is a great opportunity for anyone who's watching at home or even the alderman to meet new folks and have a really fun time giving back. Alderman Quinones, did you have your hand raised? No. Alderman Shirelli. Yeah, thank you, your honor. I also want to expound on Alderman Frost and Alderman Thompson-Kelly.
 Great job you did and your staff, especially on this, raising the $25 limit on these gaming machines. I want to thank Jay Gessner and Elba, especially his team, because they did not have to agree to that. They worked tirelessly to work in Springfield in their entire
 association to really identify a need in rockford that we had talked about for several several months so i really appreciate them in the spirit of cooperation they really came through on for us and i want to thank you also mayor thank you alderman thunberg hi thank you thank you mayor yeah i think uh what we're talking about tonight is a lot of people doing a lot of things behind the scenes that the general public just doesn't see
 And so thank you, thank you everyone here tonight that does what they do. I'd also like to recognize, especially in this kind of weather, that now we go from a freezing cold winter to a very wet spring. What is part of spring maybe, and jumping right into summer. Rob Willamy from Neighborhood Standards, Brian Bracken, Mark Stockman, Harry Noble,
 and Tim Hinkins and Steve Sumner that uh that really they are some workhorses that we really all depend on um and we'd all like to give kudos to um especially as they work and what seems like is very far behind uh in with given the weather it is but also this uh this weekend um
 a stand-up couple in in the in the third ward I attended a visitation for their son who was a stand-up citizen I well liked just a fun-loving kid I guess at 25 you could call a kid but wasn't in trouble with the law or anything like that but just every so often from the story has it just every so often would dabble a little bit into
 into an illegal drug that can be extremely lethal. And he got a bad batch and it killed him immediately. And so I know we have the problem, we've talked about it a lot, but it doesn't just know people that are on the streets
 on the lower socioeconomic scale it affects everyone and it was a sad sad thing to go to but i think they want it to be known too that it is uh it is a problem and so i hope that we go after these
 Peddlers and we go after him hard and prosecute him to the fullest extent of the law. Thank you Thank you Alderman frosty. Do you have a follow-up? Thank you. I forgot one more kudos and I know a lot of times I give Mr. Nick Meyer a hard time here around the well and and it's more on I've never heard that
 It's more out of friendly sarcasm than anything else, but on Friday the City of Rockford had a verdict, a jury verdict returned in its favor that our legal department worked on. I know Kerry Partridge, I know Efein, I know Mr. Meyer worked diligently on this case.
 And we've talked about it before in closed session, but the facts were the facts. And the jury saw the facts as they were presented and the city of Rockford and its team potentially saved the citizens of Rockford a couple million dollars. So I really appreciate the work that went into that and I'm glad it turned out the way it did. So thank you. All right, and no more other kudos to Nick. Alderman Irvin. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. I'm done for the year.
 I just want to say thank you for your representation down in Springfield. Really appreciate that. And I want to touch also on SOAR assembly. It was great to see you out at the service. It was pretty dynamic if you're interested at all. Sundays at noon downtown Norloff Center, in and out about an hour and 15 minutes, hour and 30 at the max. It was a great time of worship.
 And I just, I'm really excited. It's SOAR assembly and the lesson for that day was being set up to SOAR. It talked about Joshua and how he was...
 how he was basically betrayed by his family, his brothers. And if you study his life, you see that it seemed as if every step that he took forward, he took 10 steps back, but in all actuality, the Lord was setting Joshua up to soar. And he was able to provide assistance to not only his family but to the entire Egyptian culture there. And all that he'd gone through
 was to save the lives of many others. So please come out. And I just want to touch on...
 The young gentleman that Alderman Tewberg was referring to, it's the Zweiger family, very close to me and my wife. As I was a youth pastor at one point in time, this young man actually served under me in my youth group. And I could tell you if he walked in here right now that his smile would light up this entire room. And I had an opportunity to speak at his wake today.
 And I just want to I just want to acknowledge that family because the family is a light in this community and they're there They're they're really good people and it breaks my heart to know that someone so close To myself and my wife and has has has gone on It really does
 way heavy in it weighed heavy on the family and you know if you know any of them as well as they they they don't want to be alone reach out there there there I'm shaking thinking about it cuz the young man was he was really good friend of mine I dinner it hurt me the user is a good man is a good guy 25 years old no one deserves to lose their life at that age
 So yeah, that's all. Thank you. Do you want to follow up to the follow up?
 Alderman Thompson-Kelley. I have another comment. I would like to wish Bonita well-wish, and I'd also like to say to any of our constituents that is looking to get in touch, they can call City Hall for their complaints, and if they have a problem, feel free to give me a call, or they can call your office, Your Honor, to get services. They certainly can. Thank you. Yeah, thank you.
 all right thank you we'll move on to motions and resolutions uh code and regulation committee alderman shirelli thank your honor the first is the block party friday june 7th and saturday june 8th number two is the river district 12 the saturday june 22nd number three is the rock river food truck festival it's scheduled for saturday august 24th
 Number four is the Labor Day Parade, an IDOT resolution scheduled for Monday, September 2nd. Place those up for passage, Your Honor. Thank you. You have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items? Seeing no discussion, Director Myers. We need a motion to suspend Rule 15 on number one.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to second? We have a motion and second. All those in favor of suspending rule 15 for item number one, please say aye. Aye. Those opposed say aye. Item will be suspended. So you have four items before you. Is there any discussion on those four items?
 Seeing no further discussion all those in favor say aye Those opposed same time Items pass next up. We have financing personnel alderman back. Thank you your honor five items first of the award of engineering agreement for Church Street and Main Street two-way conversion in the amount of 799,000 $243 and 56 cents given to trans systems corporation and
 Um, completion date is 2022 next is the award of bid for Jefferson street over Kent Creek bridge repairs to Martin company and excavating in the amount of 137,683 dollars. Uh, next we have an award of bid for city facilities, roof replacements to distinctive roofing of Rockford for the city yards.
 Wash Bay section and the amount of twenty five thousand eight hundred and twelve dollars and fire station one in the amount of thirty five thousand nine hundred and forty dollars to Sterling commercial roof roofing for the city yards in the amount of ninety thousand two hundred dollars and city hall eight floor in the amount of sixty two thousand five hundred fifty dollars and H.C. Anderson roofing of Rockton, Illinois for the fire department nine eleven.
 9-1-1 headquarters in the amount of 134,582 dollars. Next, we have the awarded bid for lead service line replacement program to NTRC for amount not to exceed two million dollars based on unit pricing. Contract duration is one year. Next, we have the supplemental resolution for improvement under the Illinois Highway Code for Sandy Hollow Highway Safety Improvement Program for 20th Street to Alpine Road for the use of motor fuel tax funds.
 The additional amount requested is $22,591.67 for an amended MFT authorization amount of $200,000. I place these items over passage. Thank you. Alderman Beck, we have five items before you. Is there any discussion on those five items? Alderman Frost. Thank you. With regard to number one, the engineering report for the two-way conversions, are we able to capture any money from the state of Illinois on this project, or does it indicate it's all coming out of sales tax? Mr. Hankins.
 Yeah, this is all sales tax. We aren't able to capture any money from the state And this is the cost just for the engineering study, correct? Correct. Yeah for the alderman Thunberg then I'll go to Alderman Beach. Thank you mayor. Maybe mr. Hinkins could elaborate Just a brief moment on that. My understanding is it also includes a much broader area than just that specific
 part that's mentioned here it may also include the implementation of the Whitman Street spaghetti change as I call it so maybe mr. Hankins can elaborate on that for a second yeah you're exactly right this this engineering agreement is for what we call phase one and phase two and
 uh... phase two being design engineering of a project actually designing in phase one is the study of the area before you decide uh... you have uh... environmental impacts this is the
 the majority of this will be public engagement and making sure that we engage with the public along these these two corridors and making sure uh... we meet the needs of of everybody involved in this and and this is really a trans uh... transportation transformative project here uh... converting these these corridors into a traffic so we want to look at how this interacts with other projects like what you're talking about with the whitman interchange
 and the traffic motions downtown. So that's pretty much what it includes. Thank you. Alderman Beach, I believe, had your hand up, right? I did, sir. Thank you. No problem. I would like to be supportive of this. But I must say that each time that I brought up my concern, I don't feel like I've really gotten a good answer. Only for the protection of the BMO Center for those two blocks and how that's really going to work.
 and i know that i've been told this because of the state route that designation but i've also been told that they have not talked to the state that i realized to see whether something be done to fix that problem i know they said there's going to be public input i get that i support that but i think that i really should be having a better answer about how that's going to work in that two blocks by the metro center because right now we already have one lane that's already all striped off
 for trailers for delivery of goods into the west side of that building. I've not been given a good answer with numbers of how traffic's gonna come out. And then now, instead of going one way, they're gonna have to go two ways, and now that's gonna back traffic up. And so I wish somebody could just help me. I'd like to support this. I'd like to say yes. But it's not like this is the first time you've heard me talk about this issue. But now we're down to the vote.
 So, Your Honor, just if somebody could give me some help here. I do not want to stand in the way of it going forward, but I am really concerned about that. Mr. Hankins, is there anything that you could add to your explanation of what this contract will do? Sure.
 This contract will allow us to have that conversation with the interested parties, especially down there by the BMO Harris Bank Center. This contract will allow us to model the traffic to see if it works or doesn't work. And if it doesn't work, then we can talk about different alternatives at that time.
 We'll be able to have exhibits ready for the public to show what we're planning and exhibits showing parking turnover within that parking deck and how that interacts with the traffic. Thank you. Alderman Shirely, and then I'll come back around, I believe. Thank you, Your Honor. If I could get a brief description on number five, Mr. Hinkins.
 Mr. Hankins, could you provide a description on number five? Yes. This was our Highway Safety Improvement Program project that we did two years ago. The state gave us their final invoice on this project after all the quantities were agreed upon and materials were tested and accepted.
 So our project went, I think it was a $1.3 million project, went $22,000 over, at least our portion of it. And I would like to say, and so this is our MFT resolution, allowing us to spend MFT dollars to pay for that additional $22,000 that it went over. I would also like to add that this safety improvement program project,
 This is a 90-10 split grant that we get from the Federal Highway Administration. This was probably our most, by far actually, our most successful project. I think by the end of it, when it was all said and done, we did a $1.3 million project for $200,000 of city costs. We ended up matching, I think, 87-13%.
 That was a wonderful project. I appreciate it. Thank you all the material and I believe alderman frosted Do you have another back to number one? I'm just a little concerned what we're running. We're entering into an $800,000 engineering agreement That's titled that it's involving Church Street in Maine and in the narrative it mentions that it will look at a
 The public engagement along Jefferson and chestnut, but. It doesn't say anything about women's street. So if what you just said is true, sir, then. We need to modify this because we need to make sure that that's included in the contract that we're getting for these dollars because.
 i ddweud yn unig, ond dim yn yma o beth oedd yn ymwneud â gwneud unrhyw beth arall yn ymwneud â hynny. Mae'n llawer o arian i'w rhoi ar gyfer ein daroedd gwasanaethau gwasanaethol. Gallai fod yn mynd i gofyn ein system gynrychiadol cyffredinol. Rydym yn gwneud astudiaeth i gael ymgysylltiad cyhoeddus a phosib ar yr hyn y mae'r Cyngor am ei wneud. Dwi'n ddim yn dweud, nid yw'n mynd drwy lefel ardal, mae'n mynd drwy'r BMO, mae'n mynd drwy'r chwrthaf,
 Nid oes unrhyw arwain yno. Mae'n effeithio ar busnesau, a gallai'r bobl busnesau hynny gael eu cyfathrebu mewn ystafell yn gyflym iawn, ac yn siŵr nad fydd yn costio 800,000. Felly os ydym yn siarad am Whitman yn y prosiect hwn, fel y dywedodd Alderman Toonberg, mae angen i'r prosiect newid.
 Cyn i mi fynd i'r cyfrif, mae'r ymgysylltiad hwnnw yn un peth o'r contract. Mae'n ymwneud â'r fater o ran y dechrau a'r arweinyddiaeth o'r contract hefyd. Felly, Mr. Hankins, a allwch chi sicrhau bod yr hyn rydych chi'n ei drafod yn ymwneud â'r cyfnod Wipman Street a sut mae'r cyfnod yn ymwneud â'r hyn yw'n cael ei ymwneud â'r contract o'r cyfnod? Ie, rydych chi'n iawn.
 Mae'r contract hwn yn ein gallu cyflwyno o'r cychwyn yma a'r ymgysylltiad cyhoeddus a'r astudiaethau hyd at y cynlluniau adeiladu pennau pennau os ydym ni'n penderfynu eu bod yn mynd i'w fynnu. Yn ystod ei gilydd â'r cyd-dysgu St. Whitman, nid yw'n ymwneud yn unig â'r astudiaeth, ymchwil neu unrhyw fath o astudiaeth o'r cyd-dysgu St. Whitman.
 yn ceisio cymryd ymwneud â'r osodau newid a'r traffeg ar draws St. Whitman, sy'n croesawu St. Church a St. Main ar y llefydd hynny, yn cael eu cymryd ymwneud â'r hyn. A oes unrhyw drafodaeth arall ar un o'r pum o'r pethau cyn i chi? Nid oes unrhyw drafodaeth arall. Gallwch ofyn y rôl, Glirky? A. Toonburg? A. Frost? Nid. Irvins? Thompson-Kelly? Hoffman? Rose? Beech?
 Gynonais? Yn ôl? Chiarelli? Un o'r rhain. 10 yn, dwi'n ddrwg. 9 yn, 2 yn. 2, 3, 4, 5, 11 yn. Diolch. Yr un o'r rhain wedi'u hysbysebu. Yn ddiweddar, byddwn yn symud i'r Cyfnod Cod a Gwleidyddiaeth newydd, Alderman Chiarelli. Diolch, Eir. Yn gyntaf, mae yna gyfnod o'i gyfrif yn y permiad arbennig ar gyfer datblygu unedau cynllun.
 ar 5471 Rixwood Lane. Nifr 2 yw'r cyfrifoldeb o gyfrifol y perimed arbennig ar gyfer gynlluniau dealersiaeth a chyfarfodau parcio ar gyfer 3220 Kishwaukee Street. Nifr 3 a gafodd ei dynnu, Brif Wlad. Nifr 4 yw'r cyfrifoldeb o gyfrifol y muriol ar 1236 a 1238 East State Street. Nifr 5 yw'r cyfrifoldeb o gyfrifol y fariad i gynyddu'r cynydd o'r llawr ffenyw.
 o 4ft i 6ft ar 2304 Harlen Blivard. Nifr 6 yw cyfrifoldeb i gyfrifol permiad arbenigol ar gyfer storio adeiladau adeiladau ar gyfer ardal 2730 East Rock Drive. Nifr 7 yw cyfrifoldeb i gyfrifol modificiyn o berniad arbenigol ar gyfer cyfrifol permiad ar gyfer cyfrifol permiad ar gyfer cyfrifol 45ft o adeiladau ar gyfer 2737 a 2747 9th Street.
 Number eight is an ordinance approving the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant outdoor seating at 124 North Main Street. Number nine is an ordinance approving the sale of packaged liquor in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station at 5965 Columbia Parkway.
 Number 10 is an ordinance approving the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store and gas station at 5965 Columbia Parkway and number 11 is an ordinance approving the additions to chapter 5 article 3 division 10 adult entertainment establishments of the city of Rockford code of ordinances a place those ordinances your honor up for passage and
 Thank You alderman Shirely so with item 3 being held out you have 10 items before you is there any discussion on the 10 items? Before you alderman Thompson Kelly this clarification your honor item number 11. What does it require 10 votes? I do not believe so, but a director of Myers doesn't number 11 require 10 votes. No, no Alderman Durkee Thank You your honor. I'd like to speak again to the item in
 B1, the ordinance approving a special use permit. Again, to the aldermen to refresh their memory, this is a lot in Shaw Woods that has a good-sized lot. It already has a house on it. It has a—
 large like shed on it and then this is a single family home that was placed there back in the 60s and now it basically is in violation of our current codes so it was grandfathered in the applicant wishes to convert this home by putting a garage on it as well as a driveway presumably to allow the i think the mother the property owner to live there
 I get concerned about the disposition of this home After she moves out or moves on and I don't think the conversion of the property
 For her to live there doesn't require this. I can get concerned that it will turn into a rental property or something like that. We had neighbors oppose it. To date, none of them has rescinded their opposition to it. I know there's some neighbors in favor of it.
 I you know, I think a better solution to this dilemma is rather than putting a special use permit in an r1 Area, which I think sets a dangerous precedent. I would rather see that lot possibly subdivided and making it two lots Drawing a line and then that would bring probably this all into compliance. So I'm opposed to the use of a special use permit for this purpose
 Thank you, sir. I need further discussion seeing no further discussion the ten items before you clerk Could you please call the roll turkey? No on one. I am the rest to bird frost Irvins Thompson Kelly Hoffman Rose Beach Nonas back Shirely. I
 item number one five eyes six nose item number two eleven eyes four five six seven eight eleven eyes item number nine ten eyes one no ten and eleven or eleven eyes thank you next up uh we have finance and personnel alderman beck thank you your honor i have one item it's an ordinance approving a contract to sell city-owned land
 XXXX East 8th Street to Remedies, Renewing Lives in the amount of $22,000. And I place it up for passage. Thank you. Is there any further discussion on the one item that you have before you? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Yerkey. Aye. Toonberg. Frost. Irvins. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Pinones. Beck. Chiarelli. Aye. Eleven ayes.
 Item passes. Alderman Chiarelli, do you have some good news for us? I have some great news, Your Honor. I move to convene into closed session in order to discuss pending litigation matters, the sale of property, real estate acquisition matters, and Chad Tuber's tie. Excellent. So is there any discussion on that? Without any discussion, all those in favor of going into closed session say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. We'll go into closed session.