Frost? Here. Tarina? Wilkins? Hoffman? Beach? Barrios? Here. Nine present. Excellent. We have a quorum. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on May 1st, 2023? We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Is there a motion to approve the journal of proceedings for the City Council meeting held on May 15th, 2023? So, second. We have a motion. We have a second. Is there any discussion? All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Excellent. Next up, we have no proclamations this evening, so we'll go to petitions and communications. And we'll first go to Planning and Development Committee and Chairwoman Wilkins. MS. Thank you, Your Honor. Memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the acceptance of the Illinois EPA Public Water Supply Loan Program for lead service line inventory grant funds, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number two, memorandum from Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding the approval of an application and acceptance of the Energy Efficiency Community Block Grant from the Department of Energy, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Item number three, we have a memorandum from Anna Garrison, Economic Development Manager, regarding the adoption of an ordinance to terminate the South Main Rock Street TIF and ordinances for Barbara Coleman TIF, referred to Planning and Development Committee. And item number four, memorandum from Sarah Brinkman, Housing and Program Manager, regarding the designation of Community and Development Director, Carl Franzen, and Legal Director, Nicholas Meyer, as certifying officers for environmental review submitted to HUD, referred to Planning and Development Committee. Thank you. Next, we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Trina. Thank you, Your Honor. We have five items. Number one is a memorandum from Jeremy Carter traffic and development engineer Regarding a request for an honorary Street name change on 5th Street to Ronaldo D stone way referred to corner regulation committee Number two the traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 14th 2023 and minutes from that meeting for consideration at the code regulation committee on June 26 2023 referred to quarter regulation committee number three a A memorandum from Martin Bloom, project manager permits and special events regarding upcoming special events, which include the Fred VanVleet Block Party, Cycle on Second, Ramp, River Run, and Stroll on State, referred to Code and Regulation Committee. Number four, a memorandum from Aaron Hannigan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a pre-annexation agreement for 4201 O'Connell Street, referred to the Court of Regulation Committee. And lastly, number five, a memorandum from Aaron Hannigan, Assistant City Attorney, regarding a pre-annexation agreement for 3007 South Alpine Road and 26XX, Navarian Lane, referred to the Court of Regulation Committee. Thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. Next up, I'll go to Finance and Personnel Committee. I think we lost Alderman Frost, so I'll go to Alderman Tunberg. Thank you, Mayor. We have five items. Number one, we have a memorandum for Kyle Saunders, Public Works Director, regarding an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the on the road Illinois Department of Human Services Emergency Solutions Grant Award, referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Number four, memorandum from Jennifer Caciapaglia, Mayor's Office of Domestic and Community Violence, for an agreement with Get Connected for placement of Viet Victim advocates through the Greater Illinois Reimagined violence prevention services award referred to finance and personnel committee number five memorandum from Kerry Haggerty finance director regarding updates to the fund balance policy debt management policy and vehicle replacement policy Thank You alderman toonberg next I will go to Our legal department and Angela Hammer because she has a notice from Comcast for us. Thank you your honor We're in receipt of the Comcast quarterly franchise fee payment in the amount of three hundred eighty six thousand one hundred ninety eight dollars And sixty two cents. Thank you. Thank you Next up, we'll move to our public speakers. We have five public speakers this evening. I want to remind our public speakers that there's a microphone on the back right as well as the back left of city council chambers. You can use either one. You also have three minutes to address the city council. At the close of the three minutes, you'll hear an obnoxious cell phone alarm and ask that you close up your comments at that time. Our first public speaker this evening is Mr. John Tack Bramley. Good afternoon, Mayor, all the persons, our citizens of Rockford, Illinois. First I want to thank Alderman Karen Hoffman. Last week we went to Pecatonica, we took 30 people to Pecatonica. And some of the kids, a couple of the kids said to me that was very interesting. They got a laugh out of it, but to me it wasn't funny. They said, Brother John, it's only white people out here, ain't no blacks out here. And that's why I take you out to hood and take you places you haven't never been before so you can see. And for the past four decades, we have been taking kids and youth on events that we have never had any problem. Coming up on the 21st of this month, we met today with a show place. We plan on taking more than 40 people of our youth to see the show. Oh, I got a brain freeze. Little Miss Mermaid. And I want to go back to Mayor McNamara. The day that we met, you mentioned to me about meeting with the superintendent of school. We bypassed meeting with the superintendent of school. We met with Dr. Reed. We met with Pastor Hightower. And we met at the Johnny Pancake House. Pastor Hightower is 100% behind what Renewal Turning Point is already doing. What we're looking at addressing is four issues. The four issues we're addressing is absenteeism, suspension, bullying, and social promotion in school. One of our biggest adversaries in the crossword rule that I'm heading up against is that 99% allow single moms that get the, hey, be quiet while I'm talking. uh... i think about you know mom all the boys between the ages six and twelve have no respect for adults and with him and and and we have to we had a cross world with some of the parents condone some of their negative behavior. So if each church was to take on 20 of our at-risk youth, and by the way, Pastor Hightower is backing us 100%. He even said he can guarantee 17 churches. They allowed me to speak today. with the ministers at the ministers fellowship and Pastor Hightower reminded me, he said, Brother John, you ain't got to tell them about your history. Everybody know you, everybody know what you've been doing. Just go straight to the point. I went straight to the point of talking about how the churches can work together and the community working together with the churches, bringing the city in. Pastor, Dr. Reed is on board, we want to bring the churches in and bring the community in and bring the city in where we can work together with our at-risk youth and with the community we could lower the crime by 80% and we can remove our ego and come together. Cause this is bigger than brother John. Even though I got a hundred some kids I'm working with, if these churches just take 20 or 30 of our kids, we can knock it down by 80 80%. And I'm going to thank you for allowing me to speak, but I'm at a crossword because I'm male youth. Uh, it's very hard for one man. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker, This evening is Reverend Earl Dotson, Sr. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. They who come to him must believe that he is, and it is a reward of them that diligently seek him. This type of faith finds solid assurance in things hoped for and a strong conviction of things not seen, and rests on God's promise, giving wisdom for life. This is man's hope, safety, and true destiny. Such thoughts surfaced recently at a celebration last month, May the 20th, for Chicago's new black mayor. It was hosted by Congressman Danny Davis, a friendly man who invited me, and he was Unequivocal, he being the new mayor, about his desire to strengthen black communities, especially in manufacturing, semi-conducting manufacturing, that our organization is working to do. I shared with some of those at the gathering with my desire for one of the old international harvester empty facilities that will employ 2,500 people on the south side where I was born and 2,500 west side in the Congressman District. The payroll for these 5,000 would average $95,000 annually without a college degree, would approach a half a billion dollars, and circulate three times in those areas, creating a tsunami of wealth. Just think of what the owner would generate in terms of revenues three times that, and I certainly hope to be one of them. Some looked at me in disbelief. I reminded them that Walmart alone does 100 times that, over $600 billion. Well, Rockford will benefit marginally. You don't become mayor of the third largest city in the United States and have a project like this going. Will it not affect the entire state? The disbelief that I witnessed from some, it just showed me their lack of faith and their lack of vision. But this type of expectation is rooted in that solid assurance of things hoped for and a strong conviction of things not seen. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Victoria Taft. Is Victoria Taft with us? Okay, we'll move on. Next public speaker this evening is Rhonda Robinson. Thank you. Good evening, thank you for allowing me to speak. I am really concerned as the Rockford branch NAACP president with the citizen oversight board. Our branch executive committee has requested a meeting to meet with the board members. This has not happened as of yet. But I am pleased that their names were listed on the city's website and their agenda. That is great, but this board is still not up and running, and it's a big concern. I'm asking the board or the city council to let us know when will this board start? When will they be up and running? We have many complaints that cause and they go by and they call me and it's just a lot going on and summer is here. And to prevent the deaths and the problems within our community, I think it's very important that we get this board up and moving. And if the NAACP can help in any way, please let us know. And if you're not an NAACP member... I have memberships. So please keep our community informed. We stand behind our principles, our ten principles, and we would love to work together as a community and not by ourselves. Thank you. Thank you. Our next public speaker this evening is Prophet Yusuf. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Proverbs, the first chapter, the seventh verse, it says the fear of the Lord is beginning of wisdom. But fools despise wisdom and instruction. Get wisdom by not all thou get and get understanding. What I want to speak about tonight, poverty, hopelessness, and despair is the mother of crime. The major factor buried in teen violence stories and rarely generating any remedies is poverty. The biggest difference between the United States and the 19 other relatively peaceful industrial nations are youth poverty, an extreme disparity in income between rich and and poor. The 1995 Luxembourg income study found that the United States raises three to eight times more children in poverty than any other Western nation. The United States has the largest and fastest growing gap in income between its richest 5 percent and poorest 5 percent of any adult. One figure summarized the real United States violent issue. In 1993, 40 million Americans lived below the official poverty line, which itself understates the true rate of poverty. Half of these are children, and 6 in 10 are non-white, while most poor people are not violent. There's no question among criminologists that the stresses of poverty are associated with much higher violent crime levels among all races and that poverty is linked to crime should not come as a great surprise after all during the Great Depression murder rate went up peaking in 1933 with a rate of 9.7 murders per 100,000 higher than 1993 9.5 murders per 100,000 Why are politicians and the media hiring the real issue of poverty violence? Because in Washington, reducing child poverty, much less eradicating it, is no longer a paramount priority for either political party. Instead, the focus on the sort of proposal put forward by the Conservative Council on Crime in America. More police, more prison, longer sentence, and polls at young age. Solution to solve this problem? The followers of Jesus Christ should speak up and stand up and unite pool of resources to help reduce poverty in the United States. This would help reduce the crime in the United States and homeless and hungry. And if you use my system, if 16 million followers of Jesus Christ get 35 cents a week for 52 weeks, that would bring in $1,291,200 to help reduce poverty, homeless and hungry and crime at the same time. And consequently, put money in the poverty fund, and if the government would give the poor people back the $95 and $250. They took from the snack. This would help reduce poverty, homeless, hunger and crime. In the book of First Timothy, third chapter, it says if a man can't take his own home, how can he take care of the church? Take care of home first. Which are the people in the United States? Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you. Go one more time. Is Victoria Taft with us this evening? OK. Thank you to all of our public speakers. Next, we'll go to new committee reports, and we'll go to Planning and Development Committee and Alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. The committee recommends approval of the funding agreement with Miracle Mile Rockford for an amount up to $30,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Terina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach varios Meeks Bonnie 12 eyes excellent next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina Thank You mayor We have 10 items. Item number one, committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval for handicap parking only on the north side of Kent Street from Ferguson Street to 165 feet west of Ferguson Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, the committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's recommendation that no action be taken on the request to establish stop control at the intersection of Cherokewood Lane and Crofton Road. Item 3, the committee recommends approval of the evocation of the drainage easement for Lot 9 and Lot 15, Flat No. 2 of Buckley Commercial Center Subdivision. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four the committee recommends approval of the annexation of 28 XX Searles Avenue Westerly 452 feet of 2804 Searles Avenue the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance Number five the committee recommends approval of the modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at the office nightclub located at 513 East State Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six Committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals denial for a variation to increase the maximum allowed square footage of a wall sign from 240 square feet to two hundred and ninety seven point six four square feet in a c3 general commercial zoning district at 6260 and 6350 East State Street Number seven the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for mural and a c4 Urban mixed-use zoning district at 308 West State Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number eight the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 316 West State Street legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and number nine committee might recommend sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district At 10 19 5th Avenue legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance and Lastly number 10 the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval for special use permit in a mural and a c3 general commercial zoning district 4618 East State Street the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I Place these items before you. Thank you So council we have ten items before us is there any discussion on those ten items seeing no discussion all those in favor say aye You want them separated all right clerk, can you please call the roll turkey Lookman Toomer frost Tarina Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach adios me funny I I'm number one twelve eyes item two eleven eyes one no items three four twelve eyes item five ten eyes two nose Item six seven eight and nine eleven eyes one. No excellent next we'll move to finance and personnel committee and Alderman Frost. Thank you, Your Honor. Number one, the committee recommends approval of vouchers in the amount of $9,810,404.57 as approved at the finance and personnel meeting held on May 22, 2023. Number two, the committee recommends approval of one-year extension of the memorandum of understanding between the City of Rockford and the Board of Education to provide services to Head Start students in a school-based counseling model. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number three, the committee recommends approval of an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and Rockford Township, in which Rockford Township will provide emergency rental assistance funding in the amount of $10,000. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number four, the committee recommends approval of the revisions to the City of Rockford rules and regulations for sick leave and new family bereavement leave. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I place these four matters before you. Thank you Alderman Frost. Council we've got four items before us. Is there any discussion on those four items? Clerk will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Toonberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bonney. Aye. Twelve ayes. Excellent. Thank you. Next, we'll move to unfinished business. In Committee of Reports laid over, we have nothing under Planning and Development Committee, so we'll go to Code and Regulation Committee and Alderwoman Tarina. Thank you, Mayor. We have one item. The committee recommends sustaining the Zoning Board of Appeals approval for a special use permit or a or planned unit development consisting of a mixed-use building with an early learning center and 64 apartments 10 courtyard duplexes Mixed-use commercial building consisting of vertical indoor agriculture and culinary education a six family building an eight to ten family multiplex two side-by-side duplexes with rear accessory dwelling units and six single family residences with rear accessory dwellings a unit in an I won light industrial in our one single-family residential zoning districts at 310 South Avon Street 1104 Chestnut Street and 13 XX Preston Street subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance This is laid over on May 1st. Thank you. Is there any discussion? from council members alderman Beach and then alderman Bonnie Thank You Your Honor I've had a limited conversation because the time constraints today with Carl friends and about The six houses the sink single-family houses that are being proposed here and the way their finance is a concern right now And I am talking to Carol about it try to get better understanding but If the vote is tonight, I would probably not be able to support it because I don't have those questions answered by my and I think there's some serious questions about the funding mechanism connected with it and also ownership of property and that kind of thing. So I. I needed to say that if we're going to vote on it now. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Alderman Beach, is your concern the land trust aspect of it? Well, the land trust is part of it, but when I look at the fact that the price of the home cannot be supported by a first mortgage, so I need to know what's going to pay for the gap between what the lender will give and what is needed to... Submit the deal then I need to know who is going to really hold responsible through the land trust if things are not done right mowing the lawn and That kind of maintenance is one thing to point out a deficiency. It's quite another thing to actually enforce it. I don't know how that's going to work out. Because if this doesn't go up, we want it to be nice. We really want it to be nice. And we want to expect everyone that would come there. But those are some things, Your Honor, that... I just want to tell you I'm sorry I didn't get back to you today. The day's been crowded with meetings, and I did talk to Carl a little bit before council tonight, and then I got shut off with another meeting at 5 o'clock. So if it's going to be voted on tonight, unless you can separate those six houses, I can't support it tonight. Thank you. I'm sorry. Alderman Bonney. Thank you, Mayor. So we laid this over previously for a couple of reasons, but primarily because of the lack of representation currently in the 13th Ward with the passing of older woman McNeely and That situation hasn't changed. I think it would be a fair to allow people to Who? supported or also or more I guess more importantly who object to be able to Have that input with the alderman for the ward and there is none currently so I spoke at shortly at 530 with Ron Kluwer and the developer Would like us to lay this over again So I would make a motion to lay this item over. I We have a motion and a second on the floor to lay this item over and my understanding is your motion is to lay it Over just to the next council meeting. Correct. Thank you. So we have a motion in a second. Is there any Discussion for two weeks for two weeks. Yep understood other discussion. Uh older woman, huh? well, we have a Representative for that Ward by then so I have until June 23rd to bring someone before you. Okay, so I We won't vote on it before? That's not my choice. That's all of your choices. I have up to 60 days to appoint someone, and so I will tell you I'm in the latter stages of that, but I'm not going to make a commitment by what date I'll have that. I'll have it done by the 23rd, which I need to do. We can keep laying it over until we have a rep? Well, this council can continue to lay over items for a long period of time. That's up to you. Any other discussion? okay all those i'm sorry alderman thunberg yeah has it been uh notified to the rest of council i can't recall that the uh adus have been taken out of the project so i believe my understanding is that they have not been taken out my understanding is that there is an amendment crafted in case uh someone wanted to take them out okay i i was under the impression that they were Yes, that. You may know more than I do. Okay. Yeah, and also in relation to Alderman Beech's, you know, I've had some issues on the single family portions of this and just the financing mechanisms and such, and I had a long conversation a week ago or so and felt my questions were adequately answered. So thank you. Great. Thank you. Any other discussion? All those in favor of laying this item over to our next meeting in two weeks, say aye. Aye. Those opposed? Okay. Next up, we have nothing under finance and personnel. We'll go to officers' reports. Any aldermen have any reports? Alderwoman Wilkins. Aye. Thank you, Your Honor. I just wanted to announce that West Gateway Coalition, they give away four scholarships each year to individuals who are in high school who attend to, who plan on furthering their education at two to four year institutions. They're the only neighborhood association that I know of that does this and they have four individuals that they gave scholarships to and I'd like to read those off for you tonight. We have Eric Patterson who attended Roosevelt Community Education Center. He will be attending Rock Valley College in the fall. They also had LaKayla Jordan who attended Auburn High School. She'll be going to Augustana College. They have Phoenix Montgomery Bradley, who attended Boylan Central Catholic High School. She is still undecided as to where she will go in the fall. Then they have Paloma Velasco who attended Auburn High School who will be attending Tufts University and School of the Museum of Fine Arts All of these four individuals they did receive $850 in scholarship funds for their for furthering their education. So I just wanted to highlight that as Westgate way they do Good amount of work they host meetings every week on Wednesdays from 10 to 12 p.m At down at d1 on West State Street So if anyone is ever interested in seeing you know what they have going on or how they can get involved you want to? Just go down there, or you can reach out to the Ann Thompson Kelly who is now the president of the organization Thank you. It's really wonderful. Thank you. I Alderwoman Meeks. Alderwoman Meeks Thank you so much. I just want to remind everyone of the Juneteenth celebration coming up here on June 18th, always annually at the Senecipe Band Show. On the 18th, it starts at 11 a.m. for the community church service and black graduation, and then Live at Loving's talent show. And then June 19th is the traditional Juneteenth celebrations and awards, queen presentation and trip giveaway, and a whole lot going on on that day that starts at 1 o'clock. So I encourage everyone to come out and be a part of the celebration. Thank you. I want to thank Jeff Arstrom from Ingersoll Machine Tools, who took me on a tour today of the facility. Wow, I mean I said wow probably 50 times while I was in that building. It was an incredible experience. Looking forward to setting up a tour for residents of the Edgewater neighborhood to participate in viewing that space. And then I also want to thank Habitat for Humanity for the Women Who Build. Last Friday we were out... Closer to Auburn High School area Building two homes in that area. Well framing two homes. So I learned a lot. I did a lot. It was so much fun It was so wonderful to be around so many women Doing this work and I'm just such a fan of Habitat for Humanity. So just wanted to comment on those things. Thank you Thank you. Is there other? aldermen with reports alderman tumor Thank you, Mayor. What would be a city council without Alderman Thunberg talking about vouchers? So a question, I guess, would be, and some of the aldermen probably have issues, I would imagine, with this too, that this may go to Mr. Carter over there, but when we see that we are giving assistance to individuals and individuals the checks go directly to the rental company or the property owner. If we have issues with that property owner or rental company complying with city ordinances, is there a mechanism we have in place to essentially Stopped giving business to those Individuals or rental companies that seem to have a problem with complying to our city's ordinances. Mr. Carter. I Thank you, Your Honor. Yes, Alderman Tuberg, we absolutely do. We check the landlord registry first and foremost. We look at that. We also work very closely with our Rockford Police Department to find out if there's any type of issues at that address or with the property owner and or property management company. We ensure that they are not on either one of those lists, as we like to call them, prior to providing assistance. If any complaints come in from that property owner or that property management company, we address them accordingly and actually can put them on a 30-day notice Window to correct any deficiencies with regards to that property Depending on the severity of that and we will withhold payment until the items are corrected. Okay, so in in the case of Just specifically and very briefly it would be a case where there is a home in our neighborhood that consistently needs they need to be called on to comply with the city's ordinances. Now, that house is in the third ward, but they do sometimes take care of it, so it may not be reported that property in the third ward, but they own properties in, say, the 12th ward or the 14th ward that these payments are going to. So I just, yeah, it's, if they're not taking care of a property in my ward, but they're taking care of a property in the 12th ward, I would hope that we cease to give them assistance or payment. The 12th Ward property as well. I mean, it's just it's understood as a guilt by association I mean if they're if they're take not taking care of one property, but taking care of another Yes, sir. If you're aware of anything like that, please bring that to my attention I'll be happy to look into it and we will take the appropriate necessary action. Absolutely. Okay. Thanks. Thank you Thank you other alderman reports Seeing none we'll move on we'll go to motions and resolutions. There's nothing under planning and development So we'll go to code and regulation committee and older woman Trina Thank You Your Honor the committee recommends approval of a resolution for authority to intervene on non-residential Property tax appeal cases before the property tax appeal board. Thank you. Excellent Is there any discussion on this item before us? See no discussion all those in favor say aye those opposed excellent next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost thank you number one the committee recommends approval of a resolution authorizing the central services manager to execute a contract for street lighting and well pumping electric supply number two the committee recommends approval of award of engineering agreement for well nine temporary treatment facility to fair graham in the amount of 96 950 dollars it is estimated to be completed by november 1 2023 and the funding source is the water replacement improvement account number three the committee recommends approval of joint purchasing contract for a copier rental to marco technologies in the amount of eighty thousand four hundred and twenty four dollars annually for a five-year contract the funding source is various departmental operating budgets number four the committee recommends approval of the rejection of bids to take new bids for the millennium fountain renovation staff recommends the specification and plans to be evaluated for value engineering and rebidding purposes Number five is an award of bid for citywide street repairs group number two to Rock Road companies, the amount of $2,291,585.68. The project is estimated to be completed by September 29, 2023. The funding source is the 1% infrastructure sales tax. number six is the award of bid for city wide street repairs number three 2023 for concrete work to tci concrete in amount of one million six hundred and forty four thousand two hundred and ninety eight dollars and sixty six cents is also estimated to be completed by september 29 2023 and the funding source is the one percent infrastructure sales tax Number seven is an approval of an application acceptance of a homeless prevention grant from the Illinois Department of Human Services the amount of $487,000 the grant does not require a cost match and the grant terms from July 1 2023 to June 30 2024 number eight is acceptance of grant funds and approval of four sub award agreements for the HUD continuum of care grant the agencies are listed below Rosecrans shelter care ministries and Number nine is an approval of an application acceptance of the u.s. HUD continuum of care rapid youth housing grant award in the amount of nine ninety five thousand nine hundred and eighty nine dollars This grant does require a twenty five percent cost match the amount of twenty three thousand nine hundred ninety seven dollars and twenty five cents And the grant term is from November 1 2023 to October 31 2024 this grant does not require the city to bear any additional costs. I place these nine matters before you I Thank you alderman frost. So council we have nine items before us. Is there any discussion on those nine items alderman beach? Thank you around just on number three Is the maintenance and repair? Uh wound into that contract price? Yes, that includes um any annual or preventative maintenance and repairs all rolled in it's we pay per copy Uh a per copy rate and that's all inclusive It's uh, it's on a per copy rate The maintenance is on a per copy rate. Right, but that's kind of wound into that number? It is, yes, sir. So we've anticipated the number of copies we're going to be? Correct. Okay, thank you very much. I should note that item number three, because it's a lease, will need 10 votes. Is there any other discussion on any of the nine items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Barrios. Aye. Meeks. Bonnie. 12 ayes. Excellent. Next we'll go to new business and we'll go to planning and development committee and alderwoman Wilkins. Thank you, Your Honor. An ordinance approving the funding agreement with Miracle Mile Rockford for an amount up to $30,000. Thank you. One item before us. Is there any discussion on that one item? Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Tunberg. Frost. Aye. Serena Wilkins Hoffman Rose Beach Berrios Meeks funny 12 eyes excellent next we'll go to code and regulation committee and alderwoman Trina Thank you. We have eight items as item number nine was laid over and Number one an ordinance approving handicapped parking only on north side of Kent Street from Ferguson Street So 165 west of Ferguson Street number two an ordinance approving the vacation of a drainage easement for lot 9 and lot 15 Plat number two of Buckley commercial center subdivision number three an ordinance approving the annexation of 28 X X arrows Avenue westerly 452 feet of 2804 Sears Avenue Number four an ordinance approving the modification of an existing liquor license to add one additional video gaming terminal at the office nightclub located at 513 East State Street number five in ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mix use zoning district at 308 West State Street and Number six an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 316 West State Street number seven an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c4 urban mixed-use zoning district at 10 19 Fifth Avenue and Number eight an ordinance approving a special use permit for a mural and a c3 general commercial zoning district at 46 18 East State Street Thank you. Thank you So we have eight items before us as number nine has been laid over. Is there any discussion on those eight items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Ross. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Berrios. Meeks. Bonney. Items 1 through 3 12 eyes and number 4 11. I'm sorry 10 eyes 2 nose I'm 5 6 7 11 eyes 1 no item 8 12 eyes Excellent next we'll go to finance and personnel committee and alderman frost Thank you number one is an ordinance approving a one-year extension of the memorandum of understanding between the city of Rockford and the Board of Education Rockford Public Schools to provide head to head To provide services to Head Start students in a school-based counseling model. Number two is an ordinance approving an intergovernmental agreement between the City of Rockford and the Rockford Township, in which Rockford Township will provide emergency rental assistance funding in the amount of $10,000. And number three is an ordinance approving revisions to the City of Rockford rules and regulations for sick leave and the new family bereavement leave. I place these three matters before you. Excellent. Thank you. Is there any discussion on those three items before you? Clerk, could you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logeman. Aye. Tunberg. Aye. Frost. Aye. Tarina. Wilkins. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Berrios. Aye. Meeks. Aye. Bonney. Aye. 12 ayes. Excellent. Is there a motion to adjourn? We have a motion, we have a second. Is there any discussion? Alderman Wilkins would like to discuss something. No. All those in favor say aye. Those opposed? Every night.