Zion Missionary Baptist Church to provide the invocation. Bow our heads. Father God, we come to thank you for this day. Thank you for your blessings. And as we go forward in this meeting, we ask that your wisdom, leading, your guiding would guide our city officials, that they would take care of the business of our city. This we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. To the flag of the United States of America.
 To the Republic for which it stands, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Clerk, could you please call the roll? Gerke. Here. Logeman. Here. Thunberg. Here. Hervey. Here. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Beach. Quinones. Here. Chiarelli. Here. Ten present. So we have a quorum for this evening. Is there a motion to approve the journal proceedings for
 So we have a motion and a second to approve the journal proceedings for the City Council meeting held on May 21st, 2018. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, all those in favor say aye. Those opposed, same sign. Motion passes. This evening we have one proclamation for the Melvin Ballard Day. And if Jerry Lattin of the Rockford Sportsmen and Golf Association would come forward as well as others.
 Thanks for being here.
 Whereas Melvin Ballard loved to play golf. When Melvin wasn't working as a barber, he was playing golf. And whereas Melvin became known for hitting a golf ball further than most and for being the first black golfer to start showing up regularly at Ingersoll Golf Course. And whereas because Melvin only wanted to play with serious golfers and because many white people during that time would rarely play with black golfers, Melvin started his own golf club.
 And whereas in 1965, Melvin Ballard won the Pro-Am tournament that preceded the Cosmopolitan Women's Tournament at MacTown Golf Course. And whereas Melvin, who came to Rockford in 1962 from Americus, Georgia, was a skilled barber and had plans of partnering with fellow barber...
 Chuck Blackwell before being drafted by the U.S. Army in March of 1966, and whereas Melvin Ballard was killed in Saigon, Vietnam on March 11, 1967, and whereas although Melvin was never a member, the Rockford Sportsmen Golf Association started a tournament in his memory in 1969 with the 50th annual Melvin Ballard Memorial Tournament to be held this year on June 16 and 17.
 now therefore I Thomas P. Maxmer as mayor of the city of Rockford do hereby proclaim June 16th 2018 to be Melvin Ballard day and I would just add that uh Ingersoll uh was really my babysitter growing up my mom would drop me off at 7 a.m and I would play until 3 4 o'clock in the afternoon and um
 The Melvin Ballard tournament was one of those that I would always go out there and watch golfers. So for the first time in my life, I'll be participating in it this year. And I've already gotten a lot of critiques. You probably have to create a new flight, a really low flight. But I'm really excited to be part of it and appreciate all the work that all of you have done to continue this great tournament. Would you like to share a few words with us?
 First of all, I'd like to thank Mick Hawkinson, who runs the Ingersoll Golf Course, for the initiation of this award. And also Duncan Geddes. They've been a great help for us through the Rockford Power District. Duncan's the main guy for golf services, and they've helped us out. I've been a member of RSGA for the last 20 years.
 And they've really done a great job of keeping our tournament going. And they offered whatever kind of assistance or help that we needed. And we really appreciate that. And I'd like to tell all of you that any of you that like to play golf, come on out Father's Day weekend, 16th and 17th. You're going to see the best golfers in the city. And you're going to see some of the worst golfers. So it'll be a lot of fun. And you'll be amazed to see how these guys can actually play.
 And I thank you. I think the only reason I was able to play is because it's Father's Day weekend. Next up, we have Petitions and Communications for Planning and Development. We have Alderman Bill Rose. Thank you, Mayor.
 We have a memorandum from LaFakeri Avon, Assistant City Attorney regarding the development agreement between the City of Rockford with Second Congregational Church. A Rockford Foundation for the demolition and redevelopment of the properties located at 511 West Jefferson Street and 306 North Court Street referred to Planning and Development Committee.
 Thank you alderman rose next up. We have alderman shirely for codes and regulation. Thank you, roger First item is a memorandum from lafacaria bond the assistant city attorney regarding the first quarter report From january 2018 through march 2018 on the liquor license establishments with video gaming Subject to the 50 requirement. The second is a memorandum from lafacaria bond regarding the pre-annexation of 6400 auburn street and 15 x x
 The third is a memorandum from LaFakiria Vaughan regarding a proposed amendment to the section 3-102 of the city of Rockford tobacco ordinance.
 The fourth is a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Deputy Operations Manager regarding the upcoming special events which include River District 12, Booker Fest, Solo Italiano, and Midtown Ethnic Parade and Festival. The fifth is the Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 13th, 2018 and the minutes from that meeting for consideration at the Code and Regs Committee meeting on June 25th, 2018.
 The sixth is a memorandum from Kelly notes regarding an IDOT resolution for the 4th of July parade and fireworks. All of those items will be referred to the Code and Regulations Committee, Your Honor. Thank you, Alderman Shirely. And next up we have Alderman John Beck for the Finance and Personnel Committee.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have four items tonight. The first is a memorandum from Nicholas Meyer, Legal Director, regarding approval of an intergovernmental agreement for temporary 911 emergency operators. Next is a memorandum from Angela Hammer, City Attorney, regarding an agreement with Cherry Valley Fire Protection for the rental of a fire engine. Next, I have a memorandum from George Davis, Human Services Director, regarding early Head Start COLA application budget and non-federal share waiver.
 And then lastly, we have our memorandum from George Davis, Human Services Director regarding early Head Start, child care, COLA application budget, and non-federal share waiver. These four items will be referred to Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you, Alderman Beck. Next up, we have public speakers. I'll just remind all public speakers that they have three minutes to speak. The first public speaker we have is Prof. Youssef. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen.
 In the book of 1 John, the 4th chapter, the 7th, the 8th verse, it says, Dear friends, let us love one another, for love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. What I want to speak about tonight, churches in the hood,
 Where is the love of God? I tried to stay away from calling the many churches in the hood worthless establishments. I've attempted to give select preachers pass on their inability to galvanize community in which they are set up shop. I wanted to give them the benefit of the doubt, mainly because I am a man of God and out of respect for other so-called men of God, I've given them a pass but no more.
 What I'm about to say isn't something that I just thought of. These works of words have been bouncing around my brain for years. And now I've decided to express how I feel only after having one of my regular scheduled discussions with youth in the hood and having them acknowledge their hatred for churches, pastors, and the fake people who attend hood churches. I recently met with seven young boys and five young girls. I mentored. We talk about several issues like their parents, their brothers and sisters' schools, and their future.
 their outlook was not surprising because I know a lot of youths and they expressed their feelings many times before to me but the idea of God came up only after I mentioned that God has blessed me after detailing my erotic journey in Vietnam one young boy asked me how do I know that God was responsible for my success in life he asked why did God make you profit you go through the things that you described as your trials and tribulations I tried to explain in clear and concise terms that heaven
 faith in someone other than yourself is vital to trying to find your purpose and direction in life and that person for me is God. Interesting enough is that most of the young folks have no such faith. They said that the church has ignored and excluded them. One youth even mentioned that he asked the pastor at one church in his hood to let him pick up trash and cut the grass for a few dollars and the pastor actually screamed at him to go get a real job. The young boy
 then stated that he walked past the church a few days later and his fingers were cut in the ground. He expressed that he felt angry. But it was typical how people, even in his family, treat him. The interesting thing is that his family members are in hood churches each week. Therefore, the group also asked me, how can church people be so mean and hateful to young folks like me?
 One young fellow told me that his mother goes to that same church every Sunday where he acts to cut the grass. She even attends Bible study weekly. He angrily expressed that they have not had lights on in their apartment for two months. He told me that his mom asked the pastor several times to help them with the light bill. Each time the pastor said, God will work it out. So of course, this is what contributes to these young people's disbelief in believing that God is a blessing because hood churches show them absolutely no love. As I travel the hoods of Rockford and Chicago and see many churches.
 I'm now wondering, like these young people, where's the love of God? Because you can't be a sound body of mind and not be a preacher who doesn't walk the blocks, searching for souls and save lives, also asking how can church be of service. Thank you for allowing me. Thank you. Next public speaker we have is Mr. John Tech Brantley. Good evening, Mr. Brantley.
 I want to talk about last week.
 of a young black lady talking about the water switcheroo and she was dead on point. Then I listened to a pastor go off on the mayor, the chief of police, and the fire department, calling people out of their names and not having all the facts, not the way to go about attacking racists and white criminals. And we truly want to bring rock together. We have to sit down and take one brotherly love. Dr. Martin Luther King said it best, and I had it.
 The power of the party's Christian commitment cannot be underestimated. I see and face the Mexican battle on a weekly basis. This past weekend was a fair standoff on the corner of Niagara and Rockville. Dominique and Larry were over two decades. What happened this past weekend will not be the first nor the last until we can come up with a program before and after the fact to deal with the problems that have been plaguing our communities for years.
 that are working in the cities that are making all these these but they've come from the higher debt and stopped facing the truth here and on. By the way, stop taking the masculine. Let's start by asking what can we do to help other guys have an other voice?
 and the community on this legislation. Last month, the Mothers and Fathers Day that deepened 2000 dollars in assistance. We would say the Mother's Day dinner in the fairground. Next week on June 14th at North Mainland, we are having the Father's Day cookout. Our special guest speaker, and this will be part of the new attorney court program, talking about education, training, and jobs.
 One thing that stands out is that we have to stop just talking about it and stop doing something about it. We are the preventative program and the active effect program at the plate. So from Thursday to Sunday evening, we will get the YMCA, we will get the Blackberry, Blackhawk housing for the Family Health Resource Fair.
 We ended the week in a boy who teaches at Georgia Church, and there we had 11 things for the summer time since I've checked. We had two bands, 22 to 60 dollars, at the New York Turnabout Program at the background community house of Georgia bands. Three of our youths between the ages of 7 and 10 came in second place. That was great. They won $75. They just got out there and freestyled off of my Samsung phone that I know very little about.
 Thank you, John. Thank you, Mr. Brantley. Next public speaker we have this evening is Shirley Brewer.
 Good evening, everybody. I'd like to say one thing here today. I really would appreciate it if the law would just straighten up and fly right what I'm trying to say today. Call Mr. Charlie Petit, where I was living at and everything, I never was serving no papers to move it and anything, and he have, you know, been locking me out, so I have not lived in that place since, you know, March the 7th.
 And so he got all my expensive clothes and so about. And I don't know who that Alderman is in that district. And whoever it is, they need him to stand up and fly right and look into this stuff. And this city, you know, and everything, they have spoken and stated that, you know, that child claimed like he couldn't get in to do the work, which was a lie. You know, so it's best to stand up and fly right and anything because it's all legal politicians and everything. It's outrageous.
 And like I say, we need our bus services well downtown. You understand? And it don't make no sense how these people have to, you know, stand around downtown panhandling anything, making the bus come and look bad. And I know that is something can be did. You owe, you want your money, so why can't that be looked into? Because people just panhandling and doing stuff because a young lady got killed down there a couple of years ago in that bus station, do you remember?
 And so they know, yes, so why should anybody have to sit a mile downtown and do all this talking and panhandling and everything when they can be on the job working like them bus drivers? We don't need that because too much is going on. But like I said, in getting back to Charlie Petit, I really would appreciate it if I get my stuff out of that place. And I like to, but I'll be going to court on June the 14th and the 15th, and he's going to have to have something to say because he violated the law.
 Do you understand in the pictures that you've seen there and everything in your secretary's scene where the ceiling fell down on the head and the wall caved in in the house? Yes. I still got the photos. It don't make no sense for nobody to want to get your money and not do the work.
 So it's best to straighten up and fly right, because God is looking down on you. Love not the world and know the things that are in the world, God says. Because you love the things that are out there in the world, the love of God is not nowhere in your heart. That is the Lord having truth. So money, money can get you in trouble. So it'll make you look better if you just look into your matters and problems here today. You understand what I'm trying to say? Because like I said, I've been staying with a temporary friend ever since March.
 I have not been over there in that place since I fell down all them stairs and everything on the outside on that ice And I was injured anything also. Yes, I was injured everything is on my camera You know cause like I say why I don't see why you don't want to do nothing about this That's all I have to say. Thank you. Thank you. Next up. We have under new committee reports planning and development alderman Bill Rose
 Planning and Development Committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the sublease agreement between the City of Rockford and Wang Xiong America Corporation. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Is there any discussion on this item? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Roggeman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman.
 Aye. Feech? Aye. Quinones? Aye. Beck? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. Eleven ayes. Thank you. That item passes. Next up we have code and regulation. Alderman Chiarelli? Thank you, Your Honor. Under Roman numeral VB123456, Alderman Ann Thompson-Kelly wants to address 1, 2, and 3, Your Honor. Do you want to read them in first or do you want to address it right now? No. I would appreciate it.
 I'm going to be requesting on item B, number 1, A and B, number 2 and number 3 be held out for two weeks. Okay. So is that a motion? And we have a second. Thank you. All those in favor? No, we don't need that. It just takes you. Right. Perfect. Okay. I just didn't want him to read all that. See, if I was you, I would have had him read it all.
 your honor i believe that would only be for a one week video we're going well you're just just so i'm real clear you mean to the next city council meeting yes okay so it's from to one meeting thank you you want me to read that mark your honor
 So item number four, the committee recommends sustaining the zoning board of appeals approval for a special use permit for a private club. And a 7,000 square foot addition for a private banquet bar and events at 782 North Madison Street. The Verde Club is the applicant subject to conditions.
 Number five the committee recommends sustaining the zoning Board of Appeals approval of a special use permit for a private religious school with school related uses at 3445 Elmwood Road Our Lady of Sacred Heart basic studies is the applicant subject to conditions The sixth is the committee recommends approval of the proposed revision to chapter 19 of the Code of Ordinances to include additional violation of city code a
 On 4, 5, and 6, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinances. Your Honor, I place those three items up for passage. So we have items 4, 5, and 6 before us. Is there any discussion on those items? Alderman Hervey? With regard to the private school, is that, someone called and asked, is that part of the diocese? Mr. Cagnoni? No. I believe it is not, but Mr. Cagnoni? Thank you, Your Honor. No, it is not. Okay, thanks.
 Is there further discussion on items four, five, or six? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Bogoman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Herbie. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Shirelli. 11 ayes. Excellent. Those items pass. Next up, we have finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Aye.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have three items. The first is a recommending approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,864,310.62. Thank you, Your Honor.
 And next we have the approval of the I fiber contract amendment with Illinois fiber resources group to add connections to fire stations number two Number three and number eight total construction cost for the project is one hundred forty nine thousand two hundred eighty six dollars and the annual recurring Cost will be eleven thousand four hundred dollars total annual recurring. I fiber contract will be seventy three thousand eight hundred dollars funding sources fire department operating budget and
 And number three is recommending approval of an application to apply for affordable housing program grant available through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago. The amount of the grant is $750,000, up to $15,000 per unit. The application submission deadline is June 15th. Place these items up for passage.
 Thank you. So we have three items before us. Is there a discussion alderman? Thompson kelly? Yes I have a question on item number two. Can you can chief or someone please tell me where this Line item is in their budget. Mr. Cagnone. So, um, i'll ask director trommels to give information on related to the details of the i-fiber um, but this was one of the
 recommendations from the financial task force to replace the old copper lines with i-fiber For so there would be some additional savings related annually on operational costs There'll be some further upgrades that will need to take place as we implement this But it wasn't specifically addressed until it was approved as part of the financial task force recommendation alderman hervey. Can we have um, just how many units i'm
 Still confused with the the fiber optic network who's on it who's I don't need the answer now I just want to kind of see an overview of this Is it something that could be a revenue generator? Alderman Beach has talked about this in the past looking at some of our assets it just seems a lot of money if only a few fire stations and a
 I know some schools, I don't know if the schools are on it, I thought they would be, but how practical or impractical is it? I don't want to create a whole bureaucracy, but is it something that people could buy into in some of our neighborhoods that tend to be a bit underserved? Just something to look at, but I'd like to know who's on it and what is the per unit cost
 Excuse me for each of the buildings or city functions that is served by i-fiber and again that can be an offline discussion so I'd put just as Director trommels just to provide us like those organizations that you know that are participating in it And then we can follow it up with a memo to get into more detail. Thank you honor I'm so we're contracting through the i-fiber organization I fiber organization
 has somewhere north of 500 customers on the network today that's across nine county footprint the other question you had was the rate so the rate per building is based on how much bandwidth we use so some of the smaller fire stations we uh we use a lower rate i think it's 100 a month for some of the larger city facilities it's 600 a month so it's really based on need
 Okay, and I'd be glad to follow up with you with more detail on the whole life fiber network if you wish I think that may be an include in a memo to all aldermen The idea that alderman Hervey brought up and I know alderman Beach and others have brought up in the past about revenue generation I think thank you. Maybe for fifth Monday if there's something there or not we can add that Thank you. Is there other discussion on? The three items that we have before us
 Seeing no further discussion clerk. Will you please call the roll turkey? bogeyman Toomer Herbie Thompson Kelly Be Kenona back. All right McNeely. I'm sorry Shirely 11 ice. Thank you those items pass next up We have officers reports
 i believe many of you received the communications from mcguire woods regarding the state budget but just wanted if you had not heard the news that the local government distributed fund which was initially presented by the governor to have a 10 cut again this year that cut was reduced to 5 and
 The sales tax administrative fee that was 2% is now at 1.5%. And so if you're wondering what that means to the city of Rockford, you're looking at around $800,000. With that, I will leave. It's a good Monday. With that, I'll open it up to Florida Alderman Thompson-Kelley. Thank you, Your Honor, for clarifying that. I did read the email from our...
 lobbyist and I want to thank him for the work that he's done to get us 800,000 is a lot of money, but still it could have been worse Than what it is. I also have a letter here that I would like to refer to the legal department that I want to place on file There's legal matters in regards to this letter that I received from an ex-employee and
 Also, I have a question for the chief. I have received about four different complaints about the non-emergency number where they call and it just rings and rings and rings. The answering machine doesn't pick up, nor do they get an answer. So do we have an overload of things or is something happening that we're not aware of? In fact, I have one email that I will forward to you.
 for the individual with the times and dates that he called the non-emergency number and did not get a response.
 No, if you can give me that phone number, we'll look into it, find out what the details are. There's about three or four that I've gotten calls as well. If you get anyone that has any questions, if you can give me the number that they dialed from, that's how we look those calls up, and we'll find out what the issue was. Can we assure the public that there's not a problem with our non-emergency number? No, there's not a problem. There was a problem last week with the county. They had issues, and their calls were coming to us, but we did not have any issues in the city of Rockford. Thank you.
 Can I just follow up with a question? When those calls are being transferred to us, would it make for longer periods that a resident may hear the dial or the ringing tone? For non-emergency, it could, yes. Okay. But we'll find— That could possibly be the problem. That could be, yes. Other officers' reports?
 alderman thunberg thank you mayor i just wanted to mention the city of rockford lost a great citizen this week a great individual mr don thayer he was a neighbor of of myself and also uh the mayor knew him as well um
 he was a great individual and it's unfortunate for our community he was a an avid historian in the civil war he also wanted to made it almost his personal personal mission to convey to the rest of the community how important the churchill's grove neighborhood is to the community that the historical aspects of it the fact that it was a civil war camp camp fuller back in the time
 And so it was almost his personal mission in retirement to really get that to take root and get people to know that. And so we think of his family during this time.
 Also on a lighter note my own nephew leaf Verace is was on the Auburn Scholastic Bowl, which placed 32nd in the country and Actually beat the very renowned, Illinois math and science academy at nationals, so I want to congratulate everyone at Auburn who had something to do with this and the hard work put in and also a a
 A congratulations to my accomplice here, Alderman Logaman, and the birth of his daughter this week, this last week. So congratulations. I told Mr. Toonberg he could only ask two questions. I've got to get home tonight. And another thing. Other officers' reports? Seeing none, I would just offer a congratulations to you, Alderman Logaman, for...
 birth of little Maya Catherine is looks beautiful. Happy everyone's healthy. Eastern Rockford here. We need all the help we can get. With that, we'll move to unfinished business. We have doesn't look like any items under planning and development or codes and regs, but item under finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Were we needing to take any action on the appointments? No.
 We're right before that. Oh, sorry. I was jumping down to the bottom of the page. All right. We have one item. It's a recommending approval of the professional services contract with Wayne Dust for a planning consultant. The cost every three months would be $11,231. Place this up for passage. We have the item up. Is there any discussion for that one item we have before us? Seeing none, clerk, will you please call the roll? Herkey. Logerman. Toonberg. Hervey. Aye. No.
 Thompson Kelly? Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Quinones? Beck? McNeely? Chiarelli? 12 ayes. Excellent. We have approval of that item. Next up we have appointments laid over.
 We have an appointment and reappointment of the following individuals as directors of their individual municipal department. In the city of Rockford, we have Carrie Eklund for finance department, Cherise Hunter for human resources, George Davis for human services, Glenn Trommels for information technology, Nicholas O. Myers for legal, Mark Stockman for public works, Carl Franzen for community and economic development. Is there a discussion on those? No.
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Are we able to separate? Sure. Then I would say I am all in. Shirelli. I will pass. Ten ayes, two noes. Thank you. Next up, we have Plenty and Development, Alderman Bill Rose. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Under planning and development, we have a resolution approving the 2018 proposed demolition list of 66 properties. Thank you. We have one item before us. Is there a discussion on the one item before us? Alderman Hurd. Did the 66 properties exhaust the budget, or are these just the 66 that are, well, up or ready to go for now at least? Mr. Gagnoni? These are the—
 The ones that are ready to go now, I. I can't fully state whether we'll be able to demolish all these structures until we get a little bit better handle on how our bids are going to come back this year for the overall demolition cost. We also recently got our allocation.
 um confirmed for community development block grant or cdbg dollars and are rectifying that budget and we should have that completed over the next 30 to 60 days and then we can come back with a full report to the council as it relates to the various funding sources where we anticipate being and how many homes that we propose to demolish collectively but it'll probably be around 80 homes this calendar year further discussion
 Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Mogman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Hervey. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. Chiarelli. Aye. 10 ayes, 2 nos. Item passes. Next up, we have Alderman Chiarelli for Code and Regulation. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a resolution approving the transfer of city-owned properties to RCI. Place that up for passage.
 thank you we have one item up before us is there a discussion saying no discussion clerk will you please call the roll jerky logeman heurvey thompson kelly hoffman rose beach quinones beck mcneely
 11 ayes, 1 no. Thank you. The item passes. Next up, we have Finance and Personnel, Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I have an awarded bid for 2018 Rockford Quarter Improvements Demolition, Group No. 1 to Northern Illinois Service in the amount of $76,790. I'm waiting for my lovely assistant to turn the page. There we go.
 Item two is an award of bid for police uniforms and shoes to Uniform Den East, Incorporated of Loves Park, Illinois for an estimated annual amount of $77,000. Contract duration is two years with three one year extensions. Next we have an award of bid for city wide pavement marking Thermo 2018 to Countrymen Incorporated of Rockford, Illinois. In the amount of $68,009.40.
 Next, we have an award of bid for Citywide Street Repairs Group number 2, 2018, for alleys to Norwest Construction of South Beloit, Illinois, in the amount of $396,715.60. Next is an award of RFP for resource allocation study to Matrix Consulting Group of Mountain View, California, in the amount of $34,950. Contract duration is estimated at 18 weeks.
 Next, we have an award of RFP for RISC project video wall to SKC Communications Products of Schaumburg, Illinois, in the amount of $90,090.13.
 Next, we have a change order for ATS Information Technology Services. ATS will fill the vacant 911 support technician position. The IT department is establishing a formal on-call after-hours support rotation. Staff recommends the ATS contract be amended to pay for existing ATS staff to participate in the on-call rotation. Staff recommends the ATS contract be amended to include the two items,
 at a maximum annual cost of $123,600. The current contract amount is $991,194.36. And the revised contract total would be $1,114,794.36. And item eight is rejection of bids for 134, North Main Asbestos Removal.
 Due to contractors not considering an addendum that was issued regarding an alternate bid for the removal of the roof of the building. Staff will go out for bids in summer of 2018. Place these eight items up for passage. Thank you. We have eight items up before us. Is there any discussion on the eight items? Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelly. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye.
 Beach? Aye. Quinones? Beck? McNeely? No. Shirelli? Items 1, 2, 3, 4, 12 ayes, 1 no, I'm sorry, 12 ayes, 5, 11 ayes, 1 no, 6, 12 ayes, 7, 11 ayes, 1 no, 8, 12 ayes. Thank you. All items passed. Next up under new business, we have planning and development, Alderman Rose.
 We have an ordinance approving the amendments to the sublease agreement between the City of Rockford and Wangjing America Corporation. Place these items to move forward. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion on it? Seeing no discussion, Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Last week under committee meetings, I did have questions regarding our contract with this company. For whatever reason, we weren't...
 City was not able to provide me with answers. So I will not be supporting this tonight I know that I I believe I supported this when it first came in Under Mayor Morrissey in the hopes of building That type of business here in the city and I think we still need it I'm just not I'm just not confident with the contract that we have with this company. So I will be voting no Thank you. Any other further discussion? I
 No further discussion. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Gerke. Aye. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Herbie. Aye. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Back. McNeely. Chiarelli. Aye.
 11 ayes, 1 no. Excellent. Item passes. Next up, we have Code and Regulation, Alderman Shirell. Thank you, Your Honor. Items 1 and 2 were laid over to the next City Council meeting. So item number 3 is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a private club and a 7,000-square-foot addition for a private banquet bar and events.
 at 782 North Madison Street. The Verde Club is the applicant. Number four is an ordinance approving the special use permit for a private religious school with school related uses at 3445 Elmwood Road. Our Lady of the Sacred Heart Basic Studies is the applicant. And number five is an ordinance approving the revision to chapter 19 of the code of ordinances to include additional violation of city code. I place those three ordinances up for passage, Your Honor.
 Thank you. We have three items before us. Is there any discussion on those three? Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. On item number five, the revision to the call to ordinance, is this the section for writing tickets? It is, yes. Any further discussion? Seeing no further discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Aye. Lugman. Aye. Toonberg. Aye. Herbie. Aye.
 Thompson Kelly, Hoffman, Rose, Beach, Quinones, Beck, McNeely, Shirely. 11 ayes, 1 no. All items pass. Next up we have Alderman Beck for Finance and Personnel. Thank you, Your Honor. An ordinance approving the high-fiber contract amendment for fire stations number 2, number 3, and number 8. Total cost...
 for the project is 149 286 dollars and the annual recurring cost will be eleven thousand four hundred dollars total annual recurring i-fiber contract will be seventy three thousand eight hundred dollars and then i have an ordinance approving the application to apply for affordable housing grant
 available through the Federal Home Loan Bank of Chicago. The amount is $750,000. Next is an ordinance approving a professional services contract with Wayne Dusk. And the fourth is an ordinance approving the ask— We're going to hold that out. We're going to hold that out until we go to closed session. So the first three items are for passage. Thank you. So we just are going to take items C1, 2, and 3. Is there any discussion on items C1, 2, or 3?
 Seeing no discussion, clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Logerman. Aye. Thunberg. Aye. Hervey. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Quinones. Beck. McNeely. Chiarelli. 12 ayes. Thank you. Alderman Chiarelli. Runner. I have the pleasure of announcing I move to go into closed session in order to discuss labor negotiation matters. Second. I have a motion and a second. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee.
 Logoman. Aye. Toonberg. Irving. Aye. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Aye. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Aye. Back. Aye. Thanks. McNeely. Shirelli. Aye. 12-I. Thank you. We'll move into closed session and then resume. Logoman. Here. Toonberg. Here. Irving. Here. Thompson-Kelley. Hoffman. Rose. Here. Beach. Here. Quinones. Back. Here.
 McNeely, Chiarelli. 11 present. Thank you. We will go back to finance and personnel. Alderman Beck. Thank you, Your Honor. I will place up for passage if I can make sure I'm in the right spot, which I'm not. I think my lovely assistant threw away my agenda. There we go. Thank you. Yeah. Thank you.
 All right. I place up for passage an ordinance approving the AFSCME-C Head Start Collective Bargaining Agreement for 2017 to 2023. Do I need to move suspending Rule 15? Second. We have a motion and a second to suspend Rule 15. Do we need that? That's correct. You'll need to suspend the rules. We'll need 10 votes for that. Repeat that. We'll need to move to suspend Rule 15, and that'll require 10 votes.
 And that will require 10 votes. Correct. So we do need to suspend Rule 15, and that will require 10 votes. That means all of you. So we have a motion and a second. Any discussion about suspending Rule 15? None. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Dirky. Hogeman. Aye. Toonberg. Ross. I'm sorry, Herbie. No, I'm sorry. Hoffman. Aye. Rose. Beach. Aye. Quinones. Beck. Aye. Aye.
 McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? Aye. 11. Now place it up for passage. Thank you. So we have one item before us. Is there any discussion? Seeing no discussion, Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee? Aye. Logeman? Aye. Thunberg? Aye. Hervey? Aye. Hoffman? Aye. Rose? Aye. Beach? Aye. Quinones?
 We have a motion and a second to adjourn. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. Those opposed, same sign. Have a good night.