Good evening and welcome to the City Council meeting. This is the City of Rockford, Illinois. The date is June the 1st, 2015. Our invocation this evening will be from Fireman Police Chaplain Philip Henslin from New Life Evangelical Lutheran Church. Heavenly Father, you've told us that there is a more excellent way and that excellent way is to apply love toward one another, to have forgiveness and decency and hope and comfort and direction that we offer each other in a way that accepts each other,
 and also supports each other properly. We ask you to give us the wisdom to do that together, that we might, as representatives and leaders of this city, be supportive not only to each of the citizens, but also to those who go out in our name to be the protectors of this great city.
 We speak especially for our officers and our firemen who constantly are putting themselves in the line of danger for us. And we ask you, dear Lord, protect each and every one of them and send them home to their families without injury of body or mind or spirit. In the name of Jesus, our King, amen. I pledge allegiance to the United States of America, to the republic for which it stands, one nation, under God.
 Thank you. Clerk, will you please call the roll? Durkee. Getsch. McNamara. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Elliott. Beck. Shirelli. 12 present. You're on. Thank you very much. We do have a quorum. Yeah, it can't be written like this. So motion to accept the journal. Thank you.
 Second. There's been a motion and a second to accept the journal. All those in favor of accepting the journal as presented, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye, 7. So public hearing scheduled for this evening. We do have several speakers that have public participation. I'd remind our speakers they have three minutes to make their comments. They start going over there a lot of time. We'll hear the buzzer and I'll ask them to wrap up. Our first speaker this evening is Prof. Youssef.
 Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. In the book of Ecclesiastes, the first chapter, 9th verse, it says, There is nothing new under the sun. What I want to speak about tonight, part two, endangered species. In 1973, the federal government passed the Endangered Species Act.
 It states his purpose to protect and recover endangered species. Attention, government officials. Our job is just as important as the eastern wood rat or the western snail, by the way. It's the ability of Eleanor's family to realize the American dream just as important as saving the Jefferson salamander or the smooth-sauce shell turtle.
 Is the ability to stop the frightening murder rate of 16 and 20-year-old males in Chicago just as important? It's time for our supposed to be leaders to propose a series of reforms that will protect jobs in Illinois. Do jobs count anymore? I say it's time to enact an Endangered Job Act, a program that focuses on saving jobs first in Illinois and help recover those jobs that have been lost.
 The structure of such an act should be done now, because he who hesitates is lost. Many of our society's problems stems directly from the job losses in areas where manufacturing was once strong. Community leaders cry out for stricter laws on guns, while others shout for stiffer penalties on those who commit crimes. Do you think it's merely a coincidence that society has
 broken down in places where the American dream is no longer alive, but a nightmare. Jobs mean hope. Jobs mean a brighter future. Jobs mean self-respect. Jobs for those who were born into a popular way out. It seems that jobs can't make it into the minds of lawmakers who decide what types of entities are endangered.
 So please take solace in the fact that the short air aisle is doing very well. I also want to congratulate all the students who graduate from high school and college. I also want to congratulate my nephew, who has 30 years as an officer in the Navy SEALs. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Thank you, Donald. Thank you. Our next speaker will leave. May have had to cancel, but he may be here, so we'll call in Joe Kester-Giovanni. Mr. Kester-Giovanni here. All right, next, Roland Bosco. Hi.
 Stupid Vichy Whale Roland Posca, my Rockford City Council speech, June 1st, 2015. The final question remains the same. How do we get the whole world to do the impossible? I am happy to report that there are many, many great efforts happening in Rockford. It's just you don't really hear about them anymore because of all the other stuff. Adding to the possibility of getting the impossible done.
 Also more good news. I am talking to more and more people who, 80% of the ones I talk to, want to do the impossible. You will get the invitation to come to Joe Marino Park on July 4th for an economic conference hosted by Fishy Whales. Regrettably, there will always be the 14% who are too sick
 too smart, some of them border on genius, to get involved with the impossible. However, fishy whale fin Bob Schlauber will never stop trying. Thank goodness. Remember to come to Joe Marino Park, July 4th. Write your speech at noon. Look up for a moment of interdependence with the whole world. 12.01 to 1 p.m. Hear speeches. Give your speech.
 How do we get the whole world to do the impossible? Thank you. Our next speaker is John Thompson. Mr. Thompson. All right, our next speaker is Paul Arena. Thank you, Mayor Morrissey, council members. Four years ago, a volunteer committee of community members, including neighborhood representatives, council members, city staff, attorneys, and even a former mayor collaborated to work on an ordinance that would address nuisance problems on rented property.
 A little more than two years ago, the council passed an ordinance based on the committee's recommendations. The residential quality support ordinance addressed the city's goal of identifying rental property owners and it requires them to provide contact information. The ordinance also addressed the concerns of property owners regarding crime on rented property. Property owners need laws that control disorderly behavior to be enforced.
 After the ordinance was passed, members of the RAA worked to help implement the ordinance. Groups of members worked with the software developer to ensure the registration system would work effectively, and it has. The RAA and the Realtors Association held several sign-up sessions to assist property owners with registering. Ivan went to the homes of some elderly landlords who could not travel to us to help them register. Those efforts were made to ensure the city realized its goals of a functional registration system.
 and we have a functional registration system. The parts of the ordinance we wanted to help deal with crime were never used. We have been told that since the ordinance was passed, the city cannot find property where on three occasions in four months behavior occurred that was criminal or that disturbed a neighborhood. Considering our high crime rate, that is hard for us to understand. Today, this council is considering an amendment to the Residential Quality Support Ordinance that expands the focus from criminal conduct to code violations.
 There is no procedure in the ordinance to address code violations. Including code violations adds nothing beyond the power the city already has to enforce property codes. This amendment diverts attention from dealing with criminal behavior, which is what the RAA had hoped the ordinance would accomplish. The focus now seems to be on registering more people and code enforcement. We would prefer to focus on crime.
 We supported the original ordinance and have worked hard to make it successful. It is not clear why we cannot try the original ordinance or negotiate a compromise now. I ask that you not amend the ordinance until what was passed has been tried. Once we begin using it, reconvene the committee to monitor the results. Only then should changes be considered.
 We have a lot of housing-related problems in Rockford. They involve all of us. We need to work together to encourage people to invest in Rockford. Thank you for allowing me to speak to you. Thank you. Thank you to our speakers this evening, petitions and communications. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager. It's an amendment to the development agreement regarding Forest City Beautiful Initiative. This will be referred to Planning and Development. Thank you, Madam. We refer to further positions and communications on the trailer. Thank you, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Scott Capovella, Zoning and Land Use Administrator, regarding the final plat number one, Xayah subdivision.
 that would be referred to the codes and regulations committee. The memorandum from Scott Capavilla, zoning and land use administrator, regarding the final plat of 2929 North Main Subdivision, referring that to codes and regulations,
 Memorandum from Scott Capovilla, Zoning and Land Use Administrator regarding the final plan of Rockford Rescue Mission Subdivision, also referring that to the codes and regulations committee. The June Traffic Commission agenda for the meeting to be held on June 10, 2015, referring that to the Traffic Commission.
 I have a memorandum from Joanne Lewis, Head Start Director, regarding the Head Start, Early Head Start non-federal share waiver request, referring that to finance and personnel. I have a memorandum from Marcy Leach. I'm sorry, I'm reading the wrong ones, Your Honor. I have a memorandum from Kelly Noakes, Assistant Operations Manager of the upcoming special events.
 why your cat they've fifth anniversary party in the alley Friday July 10 2015 the very club river jam Saturday July 11 2015 the booker fest Friday July 17 through Sunday July 19 2015 I have a memorandum for Mark Rose the land acquisition officer
 to request from Mark Donenbaugh, 1009 First Avenue, asking the city to sell two feet of its landscaping strip on the city municipal parking lot. That will be referred to the codes and regulations committee. Another memorandum from Mark Rose, land acquisition officer for Pond's Funeral Home, proposal to redevelop Henrietta School into a replacement location for their business. That would also
 referred to the Regulation Committee. Codes and Regulations Committee. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. Alderman Chiarelli read in the memo regarding Harmon Park IGA with Park District. So just read that there. And then the next one is a memorandum from Mercy Leach, Engineering Operations Manager, regarding Harmon Park-Diesman agreement with Park District. And both these items will be referred to the Finance and Personnel Committee. Thank you.
 I'm sorry, was there a head start? Oh, sorry. Yep, I'm sorry, there's one more here. I'm referring the attached request for an agreement with Hand in Hand Child Care Center to the Finance and Personnel Committee as well. Thank you. Mr. Platt, at which we'll be referring any further petitions and communications. New committee reports. I'm sorry, we don't have any proclamations this evening either. Wow. So, new committee reports. Thank you, Your Honor.
 I have four items. The first one, from Planning and Development Committee, recommends approval for the proposed development agreement with Frederick Green.
 for building rehab of 607 West State Street using CDBG funds to establish a barber shop. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number two, committee recommends approval of the sub-grantee agreement with Rock River Development Partnership Incorporated providing River Edge Redevelopment Fund Zone grant funding for the indoor and outdoor city market. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Number three, the committee recommends approval of the proposed development agreement with Joseph James Partners, also known as Joseph James LLC, for the redevelopment of 134 North Main Street as a boutique hotel restaurant and with retail use. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. And number four, the committee recommends approval of the redevelopment agreement for 1055 East State Street with Longwood Plaza LLC
 which is wholly owned by Zion Development Corporation, a local community housing development organization, using home investment partnership program funds. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. I'd like to suspend rules first and place these up for passage. Thank you. There's been a motion to suspend the rules on the new planning and development committee reports.
 and Rule 6a, and that was 1, 2, 3, and 4. All those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. No. I just have the rules be suspended. Thank you, Your Honor, that I would place these four items up for passage. Four items for which the rules were suspended are for passage, all of them in frost. Your Honor, you're still on Roman Rule 4a? You said Roman Rule 6. I'm sorry if I did. It was inadvertent. It was Roman Rule 4a. 4a-1. 4a-1, 2, 3.
 thank you mayor I think I'll have the privilege of potentially reading the longest amendment on city council history I'd like to move uh move to amend the committee report for the assistance agreement of 1055 East State Street between the City of Rockford and Longwood Plaza LLC to modify all sections with references to lot z and additional clarifications
 Homeowner developer sponsor sponsor rental rehabilitation program agreement modifications are article 1 shall read as follows the total forgivable loan amount provided by the city pursuant to this agreement is 409402 dollars and 20 cents
 The loan bears no interest and shall be forgiven entirely provided the property remains as it was originally intended for affordable housing pursuant to this agreement and other default occurs. The home fund shall be used for the A, rehabilitation of the property located at 1055 East State Street at Seth's Worth in Exhibit B.
 Article 2, Section 2.1E shall read as follows. Changes in FMRs and in median income over the time should be sufficient to maintain the financial viability of a project within the qualifying rent standards regardless.
 of changes in fair market rents and in median income over time. The qualifying rents are not required to be lower than affordable rent for the project. In effect, at the time of project commitment, the initial rent schedule and an initial utility allowance schedule for home-assisted units are attached here, too, as Exhibit E.
 Article 4, Section 4.11 shall read as follows. Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, applies. Section 3 requires that to the greatest extent feasible opportunities for training and employment arising in connection with the planning and carrying out of this development shall
 be given to lower income persons residing within the city of Rockford or metropolitan area and contracts for work in connection with the development be awarded to business concerns which are located in or around
 in substantial part by persons residing in the City of Rockford or the metropolitan area. Section A, Section 3, determination and definition dollar thresholds. The project is determined to be covered by Section 3 requirements based on the amount of HUD assistance the owner and project receive. If the amount of assistance exceeds $200,000, certain Section 3 obligations apply. However, as a developer, certain
 Section 3 obligations apply if the aggregate amount of assistance received by the developer from the city for all developers' projects with the city exceeds $200,000. If on the same development there are contracts and subcontracts in excess of $100,000, obligations will be passed on to the contractor and subcontractor.
 subcontractor. The developer also acts as a general contractor for the project. The amount of assistance need only exceed $100,000 for Section 3 requirements to apply.
 If the dollar threshold for assistance is met, section three requirements apply to the entire project regardless of whether the development is fully or partially funded with HUD assistance. Section three covered projects are those projects that involve construction, reconstruction, conversion or rehabilitation of housing and other publicly funded construction including other building or improvements regardless of ownership.
 B, compliance failure to fulfill the provisions of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968. As amended, the regulation set forth in 24 CFR 135.
 24 CFR 570.607B and all applicable rules and orders issued here under prior to the execution of this agreement shall subject the city subrecipient and any subrecipients, their successors and assigns to those sanctions specified by the agreement through which federal assistance is provided.
 The subrecipient certifies and agrees that no contractual or other disability exists which would prevent compliance with these requirements. We're about halfway done. Subrecipient further agrees to include the following language in all subcontracts executed under this agreement and will submit Section 3 reports as indicated in Section 8.6.
 The work performed to be under this contract is a project assisted under a program providing direct federal financial assistance from the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development and is subject to the requirements of Section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 as amended. Section 3 requires that to the greatest extent feasible opportunities for training and employment be given to lower income residents
 of the project area and contracts for work in connection with the project be awarded to business concerns which are located in or in substantial part by persons residing in the area of the project.
 Article 8, Section 8.6 shall read as follows. Section 3 report shall be submitted within 30 days after construction is 100% complete. For multi-year developments, a Section 3 report shall be submitted to the city by January 31st each year and within 30 days of construction is 100% complete.
 Article 12, Section 12.1 shall read as follows, and the procurement of property, labor, supplies, equipment, construction services, and selection of tenant households to occupy home-assisted units conflict provisions in 24 CFR 85.36, 2 CFR 200, and 24 CFR 92.356 shall be adhered to to the extent applicable.
 And also, I'd like to amend amendment of home owner developer sponsor rental rehabilitation program agreement. This is phase two. Paragraph one shall read as follows. The city and grantee entered into a home owner developer sponsor rental rehabilitation program agreement for the rehabilitation of the property located at 1055 East State Street as of May
 blank 2015. Paragraph 2 shall read as follows, an amendment is needed to increase the amount of home funds, $90,000, making the new total of home funds awarded to the project $499,402.20. The additional funds shall be used to address the gap needed for Phase 2 of the project.
 Home stretch is the 35 units indicated below will be home funded and will be designed as floating units throughout the period of affordability. Also to include the addition of a development agreement for parking lot Z and an amendment to the $480,000 TIF loan.
 When the new committee reports, oh, okay. I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports, Roman numeral 4A, item 4, to reflect the modifications to all sections above. Is there a second? Second. I move to amend the committee report under new committee reports, Roman numeral 4A, as reflected in the modifications as described. Is there a discussion?
 So under Article 1, Roman numeral A, the parking lot. Sorry, I let you portray the lawful. Yeah, this is homeowner, this is under...
 The homeowner developer sponsor rental rehab rental invitation program agreement modification. Article one, subsection one shall read as follows. And then it says home fund shall be used for the rehab of 1055 East State Street. But the purchase of the parking lot Z is not in there. Is that gone? Mr. Hayes.
 thank you your honor so all of you are correct the purchase of parking lot z has been amended out of the proposed agreement was reflected in all our magnum errors amendment and the revised proposal is a 15-year lease for parking lot c with zion having the option to purchase it at the original appraised price of 58 000 upon completion of the 15 years discussion
 Thank you. When I read this last week, there was a park that said that there was a $100 parking fee that Zion would be paying a $100 fee per year to the city for the parking lot and then further down it said $1. So which is that going to continue on for the 15 years?
 And which was the 100 or the 1? Mr. Cagnelli. Thank you, Your Honor. It's $1 per year is the proposed lease. And that will continue for the next 15 years also? That is correct. Thank you. What's the current lease, Mr. Cagnelli? It's $1 per year. Generally the same terms as the existing, though we didn't provide clarification that the maintenance of the parking lot is the responsibility of Zion Development. There was another hand up, Mr. Elliott.
 I'm wondering why we're taking the parking lot out. Sorry, I missed that memo. Thank you, Your Honor. So last week at the P&D committee, there was some discussion related to parking lot Z and the request to have it...
 in essence, have the home funds reimbursed for the $58,000 with the understanding that that was needed for the federal home bank application to be submitted as matching funds. We worked with Zion Development this week to explore those grant opportunities and have determined that a long-term lease such as proposed met that requirement.
 So we had proposed it as such so that they would still be able to get the full credit under their grant but also address some of the concerns that were raised last week. Thank you. Thank you. Other discussion? Oh, Dirk. So Article, just in this amendment, Article Section 411, Article 4, Section 411, that's an addition, right? Just a good number.
 Let me make sure I understand where you're looking at all the maturity so I can fully address the question. Are you looking at the memo from Attorney Vaughn to the woman back there? I'm looking at the actual language. There's an article for Section 411 that doesn't exist. I'm assuming that's in addition. Yes. To allow for the project to be directed toward low-income persons and businesses within the proper period.
 Correct all of them dirty this was all language that was not within the development agreement of presented and approved that planning and development committee provided by Andrea of the community that comes up with the department of Friday this is some of the standard on language that's required to protect the city centers related to the overall
 This is now, sorry to interrupt, but correct me if I'm wrong, I believe this is section 3 lane which is now mandated. That is correct. And then one final, the total home funds for the project is $499,000 and $402,200. But the loan amount is $402,200.
 So the 90 is not part of the loan, that's just a direct grant that was paid out? So this project is broken down into two phases. The collective amount of home funds is $499,000 approximately. So there's two agreements associated with the two separate phases. One would be for $409,000, and the amendment which is for phase two, which is for $90,000. Both are forgivable.
 How long it's over the period of the project. Five years. Should then, I suppose it's semantics then, should the total forgivable loan then be $499,420? In article one. In article one, paragraph one. I just can't get all your mistakes.
 you know we the reason why we broke this down into two phases was through some guidance with the hud office so that we could maximize the points we be in design development the city as they look forward with the grant application so we would have the ability to close out one project without tying both projects together so i think we have i think the question he's asking us
 will we, does the document also include the forgiveness of the second phase of the fund? I mean, it's clearly that they're gonna be given the whole funds in the phase two, but I would agree, I would see the same, I would see language about that extra 90,000 being for what is talked about in terms of the total amount. Let me confirm, Your Honor, but I believe that the reason would be is that, you know, we're looking off the amendment
 and we had backed out the 58,000 for parking lot C which was originally proposed for acquisition as part of this process. The original or the second amendment was already you understand what I'm saying? Distinctive, yeah I think so. So what you're saying is the language I'm forgiving the second phase of it is already hard to document that the original document is not published? Yes. Rails have any guidance on that?
 I'll take your word for it. If that's not accurate, I'm sure we can have any additional questions. Alderman Frost? Are we on to other items besides? I'd like to finish up any more again. On Longwood? Okay. On the Longwood Plaza. Then we'll come back. Sorry. Thank you. Alderman McNeely. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. My question is, what is the total cost of this project?
 Mr. Cagnone, did you have that? The total cost of the project? The total cost of the project is approximately $1.7 million. Thank you. Thank you. And Martin Lovewood Plaza. So the other questions open for us. I had a question about number two, the indoor and outdoor city market. I know I'd raised it last week, Mayor, when you were here and you spoke on it, and I had a chance to speak to Mr. Hayes about it, and it was specific to Roman numeral nine paragraph.
 see liabilities upon termination with regard to in case there was a termination, what the liabilities were for each particular party. I don't know if Mr. Hayes cares to address that now. Mr. Hayes, I don't know if, did you say you did have a chance to talk about that? I did. Mr. Hayes, could you clarify the language that was added in that last? So, I spoke with Alderman Frost and he has suggested the following amendment.
 that the language from paragraph 9B on page 14 of the agreement would be removed. That language is a phrase that states, and the RRDP shall be entitled to receive just and equitable compensation for any satisfactory work or services rendered prior to termination. There are a couple elements of what happens on default in this agreement.
 and this one offended the sensibilities of Alderman Frost and other aldermen regarding paying after failure for the items recited in that paragraph. That paragraph indicates that if there is a termination, all finished or unfinished documents, data, studies and reports
 prepared by the RDP under this agreement would be would at the option of the city be turned over to the city and become its Property the amendment would have that language remain This does not address
 brick and mortar type activity. This addresses things like architectural plans, drawings, engineers, things like that. There are market studies. The things we might need in execution of this part of the agreement where the city would be able to designate a different not-for-profit entity to step in and take on the tax credit cycle so there wouldn't be a recovery of the property from tax credit investors.
 Alderman Frost felt that the clause reimbursing for those expenses to RRDP was offensive and should be amended out. An amendment in that nature hasn't been discussed with RRDP, but he indicated that on failure that it would be appropriate to remove that.
 If the council's so inclined, and I apologize, I spoke with him just at the beginning of the meeting, but I've got a working draft of that I can produce and we can circulate it for the vote. So, Paul, do you want to make the amendment? I would make the amendment as Mr. Hayes has recommended by changing the language of Section 9, Paragraph C, as reflected by Mr. Hayes. Is it 9C or is it 10C?
 Are you talking about these as the provisions under default termination? These actually, Your Honor, are paragraph 9 under suspension or termination. And this is where paragraph 9IX, it's 9C in the draft agreement, circulated the alderman, addresses the liabilities upon termination. All right. So could you, again, go ahead and just read it in so we're all clear on that?
 The language to be removed appears at paragraph 9c, page 14 of the sub-grantee agreement. The offending language to be removed commences with the comma after the word property in the third line of that paragraph and proceeds. And the RRDP shall be entitled to receive just and equitable compensation for any satisfactory worker services rendered prior to termination period. Is there a second on that?
 I believe we already have an amendment on the floor to item A4, the amendment for the home agreement. This is going to be a second amendment. Let's take care of that first. My apologies. So we have the Longwood-Malazza amendment that was seconded by college. I had asked for the closure of the conversation and then we did. We did have a second one. So that would include the language that was maybe the longest time that we had to go through.
 Do you want me to reread it? Yeah, can you repeat that, please? Any more questions on that? I apologize for not being more likely to have a conversation with both of them. All those in favor of that amendment, please signify by saying aye. Aye. I say aye. We know the association is all together. But now that it's all been crossed, we're going to move to table number one. So there was a second on that. I'll make my point. Did you second it? I said it's been moved and seconded. Is there any discussion? No.
 I. So we have two amended items. They're saying is it okay to start with the M-9A-123 or none? Durkee? Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Abstain on two iron. Frost? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? Odom? Newberg? Beach? Yes. I just ask for additional questions. If there's no objection, I interject. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
 I'm not sure what the answer
 One, about three questions here. One has to do with the total amount of money. In the agreement that I've been reading, it just talks about approximately and anticipated. There's a number of like $2.5 million. Is that the actual amount, or is that what it might be, or could be, less or more?
 all it then a part of that question would be the other home issues of the consultant for the on the story tax credits looks like we're supposed to pay for that or for the design the tech design is that part of the two and a half million dollar project was that in addition to all of the best things right now it's great every day is for the
 the indoor and the outdoor market, because the outdoor market's already been built. Yes. So the dollars are already being consumed. The remaining dollars, I want to say, for the indoor market are approximately $1.2 million. Does that sound accurate? Yes. So out of the $2.5 million, the part that's not spent is approximately $1.2 million. Our cost to pay for the consultant that has been providing...
 services from the city is coming out of those funds, I believe, that Regeneration. There are limitations that the DCEO and administration is going to authorize grant funds to be utilized for consulting fees. What the DCEO and administration will approve are fees that relate to bondable capital expenditures.
 some of these consulting fees as we pay for consulting fees when we go out to a bond for certain elements of the bond issue, the DCL will say, okay, those can be grant fund eligible. The other fund, the non-grant fund eligible expenditures are going to have to be absorbed by RRDP through other funding sources. I hope that answers your question. All right.
 I'm not sure I've seen a budget on this one other question your honor has to do with parking Here with me, but I think number nine. Thank you for your kindness It says here that I'm on page nine of the copy of it's under under in and under oh so
 It says here that the RDP may utilize the outdoor city market space for programming during normal business hours with written approval from the city for the special events permitting process. I was unclear last week how during normal business hours, that would be Monday through Friday, I guess 8 to 5, about parking for the businesses down there along Madison. I wasn't sure I was clear with that.
 Maybe there's been some agreement already cut with those people. I don't know. But that's one question I wanted to ask. I think we covered it to some extent last week. Well, what Kathy said last week is they weren't going to do it. And so that's why I'm saying it's still here. I wasn't unclear. I'll tell you what I recall in the language here is that this gives them...
 approved through the special events permitting process other than normal weekday business hours space space is currently used for parking so in other words it's going to be used for parking during normal business hours if they want to make a thing specifically we talked about last week the most impact that any of the programming i can imagine would have on normal business hours they're already doing um which review
 we've handled already and got rules that we've been through the department that starts on Friday evenings so what we have discussed last week is they're not anticipating nor would the supreme anticipate any request that would disrupt our working day business hours if they want to come in and do something like they're already
 going to be starting these saturday markets or tuesday evening event or something like that they would have to come back and get approval on it through the decision thank you sir i think that's it any other questions hearing us or we're taking all of them i have a drone call 9 8 1 2 3 and 4 to have further discussion with our list motor home am i starting with beach i understood but i i just in case anybody what's that from a new world war
 I see an X instead of a V. Yeah, I'm sorry. Four. So maybe we'll just try to roll in a roll four and a one, two, three, and four. Yes. Those are all for passes. Clerk, just to make sure we got a clear record, clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Durkee. Aye. Getches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Beach. Aye. Ellier. Beck. McNeely.
 Roman numeral 4A, 3 and 4, 12 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 4A, 2, 1 aye, 1 abstain, 11, excuse me, 11 ayes, 1 no, 1 abstain. Roman numeral 4A, 1, 13 ayes, 0 no. Thank you. The matter is passed. Alderman Shirely. Thank you, Your Honor.
 could the regulations committee recommends sustaining the CBA's approval of a special use permit for a mural and a C4 urban mix use zoning district at 921st Avenue Morgan Smith for Rockford area Arts Council subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare
 The committee recommends sustaining the ZBA's approval for the modification of a special use permit number 12-13 to allow a religious assembly with parsonage and a variation to reduce the front yard setback from 20 feet to 10 feet along Hopkins Court in an R1 single family residential zoning district at 916, 920, 926, and 930.
 930 934 Harding Street 9XX 907 913 919 Hopkins Court and 1515 Clifton Avenue McClure Engineering Associates for Israel of God's Church subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance
 The committee recommends sustaining the CPA is approval of a special use permit for a grocery store that includes an outdoor rental and outdoor storage of light equipment trucks fans and trailers in a C four limited commercial zoning district at eight eleven Broadway Erica Sanchez applicant subject to condition the legal director should prepare the appropriate
 Number four is the committee recommends sustaining the LTAP's approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the Tavern Sports Bar with video gaming facility in a light industrial zoning district at 2315 Harrison Avenue. Brad Fosberg, Kelly Blomquist, and Nicole Grisanzio doing business as the Victory Tab Sports Bar. Subject to conditions, the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 5. The committee recommends sustaining the LTAB's approval for the modification of an existing tobacco license to extend the business hours to Sunday through Saturday from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. A denial to allow permanent bars on the glass windows of the building in the C3 General Commercial Zoning District at 2338 Charles Street.
 same are else gap doing businesses I S and H variety subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number six the committee recommends a staining
 L tabs approval for the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with the restaurant the sale of liquor by the drink in conjunction with an outdoor seating area and our one single family residential zoning district at three twelve three eighteen three thirty three forty spring creek road twenty three x acts of twenty three thirteen stone bridge closed any of
 BC s I ll see doing business as fresco at the gardens subject to conditions the legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance number seven the committee recommends approval for the request to repeal ordinance number
 to 0 0 9 0 5 0 0 19 15 20th Avenue groundwater ordinance and enact a new ordinance to prohibit use of groundwater as a potable water supply at 19 15 20th the former acne solvent reclaiming Inc site the legal director show prepare the appropriate ordinance
 The committee recommends reversing LTAP's approval by denying the sale of packaged liquor and the sale of tobacco products in conjunction with the convenience store and a C2 Limited Commercial Zoning District at 2209 North Main Street.
 Number nine, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of a two-hour parking restriction on the east side of Water Street from Market Street to 150 feet south of Market Street, thus repealing the existing no-parking, anytime parking restriction from Market Street to 150 feet south of Market Street.
 The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 10, the committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval for the angle parking on the east side of Water Street from Market Street to 150 feet south of Market Street, thus repealing the existing no parking anytime parking restriction from Market Street to 150 feet south of Market Street. The legal director should prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 11. The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval of a no parking anytime on both sides of Main Street from Green Street to Chestnut Street, thus repealing the existing two-hour parking restriction from Green Street to Chestnut Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 12. The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to establish a no parking anytime parking restriction
 on the west side of 3rd Street from Market Street to 100 feet south of Market Street, thus repealing the existing three-hour parking restriction on the west side of 3rd Street from Market Street to State Street. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Number 13.
 The committee recommends sustaining the traffic commission's approval to repeal the northbound one-way traffic designation on Main Street from Cedar Street to Green Street, thus reestablishing two-way traffic flow. Legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 14. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a yield control at the intersection of Northview Road and Harris Drive. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. 15. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish a stop control at the intersection of Packard Park Road and the City View Road. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 16. The committee recommends taking no action on the request to establish no parking anytime on the north side of 1st Avenue from 170 feet west of 12th Street, 200 feet west of 12th Street. 17. The committee recommends sustaining the Traffic Commission's approval to establish permit parking in the Municipal Lot 29 near the intersection of South Main Street and Norgage Street. The legal director shall prepare
 Your Honor, I place these items up for passage. The item for passage would be the amendment for the Code Regulation Committee reports, the new reports at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 15. I'm sorry, did you read 16 and 17 as well? Yes, Your Honor. I need to move to suspend the rules first. A motion to sign some other rules and all those in favor of suspending the rules, please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no.
 I just have to roll piece of that. Now I place those items up. I assert the passage of the item. Hearing none, the vote is called to roll. Durkee. Aye. Getchis. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelly. Aye. Odo. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Newberg. Elliott. Beck. Aye. McNeely. No, on three. Aye. Emery. Shwelley. Aye. McNeely.
 Roman numeral 4B3, 4 and 12 and 14, 12 ayes, 1 no. Roman numeral 4B8, 10 ayes, 3 no. The remainder, 13 ayes, 0 no. That is all passed. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Thank you, Your Honor. I have under C1, the Finance Committee recommends approval of the vouchers in the amount of $5,292,399. Thank you.
 Item 2 is recommending approval of the proposed amendments to the loan agreements between the City of Rockford and South Main Shopping Center. Increase in U.S. EPA revolving loan funding amount of $251,621. Item 3 is recommendation for approval of the master lease extension between the City of Rockford and 303 North Main Street.
 Item 4 is approval of the intergovernment agreement between the City of Rockford and the State of Illinois for the lease of office space at 303 North Main Street for the Illinois Department of Employment Security. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance.
 Item five is recommending approval of the fine reduction request at 1140 4th Avenue to $1,000 upon completion of outstanding violations by December 31st, 2015. Item six is recommending approval for the fine reduction request at 721 North Greenview Avenue
 to $1,000 upon completion of outstanding violations by December 31st, 2015. And item seven is recommending approval for the fine reduction request at 905 Haskell Avenue to $1,000 upon completion of outstanding violations by December 31st, 2015. I move we suspend rules on those items. Second. Thank you, there's been a motion to second the spending rules for room number four, C items one, two, three, four, five, six, and seven. All right, all in favor please say aye. Aye.
 I said places of the passage that is up for passage is there discussion thank you mayor last week out alderman her be brought up a question I think it was regarding number seven a person who now have ownership over 905 do they have other outstanding violations I think was her concern I think she read somewhere that they did was a big thank you your honor
 You're talking about the property at 905 Haskell Avenue, and the individual who's proposing to purchase does own other property, which includes the Elms Club alignment, who is currently code hearing the process related to some outstanding violations, which we've issued a permit for those violations, and he's under the process of correcting. He's been correct. Correct. He's been general. Thank you. Any further discussion? No, generally. None. Clerk, please call the roll. Thank you.
 Durkee? Aye. Getchis? Aye. McNamara? Aye. Frost? Aye. Connell? Thompson-Kelly? Odo? Newberg? No. Beach? Elliott? McNeely? Shirelli? Roman numeral 4, C7, 11 ayes, 2 no. Roman numeral 4, C3, and 4, 12 ayes, 1 no. The remainder, 13 ayes, 0 no. The matter is all passed. Thank you. Any further committee reports?
 I've got a recommendation for reappointment to the Liquor and Tobacco Advisory Board and Zoning Board of Appeals with your approval of Kimberly Wheeler Johnson. Her information has been presented and will lay over pursuant to council rule. Also wanted to reference that the new committee assignments have been produced. They will apply to meet new meetings.
 starting next week, June 8th. I have not yet, and I apologize, finalized the outside external board committee appointments. I'll have that done hopefully next week. If you have any questions, feel free to follow up with me on that. Also just wanted to make a couple of quick references. Number one, there was an action taken last week by the Winnebago County Board, a resolution opposing the plan or the plan
 was thought to be the plan for the Rockford Housing Authority on Newtown Drive. And I was disappointed that that went out. Number one, I didn't know anything about it and was not given a chance to respond beforehand. But number two, the actual, and I want to clarify for council, the Rockford Housing Authority has not yet submitted a plan
 to staff. There's no plan being reviewed. There's no plan that is currently subject to our June ZBA. We anticipate something forthcoming in the next couple months. Mr. Cagnone, I think probably July we'd be looking at action potentially. But there has been no plan given to the city of Rockford
 The other thing I would just mention, and it's been alluded to it sometimes in the past, there is certain zoning already on the property that would allow, if the rules were followed, a certain number of units to be built there as a matter of right without having to go through council.
 They would just have to get a building permit and the building permit request would have to meet other requirements of our code as it currently exists. We've encouraged the RHA, however, to submit a plan under plan unit development which would give more flexibility to the council and to the RHA and their partners to submit a plan. Hopefully that would be in the best interest of all of our citizens.
 So I currently, I completely understand concerns being raised by citizens after the action of the County Board. I received quite a few emails and contacts, much of which was based on old or simply fabricated information, not on accurate information. While we deal with a tremendous number of challenges with affordable housing, my sole goal as mayor is to try to make sure we conduct.
 any hearings or any discussions in a manner that is as accurate as possible and that fairly treats all individuals involved. So if there's questions on that, I'm happy to follow up, but that's kind of just to clarify the state of affairs right now on it. I also wanted to mention there was some comments made by myself and Chief Epperson last week
 At the end of the meeting, it was very late, and I apologize for how late the meeting ended up going last week, but it had to do with certain data that we are gonna be tracking related to gun cases in particular.
 And I would just encourage the council, if there's any questions that you have, either for myself or for Chief Epperson, any of that information that we shared, please feel free to follow up. Just for the moment, I would just say we've already been tracking data, as everyone knows, for years related to the conduct and operations of our police department and our overall crime rate. The only difference that we're going to try to make moving forward is to pull out with more detail specifically the gun cases.
 So when we have a gun case, and the gun cases are the ones that cause the most havoc, and are the greatest concerns, I believe, of our citizens, we want to be able to have as accurate information as we can that covers all aspects of the criminal justice system. So it's not just us making an arrest.
 we want to be able to fairly and accurately convey what's happening with the within the criminal justice system whether it's setting bond conditions of parole you name it we want to be able to make sure we track that because those are the cases that cause the most disruption and chaos within our community again i'm happy to follow up on that we've had some communications since last week chief epperson has with uh
 the Wannabeau County Chief Judge and we know, I think we're all on the same page in our desired goal of trying to reduce violent crime and I think we're all committed to doing that in a way that's most successful for our community. Finally, just a couple points about the state budget. The state has passed, not passed the budget rather, the deadline for passing a budget under the current or the traditional rules has passed.
 It's now in the month of June. So for all of us in local government, we've dealt with situations like this many years. There's an ongoing question about what the status will be to the local government distributed fund. And I just encourage all of us to stay involved in the process, to monitor the process. But we have a lot of representation obviously from our area down in Springfield. And from my standpoint, we're doing well.
 We'll continue to monitor and make sure we do everything we can to ensure that our revenues are protected and we can continue to conduct business in the manner that best represents our taxpayers.
 Thank you. One other point. There's a flyer that went out with regard to Gorman & Company. The agreement that we struck with them, you may recall, requires that they use their best efforts to try to source work from local artisans. This went out, I know, late. However, they've indicated to me this information went out late last week. But they've got a number of individuals signed up. This is their first what they're calling a resource fair.
 that will be taking place tomorrow. There's some information that was distributed in a media release on that, and the news I got later today already was that they had about 30 individuals already signed up to be able to make presentations to them about their capacity. And I'm looking at one other item. Did I mention there's a Historic Preservation Commission
 appointments as well. These will lay over for 30 days for Matthew Wolfe and Robert McCarthy, each for three-year terms expiring June 2018. For their officers' reports, Alderman Odo. Thank you, Your Honor. I spoke with State's Attorney Brescado last week. He would get back to me regarding the 2014 gun dispositions, and so I expect to hear from him about the
 probably within the next couple days he was busy with graduation I want to again announce the town hall meeting to address the violent crimes in the community
 auditorium June 4th from 6 to 8 p.m. It would also, the seating is limited, but we will also be, it can be viewed by live stream in the event entirely. You can log on to video.rhs.gov.
 and they will video it. I will also be sending out an additional press release or information on the confirmed speakers that I have spoken to that will be there. Tables will be set outside the auditorium and the county representative and a few aldermen that have agreed to be there will be taking complaints from the residents of the community. I also want to mention that
 to you, Your Honor. I respectfully will not accept the Vice Chair seat of the Polls and Regulations Committee. I have also talked to the Democrats and one Republican and gotten six out of seven that said that they agreed to me chairing the Legislative and Lobbying Committee, just so you've not given it to you at the last minute that change has been made.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just putting on my Park District hat for a moment. Tomorrow night at the music show in Simicidi Park, the Navy band is going to be playing a concert starting at 7 o'clock. It's part of Navy Week in Rockford, kind of leading up to the air show this Saturday where the
 The Blue Angels will be performing, I'm sorry, this weekend. So it's a free concert at the music show. I just invite everybody to come out and enjoy the Navy Band out of Chicago. They're an outstanding band and you won't be disappointed. And then next Tuesday will be the official start of the Music in the Park concert series with the traditional opener of the Phantom Regiment, also starting at 7 o'clock. And so come on out. Looks like the weather's going to be great. You don't want to miss that show.
 thank you Mary I appreciate your comments about that are actually proposal
 Do you by any chance have a timeframe of when you think we'll get the plan? I understand that we'll be voting sometime in July, but if being June 1st, my concern is that we'll get it at the last minute, not have time to bring it to our residents to share our thoughts or hear their thoughts and explain anything that we may know in more detail about it before we vote. Do they have a timetable for this? I talked to Mr. Kluwer yesterday from the Rockford Housing Authority and had formally
 he had indicated to me if he hasn't already that he wanted to reach out to alderman shirelli and other aldermen that might have already reached out to him about hosting a town hall meeting but didn't want to interrupt with individuals all of them odo i know expressed some interest on trelli i think that others had been hosting their own meetings so it indicated me he wanted to not conflict and want to be respectful to that but
 Generally speaking he said he would like to have information presented to the public prior to the formal submission to the city which would allow for community input on what finally gets presented. He didn't indicate a hard timeline, he just had indicated that his goal was to try to coordinate that as soon as possible to make sure it is those discussions that take place before it will be formally submitted for a ZBA review.
 which I'm anticipating that activity is going to be occurring any time now. So between now and certainly the next few weeks of June, I would anticipate something happening. But feel free to reach out to Mr. Kluwer directly. I'm happy to. I'll also continue to talk with him. I know Mr. Cagnone and our staff is as well.
 Thank you, Your Honor. Just for clarification, then, is the Rockford Housing Authority the applicant? Because there must be some confusion because Mr. Kuhler is saying that he's not going to be the applicant. It is a technique Mr. Cagnone maybe can clarify, but I do not believe they will formally be the applicant. They will be partnering with Boorman and Company, and Mr. Cagnone maybe can clarify precisely how that would work.
 I believe your response was correct, Your Honor. I anticipate that Gorman and Company will be the applicant as they are RHA's partner in the proposed redevelopment of a number of projects through it. Is there any way that I could request the contract for purchase of that land at this time, Your Honor? I don't know that we have it. It would probably be at the... I'm not sure if we have it or not, Mr. Kagan.
 we do not have a copy of the contract to purchase be happy to follow up with the government and RHA on the request we certainly requested my guess is it may already be a reported document that the county would have within the county records but we can certainly make a request when the meetings do occur
 Did we, Gorman and Company is the applicant and not the RHA? Or if RHA is a partner with Gorman and Company? I think they will both be. I'm sure they will both be present there. I think because the RHA is a partner with them. And I don't know whether they would be doing it under, I don't think their partnership is under the RHA directly. I think it's through some company that they have.
 That is my understanding as well, Your Honor, that the not-for-profit and the name is escaping me. As in Bridge? Bridge Rockford. Bridge Rockford, I believe. Bridge Rockford? Bridge Rockford. So I think Bridge Rockford and Gorman are Gorman and Bridge, and they will be the applicants. But we have not yet received the plan. That's just my anticipation. Thank you. Further officers' reports? Unfinished business. Revelled. Revelled. Thank you, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor.
 under unfinished business I have no business that was quick yeah thank you report are you going to just hold out the is it 681 it's under planning development committee your honor are you somebody messing with me around is it 681 yeah that's you okay I'm sorry your honor I jumped ahead of myself this time for once I am right
 Okay, under Code and Regulations Committee A1, committee recommends approval of the proposed amendments to the City of Rockford Code of Ordinances, Section 17-42, Residential Quality Support Ordinance. The legal director shall prepare the appropriate ordinance. Thank you. Under Unfinished Business, Rodeo 6-8-1, matters of passage is there discussion? All in the House, Kelly.
 There has been quite a bit of information going around. Some of it is factual and some of it isn't. And I do know that last week our legal staff gave us their interpretation of the changes and why the changes need to be done.
 I've gotten several phone calls as well as I'm sure all the other aldermen has as well. I'd like to request that our legal department give us an explanation of the changes that we are, that is before us this evening. Mr. Hayes, do you want to cover that? Yes, Your Honor. The changes encompass a number of modifications directed
 towards clarifying the ordinance. First of all, as it relates to the properties required to be registered. As you know, we've had great success with the registration. 14,000 properties have been registered. There's, I think, somewhere in the neighborhood of 7,000 different entities or individuals have registered as landlords.
 We do believe that there's about 5,000 more properties that are not yet registered. And part of the impediment to registering those is the definition of rent requires that the city approve an exchange of money. That's why staff presented to council on March 30th and to the Rockford Department Association folks gathered at Henrietta School its thoughts and justification for changing the definition to let's.
 which allows us to proceed with enforcing registration on properties that we believe we'd have a hard go of it as far as proving the rental relationship that of course drew out concerns from the rockford apartment association and others that that broad brush would sweep into it unintended groups so we clarified with a an amendment a couple weeks ago to clarify that
 single family owner occupied units would not would be exempted from registration. That means if a property owner lives in their residence, there will not be a registration required of that residence or that unit.
 By way of further clarification, if an individual owns and lives in one unit of say a four family, the one unit that the owner lives in doesn't have to be registered but the other three do because they fall under the ambition of the ordinance. So that deals with the side of the ordinance regarding registration as it relates to the definitions and what properties are required to be registered.
 At this point, though, we have gone on since April of 2014 for over a year, and the mandatory fine element of the ordinance is getting onerous, so we've asked discretion to fine up to $750 a day rather than a minimum amount per day as provided under the original ordinance.
 to provide some leeway to staff to make certain that the fine amounts for people who haven't registered in a timely fashion don't overwhelm our, the ambition of the alderman, which was to get registration accomplished, not to be confiscatory. And we've discussed that on a number of occasions previously as well. So that's the registration side. And then on the enforcement side.
 There were only, beyond criminal matters, there were only two ordinance violations which had to be investigated and cited by law enforcement in order to bring properties under the chronic nuisance ordinance.
 One was misidentified, it came to light. Rockford Department Association indicated that they had made a Scribner's error and identified the wrong reference in their draft that they presented and the council ultimately adopted. So there's some clarity there, but also city staff felt that there are not enough properties to qualify. There was a thorough review done by our IT staff and our legal department staff attorneys
 of all the cases cited over the last year, none qualified for referral to the Housing Board because of the narrowly drafted ordinance. There were just simply too few types of violations, again, that had to occur on three occasions, three separate factual occasions over 120 days.
 Staff's original draft of the ordinance, which predated the draft that the Rockford Department of Association presented and was ultimately adopted, that original draft encompassed basically the language that's before the Alderman for adoption tonight by way of reference. There was commentary in the Exchange on the adoption process that a general reference to things that addressed quality of life or ordinances that affected
 the offensive use of property wasn't definite enough. And so we adopted a list of items, an illustrative list of the items that we would use and identified now each of the different specific ordinance violations that would trigger, again, if they occurred on three separate occasions within 120 days, the chronic nuisance element of the ordinance.
 So that list exists within the ordinance now as well, so that people can identify what is the conduct that will trigger a potential enforcement on the ordinance. As you know, the ordinance requires the three separate occasions.
 violations whether they're now identified by our police department or by our other enforcement staff to have occurred keeping in mind that the landlords would have received notice of each of those violations as they occurred over time that on the third occasion within 120 days now what would happen the ordinance provides that staff
 may refer the item to the housing board. We have that ability now, but again, no property has qualified yet because of the narrow ordinance. Now we'll have properties that qualify. So they'll be referred to the housing board, which has been seated now, and that housing board
 will undertake a mediated process where they will develop, they'll have a factual inquiry of what occurred and what's going on, and develop a remedy if they feel one's appropriate. And only after a landlord has failed to pursue that remedy or attempt to pursue it will an action be brought against the landlord under the chronic nuisance element of the ordinance.
 So there are a number of steps that will occur before city staff is entitled to bring in a direct action for chronic nuisance property against the landlord.
 And so once that occurs, the landlord would have either failed to appear at all at the housing board hearing or they would have failed to undertake any efforts to enforce. I would point out that the ordinance indicates that if the landlord attempts in good faith to execute on the plan that the housing board sets forth, that they're entitled to dismissal of any charge that the city brings against them for lack of cooperation.
 It really is a collaborative process, a cooperative process. We can't succeed without partnership with our landlords, and this encourages that at every step along. I hope I've done justice to the amendments. That's what's before the alderman for passage tonight. Thank you. Alderman. Thank you. I make a motion we lay this over for committee for one week and discuss this more fully. Is there a second? Second. Motion second. Since this is a matter that's already been laid over, a full vote would count as a vote.
 discussion is understand the motion is to refer to committee here I'm sorry I want to set it back to you yes to motion I'm sure it's for the second is there discussion or not please call the roll motion to refer turkey get just make America frost panel Thompson Kelly photo no
 Newberg, aye. Beach, aye. Elliott, McNeely, Shirely, 7 ayes, 6 noes, Your Honor. Matter of moving for the committee item 076, thank you. Thank you, Your Honor. I have one item under unfinished business since ordinance laid over. That is an agreement for the funding in partnership with Winnebago County for the demolition of 1417 11th Street, previously known as the Tokyo Hell Spot.
 Place that up for passage. Matters up for passage, 7-1. That's a good discussion. Mr. Mason. Thank you, Your Honor. I had a discussion with the chairman this afternoon and
 The chairman indicated that there were some conditions placed on the resolution that passed the county. But I wasn't able to understand all of those conditions. I asked the chairman for a copy of that resolution. He said as soon as the clerk processed it, I would receive one. If the council would indulge me so that I know and can brief the alderman what the agreement is, I request we lay this over two weeks, and I'll make certain we get that out to the alderman as soon as we have it.
 apologize for the delay and your honor I think most of the way or that I'm not sure the second to the way or something also typically said I was the last of us to the resolution is called the red trail thank you your honor your motions and resolutions a
 one special event permanent SP permit for the epilepsy foundation Inc in Main Street district organization for the Main Street district block parties scheduled for June 13 2015 July 18 2015 August 22 2015 at state and main festival zone area number two is a special permit for edgebrook limited partnership for the edgebrook artsy art
 Show scheduled for Saturday, June 20th, 2015 from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. at 1639 North Alpine Road.
 number three is that SP permit requested by social tech pop for slide the city events schedule for Friday September 4 2015 from 5 p.m. to 9 p.m. Saturday September 5 2015 from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. and Sunday September 6 2015 at the Morgan Street Bridge number four is an S permit requested by Nick Saigon
 for the Murphy's EVO Festival EDM event scheduled for Friday, July 10, 2015 and Saturday, July 11, 2015 from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. at Murphy's Pub, 510 South Perryville Road. Number five is a special event permit requested for
 for Rockford United Labor Organization for the Labor Day Parade scheduled for Monday, September 7th, 2015, and follow the traditional downtown route. Approximately $5,000 in city support for barricades and police costs have been requested.
 Number six is an S-permit request for Vicki Billich for the fully support the Troops Ride schedule for Saturday, July 18th, 2015 from 11 a.m. to 2 a.m. at Murphy's Pub, 510 South Perryville Road. Number seven is a committee recommends reversing the Traffic Commission's approval of taking no, by taking no action on the request for additional street lighting along Madison Street from State Street to 500 Madison Street.
 number eight is the traffic commission recommends approval for the installation of streetlights in the one thousand block of north winnebago street number nine the traffic commission recommends approval of the installation of streetlights in the seven hundred block of north first street place those items up for passage runner thank you
 thank you Mary just for clarification up and a no vote on what does a no vote mean for number seven well it might be clearer for posterity to make a motion of men to approve rather than decline so you take into direct motion if the how it stands now I guess it stands now
 and that the no vote counteract the reversal suggested by committee would give majority voted no be tantamount to proving the item basically
 taking the motion to amend out of it and doing it all with a majority no vote. We would consider that if a majority voted no, that the item would be read in as an ordinance for approval tonight. And Alderman Shirely and I have had that conversation. So if there's a majority of no's, then the ordinance would move forward.
 Just as a point of order, would not require a majority, correct? Because it takes ten votes to reverse the traffic commission. So right now, when we're reversing the traffic commission to decline an item, it only takes a simple majority. If we're reversing the traffic commission to approve an item, it does take ten votes. In fact, if there was a majority and no votes in this, we would be...
 sustaining the traffic commission's position that would only take a majority of because the traffic commission's recommendation was for approval so it's the traffic commission's ruling that is if we're going to reverse it requires a super majority we only need a super majority to do something when the traffic commission says we should not
 But when the Traffic Commission says we should do something, we may decline that opportunity with a simple majority. Thank you. So my second question is, could staff, two minutes or less, explain our current lighting policy? See, two minutes or less, could staff explain our current lighting policy? I would like to stand at it and then turn it over to Mr. We passed in January, I want to say, of 2013 this.
 a lighting policy which identifies various practices and standards where we would add that there's a traffic reference that's now been given to the traffic commission to evaluate proposals for lighting so I asked about this which I get asked about fairly regularly
 Why does the city not allow street lights in the park? The truth is we do, we have to run it through the traffic admission before it goes through the council. There's a whole bunch of part of that to get some time to step in, that's the general procedural elements. There's some set of elements that are looked at, all the safety elements. I know the weight is on traffic and pedestrian safety, although there is references to overall perception of impact.
 Thank you. I guess I would urge my colleagues to vote no on item 7. We have a policy in place for our herd everyone concerns. I certainly have more dark areas. I've proposed a new notice of the law prior to my run. This one happened by the grace of God to get passed, and there's several really good reasons.
 Two, by our own downtown design team or planning team, Farm Associates has written this from industrial use to commercial use, where we have to begin to become more cognizant, not just of particular traffic, but also pedestrian traffic. This was brought up to me
 by our neighborhood association as well as a large business in that area about the darkness of the area. And I'd urge you to consider your vote. Please vote no against us. Thank you. All right.
 I understand exactly what you're saying, but unfortunately I can't. I have to support the traffic commission because I am confronted with residents all day long wanting me to know why they can't have streetlights in their area. And the policy has turned most of us down in requesting lights, where some of my residents are.
 because of the lighting down the street. So I understand what you're saying, but I do have to support the traffic commission that is turning down everything, really. Thank you.
 all of all of the manpower college I have 100% agree with you and I want you to support them because they actually said this light is needed so I appreciate your support as you just indicated you would support the traffic commission on this site so just really clear to say procedurally the traffic commission supported the application in this case it was the committee last week that reverted and that's what's up for discussion
 Thank you, Your Honor. As the alderman probably with the fewest streetlights in the city, this request, as Alderman McNamara has outlined it,
 we are looking at the city also through the lens of the 2020 plan and developing our commercial areas. I do have been down there at night. There are a lot of people. There are cars there moving in and out. And I think it's a, I would agree with Alderman McNamara, I think this is a good idea and a good use of resources. For discussion, 1-1-4-A-N-1-2-3-5-6-7-8, or at least call the roll call.
 Durkee? No, I'm a 7. Aye. M. Getsch? No, I'm a 7. McNamara? No, I'm a 7. Frost? Aye. Thompson-Kelley? No, I'm a 7. Odo? No, I'm a 7. Newberg? Beach? Elia? No, I'm a 7. Beck? No, I'm a 7. Aye. McNeely? Aye. Chiarelli? No, I'm a 7. Aye. In the remainder?
 Roman numeral eight a number seven nine eyes or excuse me for I know we need a 13 I 0 no it was a it'll be ready yes great nurse thank you your honor under a rumor roll for the
 He's not paying attention, sorry. Trying to pull a joke on Frost. So that would be Roman numerals 8B, item one. Committee recommends taking no action on the Harrison Avenue 20th Street to 9th Street application of the comment writer, LGC, as funding source for relocation of overhead and utilities
 And item two recommends taking no action on the North Main Street, Riverside Boulevard to north of Auburn Street application of the comment writer LGC as funding source for relocation overhead utilities. Item three is award of bid for North Main Street demolitions package B to Swenson Materials of Rockford, Illinois for their bid of $22,630. Item four is award of bid for Forestry Chipper to Vermeer, Illinois, Incorporated of Aurora, Illinois for their bid of $52,430.
 $469.14. Item five is an award of joint purchasing contract for one quint for station two located at 1004 7th Street with Global Emergency Products of Aurora, Illinois for a total of $960,634. I would like to separate one and two and then place three, four, and five up for passage at this moment. Thank you. We'll separate items one, two, or Roman numeral eight B,
 And take items 3, 4, and 5 first. Is there a discussion? So on items, Finance and Personnel Committee, Motions and Resolutions, items 3, 4, and 5. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatches. Aye. McNamara. Aye. Frost. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Aye. Newberg. Aye. Beach. Aye. Elliott. Aye. Beck. Aye. McNeely. Aye. McNeely.
 We're actually just taking 3, 4, and 5 for interpretation. Shirely? Roman numeral 8B3, 12 I's 1, no, the remainder 13 I's 0 and no. Thank you, Madam, pass. Thank you, Your Honor. Then I'm gonna move to amend Items 1 and 2 to reflect approval of the resolutions.
 For Harrison Avenue, 20th Street to 9th Street application and the North Main Street, Illinois Riverside Boulevard to north of Auburn Street application of the ComEd Rider LGC as funding source for relocation overhead utilities. Motion and second. So we meet at page 122 to reflect on the recommendations as opposed to both the Harrison Avenue application of the ComEd Rider LGC and the North Main Street, Illinois Route 2 Riverside Boulevard for the LGC Rider.
 Is there discussion? Yes, Your Honor. If I could just explain it. It was a 2-2 vote at committee. So in order to change it to something that we can actually vote to approve or not to approve, that's the purpose for the amendment. Thank you. Discussion on the amendment, all in favor? Aye. Sir, all in favor? If a vote is 2-2 at committee, then, and it comes out as taking to action, then who has the discretion to change the amendment?
 entire reading of a proposed committee into an ordinance by just making the change on the floor. Is that what happens when it's a 2-2 vote? So it's a no, so it comes out essentially as a no, all that back is simply moving to amend it to an approval, is that a no? So all of them back on the zone can make that recommendation, change it from when it's a 2-2 vote from a no to a yes?
 So the report comes out, any report can always be written on the floor to reflect whatever the council wants to reflect to change it. In this case, I'm going to rule that the motion is in order. The motion is simply looking to change the report to an approval. Mr. Hayes, any disagreement? No, Your Honor, but I would distinguish a motion to amend a committee report from a motion to reconsider a vote on an item.
 which generally require it requires someone from the prevailing side so this is shouldn't be confused with the most reconsider although it's similar in its action it's not the same device and that's why it doesn't require you know somebody who was in the prevailing side to make that change thank you thank you thank you sir so if the finance and personnel committee
 if I'm understanding this. Yes. And then it comes to the council, and instead of being the committee recommends taking no action, you can arbitrarily change your report. So why do we have committee meetings? Well, it's not arbitrarily changing. Let the chair respond. Thank you.
 I was trying to exert my role as. I'm turning off the microphone. I'm joking. His microphone is not off. I turned it back on. He did. Let me just make it easier. So let's say it was 3-2 against and all of them back was one of the ones and then no. All of them back or any other all of them in.
 make a motion on the floor to reverse the essentially recommendation
 and make it a positive instead of a negative. So the no action might sound confusing because it was a two-two, let's simplify it. Let's just say the committee had rejected it outright on a vote of three to two. He could still make a motion, and this is not any item of tonight. Anybody can always say, I don't like the outcome, I'm gonna make a motion. If that's the motion that's made, it's gotta be voted on. Once that motion, it's a motion to essentially amend
 then we would have to vote on the underlying change. That is very standard. That is not a surprise or any sort of odd change. The only thing that Mr. Hayes said that might sound different is the fact that it came on a two-to-two basis where essentially the evaluation was no action as opposed to how I know all of it and I get you.
 It was just my interpretation of the point of order on this from both Alderman Newberg and Alderman Frost's question. First of all, before the amendment is made, we're all going to vote on it.
 It's not like he's arbitrarily changed anything. The whole council has to take a vote to amend it. If he doesn't do this, we're in the situation we were in five minutes ago with Alderman McNamara's, where, like in this case, the way it's worded, if you are against the rider, you have to vote yes. So we're in that a yes vote is really a no, and a no vote is really a yes. This will  and I'm abstaining. However, the council acts. The council acts.
 It is much simpler for voting purposes if we make this amendment, and if you're against the rider, you can vote no. If you're for it, you can vote yes. As it is, you have to remember whichever side you're on, you're going to be voting the opposite.
 if this amendment doesn't pass. So Alderman Beck's not doing anything arbitrary, he's just saying, hey, here's this amendment, and the whole council has to approve whether or not the amendment takes place. And like the Mayor said, any alderman can do that on any item. My recommendation would be for the amendment just because it makes the next
 you know, the ensuing 10 minutes much more straightforward when we're discussing and voting this. Whereas a yes vote means you support the rider and no vote means you don't. I interpret Alderman Beck's amendment as being purely procedural.
 Thank you. Thank you all. One last thing since we're here and thinking about it. The Open Meetings Act also requires three votes on a committee of five to favorably report an item on a committee. So we could run into this with a vote, with a quorum of three and a vote of two to one, two being in favor and one against, but still come out no action because we need to move things to the floor for council action.
 is a no action under the Open Meetings Act and under the vote, even because it's a tie. So it requires three to get out, and this will be a common procedural method on the council and has been fairly common over our history. Thank you. Thank you. And by the way, just procedurally, in case anybody's wondering, in all the...
 appreciate the comments from mr hayes and waltman got just explaining it but assuming this uh motion is made but this one after we take this vote either way if someone wanted to delay the matter over i know there were some comments to me previously about it that would still be an appropriate motion to make at that time but this current one we have to address first which is on the floor thank you i just want to respond to what mr hayes said
 I thought it was definitely part of our policy and procedure that there are certain items that a committee, if it came out of committee a one to three vote no, then the item is killed in committee and then it just cannot be arbitrarily on the floor the next week, be reversed, and have the council get to the floor and vote on it. So, if I could, your honor. I don't think the chair is going to take it. No, we're basically going to supplement if I get it wrong.
 there is no basis that I can recall ever where we kill items in committee and they never come out to council. So items that get ruled on one way or another will make it to the council as a recorded item. In the event that an item gets stuck in committee and no one
 wants to move on it we in fact have procedures that would allow us and we've used this very rarely but from time to time they can pull an item out of a committee and directly bring it to the floor so there is no I'm unaware of any rule where we could kill an item kill an item that never would make it up to the council we could certainly go no on an item but the item would be reported as a no and then it can always be changed and we've got
 on the council floor. Theoretically, you can have a majority of the council that's in favor of it, but the committee not be in favor of it, so that's what our rules are designed to allow. And an item doesn't get killed on that committee, it can come out, unlike the state legislature, that some items can be killed, never surface, which goes to Senate executor, the House Executives Committee. We have procedures under Robert's rules that allow any of those items to come up. Following that procedure, Mr. Hayes, did I get that accurate?
 Right, so just to reflect on Alderman Frost's concerns, when we had a committee of four in planning and development and it was two to two, it was tied and there was no way to break it. So why does a two to two vote work in our committees now? Because they're committees of five.
 And the Open Meetings Act provides us that respite. What do you do with only two votes in favor of an item? It's not a favorable report. So it doesn't matter if it's 2-2 or 2-1 or 2, you know, whatever it is, any of those permutations. The Open Meetings Act provides in a committee of five the way to move it.
 So the solution, the sort of band-aid we put on our old committee of four included soliciting a council member to vote against their interest and to try to reverse it on the floor with this motion to amend. But that's why there's this recollection of what do you do on a two-to-two vote where you've got to do something special. That was from back when we were in our...
 in our planning and development committee of four and before the committee of five rules came out in the Open Meetings Act that gave us a way to report those out at two to two. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, good recollection. I had thought of clarifying it through that. Any other discussions on that? So the motion that's on the floor from all the way back is a motion to have a change of room number eight, B1 and two from denials to
 I'm sorry but I think I need some clarification to hear how with the committee for
 I can remember many times when we were asked if we weren't on the family side to change our vote to get it to the Council floor. We said it's not fair to kill it here in committee and now that the Alderman had the chance to vote on it. Now, I don't understand what that rule is. To me, I understood at that time that had we not changed our vote, that committee report actually would never have come back to this floor.
 it was the end in the committee so I guess I'm not understanding what I quite as for this is that that would come back we no longer have any committees okay but so what Mr Hayes explained his under the state law when you have a committee of five two to two does result in the same webinar that we had with committee of four said right Mr Hayes yes sir
 So that the 2 to 2 comes out like it is here and is a no action. Okay. And then allows the motion to be in order. But that's a very fair question. All in front. Not to belabor this, but what if in the committee, it's a committee of five and one person is absent and the vote is zero to four to approve an item?
 Mr. Hayes. It would come out just like this report does, take no action. Take no action. And any member of the council could move to amend it, to approve it and move it that way. So that motion amendment is used and back when it was a tie vote, we'd ask people to do it and if that, the glass we would break if that didn't work was to make the motion and take the matter from the chair of committee.
 And we've done that as well, although that's fairly rare. That's about once a year. Thank you. Yes, sir. All accurate comments, and I appreciate the confusion.
 I didn't look forward to the confusion, but I understand why some would be confused on it. Any additional conversations on the motion that Mullen and Beckes have on the floor? So the motion that I'll ask to vote, our council clerk to call for roll call vote is a motion to amend Roman Rule 8B, items 1 and 2 to show that they would be approvals as opposed to no action. Clerk, please call the roll. Durkee? Aye. Gatchas? What's his name? McNamara? Aye.
 No. Fost? No. Panel? Thompson, Kelly? No. Odo? No. Newberg? No. Beach? No. Elia? No. Beck? No. McNeely? No. Chiarelli? No. Roman numeral 8, B1 and 2. Just wait there's 6. 6 ayes, 5 no, 1 abstain. I have 5, 6. But is there 10? Oh, I'm sorry. 7 ayes, 5 no, 1 abstain.
 7 5 1 day in a motion carries so the items will reflect an amendment to an item set up for passage all of them in Newburgh I'd like to lay this over to the next meeting I have a motion and a second to lay the matter over because these are just as a reminder these are the first time they're up but because they're resolutions as opposed to committee reports we don't have them automatically so we would need a vote on the motion to lay the matter over
 I just I have a question I don't seem to understand that these are resolutions as opposed to ordinances? Resolutions as opposed to reports. So under state law, a report the first time it comes to council is subject to a review. That's not the case for a resolution. Mr. Hayes did I get that right? Yes, Your Honor. So in other words, it's not a committee report. It's not a committee report. It's a resolution of the committee.
 And again, I'm just repeating what I'm told the state law is. And what differentiated it from when it was in committee from being a resolution as opposed to a committee report? Mr. Hayes. Some items we require an ordinance, and those require committee reports to approve them. And many items pass based on resolutions that don't require a committee report to approve them.
 The mayor early on after we changed the purchasing issues to do more things by resolution was granting the layover on motion in second but is now tending towards the rules that require a majority vote. Those are council rules that can be taken up and amended by the council but it is, that is the purest and most accurate reading of the rules.
 that resolution wouldn't be subject to the state law, nor is it subject to the local amendment that affects committee reports, but not resolutions. This has come up in the lab just a couple times, all the time. Does this one resolution versus committee report have anything to do with ramifications of it being a tax or anything with respect to it involving any monetary amount?
 The monetary amount simply requires that you have to do it by roll call vote as opposed to voice vote. So there's an appropriate in order motion to, I believe it's lay the matter over, correct Alderman Newberg? Your request is to lay the matter over? Yeah, Bird. And it's been moved and seconded. Is there any additional discussion on the motion laid over? Alderman Frost? My only concern with why I'd like this,
 support Alderman Newberg in laying it over us. We've been presented with now a number of times talking about the same particular issue and I don't know about the other Alderman but any other information that I have with respect to this issue I don't have with me tonight. I did not know that the chairman was going to reverse the role and we were going to be voting for this
 item tonight. I don't think it's fair. I do know that the city asked the speaker to be here in support of it. His name is Joe Castrivani and he chose not to come. And I think that perhaps maybe someone like myself should reach out to him and see if he'd like to attend next week and still give support or lack of support because his being here, not being here tonight
 to me indicates a lack of support for this matter. I presume that's it, maybe something came up and he just was unable to attend. I don't know what the circumstances is, but he did come down to City Hall and sign up to speak on behalf of this matter and he's not here. So in deference to Mr. Gasciabani, I would ask that we lay this matter on. I'll just start over, Thomas Kelly. Got my name.
 I don't have enough information to make this decision after the discussion that we had a couple weeks ago. And we were informed by staff that if we were going to relocate wires, if those ComEd wires, if Comcast AT&T was on those wires, we would have to pay to have those put underground as well.
 and we did not, I did not receive any dollar amount what it would cost for additional wires to be put underground. We only got the 1 percent.
 for the ComEd wires and not, and we were also told that if additional wires are on the poles, we would have to do that and it would be at our cost as well. And I haven't received those numbers or how much it's going to cost because what I heard is not an actual amount that the citizens will be charged for this. Any staff want to comment on that? Mr. Hanson? Your Honor, we'll get those numbers to Alderman.
 Just to be clear though, is there going to be an additional cost as Alderman Thompson-Kelley alluded to? Because in no memo I've read, and I've read every one I've gotten, is there any verbiage even alluding to the fact that there's additional costs outside of what is explicitly in the memos? Does any staff have any background on that?
 I don't know what I don't know what that would cost to be for 18 to your camp yes I guess the question is that it's not part of our discussions previously I don't know
 I have to agree with Alderman Thompson. Last week it was brought up that any additional I asked about other wires that are on those poles and we were told by the representative
 that would be an additional cost. I at that time asked for an estimate of a cost of that and I also asked for an estimate on the maintenance in overtime that would be a savings like a typical year and did not get those figures. So until I get more figures, that's why I'm
 Alderman Frost. Thank you. I do believe, I must disagree with Alderman McNamara. I believe that in one of the agreements, and again, I don't have it in front of me tonight, but I believe one issue that came up was the cost of landscaping. So I believe ComEd was only going to pay for perhaps a rough grade, and then somebody else whose property it crossed would be responsible for the repair, replacement, and maintenance of the existing landscape. And so for instance, if you took a business,
 that had a grass parkway or it was cutting through their property and they had to come
 dig a trench, that ComEd would come back in and fill in the trench. But as I know from having a trench go through my yard is that's only half the battle. After that trench gets, they leave, you as a landowner have quite a bit of responsibilities and costs involved in restoring that trench back to its natural habitat. So I do believe there are other costs in there. And I think, as all the other members pointed out, that was discussed last week, and we have not been provided with any data or documents on that whatsoever. Thank you. Just a couple of questions, though.
 points of information number one one although we don't have the information I apologize tonight not in detail to the council's satisfaction it appears we have moved and relocated utility poles on several occasions and so I would just ask staff to make reference as we move
 uh was uh any time in the future frankly that we can make reference to those points so in south main for example west 8th street where we've already made the changes i have to imagine these all these issues were addressed back then as mr pittner our city engineer was here we'd probably do a better job answering i just asked him to be here next week when we were taken out i don't know
 comment and wants to be able to help answer this question but I'll call on our council members first with their hands up over and back. Yes and I've expressed my support for this and I will continue to vote yes but I certainly support the layover because I do think that there's more information that will be helpful to aldermen and make them sure that they're comfortable with their votes so even though I voted to amend and I think we would definitely have the votes on the floor to lay this over.
 thank you for the discussion all over turkey yeah one last thing your honor um if the city staff could also provide any information for the city laying fiber optic cable in these areas as well so the question is while we're moving homeless would we also be making those improvements yes sir thank you we'll check into that as well the other comments in the motion
 Just ask for a voice vote. All those in favor lay in the manner of over. Please signify by saying aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Ayes have it. Thank you. Thank you. New business. All in the gadgets. Please log my exemption on the last whistle. Yes, absolutely. Thank you. This tomorrow, all in the gadgets, will be an extension on that last vote. Mr. Hayes. Sorry to interrupt. So, um...
 I don't know where my mind was at. I wandered a bit. When I gave advice about the impact of a vote on the resolution, I took it as a committee report and I apologize for that. When the resolution was read in regarding the recommendation of the traffic commission, I had indicated that it would be read in as an ordinance. I failed to note that it was actually in as a resolution.
 Stand by my position that the vote can be taken as an approval of the resolution Unless there's an objection from the council. We'll just notate it and document it that way alternatively. We could have a vote to ratify that resolution Perhaps in the future. I should stand by my first inclination and ask that the motion to amend be done But I think for clarity that would be a better approach. I apologize for that So
 You're hurting my brain. When we were under... That was like an hour ago. Yeah, it was. Motions and resolutions. 8A7, yes. We just finished motions and resolutions, so we're on the same agenda item. But it was 8A7, and I apologize for creating that confusion. The vote on that would have...
 would have likely been better taken after an amendment. But I had indicated, and I don't want anyone relying on the fact that we'd go to, that we would go to ordinance on that, that was a resolution.
 And so the vote was a solid majority in favor of the Traffic Commission's recommendation. And we can just note the resolution that way. I didn't want anybody concerned that it's not being called as an ordinance at this time. Okay. Right. So it was a resolution. Okay.
 The only clarification Mr. Hayes is making is that it doesn't have a companion for it, it's related to it. It's all you need is that vote that we took out as the resolution. Is that fair description? Yes, Your Honor. Thank you. Any questions on that? So we're back at the Roman numeral IX, new business, full therapy. Sure. Thank you, I'll say. Under Roman numeral IX,
 A, 1, 2, 3 and 4. Number one, development agreement with the Frederick Green for building rehab of 607 West State Street utilizing CDBG funds to establish a barber shop. Number two, sub-grantee agreement with Rock River Development Partnership providing River Edge Redevelopment Zone funding for the indoor and outdoor city markets.
 Number three, the development agreement with Joseph James Partners, also known as Joseph James LLC, for the redevelopment of 134 North Main Street as a boutique hotel, restaurant, and retail use.
 Number four, a redevelopment agreement for 1055 East State Street with Longwood Plaza, LLC, which is wholly owned by Zion Development Corporation, which is a local community housing development organization utilizing home investment partnership program funds. I ask that we suspend rules first and then place these up for passage. I think it would be a motion and a second to suspend the rules on Roman numeral 9A,
 One, two, three, and four. Motion to second the suspend the rules on those items. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. I say after the rules be suspended. Then, Your Honor, I would place these four items up for passage. Thank you, Banner. Sound for passage. Is there discussion? You're done? Please call the roll. Durkee. Aye. Gatchas. Aye. McNamara. Frost. Aye. Connell. Thompson-Kelley. Odo. Newberg. Newman. Beach.
 Elliot back McNeely Shirely Roman numeral nine a three and four twelve eyes one now Roman numeral nine eight two Nine eyes three no one abstain the remainder 13 eyes zero now Oh
 thank you your honor under Roman numeral nine being one the CBA recommending the approval of a special use permit for a mural and a C for urban mix use zoning district at 921st Avenue subject to conditions but I believe this is correct unless council members object because these have already been published you can refer to them by
 from the world letter specific number you don't have to read every single one of those that would be wonderful so you would like me to read it in roman numeral number nine b one through sixteen fifteen fifteen suspended rules on items number one through fifteen second
 So under Roman numeral 9b12345679101112131415 you have moved to spend the rules on those items. There's been a second. There has been a second. All those in favor of spending the rules please say aye. Aye. Aye's have the rules be spent. Place those items off the passage Your Honor. Those items are off the passage. There's no discussion. Very non-clear. Please vote. Durkee. Is that a no?
 Aye. Getschus? Aye. McNamara? Frost? Connell? Thompson-Kelley? Aye. Odo? Aye. Newberg? Aye. Beach? Aye. Elliott? Beck? McNeely? No, I agree. I have remaining. Chiarelli? Aye. Durkee? Roman numeral 9B310 and 13, 12 ayes, 1 no. The remainder 13 ayes, 0 no. That is passed. Thank you.
 Thank you, Your Honor. I'd like to place up for passage Romero 9C, items 1, 2, and 3, and I ask for suspension of rules. I take the motion and second. I second the rules. I say aye. I stand. I place them up for passage. Durkee. Getchis. McNamara. Frost. Connell.
 Thompson, Kelly? Otto? Newberg? Aye. Beach? Elliott? Beth? Aye. McNeely? Yes, sir. Shirely?
 Roman numeral 9, C1 and 2, 12 ayes, 1 no. The remainder, 13 ayes, 0 no. I can't believe the mayor. Thank you. That's my hero. For the business and for the council. Very good. Is there a motion to adjourn? Thank you. There's been a motion. Well, let's see if we can adjourn the meeting. All those in favor, please say aye. Aye. Opposed, no. Aye, 7. Thank you. Thank you.