Good evening. I would like to call the January 9th, 2023 meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe you would like to read some statements. Yes. Good morning. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone that's virtual, that's not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council members as well as yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on specific agenda items, please submit your request to speak in the chat and directions to do so are located in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings.
 If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, again, please insert your name and address in the chat, and you will be called on during the relevant time for the public input. You will be given five minutes to speak during that time. For citizens that wish to speak during the privilege of the floor, please insert the following into the chat during that time, and the council president will call on you and you will be given three minutes to speak during privilege of the floor.
 To those who are virtual, please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you so much. At this time, we have an invocation by Pastor John Ward. Pastor Ward, come up to the podium. Good evening, everyone. Good evening. Let us bow our heads. Heavenly Father, as we start this meeting on tonight, Lord, give us guidance. Give us wisdom. Give us support so that we may come together as a whole.
 so that we may do what's right in the eyes of God and for the people of God. Lord, if there's anything that's not right in the hearts of your elected officials, Lord, fix it right now in the name of Jesus. Let them become on one accord, Heavenly Father. Touch their hearts, their minds, their bodies and soul, Father God. Let them do what's right, Father God, so that we can heal the city of South Bend,
 so that we can draw the people of South Bend closer together. In the almighty name of Jesus, I pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Let us please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. Thank you. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Henry's here. Council Member Lee. Present. Council Member Warner. Present.
 council member wax president council member white president council member tomas morgan president council member hammond president vice president niskowski president president mcbride president nine president thank you at this time i would like to state that if you are here for bill number 7122 under zoning annexation it has been tabled until january 23rd 2023 also bill 52-22
 has been tabled until february 13 2023 at this time we will have a report from the subcommittee on minutes report a subcommittee on minutes to the common council of the city of South Bend the subcommittee has inspected the minutes
 of the September 12th, 2022, September 26th, 2022, October 10th, 2022, October 24th, 2022, November 14th, 2022, November 28th, 2022, December 12th, 2022 meetings and found them to be correct. Therefore we recommend the same be approved.
 point of order i did not approve any of those minutes we haven't had any changes since the last discussion as i said last time what's in those minutes is just the list of the bill and the votes there is zero substance provided in the minutes if you look at the statutory requirement for the minutes it's section 5 14
 1.5-4, item number three, it requires a general substance of all matters proposed, discussed and decided. And in my opinion, just putting the votes who voted yes and no does not fulfill that. The bills, the bill titles are the general substance. I'm just stating. The bill titles are the general substance. I'm just stating my opinion and these are the council minutes.
 And it's. No, I think Council Member Warner has said he's not going to give a legal opinion on whether or not they suffice, but his representation is accurate. It's reflect just the bill itself and the vote. And after our feedback, we haven't seen any other versions of those minutes.
 then i think it's up to the council these are the council minutes and if the council wants to vote to approve them and believes that a vote is uh substantive enough and fulfills that then so be i think the recommendation comes from the subcommittee it does yes so so at this point time i have not approved and do not recommend the minutes okay according to uh luke brick who is the
 Information specialists, we checked with him and he said that this is what we what we are required to provide legally, that the bill title is the substance and the date in who was at the meeting because the because the minutes are because the meetings are on video and we can refer to the video. We can bookmark the video.
 And move forward with there. We don't have the resources. The resources have been taken from us to do a summarization or verbatim minutes. And so this is what we are doing with the resources that we've been allocated. So I got a few responses to that. Mr. Britt is a advisor. He's not the...
 deciding opinion on these and again these are the council minutes these aren't Mr Britt's minutes um and these are all minutes I will say these are all minutes from when you were fully staffed so um with that I think um we have a motion on the floor and for Council to of course to have the roll call to accept the minutes and um I think
 FERC Jones, you and I, we can have a further discussion. I believe we had sat down before to talk about the minutes and also probably would speaking with council and Mr. Britt. I know we talked about having him come in as well. So I think we need to move and let parliamentarian, do you have any input? President McBride, I don't believe there's a motion on the floor
 from any council member so there is no recommendation from the subcommittee i think that counselor warner had rejected if i was correct he just said he does not approve the proper motion would be to approve the minutes there is no motion out there to approve so there's nothing for the council to do at this time okay thank you for the clarification it comes out of the minutes committee
 which is committed subcommittee is the proper entity to make the motion to accept the minutes and there has been no motion by that subcommittee counselor wax and counselor warner
 yeah two on one committee for the minutes you don't need a full committee for the minutes it's always been two for the minutes so with each one of those they disagree with what's being talked about the council one would make a recommendation but both of them agreed to not move forward if one of them made a recommendation we would vote whether to pass or not they both opted to not make that recommendation okay
 Can I answer your question? No, it doesn't. Did Mr. Wax say no? Mr. Warren says yes. Have a split. It's a tiebreaker. That would be the full council. Amen. Correct. It would be a tiebreaker by the full council. Correct.
 Okay, that's what I was asked. That's what I thought I said. No, I didn't say that you didn't. I said I made it slow, and so I needed to clarify. Okay, thank you. Oh, and I would like to clarify, we did have assistance with the minutes when we were fully staffed. The minutes have always been...
 Because we did verbatim and we did summarizations of the minutes, it has always been extra, and staff has had to take the minutes home even though we were fully staffed. We did have a staff member that couldn't do the minutes because of other reasons. So we always, in the last year and a half or so, we've had assistance with the minutes. Okay. Thank you so much.
 for your um comments and it's on record so what happens if we do not vote any of these minutes until they're they're still posted um because according to uh statute we can still post them we just post them as a draft and not approved
 So they're still online. The video is still online. You can still go. You can see who attended the meetings. You can see who voted on which bill, how they voted, whether they attended the meetings virtually or in person, the date of the meeting, the time the meeting started, the time the meeting ended with the minutes. All of that is posted already as draft because we can do that.
 My question is for Bob, and I don't need to belabor this, but I've never seen this before, so bear with me. So if these minutes and so on are never approved, then what happens? I mean, as it relates to the work of the council and even the clerk's office. We're in violation of state law if the minutes are not approved. And so what is...
 that the remedy would be up to no the backlash is what i was looking for what's the consequence for not approving these uh if someone could uh sue the council for violation of the open door law so it'll be prudent on our end to get this taken care of as soon as possible because we will be the ones to get sued not the clerk's office is what you just said someone will be sued for violation of the open door law
 okay like I said this is untried territory for me yeah it is yeah according to the uh public access counselor minutes are reasonably expected to be turned around within 14 days sure sure I was but I the the acknowledgement of not wanting to go forward with it because something is not done the right way or done the way that we want them done or whatever that is
 I just wanted to know what the consequence was as it relates to the state and how we were supposed to. We have a mandate. We have to do certain things. So, OK. Thank you, sir. Thank you. I'm sorry. Don't you have to be fixed with just adding a few sentences of just the general substance?
 During this bill was raised and the topic of affordable housing was asked and answered, and this was asked and answered, and it could be fixed with just some general substance. Look, I'm not going down those streets. I just wanted to know what was the parameters and how this works, the law, and who is the one that would suffer the consequence. It sounds like the council would. And so my idea would be to get this taken care of before we get sued.
 Thank you. I will move on. There are no special business. There are no reports from the city at this time. I would now entertain a motion to resolve to the Committee of the Whole. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis.
 Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nieskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. The Committee of Whole is in session. We have to read this procedure as stated in Section 211. It says, the clerk shall read each title,
 by each bill by title only. The chairperson of the council standing committee to which the bill was sent shall give a report on the recommendations from the committee. A formal presentation of the bill shall be made, which is not subject to time limitation. Common council members shall have the right to ask two preliminary questions to the presenters immediately following the close of the formal presentation on the bill.
 Members of the public supporting the bill shall have the opportunity to address the council. Each member of the public shall be required to state his name or her name and residential address, or in the case of a proposal made on behalf of an entity other than a natural person, or on behalf of a group of individuals, that person and or their agent shall state his or her name and business address or record prior to making remarks
 in support of the bill. Each member of the public speaking in favor of a bill should be limited to five minutes. If the formal presentation against the bill under consideration, the person or agent speaking on behalf of such a remonstrance group shall not be subject to time limitation.
 Therefore, each member of the public speaking in opposition shall be limited to five minutes for his or her presentation. Each member of the public shall be required to state his or her name or residential address or in the case of the proposal may behalf of an entity or other than a natural person or on behalf of a group.
 of individuals that person or their agent shall state his or her name and business address for record prior to making remarks in opposition of the bill. Each member of the public shall, in opposition of the bill, shall be limited to five minutes. The remonstrance period following any formal presentation against the bill under consideration shall not exceed the time used by members of the public who spoke in favor of the bill or shall be limited to 30 minutes, whichever is greater.
 There shall be an automatic five-minute rebuttal period for the person or the persons who made the formal presentation on the bill under consideration, after which the public portion of the hearing is closed. Following the public portion, then council portion, then takes place where members of the council debate, ask questions, make motions on the bill under consideration. Each bill must have a motion addressing the disposition of the bill, as it is then sent to the full council for final action.
 In compliance with the governor's executive orders, the South Bend Common Council will be legally held by way of virtual meeting using Microsoft Teams app. The Committee of the Whole notes how residents can participate for the public portion as follows. The public can participate in the meeting by following the directions in the chat.
 section in the Microsoft Teams app. At the link provided by the city clerk, any member of the public wishing to speak in favor or opposition to the bill must indicate their desire prior to the close of the public hearing. In order to speak in favor against the bill, you will need to state your name and address as is also required to speak at an in-person meeting. The city clerk will inform the chair of the Committee of the Whole in which order to proceed.
 to address each person in order with a time limit of five minutes. The meeting of the whole is now in session. This is the portion of the council's meetings where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. On our agenda, we had Bill 52-22. It has been tabled.
 on our agenda uh bill 69-22 I'm sorry bill 52 22 was continued to February the 13th oh I'm sorry sorry table the February as requested by the petitioner okay now bill 69-22 we've already had the public um input and so now the only thing is for Council uh discussion and so
 presenters will now um give their name and address yeah okay clark jones would you please re uh give uh bill 69-22 a second reading 69 22.
 6922 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1405 portage avenue councilman district number one in the city of south indiana. All right, chair on border.
 This is not scheduled for public hearing as stated in the agenda. The prior agendas that had been sent out to the public and to council indicated that this was only for third reading, not for public hearing. So there's nothing improper with letting them make their presentation and then the
 committee of the whole will make its recommendation to the full council after the third reading okay my only point is that there is no public hearing as stated okay that's why i was disclosing that it's only in discussion but yeah all right miss smith angela smith the zoning administrator with the office is located in the 14th floor of this building i'm only here to answer any questions you may have unless you want a refresher on what the bill itself is well
 refresher sorry the property is the portage the corner of portage and elwood they're seeking a special exception at zone neighborhood center seeking a special exception for um a vape smoke and tobacco shop in the nc neighborhood center district this came to you from the board of zoning appeals with a favorable recommendation and we have had some work done by the facade grant
 program which they're looking to do improvements and so the updated site plan I believe was circulated to Council as well as some proposed elevations other than that this came to you from the board zoning appeals with a favorable recommendation I'd be happy to answer any questions the petitioner is here if you have any questions of the petitioner as well additional give an opportunity to say something and you know what our discussion or is that is that proper Bob
 My name is Praveen Gulati and I'm from Peak Investment and Asset Management. So, Honorable Common Council, City Clerk and Zoning Staff, I'd like to reiterate that we respect the process and the vote. But I'd like to say a few things here. That the intended use is for over 21-year-old group people.
 and the use is legal in the city of South Bend and the state of Indiana. And the building is in a shape that it is in the three sections, you know, and those are having, you know, red bearing wall. Unless you tear this building down and try to have something else there, you cannot make use of this building.
 So we have committed to the improvement plan. It is all there. And there are restraints from the previous owners of the buildings. It was a Speedway Corporation. They used to have a gas station and a little car repair shop there. So in order to
 uh restrain the competition they put a lease deal restriction that it cannot be used for fuel station it cannot be a grocery store it cannot be a you know like a dairy store so considering the building in question right there uh you know we we see only two uses
 One is that we have a quick service restaurant or a web shop. So in order to have a quick service restaurant, I talked to the zoning staff. They said this place is a neighborhood district for pedestrian. It cannot be authorized for a drive-through. It is under your city's manual or whatever the laws and the rules you have.
 And then other than that, this is the only use we have. And this place is closed for 10 years. We want to open it. I have the operators here. They have three different, you know, outfits in Indiana, very successful operation. So under these circumstances, you know, either, you know, as Councilman Lee said last time that we have a better use,
 But I want to know what is that better uses, you know, and 97, 98% of the franchises are saying that, you know, you have to have a drive through in order to do a quick service restaurant.
 and we have surveyed it we have done our due diligence and that is the only in in in the shape and manner this building is and it is closed for several years that is the only use we can do so rest is up to the council to decide I I mean this is what I have to say thank you thank you council member if you have any question you can ask council members do you have any any statements
 like i said we've already done the public portion we've already had those who was against it we always had though we already had that discussion part now it's it's we didn't vote on it because we wanted to give it more time and and and and see if we can come up with a better use for the the facility um and the statute for special exemption is for alcohol and tobacco
 And the reason why they allow that to be there is so that the community does have an opportunity or the council has the opportunity to say what goes into a neighborhood. And one of the things that we have talked to neighbors and people have spoke out against it, it was that the neighbors are looking for something that's going to help lift the neighborhood up. And they don't feel that a vape shop is what would be good for the neighborhood and what it attracts.
 i'd like to hear any other council members that would like to make a statement councilman chair i was just are you open to a question yes i uh the question i wanted to ask when we tabled this last time i think the request was to that there be conversations with the neighbors has that happened
 Can you report on that? We've talked to various people from different parts of the first district, especially in that area. And many people would like to see something that's going to lift the community up, something that's going to not bring it down, not bring another negative element to the community. And so as I've talked to different people, that's been what they've said to me.
 and we even had people that spoke out against it in the council meeting yes angela can you address the restrictions that were mentioned
 In relation to the drive-thru? In relation to that property as a whole. Like, what can it be? So there are some deed restrictions which go outside of the zoning enforcement. So those wouldn't be for us to enforce. In terms of a drive-thru, a drive-thru would also be a special exception. So it would come in front of the council if there was going to be a drive-thru restaurant. Not sure the site's really big enough for that. But it would be a special exception.
 okay thank you the other question i had is there has been a um a gentleman with a smoker and kind of a portable restaurant kind of food um are there people that are interested in utilizing that property for other purposes that that information could be shared or
 i think that there we we we've talked the city and there may be some ways to incentivize something that's going to lift the neighborhood up there are people who may be interested in pursuing an opportunity there uh again that that comes down to financing and all of that but as far as what with transformation ministries down the street with
 The issues that we have with the liquor stores and the gas stations and all of that stuff, the residents didn't feel like they wanted something that was going to continue to compound the issue. Any other questions? I just have one for clarification because I thought I heard two different things. So the special exemption is for liquor stores or restaurants.
 tobacco or is it not for this type of establishment? That's not what they're requesting tonight. That's the type of retail, like they're only requesting a special exception for smoke, vape, and tobacco. They're not asking for liquor store tonight. But they have to have the special exemption in order to have that type of business there. If they wanted to, yes. I believe that's probably excluded under their deed restrictions if I recall. So, so.
 this would only this as i mentioned on the other special exceptions special exceptions are a little bit different than zoning and that it would only allow the specific use to which the council was reviewing and would be subject to what was presented if there's no other discussion yes yeah sure um i i you left here last time because i remember i remember voting against it not because of the business because of what you guys were planning to do
 Your conversation with the business owner, because I left with the impression on the record that you were going to speak with the business owner about alternative uses, perhaps, you know, a certain time of selling of the tobacco products. I don't know. What was that conversation like? We did not. We did not say that we would meet with the business owners about certain times. No, no, I didn't say that. I said that.
 For example, what I'm asking you, what was your conversation with the business owner? When we met with the business owner, we did talk to him about other opportunities of another type of business that would be something that could lift up the neighborhood. And we did have that discussion. And the result of the discussion was? It will be determined on the things that the city would be willing to help with. And again, that was discussed.
 To see if there was interest, because there is a person who's selling barbecue there in the in the the business owner, sir. I'm asking what is the conversation with your business owner? What was it like? What was he would like to put the bait shop there? I'm sorry. His conversation was he would like to put the bait shop there.
 and he wasn't willing to change based upon what you think it should be and it's still at the end of the day was i i have i i could have a sign least and have a vape shop here and we could could start uh getting getting the vape shop there
 So I would like to entertain a motion. You can't do that. I'm not done talking. Okay. First of all, Mr. Davis. But you can't do that. You opened the forum for people to ask questions and then you're cutting me off. You were sitting. I wasn't done. I was waiting for you to complete your response. Are you finished? Mr. Davis. Oh, I have a lot to say. So when you had your conversation and the conversation did not go the direction that you desired it to go, did.
 So you're at a stalemate with the business owner about whether the use of this property should be a vape shop or not? Or did the conversation end amicably? The conversation was I would like to put a vape shop in there. I said that before. What I would love for us to be able to work together to find something to put in that area that's going to help lift the neighborhood up. And so with the residents. Yes.
 Oh, I'm not stepping on anything. I was just wondering what the conversation was. That was the conversation. I'm sorry? I said that was the conversation. Okay, so you keep saying something. We need something there that's uplifting to the neighborhood. What is something? Can you define that for me, please? I would say...
 Because there is someone already selling barbecue. There could be a Subway. It could be a Little Caesars. It could be something that's going to be positive and not something that's going to continue to draw negative feedback.
 negative crowd to that area. So again, we're very much interested in having a conversation, seeing what, what we could do as, as a city working together. And my statement to the owner was, this is an opportunity that we could do something that's going to lift the community up. Would you be willing to, to, to partner with the city and we find something that's a better fit than a vape shop? You know, um,
 When you define something or whatever that is, the market, now I've talked about this before, has to suggest the things that you are defining as something. This gentleman is an investor. You cannot redefine what the elements are already saying in that particular area. If the area is low income, then you're not going to be able to define what the elements are already saying.
 Chances of you bringing in a Taj Mahal are next to zero. It's just how the market goes. It performs with the demographic and the value of the particular area. There's nothing you can do to change that. So are you saying because this is an African-American area or a place that has been, that has had some downturn that the only we should accept is,
 Just anything in our neighborhood? No, sir. What I am saying to you is that in order to get that area the way that you desire it to be, the way you vision it, it should be. There's a number of things that are going against it. One is the school that was shut down down the street, which is called LaSalle.
 The other issue that you have in that area is called traffic. Earlier, there was a presentation from Property Vacation and another committee, Property Vacation, and they talked about the traffic riding up and down the alleyway. That same logic has to be applied to when you're talking about Lincoln Way, you're talking about Western, you're talking about Portage and other areas that are considered corridors. So in order for you to realize that,
 new development at a higher level, your traffic count has to be high. OK, it has nothing to do with being black or being white or any ethnic group. It has everything to do with what the the the outliers, economic outliers are saying to you. Your economic outliers are not saying that this area is primed for high development.
 So in order for you to get to the high development, you can't tell small business investors. No, because they are going to bring traffic to the area, which will increase the dollar amount for that area. So, no, it has nothing to do with race. It has everything to do with what the market and how the market performs in certain areas, for instance.
 When Mr. Walker thought it was a great idea to open their streets up, you started seeing a lot more volume of traffic. You started to see a lot more investment into the area. You started to see tax based expansion when you saw the city of South Bend take their corridor streets down.
 and decrease the width of them, you started seeing businesses move out. It has nothing to do with race. It has everything to do with what the atmosphere, the economic outliers say to you. So no, it's not a racial conversation, sir. It's a fact conversation. So at what point do we not ask our community to tell us what they want in the neighborhood and there's certain things that they don't? I think we need to be more realistic. So when we go about our council business-
 When we go about our council business, it is up to the representative to demand better from the playing department based upon those areas. And then when we talk about the expansion of TIF districts and how money is actually being invested in those areas as it relates to infrastructure, we have to ride those issues to ensure. Sure.
 successful investment in those areas. That's how you get it done. Okay. From where we sit at. But the other way to get it done is ensuring. We have to move on. Well, you asked. I'm trying to finish out. Give me 10 more seconds. We're good. Give me 10 more seconds. You've had way over five minutes. So we're going to move. I will now entertain a motion regarding this bill. Move for favorable recommendation. All right. It's been a motion and second. Clark Jones, please call the roll.
 council member lee nay council member warner nay council member wax council member white nay council member tomas morgan nay council member hammond aye vice president miskoski nay council member davis aye president mcbride president mcbride can you call the role again for me please yes council member lee nay council member warner
 Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Nay. Councilmember Thomas-Morgan. Nay. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Nay. Councilmember Davis. Aye. President McBride. Aye. We have four ayes and five nays. Bill 69-22 will be sent to the full council with the chair.
 That motion fails, so there needs to be another motion for either a no recommendation or an unfavorable recommendation. Chair, can I add a comment? Yes. I just want to, there are a couple of things that I'd like to say here. So I drive this corridor frequently and
 um it's it's a challenged area we know that um there's an alcohol store there's a liquor store there are two convenience stores i'm not sure about the second one but at least one of those has does have tobacco sales there are
 to gas and automotive related businesses in that area. And so what is challenging to me is the kinds of businesses that are currently there and how they serve this lower socioeconomic area in our city.
 What we know about research on this is that tobacco retail shops and specialty vapor shops are disproportionately present in neighborhoods where socially disadvantaged youth and families live. So this is not just a special exception request, in my opinion, but it's also a policy issue, and it's related to health equity and environmental justice.
 And it's about seeking ways to limit the density of tobacco related retail and vapor shop outlets in lower socioeconomic status neighborhoods. And so for those reasons, I have a real problem with this development in this part of the city. I will entertain another motion.
 I'd like to move that we send Bill 69-22 to the full council with an unfavorable recommendation. Second. With a motion and a second, Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Nay. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Nay. Council Member Lee. Aye.
 aye president mcbride aye seven eyes this will be sent to the full council with unfavorable recommendation bill 71-22 has been tabled until continued i'm sorry i'm sorry until january the 23rd and so clerk jones would you please give bill 70 uh 74-22 a second reading
 7422 public hearing on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 505 ireland road 4412 fellow street and 4422 fellow street councilmanic district number five in the city of south indiana
 All right. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill number 7422 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the community as a whole with a favorable recommendation.
 Petitioner present, I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us. Angela Smith, zoning administrator, City of South Bend, office is located on the 14th floor of this building. The property in question is 505 Ireland 44112 and 4422. That's three parcels as noted by the three addresses. And it's at the corner of Fellows and Ireland. See if my presentation will keep going. We lost connection here.
 The city wants to keep kicking me off of wi-fi, sorry.
 The property owner has an existing business and building located on the southern two lots, has acquired the northernmost lot quite some time ago, and is looking to do an expansion of what they have and replicating the type of use that they have, the offices. This is slightly different than what you normally see from us. Generally, when we have a commercial expansion, we're really concerned about how it might impact their surrounding neighbors. In this case, we're
 As we showed earlier today, there is a city retention area just north of the site, and then the city public golf course to the east, which really prevent this commercial from expanding much beyond its current footprint.
 You can see here that it's in a commercially, a suburban kind of commercial area. The property on the west extends commercial to about the same location. And then you have some commercial properties across the street. The existing building is kind of more residential in character, which is part of the written commitment request is for a hip or gabled roof to kind of replicate this building and make sure we get something appropriate at the transition to the neighborhood.
 the existing property occupies the area here and the red outlet outline and the expansion would be kind of a duplication of that to the north the sea commercial will allow them to do that in the configuration that's consistent with what they had previously this comes to you from the plan commission with a favorable recommendation subject to the following written commitments one all buildings shall have a hipter gabled roof and two drive-through facilities shall be
 not be permitted. I'd be happy to answer questions. The petitioner is here as well. Petitioner, would you like to say anything? Good evening, members of the council. My name is Mark Machica. I live at 19110 Farmington Lane on the south side of South Bend. We built the original building in 2006 with myself and two business partners. This is currently the only real estate that we own commercially.
 and have owned the residential lot since 2015 when we bought it from Ray Unruh. We would like to continue our investment in the south side, adding we feel like there needs more opportunity for professional services, and this type of building is perfect for that type of opportunity.
 The adjacency to the golf course makes it an attractive professional location. We did spend time walking the neighborhood and speaking to the neighbors. We were able to speak with four of the seven houses just to the north,
 and all of which had no objections. Several made comments on the architecture and the quality of the existing building and our commitment to replicate that in a second building. The only negative was a mention of traffic, and we're going to keep the entrance where it is so no traffic would progress down Fellows any further than it already does to enter the current building. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions for the petition at all?
 At this time, we'll go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 74-22? There is no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in favor of this bill. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one from the virtual public that is expressing interest to speak in opposition of this bill. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 74-22 is now closed.
 Council members, would you like to make any statements? Yes, absolutely. But Eli is his district, so he can go first. He had his hand up. Sorry. That's all right. Thank you. I just wanted to thank the petitioner for his previous investment in Southside, Southman generally, but Southside is special to me, obviously, and his continued commitment to invest. I just want to wish you success in your investment. Thank you.
 yep mr davis i echo the same sentiments that he just um um he just conveyed to you but i wanted to uh go a little bit deeper um several years ago there was a plan to take out the entire corner those houses turn into some type of like highway system
 I work really hard with the folks on fellow street to stop that plan. As a matter of fact, we not only stopped the plan, but we were able to get curbs and sidewalks in the area to make it more walkable, which obviously helps what you're doing right now as it relates to what we just finished talking about the gentleman prior to this particular bill. It is a part of development and how development works. You couldn't do what you're doing right now without highway,
 going through with all those houses missing. So in order to just have to save that neighborhood that could have not existed. It's a very easy understanding of how this works. And so again, I appreciate your investment into the city of South Bend. Look forward to more actually. Anyone else? I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 74-22.
 74-22 be sent to the cons full console with favorable recommendations that can all right there's been a motion in the second clerk jones please call the world council member wax all right
 Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right. Bill 74-22 will be sent to the full council with a favor of recommendation. Clark Jones, would you please give Bill 79-22 a second reading?
 79-22, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 7468 and 7686 Borden Parkway, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. It is a petitioner. She's present.
 is there any report yes there is thank you um bill 7922 came before zoning and annexation this afternoon and comes to the committee of the whole with a favorable recommendation
 We have our petitioner, and I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding this bill. Good evening. Angela Smith, Lending Administrator of the City of South Bend. Office is located on the 14th floor of this building. Before I use a request for a special exception for heavy industrial, the property is located out near the tire rack at Vorden and Dydom Boulevards.
 It's currently vacant. It's been vacant since the industrial subdivision kind of came through and is sat here undeveloped. The petitioner is looking to use both lots.
 to develop a large warehouse and distribution facility with some chemical potential in the works. Because there may be dangerous or hazardous materials, just to be safe, they are asking for the special exception for the heavy industrial classification. There aren't many things that kind of trigger between the two. We only have one industrial classification. So anytime it's a heavy industrial, it's always a special exception with the council. In this
 case, it's located in an industrial district surrounded by industrial uses, and the portion that might be of that use is located behind and outside of the traveling public. So it's well situated for the intended use.
 Based on the information that we had in discussion with the Board of Zoning Appeals, they send this to you with a favorable recommendation. The petitioner is here and will be happy to answer any questions. If you would please approach the podium, give us your name and address, please.
 Thank you, sir. My name is George Lepinotis. My address is 4101 Edison Lakes Parkway, Mishawaka, Indiana. I am an attorney with Krieg DeVault. I represent Coast Southwest. Coast Southwest is a family company that has been in business for many decades, currently headquartered in California with a facility in Texas. They also have some currently leased facilities throughout the Midwest.
 The owners of Coast Southwest are Notre Dame alumni and wanted to expand their Midwest footprint. They naturally looked to South Bend and found the real estate that was previously mentioned by the zoning administrator, which was the real estate that was previously mentioned by the zoning administrator.
 The application before you today is made out of an abundance of caution. 70% of Coast Southwest work is packaged goods. They do not process on site. They simply buy the packages and then resell as a distributor would. However, in partnership with the University of Notre Dame, they are looking at potentially commercializing some new types of processes that could trigger that.
 The ingredients that Coast Southwest handles could be considered hazardous in some of their forms throughout the process, so it is important that they are upfront and ask for this designation sooner rather than later.
 partly because of their corporate philosophy. They're extremely, they take pride in their corporate responsibilities. They're a multi-year excellence award winner from what's called the NACD, which is the National Association of Chemical Distributors. They use best practices, as you can imagine in a state like California, they are very comfortable dealing with federal, state, and local regulations.
 And the building is being designed and potentially built by Holiday Properties. So an experienced outfit doing that portion as well. It will have all necessary and legal requirements for redundancies to ensure the safety of the general public as well as the environmental resources in the community. Council members, do you have any questions? I know that some of these industrial buildings have to have these cages that
 in case something happens, it contains everything, and this will have that. Yeah, and I believe if you look, it's a little hard to see, but on the screen, there is, the plan is for 94,000 square feet of the potential 200,000 square feet to be built immediately. There is a small square with an arrow pointing to it. That is the potential containment center for anything that might be categorized as hazardous.
 Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Wex? Would this project go forward without this exception? That's a great question. When I was first approached by my client, the question was whether or not they even needed the heavy industrial exception, given what they're doing. They feel very...
 confident that what they are doing does not, as I told the committee earlier, this isn't green goop, you know, bubbling out of a vat. But, you know, environmental laws are just getting more and more restrictive. And so they do feel it's important that they check the boxes that the city has set forth in its ordinance. Its ordinance for heavy industrial is very specific.
 If you are handling hazardous material that qualifies you as heavy industrial. So they feel it's important. What kind of economic impact?
 would this project bring? Is there employees? What kind of salaries? What other economic drivers would this bring? So in addition to the aforementioned employees, I'm sorry, the building of the space, the plan is for 94,000 square foot immediate construction. That will be staffed by eight to 10 new hires here in this community. If the project is successful and
 grows and and that's probably a misstatement if the project grows the the use is already there lease and move over so the 94 000 square feet is just part of their their already existing um operations but if they grow to that 200 000 square feet that they anticipate growing to that would be a total of 50 50 to 60 new jobs um
 and would also continue to grow as far as their partnership with the university. I also see that they are a very responsible company run by a father and now his daughter, both ND grads. They enjoy South Bend, so I would not see this as being the last of their investment here, but the first. Anyone else?
 i just have comments when that time okay thank you right now then i will uh go to the public hearing portion uh clark jones is there anyone from the public which to speak in favor of bill 79-22
 There's no one from the virtual public that expresses interest to speak in favor of Bill 79-22. Is there anyone wishing to speak in opposition? There's no one from the virtual audience expressing interest to speak in opposition as well. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 79-22 is now closed. Now we will go to statements from the council members. I was just waiting for the chair to recognize me. Okay.
 i was waiting for you to you want me to jump in now go ahead okay um i was just going to say thank you for your presentation tell the investors thank you for investing in south bend i just only wish 100 years ago that we had the same type of like laws on the books and enforcement i wouldn't have the best like issue going on in the second district with the hill that is full of trash that we want to say it's not and so i i really uh thank
 God that we do have those sorts of restrictions so we don't have to revisit that as well you had that so much in so many other communities you have been in Harbor water crisis
 Restrictions are set by the EPA when it comes to what you guys are talking about. And again, thank you for the presentation. And I feel safe and comfortable because obviously there's somebody enforcing the law. Then we had to deal with it and go on for decades as it relates to people's health and wellness in that area. All right. Any other council members?
 I would just like to say thank you as the representative of 1st District. Thank you for the investment in the 1st District. And we're looking forward to those 50 to 60 new jobs and everything is spending and things going well. So thank you again. Thank you. And I know my clients are online listening, so I'm sure they appreciate that as well. Okay. All right. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 79-22. Motion to send to full counsel with favorable recommendations. Second.
 All right. There's been a motion and a second. Clerk Jones, please call the roll. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammock. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. All right.
 79-22 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. All right, it's been moved and seconded. Can we do it by acclamation? Yes. All those in favor, say aye. Aye. All that opposed, he passes. We're now on bills on third reading.
 This portion of our meeting is where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the committee of the whole. Clerk Jones, will you give bill 63-22 a third reading?
 6322 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana annexing two and bringing within the city limits of south bend indiana and amending the zoning ordinance for property located in german township contiguous contiguous there with councilman of district number one for two one two seven five cleveland road south bend indiana
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee as a whole? Yes. Bill 63-22 comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 63-22. I move to bill 63-22. Second. It has been moved and seconded. The roll, please. Council Member Tomas-Morgan. Second.
 Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President Laskowski. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 63-22 has been adopted. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 69-22 a third reading?
 6922 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana approving a petition of the advisory board of zoning appeals for the property located at 1405 portage avenue councilman and district number one in the city of south bend indiana
 Thank you. I would now like to, Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 69-22? 69-22 comes to the full Council with an unfavorable recommendation. I would now entertain a motion regarding Bill 69-22. I make a motion to reject Bill 69-22. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Nizgatsky. Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Nay. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Wax. Nay. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. President McBride. Nay. Six ayes and three nays. Bill 6922 was rejected. Clerk Jones, will you give Bill 74-22 a third reading?
 70, 74, 22. Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 505 Ireland Road, 4412 Fellow Street, and 4422 Fellow Street, Councilmanic District Number 5 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation for Bill Number 74-22? No.
 71-22. I thought it had been. No, 74. Oh, I'm sorry. Yes, it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 74-22. I move for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye.
 aye council member white aye council member thomas morgan aye council member hammond aye president mcbride aye nine eyes thank you bill number 7422 has been adopted clerk jones will you please give bill number 79 22 a third reading 79 22 third reading on an ordinance of the common council of the city of south bend indiana
 Proving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for property located at 7468 and 7686 Borden Parkway, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 79-22. Second. It has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, the roll, please. Councilmember Davis.
 Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas-Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. President McBride. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill 7922 has been adopted. There are no resolutions on tonight's agenda. There are also no first readings on tonight's agenda.
 At this time, I will open it up for unfinished business. If there are none, I will open it up for new business. New business. I have some. Ladies first. Councilor Nieskoski. Thank you, President McBride. I just wanted to make sure everybody knew that before March 1st, for citizen members to apply to the council website or contact the clerk's office, if you want to be a citizen member on one of the standing committees,
 And also there is the Martin Luther King breakfast that's going to be at 730 a.m. on January the 16th, as well as the rest of a day of different meetings that they'll be hosting. Also, the one last thing I want to talk about is Lawrence Greenspan with the 2045 plan has reached out. Their engagement process is going to be ending on March 31st.
 So if any of the council members in their respective districts that would still like to plan something for engagement, you have until that time. So it's fast approaching. If you'd like to plan something, please reach out to Mr. Greenspan. Thank you. Counselor Davis. Yes, ma'am. Thank you so much. Recognize me. I am. Give me a couple of moments. 2005, I had the campaign to become a precinct committee chairman, that job itself.
 Usually was given away by the chairman of the party at that time and rest in peace Bush Morgan seriously. We understood the only way that you can get into the party was through that blessing. Well, I had successfully campaigned for that job. Subsequently, I was elected in 2005, 2007, 2008 year. I campaigned and I ran for councilman of the city of South Bend 2nd District. Thank God I got in.
 from that point on i began to work to establish some sort of congruency advocacy and also support in a number of different ways for the the district itself within that time frame i had um probably caused a lot of problems and and got a lot of things resolved and it was just really difficult and funky but it's a part of the learning process as it relates to this job
 As we move forward, time has gone on. As a result of that advocacy, after some of the pains and bumps and bruises I've received, we started to see development in the second district. The development we started to see obviously came from the city. So that had a lot to do with not with private investment, but it was public investment. But I take it. Did a really good job. I'm patting myself on the back on a number of these things.
 One thing, and I don't want to belabor the point, so I'm going to get to it really quick. LaSalle Center receives a $4.5 million investment. Deserved it, right? The building was remodeled, refurbished. Everyone is happy in the community because we finally got what we're looking for.
 get some more things passed. As a matter of fact, Council Member White helped out with this one, co-sponsored. We got some monies invested over into the Lincoln Way Rest Corridor and Western Avenue Corridor during that time. That money has been used to not only change the way Western Avenue, Western Avenue behaves, but also looks.
 then you really get you got the idea of what facade grants can do in a particular area because now that those few blocks they look really good that's how we got investment in that area that's how we got people to really believe in that area again and then as i fast forward to 2023 we're looking forward to the expansion excuse me the demolition and the groundbreaking
 and now the rebuilding of a Martin Luther King Jr. Recreational Center, which is a junior center. We don't get that without all of the years of labor that I put in for the second district. We've been able to look and realize a new neighborhood plan for that area.
 Right. We were looking at residents who are engaged at a higher level because of the work and the labor that has been put in to making sure that the residents in that direct area receive the support that they deserve. And this vessel that's talking was a very important piece to that. Now, as we are moving towards the official groundbreaking, we're looking at an opportunity where the council member for that area.
 that has labored, labored, and labored for that particular area, not being able even to allow to speak during the course of that ceremony. I call foul on that, and I call that to be one of the most disrespectful moves by the current administration or whoever participated with him on designing an agenda that does not include the representative for that area.
 How do you disregard the work that a person has put in to a particular area? I don't know. But to whomever is listening upstairs, outside, over the airways, or even sitting here with the council, you may want to revisit that thought.
 And you may also want to figure out how to make sure that the people of that community in particular get what they deserve. And that's me, because I put the work in to ensure to make sure that that area was taken care of. Nobody else against all odds got done. I thank Mr. Aaron Perry for his foresight and ensuring that the center could be built. All of the things that have taken place, like I said, since 2005.
 That's my work, 18 years, and I deserve to be at the microphone when it's time for it to be groundbroken. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone else? I would just like to give a brief update that hopefully the next month or so, the council will receive an update on environmental concerns or issues and discussions that have been ongoing involving not only 
 the administration, but also hats off to the St. Joseph Health Department, as well as the leadership of the county council at that time. I think that once that presentation comes before the council, it really shows the results when all entities come together, we can get the job done. So I look forward to that update, hopefully in the next month or so. Thank you. Anyone else?
 I would just like to say that as we are embarking on a new year, it's 2023, that we all can work together for the benefit of our community and that we're able to put differences aside and look for common ground to be able to do what we've been elected to do and that's to represent our community and to make South Bend a better place.
 All of us have great ideals. All of us have great energy. And if we can work together, we can put differences aside. It will help our city benefit better. So I'm just asking as we go on to 2023 that we would all just take a moment and focus on serving our community and trying to make South Bend a better place to live. Our kids are watching and
 We want to be a great example to our children. Thank you. Anyone else? Counselor Tomas Morgan. I just want to say, Mr. Davis, I'm not really sure why you made your statements in this
 particular forum right now, but we all know that we're coming into a campaign season. It appears that we need to have a discussion among the council how we use this time in the council meeting. I do not, I personally do not believe that this is a time for anybody, any of us to be making campaign STEM speeches. Thank you.
 My assertion to you and this council was about me not being included in on the council business. It has everything to do with city business. It has nothing to do with the campaign commitment. I just talked about the level and amount of time spent getting that community over there called Kennedy Park organized,
 not only with the neighborhood association, but leadership for the neighborhood association. So we can go about the business of development in that area. I don't know how that turns into a campaign slogan, but I'm going to tell you what 18 years I've spent doing this. I'm proud of my work. I'm sorry that you don't understand it. Thank you. With that, I will move to the privilege of the floor. Clark Jones. Oh, is there anyone I see? We have one coming forward.
 Thank you. If you please state your name and address, you know the routine. Happy New Year, Sharon. Thank you. Happy New Year. Sharon Benicki, 3822 Ford Street. You guys aren't going to like some of what I've got to say, but it's got to be said. $17,000 was spent between the month of November and December to pay the clerk and another person, and still no meeting minutes. That is...
 Beyond obscene. I was here when John Vorty was clerk. I complained about the meeting minutes not being timely. I was here when Karima was clerk. I complained about the meetings not being timely. The fact that we don't have any meeting minutes since September and they're still being rejected. Shame on all of you. Every one of you.
 you're a grown adult put your egos at the door and put your hands together and get this solved get this over with get these meeting minutes online the city doesn't have money for lawsuits because egos can't be checked i've run into a couple of you here and there and we've had conversations mr lee stopped me and he says how do you like your new light on chicago street i never got my new light
 How's the shootings? Are they down? No. Everybody knows Derek Dieter does video on New Year's Eve. If I wasn't in my bedroom protecting my grandson, I could have done a video out my front door that would have rivaled Derek Dieter's. Only instead of being a couple blocks this way or that way, they were in my backyard. They were next to me. They were across the street from me. So no, things are not getting better over there.
 I was asked how I felt about that press conference that happened in front of my house across the street. That press conference didn't do anything but highlight how bad it is. We live it. We know how bad it is. Nobody except for one person after that press conference walked door to door to talk to the neighbors. You show up. You tell us how bad it is. You get back in your vehicles and you drive away. And we're still living this nightmare.
 Come do your press conference, but bring suggestions. Say, hey, we're going to try this or what do you think about that? No, it was, hey, I can't believe how many guns have been fired over here. I can't believe how many shootings. I believe it. I live it daily. I live it nightly. My grandson didn't come over for months at a time because his parents didn't trust him in my house.
 And then I bring them over New Year's Eve, and I've got the neighbors next to me and across the street from me. And these aren't just little guns. The night I saw you, Mr. Lee, that weekend prior, the police officers heard the guns going. They called it in before ShotSpotter did. High-velocity rapid-fire gunshots. So these aren't little guns they're playing with.
 We need solutions. We don't need press conferences. We don't need dog and pony shows. We need answers. We need people to come and talk to us. I know my neighbors are working with the police because the police tell me that.
 There's been shootings. They come back to my house asking for my video. I look through my camera. If I've got it, it's theirs. If I don't, I can't give it to them. I go knock on my neighbor's doors. Hey, there was another shooting. Do you have any video? Yes, they do or no, they don't. And it gets turned over. But we need more help. The police department has hired and hiring and they need to keep hiring. We need these specialty units back.
 We need a gang unit. We need a drug unit. During the recent blizzard, when weather was terrible, everybody stayed home except for my drug house. They still did business as usual because they're a drug house. And they knew the roads, nobody else was going to be on the roads, but they had traffic coming and going. Everybody in the neighborhood knows they're a drug house. But what's happening with it? I don't know. Maybe it'll get raided. Maybe it won't. Dime it.
 Thank you. Thank you so much for your comment. Is there anyone else in the audience who would like to speak for privilege of the floor? If not, Clerk Jones, will you please, is there anyone in the virtual audience? There's no one in the virtual audience that is expressing interest to speak on privilege of the floor. Thank you so much. With that, this meeting is adjourned.