One minute. Are you all ready? Clerk Toronto? Good evening, everyone. I would like to call to order the Monday, January 8th, 2024 Common Council meeting to order. Clerk Toronto, I believe you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we'll be muting everyone, not speaking by default, to maintain good quality audio.
 board council and yourselves if you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item please submit your request in the chat directions to do so will be listed in the chat we ask that you provide your full name and address as those are required for all speaking in in at person council meetings
 Thank you. And I'd like to read some terms and expectations of the meeting. Disrespectful, rude or disruptive speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any persons, may result in the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. At this time, I would like to have the invocation, which will be given by Pastor Lee. Let's bow our heads.
 Degrecious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this opportunity for a new year, a new council, and with new members to be able to do the work of the city and to better the citizens. We ask that tonight you would allow this to be the first of many meetings where we can impact our community in a positive way. We ask that you would look on each and every council person,
 Touch them, allow them to use their gifts, skills, and talents for the betterment of our city, and help us this year to work together. Let there be no confusion. Let there be no discord. And if we do disagree, let us be able to continue to go forward. We ask that you would bless our city, bless our mayor, bless our clerk, and bless all of the residents of South Bend.
 And together, Lord, we ask that you will help us to make South Bend the best city that it can possibly be. All these things we ask in your son's name. Amen. Amen. You can please stand for the Pledge of Allegiance. It is the principle with liberty and justice for all. Clerk Tirado, could you do roll call, please? Councilmember Dr. Davis? Present. Councilmember Lee? Present. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers? Present.
 Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Present. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Present. Council Member White. Present. Vice President Neskoski. Present. President McBride is excused. Thank you. All nine. Thank you so much, Clerk Toronto. We're going to move on to the report from the subcommittee on minutes. Do we have a report? This will be for the approval of the organizational meeting minutes. Yes.
 to the common council of the city of south bend the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the january 2nd 2024 organizational meeting of the common council and found them to be correct therefore we recommend the same be approved thank you so much councilman warner do you have anything to add or is there a motion to approve the minutes second there's been a motion to approve and it's been seconded all in favor say aye aye any opposed motion carried
 We have no special business, no reports from city offices. So at this time, I would like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor of the roll say aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Since this is the first meeting of the year, I have to read this as we begin the Committee of the Whole. The city clerk shall read each bill by title only.
 The chairperson of the council standing committee to which the bill was sent shall give a report on the recommendations from that committee. A formal presentation of the bill shall be made, which is not subject to a time limitation. Common council members shall have the right to ask two preliminary questions to the presenters immediately following the close of the formal presentation on the bill.
 Members of the public supporting the bill shall have the opportunity to address the council, and each member of the public shall be required to state his name,
 and residential address or in the case of a proposal made on behalf of the entity other than a natural person or on behalf of a group of individuals, that person and or their agent shall state his name, his or her name and business address for record prior to making remarks in support of the bill. Each member of the public speaking in favor of a bill shall have a limit of five minutes.
 If the formal presentation against the bill under consideration, I'm sorry, if the formal presentation against the bill under consideration, the person or agent speaking on behalf of such a remonstrous group shall not be subject to time limitation. Therefore, each member of the public speaking in opposition shall be limited to five minutes for his or her presentation. Each member of the public shall be required to state his name,
 and residential address, or in the case of a proposal made behalf of an entity other than a natural person or behalf of a group of individuals, that person and or their agent shall state his or her name and business address for the record prior to making remarks in opposition of the bill. Each member of the public speaking in opposition of a bill shall be limited to five minutes. The
 following any formal presentation against the bill under consideration shall not exceed the time used by members of the public who spoke in favor of the bill or shall be limited to 30 minutes, whichever is greater. There should be an automatic five-minute rebuttal period for the person or persons who made the formal presentation on the bill under consideration, after which the public portion of the hearing is now closed.
 Following the public portion, then council portion then takes place where members of the council debate, ask questions, and make motions on the bill under consideration. Each bill must have a motion addressing the disposition of the bill as it is then sent to the full council for final action.
 In compliance with governor's executive order, the South Bend Common Council will be legally held by way of virtual meetings using Microsoft Teams app. The Committee of the Whole notes how residents can participate for the public portion as follow. The public portion can participate in the meeting by following the directions in the chat section in the Microsoft Team app, at the link provided by the city clerk.
 Any member of the public wishing to speak in favor or opposition to the bill must indicate their desire prior to the close of the public hearing. In order to speak in favor or against a bill, you will need to state your name, address, as is also required to speak at an in-person meeting. The city clerk will inform the chair of the Committee of the Whole which order to proceed to address each person in order with a time limit of five minutes.
 And at this time, the Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing. I wish to share with you that bills that will be given a second reading and public hearing have been given a first reading and set for a committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you'll hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be on time. Clerk Tirado, will you please give Bill 83-23 a second reading? Public hearing on an ordinance?
 Bill 8323, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 603, 607, 611, 15, 617, 619, and 621 West Marion Street, Councilmanic District No. 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Mr. Chair. The Zone Anacostation Committee met this afternoon, and we bring Bill 8323 to the full council with a favorable report. All right. We have a petitioner present. I ask that you state your name and address and share with us key points regarding the bill that's before us.
 Skip Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of this building. We're looking at a proposal for a rezoning of those following properties on Marion Street. The owner is the Department of Redevelopment for the city of South Bend. And the proposal is a rezoning from currently NC Neighborhood Center to U3 Urban Neighborhood 3. Okay.
 This is the property as it exists now, is a vacant lot owned by the Department of Redevelopment. And the proposal will be 15 units. Ten of those will be in the cottage court you can see in the center. So there are units facing towards that court in the middle. And then there will be an additional five single-family units.
 Essentially, the purpose for this rezoning, which is a downzoning from NC to U3, is to allow for those cottage courts to...
 Previously, it was zoned neighborhood center where there are a variety of building types permitted going all the way up to, as you can see, the stacked flats, which would be a three to four story building, unlimited units full. You can cover 100% of that lot. So this down zoning allows for the cottage court that you can see on the left, an example of that that kind of blends everything.
 in between the existing residences to the north, and then as you move further south, you're on Lincoln Way West, so a major corridor in the city. So that's kind of the reasoning behind that down zoning to offer the cottage court. All right. Council members, do you have any questions? Go ahead, Joe.
 Joe Molnar, property development manager with offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. The redevelopment commission is serving as the actual petitioner for this redevelopment. This stems from a request for proposal that the RDC issued a little over a year ago for vacant land in the city that the RDC owned, trying to solicit proposals for redevelopment of that land. Allen Edwin applied for this northern section
 along Marion with this cottage core idea. What was really exciting is they're typically a more suburban developer. They typically do greenfield developments, but this is one time where they're trying to build actually inside urban area. So we're very excited to have them as a
 partner in this. We know that building on these vacant lots provides more life to these neighborhoods, provides housing where there once was housing, especially provides customers for the local businesses and, you know, increased tax dollars. This is no longer publicly held land.
 And the current agreement that we're still working out with Allen Edwin, and if the agreement goes through, would be that these properties would be affordable to households making between 80 and 120% of the median income of our area. I'm happy to answer any questions that you have. And I know Brian Farkas from Allen Edwin is on a line as well, if you have any questions for him. I have a question.
 Just give us a rough estimate of what the household income would need to be for the people that are watching. So I'd have to look at current HUD standards. So we will be following what HUD says is the median income for area. I believe for St. Joe County, it's $60,000 for a household of four, but I could be mistaken on that. And then, of course, it'd have to be affordable to 80% of that.
 So families making in the 40 percent range or 40,000 range. It also increases as you increase your household size, of course, too, and decreases with a smaller household size. Brian, I don't know if you have the up to date figures with you. Brian, can you guys hear me? Yes. Yeah, I think those numbers are correct, Joe. I don't have anything in front of me to dispute that.
 so that's how the the city typically handles these and we make these agreements is as we follow the housing authorities um guidelines for what is affordable to that um household median income and what is deemed affordable is no more than 30 of your monthly take home would go to the rent okay council members any other questions
 If not, we will now go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone, Clerk Toronto, looking to speak in favor of Bill 83-23? I do not see anyone online that wishes to speak in favor. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition? At this point, the public hearing on Bill 83-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion.
 SECOND. THERE'S BEEN A MOTION AND A SECOND. CLERK TORADO, PLEASE CALL THE ROLL. COUNCIL MEMBER DR. DAVIS. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER LEE. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER WARNER. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER WHITE. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER TOMAS MORGAN. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER BOLDEN-SIMPSON. AYE. COUNCIL MEMBER GIDDEN-RODGERS. AYE. VICE PRESIDENT MOSCOWSKI. AYE. EIGHT.
 Right. Bill 83-23 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Clerk Toronto, would you please give Bill 86-23 a second reading? Bill 86-23, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at
 30-01, 30-11, and 30-15, West Western, Councilmanic District Number Two in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Is there a committee report? Yes, there is, Mr. Chair. The Zoning and Interrogation Committee met this afternoon earlier today, and we bring Bill 8623 with a favor report. I will note there were a lot of good questions and comments that were shared in the meeting that I really would like to make sure that they were noted.
 for the team and for all those involved, because those are serious concerns. All right. As petitioners here, I ask that you state your name and address for the record and give us key points regarding the bill that's in front of us.
 Skip Morrell, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor. Bill 86-23 is for 3001, 3011, and 3015 West Western. And the request is to allow for a special exception permitting vehicle service minor. This use to kind of define is minor vehicle services, such as oil changes, alignment, repairing, cooling, or electrical systems, detailing, that sort of thing.
 kind of repair and no dismantling is permitted. Also, all repair has to be within fully enclosed building and there cannot be any dismantled, wrecked or unregistered vehicles on the site or stored there.
 Now, this property was previously used, was constructed originally as a window manufacturing business. It was then converted in the 1980s to a commercial vehicle repair location for power break in spring until 2017. I will note also, as we go through this, in this special exception process, the building has to be brought up completely to full capacity.
 NC standards. So that includes the petitioner actually came before the BZA initially requesting this special exception. And additionally, a variance to allow from what's required 60 percent transparency in the front facade and 20 percent on the corner to the current windows. You can see those are highlighted in blue.
 The building would have to be – so that variance was denied. So the special exception was approved, but the variance was denied. So the building would still – to be brought up to those full NC standards would have to meet transparency, which you can see highlighted that if those windows are all filled, then that would be – that's 60% and meet those standards in addition to the others. They also requested as part of their –
 their board of zoning appeals meeting to allow for a parking lot in that corner yard well the parking lot is permitted but they requested slightly uh reduced setbacks the reduced setbacks would still require that they meet all standards for a parking lot which include screening lighting drainage all those all those sorts of things um and this comes to you the special exception comes to you from the board of zoning appeals with a favorable recommendation you have to answer any questions
 All right, is there any other petitioner want to give any comment or I know that he may be online Good I think skip made a Argument you state his name and address. Yes. Could you please state your name and address for the record, please? Theodore our hauntus 2565 Portage Avenue, Las Vegas, Nevada 89120 is there any comments that you would like to make or add?
 No, just to recap, the building is slowly improving. More and more traction with tenants in there. There's always a trade-off. You can improve a building to a point where it becomes unaffordable for the tenants or for the type of businesses that want to move in. So it's been a slow process, but I think if you look at this over a decade,
 a few years here it's it's gotten quite a bit better and um we can understand uh the improvements that the city's made you know obviously the the planners the the street the the uh the lights and uh we will uh make you guys happy on the uh the outside facade of the building it just
 you know it just does take a bit of time it's not uh uh you know like i said we the building generates a profit so we can turn that into a better looking building for us and for the city thank you very much uh council members do you have any questions for the petitioner yes i do yes yeah okay uh dr davis um thank you um
 This for, I can't remember your last name. Murrell. Murrell, thank you. Or Hontas. Murrell Hontas. Since our petitioner lives in Las Vegas, Nevada, how do you handle when we have people who live, many of our property owners in our city live out of the state?
 And out of the city, out of the state, all those kind of things. So how do you handle those kind of situations when you need to have a local contact? And do you get a local contact? Who would be the local contact for this kind of a property when there are concerns, issues, whatever? How would you handle that? Or is it all through Nevada? Yeah.
 Sure. Well, no, you know, that's a good question. And I mean, if you want specifics about me, I can I can general I can give you specifics. If you want in general, I, you know, rule of thumb out of state ownership is is pretty it's pretty tough. This building, the reason it's got tenants in it and it's moving forward is because I've got a partner who's
 who's got a business down the street, Manuel, is he's got a auto shop, about a half a mile down towards Mayflower. And I don't think I'd get much traction at all. So yeah, you've got to have local partners. I don't know, property managers are kind of hit or miss. You really need to have somebody that's got a stake in the building that, I mean, they care about the building, they've got, they put money into it.
 that's really the only people that they're going to show up and take care of stuff. So that person, you said a person, his name is Emmanuel? Yeah. Does our city have him on file or are you in contact with Emmanuel too? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, absolutely. If I may, he's listed in the petition as an owner. Just want to make sure. I just want that to be so we can...
 If we cannot get to you, just for the public standpoint, we can have him. That is correct? Yes, sir. Yeah. We own it a third, a third, a third. Okay. And the last thing is reduced setbacks. Parking, you talked about that. Could you go over those again, please?
 In the NC District, if there is a frontage, the parking lot has to be at least five feet behind that frontage, so that would be on the south side. That parking lot would have to be at least five feet back. When there's no building frontage, which is on that east side, it has to be 12 feet back. Because this parcel is 40 feet wide, if you reduce it to the full 12 feet, it makes it...
 you can't really utilize the full the full area of that that parcel for the parking so this was in order to allow that space to be fully utilized while still meeting the standards of that that buffer the landscaping buffer and the and all those all those other kinds of standards that come with a parking lot in a neighborhood center district thank you councilwoman thomas morgan yes
 Could you, is there a timeline for the improvements, the transparency improvements? To my knowledge, I think typically we would do three months. I'm not entirely sure on that, but...
 I think if there are no signs of improvements, then that would shift back into... Initially, this parcel was brought up because of zoning violations. So this was seeking to address those. So this would be kind of part of the process. I think the petitioner hadn't mentioned this, but we were also thinking about using the Vibrant Places grant to kind of keep this on track and make sure that those improvements are continuing, that they have the money to make those improvements to the facade. So there would be a lot of...
 i suppose i don't know what the right word is that we would have an eye on this property okay thank you i appreciate that um i think that's important um i uh also just want to thank you for uh clarifying the status of the variances the questions that i raised in committee and the landscaping around the the parking lot as well thank you any other council person
 If not, I will go to the public hearing portion. Clerk Tirado, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 86-23? I see no one online wishing to speak in favor or against the bill. Is there anyone in the public wishing to speak in opposition? All right. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 86-23 is now closed. I will now entertain a motion.
 Make a motion to send Bill 8623 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Support. All right. There's been a motion and second. Clerk Dorado, please call the roll. Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Bolden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye.
 Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Aye, ayes. All right. Bill 86-23 will go to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. All right. It's been second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carries.
 Thank you. Okay, the regular meeting is now reconvened. We are going to move to bills on third reading. So the council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Tirado, could you give Bill 8323 a third reading?
 8323, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 603, 607, 611, 615, 617, 619, and 621 West Marion Street, Councilmanic District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding the bill? Yes, Bill 83-23 was heard in the Committee of the Whole, and it comes to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Okay, thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I move for pass. I second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Councilmember Dr. Davis? Aye.
 Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember White. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Councilmember Gooden-Rogers. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you. Bill 8323 has passed. Clerk Tirado, could you please give Bill 8623 a third reading?
 Third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 3001, 3011, and 3015 West Western, Councilmanic District No. 2 in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you so much. Counselor Lee, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Bill 8623? Yes. Bill 8623 was heard in the Committee of the Whole and comes to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I'll now entertain a motion regarding the bill. I move for the passage of Bill 86-23. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you call the roll, please?
 Council Member Dr. Davis. Aye. Did I say Clerk? Council Member Lee. I'm sorry, Clerk Tirado. I'm sorry. I thought I was going to do it, but I didn't, so. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member White. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Bowden-Simpson. Aye. Council Member Gooden-Rogers. Aye. Vice President Neskoski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you so much, Clerk Tirado.
 We are going to move into our resolutions now. This is the portion of the council meeting where the Common Council hears bills filed as proposed resolutions. The title of each proposed resolution is read by the city clerk. A report from the committee chair of the standing committee to which the bill was referred to for advisory review and recommendation is then given.
 During the public portion of each proposed resolution, members of the public are invited to address the council. We ask that you please give your name and address and comments on the bill. If you have any questions, they will be addressed by the presenter during their rebuttal. Each member of the public is limited to five minutes with those speaking in favor going first and followed by those in opposition. Then a five minute rebuttal for the presenter of the bill. And I believe we need to...
 accept the substitute bill so move second all in favor aye aye any opposed thank you the bill has been accepted director of growth and opportunity this bill uh resolution 24-01 came before the community investment committee this afternoon and came forward a with a favorable unanimous uh
 JUST VOTE DUE TO THE FACT THAT THIS BILL WAS ALREADY APPROVED BY THE COUNCIL LAST FALL AND THE NEW BILL IS JUST FIXING A NUMBERING ERROR. THANK YOU SO MUCH. AND I BELIEVE THAT CLERK TORADO STILL NEEDS TO READ THE RESOLUTION. 24-01.
 A resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, correcting Skirvin's error in Resolution No. 5031-23 as adopted on August 28, 2023, correcting Skirvin's error in Resolution 5031-23 as adopted on June 26, 2023.
 2023, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1405 Portage Avenue, South Bend, Indiana, and 46616.
 and economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year real property tax abatement for peak investment and asset management LLC and correcting Skibner's error and resolution number 504023 to correct incorrect bill and resolution numbers and resolution number
 5031-23 as adopted on August 28, 2023 and confirming the adoption of the Resolution No. 5031-23 as adopted on June 26, 2023.
 Thank you so much for that. And thank you, Councilman Warner, for the explanation out of the committee about in reference to the Resolution 2401. And I see we do have a presenter. You can state your name and address for the record, please. Eric Lovitch, Director of Growth and Opportunity Offices on the 14th floor of this building. Well, the substitute bill simplifies the process if
 um clerk toronto's reading of the bill title is any indication the original bill was filed last week was complicated and um in speaking with legal department and others since the filing of that bill we decided to approach this issue with a substitute bill which as council member warner points out is a was passed
 in August last year. I'll get through some of the details here for council members, but basically what we're asking council to do is to fix the Scrivener's error and finalize a tax abatement that was passed last year for property that's on the corner of Portage and Elwood on the near north side. Basically, at the time when council had approved the
 tax abatement, we realized that we incorrectly did not include all of the parcels that should have been included in the abatement. The red on the left was what was included in the original tax abatement, and the turquoise is what we should have included.
 Just a quick timeline synopsis of what had happened last year in June and July, Council had approved and confirmed the tax abatement for this property. As I mentioned, we realized that not all of the parcels were included. So in August, to resolve the oversight.
 Council actually considered and adopted a resolution that would have just added in those parcels. Unfortunately, we realized after the fact that the bill number and resolution number that were assigned to that August bill were previously used and thus removed.
 The bill has not been enacted, leaving this kind of in limbo. We had originally, as I mentioned, thought we would do a resolution tonight that corrected the numbering, but that was just, it was very complicated. And we determined it was easier to just offer a substitute bill that was
 literally the exact same text as the august bill passed last year so what we're presenting to you as the substitute is a you know carbon copy of the text of that august 2023 bill just really quick on the development it's a vacant former gas station it's just north of what was the old portage
 market on the corner of elwood and portage the developer is council members who were on the council last year will recall um praveen gulati will be building two retail buildings with storefronts on portage avenue council had passed
 a five-year retail development real property tax abatement, and the tax numbers are there. This does not change anything associated with the abatement other than ensuring that those two parcels that we inadvertently left off the original abatement are added back on. I'm happy to answer any questions you might have. Thank you so much. Council members, do you have any questions? No. No?
 Okay, seeing none, I'm going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Substitute Bill 2401? I do not see anyone online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. Thank you. Is there anyone in the chamber or online wishing to speak against the Substitute Resolution 2401?
 I do not see anyone online wishing to speak against the bill. And I do not see anyone in the chamber. So we're going to go ahead and close the public hearing on the bill. I'll bring it back to the council. If there is no comments or questions, I'd entertain a motion regarding the bill. Move for passage. Second. Adoption. Excuse me. Second.
 Okay, there has been a motion to move for the adoption and it has been seconded of substitute bill 2401 clerk Toronto could you call the roll please? Councilmember good and Rogers. Aye Councilmember bold and Simpson. Aye Councilmember Thomas Morgan Councilmember white Councilmember Warner. Aye Councilmember Lee. Aye Councilmember dr. Davis. Aye Vice-president of Koski. Aye eight eyes. Aye
 Thank you. Bill 2401 has been adopted. We're going to move on then, Clerk Toronto, to Bill 2402. You could give it a reading, please. 42. 2402, a resolution confirming the adoption of a Declaratory Resolution designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 3607 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46614.
 an economic revitalization area for purposes of a nine-year real property tax abatement for the Nexus Center LLC. Thank you so much. Is there a committee report? Yes. 2402 was heard by the Community Investment Committee this afternoon and comes to the full council with a unanimous favorable recommendation.
 Thank you so much, Councilman Warner. And I see Eric is still here. If you would like to present the bill. Thank you, Eric Glavich, Director of Growth and Opportunity. Office is on the 14th floor of this building.
 In December last year, a previous session of the Common Council, the council had approved a declaratory resolution for a nine-year tax abatement for the Nexus Center. The Nexus Center is on South Main Street near Chippewa Avenue, and Pastor Buggs and Dr. Chisholm Buggs,
 have invested significant time, resources, and money into developing a community center, you know, just a facility that serves the needs of not just the immediate community around there, but other throughout South Bend and neighboring communities. Really a wonderful project.
 If you haven't been able to tour the facility, I strongly recommend you at least check it out. The work that they've done there is quite phenomenal. They've spent a few years working on the project, and now they're preparing to complete the final phase. The final phase encompasses about 20,000 square feet total.
 total. There are large open spaces in the back of the building in addition to exterior spaces that they will be rehabbing. They'll be creating community spaces, a community kitchen, or excuse me, a commercial kitchen. There'll be
 you know transforming the south exterior of the building to be an event exterior event space as well um you know following this phase of their project um the private investment that the bugs have invested in this project will be close to 2.4 million dollars um you know they'll also be creating jobs there there'll be space for places to rent
 Really wonderful project and the bugs are here to be able to talk more about the project. If you have questions, it's a nine year abatement. Again, this is confirming the declaratory resolution that was passed in December. Current taxes on the property are about $17,700.
 The abatement over nine years would abate about $100,000 in the taxes that they will incur because of these improvements. We think that this is a worthy project for this abatement, and we ask that the council adopt this resolution. And again, if you have any questions, I know that Pastor Buggs and Dr. Chisholm Buggs would be happy to answer them. Okay. Thank you so much for your presentation. Would you like to come up and say a few words?
 If you would like to, you don't have to, but please do. You have a wonderful facility, by the way. I have had an opportunity to tour it and have been in there for several events. So thank you for the work you're doing in the community.
 Hello, I'm Dr. Larissa Chisholm-Buggs, the Nexus Center 3607 South Main Street. I just wanted to say thank you for the opportunity to be here and even to have this considered. We have put forth a lot of energy and effort into getting to this point to offer some new things, new opportunities to the community, and I just wanted to say thank you. Thank you.
 Mr. Buggs, would you like to? Yes. Pastor David Buggs, 3607 South Main Street, South Bend, Indiana, 46614. We're happy to be here. We have to be happy to be citizens of South Bend. We recognize the issues that are plaguing our city. And like other citizens, we hope they can recognize their gifts and talents and give back to the community.
 That's what Dr. Buggs and I have done. We've invested a large amount of our savings to make our home better, our city better. And I thank the council for considering the tax abatement, which would give us much breathing room after the investment to get about the work of making the city better.
 If you have any questions, we'll be more than happy to answer them. OK, thank you so much. I'm going to come back to our council members. Do you have any questions for the bugs? No questions. Or for Eric? No questions. No questions. OK, thank you. We're going to open it up then to the public hearing portions. Thank you so much. OK, is there anyone here wishing to speak in favor of Resolution 2402?
 I do not see anyone online wishing to speak in favor of the bill. And I see no one in the chamber. Is there anyone dare speak against the bill? Oh, I'm sorry I said that. Is there anyone here that wishes to speak against the bill? I do not see anyone online wishing to speak against the bill.
 Okay. And I see no one in the chamber as well. So we're going to go ahead and close the public hearing portion on Bill 2402 and bring it back to the council. Madam Chair, I'd just like to thank again the Bucks for investing in not only in South Bend, but the south side of South Bend. I think it's important to continually build up that area and grow the area. It's a lot of promise and you helped to make that promise come true.
 and to invest so it's an honor to be able to vote on this bill um given the work that's ahead and the promise that's ahead that you were bringing to South Bend and it's particularly the South side of South Bend so I thank you we'll start thank you uh Councilwoman I'd just like to thank
 the um passable and Dr Bucks for your commitment and your ability to stay the course it's been a long journey but we see the results and I know that most of us are very excited the community is very excited and look forward to finishing up the last phase of the building and
 And we look forward to the program. So most importantly, we look forward to the services that will serve our citizens and that will help to move South Bend forward as well. So thank you so much. Anybody else to my left? Councilwoman Thomas Morgan? No, if not, Councilman Lee?
 I'll say I want to say we're very, very excited to vote on this tonight. I went into the Nexus Center when they first started and and Dr. Bugs and Pastor Bugs are people with vision. And sometimes people can't see past brick and mortar, but they were able to cast a vision. And as we walk through the building, we could see vision.
 I could see what they were talking about. And not only did we see it, but they made it happen. And it looks beautiful in there. We were able to host the ambassador to Kenya.
 and had a luncheon there. And so to have a place where mental health is a priority, to have a place where the Nurse Family Partnership is able to do the important work, dealing with infant mortality in our community, and then to have a cultural center that
 We've never had in the city of South Bend and for them to have the vision to do it in the city to support it and to help. It's been a long journey, but I think it's made everybody stronger, wiser and better. And so I am very proud of what's about to happen and the commitment to the community. I'd like to thank you for your service to the community. It's amazing.
 It's heartwarming. And you're being a model for other citizens. So thank you. I've had the pleasure of being in your in the Nexus Center and it was a wonderful experience. Thank you. Any other council members?
 OK, and a genuine heartfelt with what everyone has said here. Your your facility is just wonderful. It's very welcomed in the 6th District. I have to say it is in the 6th District. It's close to the 5th. And wish it was in the 1st. So thank you very much.
 With that, I would like to entertain a motion regarding the bill. And move for adoption. Second. Okay. It's been moved for passage and duly seconded. Clerk Tirado, could you call the roll, please? Council Member Gooden-Rogers? Aye. Council Member Baldwin-Simpson? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member White? Aye.
 Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Dr. Davis. Proudly I say aye. Vice President Naskowski. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you so much. The bill has been adopted. Thank you so much and congratulations. We are going to move on now to bills that are on first reading. Are you ready there, Clerk Tirado? If you could give bill 1-24 a first reading.
 01-24. First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 3931 Portage Road and vacant lot adjacent to west of 3931 Portage Road, Councilmanic District number one in the City of South Bend, Indiana.
 Thank you. I'd like to entertain a motion to send this to the South Bend Plan Commission for January 16th and then to the ZNA for public hearing and third reading on January 22nd. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Can we do all in favor? All in favor, say aye. Aye. Any opposed? It's been passed. Clerk Toronto, could you give 02-24 a reading? 0224. Okay.
 First reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 711 Leland Avenue, Councilman District Number 1 in the City of South Bend, Indiana. Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send this to the South Bend Plan Commission for January 16th and then the ZNA Committee for Public Hearing in third reading on January 22nd.
 So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor please say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion passed. Clerk Tirado, could you please give Bill 0324 a first reading? 0324, first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 734 South Walnut Street, Councilmanic District number 2 in the City of
 Thank you. I would like to entertain a motion to send this to the South Bend Plan Commission for January 16th and to the ZNA Committee for public hearing and third reading on January 22nd. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor, please say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Clerk Tirado, could you give Bill 04-24 a first reading? Okay.
 0424 0424 I'm sorry first reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend Indiana amending the zoning ordinance for property located at 1610 and 1612 Hills Court
 councilmanic district number three in the city of south bend indiana thank you so much i would like to entertain a motion to send this bill to the south bend plan commission on january 16th and to the zna committee for public hearing and third reading on january 22nd we're going to have a busy afternoon so move second it's been moved and seconded all in favor please say aye aye any
 Moving on to Bill 05-24. Clerk Trotto, could you give a first reading, please? 0524. First reading on an ordinance to vacate the following described property. The first, east-west alley south of Jefferson Boulevard between Notre Dame Avenue and the north-south alley to the east of Notre Dame Avenue.
 Thank you so much. I'd like to entertain a motion to send this to the Public Works and Property Vacation Committee for public hearing and third reading for January 22nd. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor, please say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion carried. Clerk Tirado, could you please give Bill 06-24 a first reading? 06-24.
 First reading on an ordinance to vacate the following described property. The alley north-south between Monroe Street and Western Avenue to the east and west and between Lafayette Boulevard and Main Street north and south. Thank you so much. I would like to entertain a motion to send this bill to Public Works and Property Vacation for public hearing and third reading on January 22nd.
 Second. Second. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor, please say aye. Aye. Any opposed? Motion has carried. Thank you so much. Okay, we're going to move now to unfinished business. Is there any unfinished business from the council? Seeing none, is there any new business? Madam Chair, it's new business for tonight, but just wanted to remind this past month,
 Friday we had a meeting in our um our orientation meeting where we were going to like receive of the administration the contacts the department heads the emails and phone numbers they were going to send that to our clerk so or I said that to all the risk so can we make sure that we can follow up on that so we'll know who all the new people are and they said that in our orientation
 Absolutely. I can also I have requested of him to to give us the exact number of minority and women businesses in the city that the city has done supplied resources to.
 over the last few years because we are hearing different numbers and um it's very important given all the um situations that are going on currently in our community that we are being asked of this so i would like to know exactly what have been the um amount of businesses that
 that the city has done for minority women business, by orientation, by everything. I learned the breaking down across that. We discussed that because that needs to be clarified and addressed. And in fact, hopefully we can even have a meeting to clear the air about issues or to make a plan if the air is not clear to how we can better address that given the strength of our city as we move forward.
 Yes, I can certainly follow up with that as well. I appreciate it. I would say that a committee report or something of that nature would probably be beneficial for everyone. Thank you. But I will follow up. You're welcome. Thank you. Is there any other new business? Okay. Seeing none, we are going to move to the privilege of the floor. Before we start, I would just like to read the following slide.
 The individuals who wish to address the council must state their name and residential address. Individuals will be limited to three minutes. The maximum time for this portion of the meeting shall be 30 minutes. Individuals shall not be permitted to address topics which the council has heard previously on the agenda. The council president may assign a topic raised by an individual.
 During the privilege of the floor to the appropriate council member and or request the city clerk to contact a member of the city administration for review and topics assigned shall be responded to at the next scheduled council meeting.
 And I would like to remind everybody that disrespectful, rude speech or actions will not be tolerated. Such speech and or actions, as well as verbal attacks on any person, may result with the individual without notice forfeiting the remainder of his or her allotted time. And I see we have one gentleman here. If you could state your name and address for the record, please. Donnie Foster, 132 Chapin Street. And it is a privilege to be able to come before you guys.
 First, I want to start off to say that it is appreciated all the hard work you guys do and what you put together. And one of the things I mentioned to you before when I come before and had the privilege to come before you was that, you know, we the people need to get more involved to help the city to make it better. And we've got some ideas and some suggestions of how to do that. Tomas Morgan, we live on shape and right together. And, you know, one of the mistakes I made many years ago is I talked to dogs to howl to the moon.
 And what's happened is when I've traveled and everything else, the fire trucks and police cars, when they fly by with their sirens on, cause our dogs to howl, which causes all my neighbor's dogs to howl. And it happens all the time. It's kind of a fun story to share. But the sadness is that I realize that our police are going in harm's way all the time. The firemen are going to harm's way all the time. And we need to do something. We need to do something.
 a paradigm shift in the city. It's not gonna go back to the way old. It's never gonna go back to the days of pre-COVID. And how do we deal with that? How do we help? How do the churches come together to help? And we've been having a church meetings for a lot of times. We're celebrating three years now. And I came before you some time ago and invited you guys to come to Four Winds. Pastor Lee, I call you Pastor Lee. I just love you to death, but you know, was there and spoke and it's just, it's a wonderful time to come together and bring us together because we've been too separated.
 And we've got to find a way to know each other again, neighbor to neighbor. And we got some ideas. So I have an invitation for you. I've sent you guys an email today. But this Thursday at the Kroc Center, we're going to meet from 12 o'clock to 1.30.
 and I'll have the privilege to speak about 40 minutes. I hope I don't put everybody to sleep, but we're going to talk about some of the options and things that we can do differently. Think outside the box and how we, the people, become part of what's everything that's going on. I don't think a lot of people realize how hard you guys work and what you do, and you don't have a lot of people online. You don't have a lot of people in the audience.
 If there's a way that we could do things better to help and make the neighborhood safer for everybody and we all prosper together in a better way, we want to be able to do that. So we want to come not just with complaining all the time. We want to come with solutions. And we have some of those. We would love for you to join us this Thursday at the Kroc Center from start at 12 o'clock to 1.30. And we're going to have lunch provided. We'd love to have you there if you can come. We would love to have you RSVP. And that's all that I have. And I have this if we can hand this out to everybody. Thank you.
 Thank you so much. Is there anyone else present that wishes to speak under the privilege of the floor? Thank you. Okay. And I just verified with Clerk Tirado, there is no one online to speak under the privilege of the floor. So at this time, we are adjourned. Thank you so much for coming. Thank you.