Council meeting to order. Clerk Jones, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations.
 Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good quality, good audio quality for council members and yourselves. If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat and directions to do so will be in the chat.
 We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat at the public portion, and you will be called on during the relevant time. Insert your name and the address that you live at, and if you would like to speak for or against,
 If you are speaking during the, if you would like to speak during the public portion, just again put your name and your address and the council president will call on you during that time. Thank you. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Due to the executive order of Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the Saupin Common Council meeting will be legally held by way of a virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams application.
 At this time, our invocation will be given by Chair Matthew Wiesel, the Polkagan Band of Palawanami. Again, we welcome Chair Matthew Wiesel. Thank you all and good evening. Shall we pray? Dear Father God, creator of all things, we just want to take a moment and pause to reflect on your greatness, to humble ourselves before you, to ask that you continue to watch over us, guide and direct us,
 Grant our leadership wisdom to do the best of their ability to work for the people that have put them in this office to improve the quality of life for all. Ask that you would watch over this entire country and the leadership of this country and the community. Help us to heal, to move forward, to follow up on the greatness that we know we can achieve through you. For these things we ask in your son's name. Amen. Thank you so much for that beautiful invocation. Clerk Jones, will you please now call the poll?
 Yes. Councilmember Davis. Henry's here. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Lee. Councilmember Warner. Here. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember Nesgotski. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President McBride. Present. President White. Present.
 We have seven present for right now. I will check the present. I was saying that I don't know what was going on. OK, we didn't hear you. OK, Councilmember Lee is Councilmember Wax present. I will watch when he joins. Yes. OK. OK. All right. We have nine present. Thank you, Clerk Jones.
 We'll now have the report from the subcommittee on minutes for the Monday, December 14, 2020. Ms. Jones, will you please read the subcommittee on minutes for the December 14, 2020 meeting?
 To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of the December 14, 2021 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved. Thank you. I would now like to entertain a motion to accept the report from the subcommittee on minutes for the December 14, 2020 meeting.
 So moved. Is there a second to that motion? Second. Is there a second? Second. Okay, it's been moved and seconded. Thank you so much. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Council Member Davis. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watt. Aye. Council Member Dostoevsky. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Aye.
 Councilmember Hammond, Vice President McBride, Aye. President White, Aye. Councilmember Davis, 9 ayes. Thank you. For those who are present for Bill 71-20, please note that this bill has been tabled until February 8, 2021 as requested by the petitioner.
 I will now entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole, as there is no special business or reports from city offices at this time. So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember Neskowski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Williams?
 Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President McGryde? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Davis? President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Okay, the Committee of the Whole is now in session. Prior to the reading of the first bill tonight, the chairperson of the Committee of the Whole, which is me, will briefly explain the procedures
 which to be filed for all public hearings on bills filed for ordinance consideration at the first regular meeting of each, before the first council meeting of each year. This shall be done immediately prior to the first bill being scheduled for public hearing as per Section 2-11. So I'm going to briefly go over the procedures for the year on how the Committee of the Whole. So the clerk, the city clerk shall read each bill by title only.
 The chairperson of the council standing committee to which the bill was sent shall give a report on the recommendation from that committee. A formal presentation of the bill shall be made, which is not subject to a time limitation. Common Council members shall have the right to ask two preliminary questions to the presenters immediately following the close of the formal presentation on the bill.
 Members of the public supporting the bill shall have the opportunity to address the council. Each member of the public shall be required to state his or her name and residential address.
 or in the case of a proposal made on behalf of an entity other than a natural person or on behalf of a group of individuals, that person and or their agent shall state his name or her name and the business address for the record prior to making remarks in support of the bill. Each member of the public speaking in favor of the bill shall be limited to five minutes.
 If the formal presentation against the bill under consideration, the person or agent speaking on behalf of such a remonstrance group shall not be subject to time limitation. Therefore, each member of the public speaking in opposition shall be limited to five minutes for his or her presentation. Each member of the public shall be required to state his or her name and residential address.
 or the case of a proposal made on behalf of an entity other than a natural person or on behalf of a group of individuals, that person and or their agent shall state his or her name and business address for the record prior to making remarks in opposition of the bill.
 Each member of the public speaking in opposition of a bill shall be limited to five minutes. The remonstrance period following any formal presentation against the bill under consideration shall not exceed the time used by members of the public who spoke in favor of the bill or shall be limited to 30 minutes, whichever is greater.
 There shall be an automatic five-minute rebuttal period for the person or persons who made the formal presentation on the bill under consideration, after which the public portion of the hearing is closed. Following the public portion of the meeting, the council portion then takes place where the members of the council
 may make a statement and make motions on the bill under consideration. Each bill must have a motion addressing the disposition of the bill as it is then sent to the full Council for final action. In compliance with the Governor's executive orders, the South Bend Common Council will be legally held by way of virtual meetings using Microsoft Teams.
 The Committee of the Whole notes how residents can participate for the public portion as follows. The public can participate in the meeting by following directions in the chat section of the Microsoft Teams app at the link provided by the City Clerk.
 Any member of the public wishing to speak in favor or opposition to this bill must indicate their desire prior to the close of the public hearing. In order to speak in favor or against a bill, you will need to state your full name and address.
 as is also required to speak in at in-person meetings. The city clerk will inform the chair of the committee of the whole in which order to proceed to address each person in order with a time limit of five minutes each. And that was a requirement that I read that prior to any of the first meetings.
 So this portion of the council meeting where the bills are given a second reading of public hearing, I wish to share with you that the bills that will be given a second reading of public hearing have been first given, have been given a first reading and set for committee meeting and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting. In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion.
 If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow a committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed. And we are going to start with Substitute Bill 5820.
 So, Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill's substitute Bill 5820 a second reading? Yes. 5820, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to make miscellaneous technical changes for clarification and consistency and to correct typographical errors in various articles. Yes.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to accept substitute bill 5820? So moved. I second. The bill has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please take the roll call for substitute bill 5820? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair, there is. Bill 58-20 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon and was sent forward to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond.
 Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us the key points regarding the bill that is before us. Thank you, council. Joe Molnar, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. Just like a committee for the three zoning text amendments before you, I'll give the report from the plan commission. And then Michael DeVita, the principal planner for the city will give the majority of the presentation.
 The proposed ordinance before you simply helps clarify the regulations and development standards required under the zoning ordinance. The staff sent this to the plan commission with a favorable recommendation and the plan commission sent it to you today as well with a favorable recommendation and I'll turn it over to Mike.
 Thank you, Joe. Michael DeVita, principal planner with the City of South Bend Department of Investment offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. So our new zoning ordinance is just over one year old and we don't want to pass up the opportunity to make it even easier to use even though we've been very satisfied with how it's gone so far. So we present here tonight the second set of quick fixes.
 As we had in the first set of quick fixes that was passed last June, they're really housekeeping items, no significant policy changes. So within the ordinance, correcting typographical and internal consistency errors, just providing further clarification on how rules are applied, all under the idea of just trying to enhance the user friendliness.
 So in your packet was the specifics on it. Went over a few of those at a committee meeting in November and again this afternoon, but I'd be happy to take any questions you might have on those. Thank you. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner? No questions? Okay. At this time, we're going to go to the public portion.
 Hearing if there are anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of substitute Bill 5820. Okay, this is Dawn from the clerk's office. I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak in favor of Bill 5820. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak against substitute Bill 5820?
 I don't see anyone from the public expressing interest to speak against Bill 5820. All right. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, then, the public hearing on Bill 5820 is now closed. Is there any council members that wish to make any statements regarding the bill before us? Seeing none, I'll now entertain a motion regarding substitute bill or Bill 5820. I make a motion that...
 We move Bill 5820 to the full council favorably. Second. Okay, there's been a motion and the bill has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll call? Yes. Council Member Wax. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye.
 Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. We're going to move on to substitute Bill 5920. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 5920 a second reading?
 59-20, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to reformat and clarify the NNZO Northeast Neighborhood Zoning Overlay. Thank you. Is there a motion to accept the substitute Bill 59-20? So moved. Second. Second. Thank you.
 THERE'S BEEN A MOTION AND SECONDED. CLERK JONES, WOULD YOU PLEASE TAKE THE ROLL CALL? YES. COUNCILMEMBER NISGOTZKI? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS-MORGAN? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND? AYE. VICE PRESIDENT MCBRIDE? COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS? COUNCILMEMBER LEE? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER? AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WAX? PRESIDENT WHITE? AYE.
 Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill 5920 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon and is sent forward to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. Is the petitioner present? If you are, please state your name and address and share with us the key points regarding the bill before us.
 Thank you, Council. Joe Molnar, zoning specialist, offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. The ordinance before you helps provide consistency between the NNZO Northeast neighborhood zoning overlay and the overall zoning ordinance.
 This consistency helps everyone who uses the ordinance and staff better enforce zoning provisions while it also reduces redundancies between the two. The staff gave us a favorable recommendation to the plan commission and the plan commission sent it to you as well with a favorable recommendation.
 Michael DeVita, again, a principal planner, offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. So this is a reformatting of the northeast neighborhood zoning overlay. Kind of some of the same goals here as the quick fixes you just saw, really to improve the ease of use.
 So when the new zoning ordinance went into effect in January of 2020, kind of carried forward but the old regulations, so now we're reorganizing those. So it follows the same structure as the rest of the zoning ordinance, the base ordinance.
 Again, making no major policy changes here, just trying to make it easy to use, follow in the same order that the base ordinance is. So if you're familiar with the terminology in the base ordinance and the order in the base ordinance, then you have no trouble finding any applicable standards in the zoning overlay.
 I will note we did run this by the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization, who was the city's partner in creating the zoning overlay previously, and they are satisfied with what we're showing here. Be happy to take any questions you might have. Okay, thank you, Mr. DeVita. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner this time? Okay, seeing none, I'm going to move then to the public portion. Okay.
 At this time, is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 5920? This is Dawn from the Clerk's Office. I do not see anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 5920. Thank you. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition to Bill 5920? There is no one from the public wishing to speak against Bill 5920.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing where the Bill 5920 is now closed. Is there any council members wishing to make a statement in regards to Bill 5920? Okay, I see none. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 5920. I move to send Bill 5920 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second.
 Thank you. There has been a motion and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President Negrage? Aye. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Neskoski? Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones.
 Bill 5920 will be sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. We're going to move on to substitute Bill 6020. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 6020 a second reading? Yes. Public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to revise parking and access standards.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to accept the substitute bill 6020? So moved. Second. The motion has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please take the roll call? Yes. Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye.
 Councilmember Tomas Morgan. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, Chair. Bill 60-20 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee earlier this afternoon, and we moved that forward to the full council with no recommendation. Council.
 okay is that correct president white that is correct for uh for uh bill 70-20 is that the one that you're on no we're on 60 20. I believe 60 20 favorable uh councilwoman Hammond this bill okay favorable recommendation oh you're fine okay thank you councilwoman Hammond and president white
 Okay, and at this time, is the petitioner present? And I ask that you state your name and address for the record and share with us the key points on the bill that's before us.
 Thank you, Council, for the last text amendment. Joe Molnar, zoning specialist with offices on the 14th floor of the county city building. The proposed ordinance before you eliminates parking minimums in the six zoning districts where they still remain. This will remove an unnecessary regulation and cost on small scale developers while allowing them to establish the amount of parking they feel is necessary for the project to be completed.
 The city has not seen negative consequences of eliminating the parking minimums in the current district to not have parking minimums. The proposed ordinance changed design standards for parking if parking is provided by the developer, thus ensuring safe and attractive parking facilities when they are still constructed.
 The staff sent this to the plan commission with a favorable recommendation. At the plan commission public hearing, one member of the public spoke and spoke in favor in favor of the bill as well. And the plan commission sent it to you with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Joe. Again, Michael DeVita, principal planner offices.
 The campus city building. So the ordinance, as Joe mentioned, would be to change the zoning ordinance to not require any minimum number of off-street parking spaces. Instead, we would really use a market-based approach. Off-street parking is something the zoning ordinance can never really get right.
 because a parking need varies even for the same use, depending on its popularity, its operator, its context and many other factors. So what we see is that the zoning ordinance, no matter the number almost, seems to over-provide off street parking. So we think the change here will especially benefit the weaker market areas of the city.
 You're probably all familiar with vacant parking lots, both big and small across the city.
 So, why would we want to eliminate minimum off street parking? Primarily because it promotes reinvestment in neighborhoods, avoids an unnecessary cost here. So rather than spending money on parking that's not needed, I think small business owners, people looking to rehab.
 houses within neighborhoods can better spend that money either investing in their business or in the buildings rather than on the parking. We see that off street parking can be two to five thousand dollars per space per.
 So let's suppose it's only three parking spaces that they have to build that aren't really necessary for their operations. You're talking a five-figure cost of $10,000. So we think here can really be an incentive to revitalize those neighborhoods without costing the city anything.
 It also plays into the cost of housing. Again, if there's parking built that's not necessary, then that cost will be, at least a good portion of that cost will be passed on to renters.
 I want to provide an example of what this might look like in South Bend. The council may recall this property on Lincoln Way West was rezoned late last year to UF, the urban flex district, which has no minimum parking requirement. So it has availability of some spots behind the building as well as
 parking on street that will provide more than sufficient parking to meet the needs of this particular property. So it'll work well. If this project came through, let's say four years ago, the ordinance at that time would have required 16 off-street parking spaces to be provided. Clearly they wouldn't be able to fit those on the property.
 So the property owner's choices would have been one, to seek a variance on cost and time involved in that and the uncertainty of the public hearing process or two, buy one of the neighboring properties, tear down the building there, the loss of tax base to the city. Or probably the most likely outcome here is that the project is just abandoned and that investment doesn't occur.
 Second, eliminating the minimum off-street parking requirement will counter negative environmental impacts, avoid excessive paved surfaces with its potential for runoff or heat island effects, discourage an overly auto-oriented development pattern, too, that encourages more driving than is necessary and with the pollution that results from that.
 Of course, parking is also a low value use of land. I had urban three, um,
 some analytics for cities do an analysis of the city of South Bend they found within city limits on a per person basis we have about a thousand square feet of buildings about 900 square feet of parking it's also 800 square feet of streets which also has some parking on it so that
 that space for parking is enough for about two and a half spaces per resident or in another way for the typical south bend household would have six parking spaces within city limits and that's just off street so again in land use buildings roads and parking all take up about 10 percent of the city's land area but a much different story on land use value of improvements from
 which the city funds its operations with the value, of course, being in the buildings, parking, not providing much value. And if we're tearing down buildings like the example that you could have seen in that Lincoln Way piece earlier, you're trading more of the high value use for a lower value one.
 Finally, then, eliminating the minimal street parking requirement would support neighborhood quality, safety, and vibrancy. It would eliminate some of those kind of dead spaces we have in the city that are really tears in our urban fabric.
 So currently there's no minimum off street parking requirement in six of the 12 zoning districts in the city with certain other uses having no minimum off street parking requirement regardless of the district.
 The ordinance also provides some methods for credits to further reduce that off street parking. So effectively, many of the districts, even though it's required, have very small or even none parking required. We've had a very good experience with the reduced regulation, as Joe mentioned. We haven't seen any spillover effects for commercial uses or parking in the neighborhoods creating problems.
 but we have seen a reinvestment in vacant underutilized properties. So want to be sure to lock that in and think now is the time to take that final step.
 I want to be clear here that having no minimum parking requirement doesn't limit parking from being provided. So property owners would have the choice of how to provide. This also helps when properties are reused, going from one use to another, that they can have different requirements.
 requirements so property owners can make that switch as they see fit. So it's really a market-based approach. We think that doesn't mean though that
 uh property owners wouldn't be providing uh any there's still an incentive to have a parking for a convenience of its customers or residents that's that's what we see almost nobody comes in even in those districts where no parking is required um they'll provide it um as necessary so we'll see you'll still see uh garages provided on houses
 Yeah, a grocery store or other commercial uses, restaurants will still provide parking satisfactory for its use.
 We'll point out for any of those, if there's a few blocks around the city that see parking pressure, city does have other tools available to address that, such as time-limited spaces, residential parking zones that are used around the hospitals and universities in the city, disabled parking zones, certainly for those who can't move a great distance
 And also say for any parking that is provided, it's still required to meet the parking standards. So that's the payment of the parking lot, the size parking spaces, miles, providing adequate ADA parking and doing the required landscape. I'd be happy to take any questions you might have. Okay, thank you, Mr. Molnar and Mr. DeVita. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner?
 Councilwoman Hammond. Thank you, Chair. Mr. DeVita, I'm wondering, you mentioned the tools on this last slide. If you have already allowed a business to establish without parking,
 a business basically relying on street parking, and then you find that there is a problem, that the residents are not able to park, so we put up residential parking signs, what happens to that business? They're not going to have lot or space on their lot to add parking at that point. How do we correct that?
 Yeah, I see that'll be kind of context specific, but they may have some spaces on their lot. They may have access to share parking with a neighboring property, depending on what the situation is. From our experience, this really hasn't been a problem. So I don't anticipate that kind of competition happening a lot.
 I can add too, Lori. When I was in the clerk's office, we would receive the tickets that officers would write when someone had parked in a residential parking area that wasn't a resident of that area. Like Mike said, it's typically around our universities and hospitals. So IUSB has a few roads in River Park.
 The residential parking zones aren't typically in front of the business itself. It's typically on a case where they would be in the neighborhood. So if you thought, for example, along Mishawaka Avenue, those areas don't have residential parking limits, but on the streets that have houses in front of them, that's where you would see the signs that they resident parking permit. So it doesn't actually go directly in front of the business. It's more in front of the owner's home who requests this.
 Right, I understood that. But when we put in those residential parking signs and the restricted parking in previous times, it's been a block of those, not just one random house at a time. And I'm wondering if that would impact the business's ability to then find alternate parking.
 So you could do it where you could have the way we do time zones downtown where you could have if it really was just a stretch of say three houses on a block that were being people were parking in front of them for say the business was also on that block. I believe there are a few cases.
 near Notre Dame where it's actually the two signs that have arrows pointing at each other on the block saying just within this portion, there's residential permit parking only. So that would be one way to handle it where even if it was say a business and a home share to sit the same block, you could have just that block portioned out for the residents if they requested it as such. Thank you. And chair may I ask a second question?
 Wasn't that two questions you asked already? No, they were the same. Okay, then absolutely. Can you tell me what other cities you have looked at that have completely done away with minimum required parking?
 There's a range of cities that have done so. Probably the largest is Buffalo, New York, has in some respects a fairly similar market conditions to here. On the small places, Lakeville, for instance, has done it. Then many cities, especially in recent years, have, you know,
 maybe not fully eliminated, but fully eliminate, not fully eliminated citywide, but have fully eliminated from certain districts within the city and cut back on the requirements in other districts. Thank you. Okay. I believe I seen a hand up for Councilman Davis. Is that correct? Yes. Okay. Sorry. I couldn't see your hand here. It was up and then it left. So did you have a question? Yes.
 I'm having a really difficult time understanding what's going on here. Working at taking away the red tape to speed up development, or are we working in such a way to, I guess, create better parking? I think it's really to simplify the investment in the neighborhoods. But I think it also would improve the parking situation or the neighborhood quality. Right.
 So is this like an extension to what Smart Streets was supposed to perform or is performing? I think, well, the relationship is in promoting our investment in the city.
 Smart streets handled the parking on the streets. So this is zoning matter for on the private property side. So different in that respect. What I'm asking is because wasn't the purpose of smart streets was to get people on to the street. Now we're taking them off the streets. And look, I'm just trying to get a grasp or handle on this because I've been following this, but it doesn't make sense to me.
 And that just probably is me. You probably got it.
 Smart streets was to, the bigger part was just to promote the quality of the city and investment there. Sort of traffic calming. One piece of that is having that both calms traffic and supports, especially neighborhood-based business, is by having on-street parking available. So this is looking off-street. It doesn't necessarily force people on
 on street time we have a lot of experience with businesses and uh um they'll set up almost always provide their own um off-street parking to the degree to which they uh see is necessary uh from my perspective is they don't want to compete with anybody else they um
 typically don't even consider like the number of on street parking adjacent to them even though those can be used uh in terms of meeting their needs so the point here is really to to not force off street parking that's that's not necessary to be constructed and maintained thank you sir and i believe i've seen another hand up but i can't clerk jones i'm not sure who that is
 Actually, it is Angela Smith. Okay. Good evening. Angela Smith, the Department of Community Investment, offices located on the 14th floor of the County City Building. I just want to clarify, this is not a parking maximum. So in no way are we telling businesses they shouldn't provide parking or that they can't provide parking. It's simply that if they feel for their business model, they don't need as many parking spaces as deemed in our chart that we have developed.
 and previous ordinances, that they could go ahead and proceed with the amount of parking that they need. Okay, thank you for the clarification. Are there any other council members that wish to, they have a question for the petitioners? Okay, I don't see any other hands. So at this time we are gonna go to the public hearing portion. Is there any one from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 6020?
 This is Dawn from the Clerk's Office and I do not see anyone from the public that is wishing to speak in favor of Bill 6020. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition? I don't see anyone from the public wishing to speak in opposition of Bill 6020.
 Thank you. Councilman Warner, I see your hand up. Did I miss something? I just had a quick comment before we vote, if there's nobody from the public. There is not. So please, at this time, we will close the public hearing portion of, and if, let me see, I'm sorry. Yeah, so at this point, we are going to close the public hearing on Bill 6020.
 So at this time, if council members would like to make a statement regarding that now is the time. So, Councilman Warner, you wish to make a statement? Yeah, thank you. This has come up twice recently. I support this. And Henry kind of alluded to it, that this kind of gets rid of the red tape.
 We saw this with the drive-in shine with the car wash. They came to us asking for an exception and I don't have the number exactly right, but I think they would have had to have 30 parking spots for a car wash where people don't come and park, they drive through and maybe they've got a, you know, half dozen employees. So I think this only makes sense. And then second, when you look at a map of, the vast majority of the city already has no minimums.
 When you look at a map of where this affects, it's kind of the main corridors, the areas where there's already commercial development that's happened, places where there are strip malls and larger shopping centers and things like that. So I think this is a good idea, and I'll be voting in support of it. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Clerk Jones, could you please give me the order in which I see all these hands popping up?
 Okay, you have Councilmember Davis. That was next. And I'm not sure, you have Councilmember Davis, Councilmember Hammond, Councilmember Watts, and Councilmember Lee.
 Thank you so much, Clerk Jones. Councilman Davis, you wish to make a statement regarding Bill 6020? Yeah. And this is the other part of why I was saying about, and please don't take it as I'm hitting at someone, but there are like a couple of things going on here. And yes, we are talking about eliminating red tape. We are talking about making, I guess, the city a little bit more business friendly. I get all of that.
 But the main quarter of discussion that Troy just brought up, and I think Mr. DeVitas talked about, you know, we were talking about Lincoln Way and Western, where we have a drastic change in traffic patterns and even traffic moving through. And so I just believe that there is more in this than just parking spaces. I believe that we're challenging the traffic patterns within our city today.
 Especially these main corridors. I think we're challenging a number of ideals that we, I guess, we thought we paid for, you know, some years ago with the Smart Street Initiative and hoping that that will increase businesses in those given areas. That hasn't necessarily happened. And there is really no data yet.
 to support one way or the other. And not only that, we're not even having a discussion about forward movement either because all the money has been invested. So yeah, we are at surface talking about parking spaces. But when we get to talk about parking spaces and increasing traffic or decreasing traffic, ensuring new development in areas that need it,
 These things tend to have unintended consequences. And I would love to have a larger discussion on how those things are working. Yeah, I get it. Take the red tape away. You are completely right. But the other areas that don't necessarily behave like a 20 with a state rule 23 could behave. It doesn't it doesn't it's not the same as a Lincoln way or Western.
 So I'm looking forward, hopefully very, very soon that we have a discussion with the department here. More of a discussion about what the department here or even the city planners on how these things actually work and how we move forward as it relates to development and tax based expansion in our areas. Because I don't I think this may have some unintended consequences that may hurt areas that are already hurting. But I will be supporting it.
 All right. Thank you, Councilman Davis. Next, we're going to go to Councilwoman Hammond. The comment I would like to make is I don't see the rationale to go from six to 100% of all of these zones. I would much prefer to see them leave parking requirements in U1 and U3s. I would have wishing I had been...
 cognizant enough earlier to oppose the U2s. I really believe this is not something we need to see in the heavy residential areas. So I have not heard anything to change my mind. I do not think I will be supporting this. Thank you. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. Next, we have Councilman Wax.
 Thank you. I just want to state that I appreciate you guys trying to find ways to
 reform the current codes to ensure that individuals can make the best decisions that they know for themselves to be best for them instead of overlaying and requiring them to maintain situations that may not be in their best interest. So I appreciate looking out for ways that we trust our citizens and our businesses to do what's best for themselves as they know what's best for themselves generally. Thank you, Councilman Wex. Councilman Lee, you had a statement.
 Yes, I would just like to say that I wish I wish this would have been in place 20 years ago when I first started pastor, because it it it caused me to have this this this issue caused me to have to purchase a house and land next next to my church.
 So I'm glad to see that someone is actually looking and seeing that if you if you be proactive and really look through things, you can it can better benefit the individuals in our community that may be going into non-traditional places. I was amazed because I was like to put a church in in a residential area was it was a good thing. And.
 You know, we went through a lot of hoops in order to do that, but I wish this would have been around 20 years ago. And so I'll support it. All right. Thank you, Councilman Lee. Is there any other council members that would like to make a statement? Okay. Okay. At this point, then, I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 6020. I make a motion we send Bill 6020 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second.
 Okay, the bill, there has been a motion and second. Clerk Jones, would you please take the roll call on Bill 6020? Yes. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? A question for Bob, Paul, and Terry. Can I ask a question, please? Yes. Yes.
 My question, Bob, you know, I wanted some caveats on that vote or on this motion. Is there any way that we can place that on there or is it too late? It's too late. The motion is already made with no question. Right. All right. Thank you. All right. OK. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye.
 Council Member Thomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Nay. President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Okay, at this point, we're going to move on to Bill 7020. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7020, oh, I'm sorry, Bill 6020 will be sent to the full council with favorable recommendations. My apology, I got ahead of myself.
 Now we'll move to Bill 7020. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 7020 a second reading? Yes. 7020, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1915 North Bendix. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report? Sorry about that. Yes, Chair. Bill 7020.
 70-20 came before the Zoning and Annexation Committee this afternoon, and this is the bill that was sent forward with no recommendation. All right. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us the key points of the bill that's before us.
 Yes, thank you, Council. For the last time tonight, Joe Molnar, Zoning Specialist with offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building. This is a special exception bill coming before you today for 1915 Bendix. Here is Bendix running north-south. The airport is just off screen here.
 All these properties surrounding the subject property are zoned I industrial. This special exception is for heavy industrial use. So even though the property is already zoned industrial, if you ever want to do something that the zoning ordinance classifies as heavy industrial, there's this extra special exception process just to make sure that the project is reviewed even further.
 We went into it at committee a little bit, but all the properties around this property are industrial. We think that this is a proper place to put if you're going to have heavy industrial in the city and the business that comes with it, it's appropriate to put it in place that really is insulated from anything else except other industrial purposes.
 This basically serves as an industrial park. So the staff believed that this was a suitable location for the use, which should not negatively impact the broader community and should help retain a business in the city. The staff recommendation to the board of zoning appeals was favorable and the board of zoning appeals is sending it to you as well with a favorable recommendation. And if the petitioner is online, they could speak as well.
 Okay. Uh, Randall Ray Greenlee, uh, HB Fuller, Royal Adhesives and Sealants. The address there is 2001 West Washington Street. I do have a couple other, uh, uh, people on the call. Um,
 And I'll just mention their names. Bob Smith, he's our PSM, Senior Engineering Regional Manager from HB Fuller. His office is also in South Bend. Bob will be talking to everyone about risk management for the project. Our tabletop meetings we had with the fire department, police, and South Bend Airport Safety Manager prior to startup of this project. And, you know, during the
 Bob will talk a little bit more about this, but HB Fuller, I mean we're always do the best that we can in administrative controls and mechanical controls to protect the safety of our employees as well as the neighborhood and surrounding properties. So also Chuck Martin is on this call.
 He's the area manager for DP fire systems. Chuck is installing the fire protection system on this project and will discuss the deluge system, deluge system design by VFP's expert on flammable propellant tanks. We have a 3D drawing we'd like to show everyone as well that Chuck will talk to. And I think Joe kind of covered what we're trying to do there, but
 We're basically just purchasing and installing a modular steel canister filling house, adhesive pump house, and a propellant tank farm outside on the west end of this existing lease building. We also installed it for our firewall system.
 next to, or we will be installing a firewall, 4-hour firewall next to the existing building west wall. And that's just to protect the building. So, a little bit of background. HB Fuller's large roofing customers are wanting a faster, more economic way to apply adhesive to their substrates to fully adhere their commercial roofing membrane system.
 The spraying of the adhesive to the substrate is much faster than rolling on liquid adhesive, which we also supply to those roofing customers. We currently make liquid adhesive for this, for the spraying adhesive that goes in like a 5 gallon canister. We make that at South Bend and are used in Texas Plant.
 And then it's sent to like a third party that's in another state. And once the canister is filled, it's shipped back to Bendix and then shipped to our roofing customer. So we think it makes a lot of sense to put that whole operation in one particular city. And so we looked at two possible sites. One was South Bend, one was Houston.
 The logical choice was South Bend since we already make the adhesive at our main plant and we currently ship the canister out of Bendix Warehouse, this 1915 warehouse. We have also worked with the City of South Bend on other projects in the main plant and they have always been supportive and work with us on any issues that may have come up. So we're spending about 2.1 million dollars on this project.
 and we're adding six new employees on the initial phase. There are two other future phases to this project that will allow us to fill a high-volume two-part urethane, which is non-flammable, as well as a small 13-ounce sprayable adhesive that you have probably seen in Lowe's, Menards, Home Depot, and probably other stores.
 We will need to purchase more equipment, and I estimate that to be about 500,000, and at a minimum of six additional more employees to support these future phases. And also, I just wanted to point out at the main plant, which is on 2001 West Washington Street in South Bend, not very long ago, we had 65 Valley employees, and now we have over 100. And...
 And I think that number is going to grow and we've added a lot of clerical type jobs and salary jobs as well. Plus, we have a lot of employees coming in from corporate, which is in Minneapolis, Minnesota. They're flying in the South Bend as well as other consultants and stuff because they're
 you know, the plant is so busy right now, we can't keep up with all the volume. So that's why we're adding more jobs and buying, you know, other equipment to support, you know, that incoming business. So hey, Bob, I don't know if you can share the screen, but maybe, I don't know if there's any questions, share the screen on the plot plan.
 I show it's being shared. Can people see it? Yeah. Yes, we can see it now. I think Joe showed the same thing, but I just, this may give you a better view. Bob, if you want to point out the, like the fill house, the main canister fill house right there, where is, that's that. And then go down to the south, Bob, that is the pump house. And then go further down south.
 Right there, we, you know, that's a pad. We're going to pour the pad, you know, for this future small aerosol can fill house. So and then you can probably see the up in the top left hand corner there, you can see the two propellant tanks.
 And the other tanks down below here are one CO2, which is non-flammable, and the other is just water storage. So I don't know if anybody has any questions on that. Otherwise, we can go. Bob, you can go ahead. Go ahead and put up the other drawing of the 3D drawing, Bob. Okay. Chuck, do you want to just jump in and talk about this?
 You on, Chuck? Chuck Martin? Sure. So my name is Chuck Martin. I'm with BFP Fire Systems and my address is 1912 Lilac Trails Court here in South Bend. Really, we have two systems proposed for this facility.
 as Randy was pointing out, the pump house and the fill house, which are near the building, those would be protected with a pre-action system. And so that means the sprinkler would have to go off and detection would have to go off before water would be sprayed into there. But the main system that I like to talk about is the deluge system, which would protect
 the pumps, but mainly the cylinders right there, the tanks themselves. And this is a deluge system. That's an automatic system that has a dry pilot actuation, and it's designed and installed per NFPA 15. And that's going to spray water on all sides of both of the cylinders. And it requires so much water that
 We had to figure on bringing a new eight inch main all the way through from the front of the building to the back. So this would be a lot of water going off at once, not only to extinguish a fire, but also to cool the tanks in case there's a fire nearby. So this is like I say, designed by in accordance with NFPA 15 for water spray fixed systems. And then we
 I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you, Chuck. Hey, Bob, do you want to talk about risk management then? Yes. My name is Bob Smith. I'm the Regional Process Safety Senior Engineer for HB Fuller based in South Bend, Indiana, our manufacturing facility on 2001 West Washington Street. I can tell you this project will comply with the requirements of the EPA's Risk Management Program and OSHA's Process Safety Management Program.
 Among other things, they require a thorough understanding of process parameters, a preventative maintenance program to maintain system integrity, periodic communication with the city and local officials, and also that we conform to the compliance to the recognized and generally accepted good engineering standards, which would include the API standards, American Petroleum Institute, as well as the National Fire Service.
 Protection Association, NFPAs, in particular, NFPA 58 for liquefied petroleum gases. We will be, as part of that communication with the city, we have had several tabletop meetings already centered around our Bendix, one for warehousing, and also an initial project kickoff that included people from the fire department, the police department, and also the airport
 One, we want to share process information, and two, we want to develop a working relationship. We also have done a process hazard analysis on the process to identify possible hazardous scenarios and determine the risk associated with each scenario. Part of that is we want to make sure the proper engineered safeguards are in place to mitigate potential hazards. Again, confirm compliance with rega gas, recognize and generally accept the good engineering practices.
 and to reduce risk to as low as reasonably practical. We want to be able to operate this safe and comply with all standards and regulations that are out there. Questions? Thank you, Bob. I just want to maybe say, you know, one more thing. I mean, I think this project is not only good for HB Fuller, but I think it's also good
 for South Bend and I think you know we're going to create more jobs and everything as I said. So anyway, I would appreciate, you know, approval on this project. So thank you. Thank you, Mr. Greenlee. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner? Councilman Lee. Yes, thank you, Councilman Nagoski. Um,
 Just wanted to talk about the option of it being moved somewhere else. And if you can just talk about how you guys produce the adhesive here, have to ship it away, then bring it back and all of that. And how that flow helps you guys being able to open up this building over on Bendix.
 OK, yeah, thank you. We currently have four employees there and yeah, one of the things I didn't bring up was that if we decided to move it to Houston then we would have to eliminate that warehouse and it'll be, you know, and then the employees there, the existing employees would be gone, but.
 I think, you know, with the logistics that I talked about earlier, you know, with that third party being in another state and, you know, right now we make one adhesive in South Bend, we make the other adhesive in Houston, Texas. It just makes good sense to bring it all to South Bend. And the other thing about South Bend is the fact that, you know, the warehouse is
 the warehouse and the main plants in South Bend. So we can make the adhesive and just ship it directly to the warehouse for filling. And we can actually control the inventories much better as well since it's so close.
 So we'll probably just like make the order and then move the material over as we need it from the main plant. So that's a big advantage for us. Did I answer your question, Kenneth? Yep. Thank you. Appreciate it. Thank you.
 Councilman Davis, I think you had your hand up as well. Yeah. And this is a question as far as transportation. Mr. Greenlee, this is Henry. How are you doing, sir? Happy New Year to you as well. What mode of transportation do you use when moving your product from place to place? I think we have a shuttle truck. We have we have I'm sorry, we have a shuttle truck.
 that moves it from the main plant to Bendix. And then obviously for when we're shipping product, you know, either from Houston or to our customers, it's usually the current products go out on flatbeds, but the canisters will go just in a, you know, a covered semi.
 Did I answer your question? Yeah, so what route would you use? Would you go north on, what's that, north? Is that north? Would you go, would that be kind of like northeast? Yeah, it'd be north. Would you go north on Bendix or would you go south? It's like what route I use.
 I don't know which way they're going right now, but if you have a preferred route or whatever, we could certainly go that route. No, sir. That's not it. This has something to do with another discussion that we're having about traffic patterns and stuff. Oh, okay. I got you. And how you're going to come in and come. Then this was just changed over.
 Due to another smart streets project. And I noticed that a lot of the semis or trucks that you will be using will have to enter in on Bendix at some point.
 And if they come in over there by Bowling Park or further north by Nymphs Parkway, there may be a really hard, difficult problem if there's a lot of traffic there for your truck to move through. That's why I was asking the question. But yeah, thank you. Thank you, Councilman Davis. Is there any other, anybody else wishing to ask the petitioner a question?
 Okay, I do not see anybody at this time. So I'm going to go to the public portion hearing Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of bill 70 20? This is dawn from the clerk's office. There is no one from the public Expressing interest to speak on bill in support of bill 70 20. Okay. Thank you is there anyone present wishing to speak in opposition and
 I do not see anyone present to speak in opposition of Bill 7020. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. At this point, the public hearing on Bill 7020 is now closed. Is there any council members that wish to make a statement regarding Bill 20? And I see Councilman Henry Davis, you have your hand up. And also Councilman Lee has his hand up. Oh, thank you, Clerk Jones and Councilman Lee.
 In my statement, and I want to thank the company for coming in and Mr. Randy coming in and explaining what's going on with the company and expansion. I think it's awesome we're able to add more jobs to this community. I just wanted to explain my no recommendation vote earlier because I don't want anyone to get confused as to me saying.
 like I didn't want to hear anymore or even think that this was a no-go.
 The point of it is that I want to make sure, and this is even for the petitioner, that when we do our business, we do it proper, decent, and in order. And so if we were to give a great, favorable recommendation for you leaving out of there without even explaining why you were there, then that means that we need to do it for everybody else. And that would have been very unfair. So I just wanted to make sure we set up a precedent.
 here at the committee level to ensure that you have proper and sufficient time to explain why you're here and that we also get proper sufficient time to ask questions and hear you out. It was just something that we were not in control of and that means the time and so I didn't want to give you a
 or give anyone else a false understanding of how we are supposed to do business. I think everybody gets the same treatment when they come through here. But again, thank you again for your investment. I look forward to you guys opening up. Yeah. Thank you, Henry. I understand. Okay. Thank you. Councilman Davis, Councilman Lee. I would just like to say that, uh, being able to see a big building in the first district be utilized and, uh,
 repurpose to continue to keep a company in South Bend is very important. The fact that they're bringing nice level jobs to the city or staying here and not going to Houston and how the city of South Bend is able to be a partner with a business that's been here for a very long time.
 My father actually used to work as part of that company. So it's good to see that they're expanding. There's going to be opportunities for good paying jobs. And they've taken all of the safety issues. They've done a great job making sure that they addressed all the safety issues and
 The the change is just making it where they because it's already an industrial complex. It's already set up for that. It's a great fit. And we're just glad that a building, a big building in the first district is going to be able to be utilized and people be able to get good paying jobs. So thank you, Randy, and everyone from HB Fuller. You're welcome, Kenneth. OK, thank you.
 Okay, well, next we're going to move on to Councilman Wax. Thank you. I just wanted to thank you, Randy, and all the rest of you. I just love the fact that we have a business that's been here for a long time and wants to continue its growth here and expand, especially with new additional jobs. And I just wanted to wish you the best of success now and in the future. Thank you.
 Okay, Clerk Jones, I'm not sure, did I miss somebody that has a hand up that I'm... Okay. Hands up but they weren't put down. The hands that I still see up is Councilmember Wax, Councilmember Lee, and I know he already spoke, and Councilmember Davis. I don't know if they forgot to take their hands down. Okay. Thank you. So, is there anyone else wish to make a statement?
 Then I will move on and entertain a motion regarding Bill 7020. Is there a motion on Bill 7020? I make a motion we send Bill 7020 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Second. Okay, there has been a motion regarding Bill 7020, and it's been seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Wax. Aye.
 Council Member Muscovsky? Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. We are now going to move on to Bill 7120. I believe, Clerk Jones, you still have to read this bill even though it has been a motion to table. Is that correct?
 I believe so. Yes, Clerk Jones, could you please give Bill 7120 a second reading? Yes. The woman, Skosky, he had his hand raised. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't see that. Attorney Palmer, was I correct? No, it actually is not necessary to read the bill. It did not come out of committee, so it does not go into committee of the whole for a second reading. Excuse me, second reading.
 So do I have to have a motion? I don't have to have a motion to table either? No. Okay. That was done at the committee level. Wonderful. Thank you. Well, if that's the case, at this point, I will entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full council. So moved. Second. Okay. The motion was moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please take the roll? Yes. Council Member Lee? Aye. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye.
 Council Member Misgotski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Council Member Davis? I had my hand up before we even started this process. You know, I got the email from the Mayor just like everyone else did. I just have a simple question and I need it to be answered before I vote.
 you know, no, I guess no one saw my, my hand. No, I'm sorry. I did not. Well, will the proper resources be available for the clerk's office to ensure a successful passage at the next council meeting? Because I would hate to be keep going around the circle with this. I mean, we have a, the mayor has a legal team. We have a lawyer and,
 And so documents need to be read over and language needs to be consistent across the board. There should not be a problem with presenting a document that is consistent with what's already on paper, meaning the ordinance. OK, as a point of order, Councilman Davis, we're voting on to dissolve from the committee of the whole to report back to full council. OK.
 Yeah, I know that. But the problem was I had my hand up to talk about what we just about the bill that Dawn had in front of us, the resolution. I'm confused. No, I'm not. I got what you're doing. What I'm saying is before we resolve back to the full council, I wanted to talk about what was already being talked about. I had my hand up and I wasn't recognized. And so then we went to a full vote.
 I just want to make sure Dawn's office has the necessary resources so that we don't come back here two weeks from now asking for more information. I don't even know how to respond to that because there is a motion on the floor. It's already in the middle of the vote. I believe that we have to proceed with the vote. You can respond to it. You can just say yes or no. Attorney Palmer, hand is us. Mm-hmm.
 I may be misunderstanding your question, Councilman Davis. Are you talking about the CRB bill, the resolution? Yes. We haven't gotten to resolutions yet. You'll have an opportunity for full discussion of the resolution after the third readings of the ordinances. Okay.
 But one reason, okay, I'm glad you just clarified that, but I'm not far off from what we were just talking about. We were just talking about that. Am I correct? No. We did not talk about that? No. I'm sorry. You're fine. That's okay. We're just, we're voting on. I could have sworn that we were going to be tabling it.
 No, that was another bill. That was another bill. That was the bill I asked for a point of order if I had to ask, have a motion to table it since it was done a committee and I was told- Okay, I just understood where we were at. Thank you, I'm sorry. I is my vote. Okay, thank you. Okay, and President White. Aye. Nine ayes.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Thank you as well. The full council is now back in session. This is the portion of our meeting where bills are given a third reading and action is taken regarding bills that were heard during the Committee of the Whole. Clerk Jones, would you please give Substitute Bill 58-20 a third reading?
 We do not have to accept this as a substitute as it was accepted in the Committee of the Whole. So will you please give Substitute Bill 58-20 a third reading? Yes.
 5820, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to make miscellaneous technical changes for clarification and consistency and to correct typographical errors in various articles.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 58-20? Yes, President White. Bill 58-20 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. At this time, councilmembers, I would like to entertain a motion regarding Bill 58-20. Substitute Bill. Motion for passage. Second. Second.
 We have a motion for passage and there has been a seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Council Member Misgawski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye. Council Member Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye.
 Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Substitute Bill 58-20 has been passed. Clerk Jones, please substitute Bill 59-20, a third reading.
 5920, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to reformat and clarify the NNZO Northeast Neighborhood Zoning Overlay.
 Councilwoman Sheila Noskoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 59-20? Yes, President White. Bill 59-20 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 59-20. Move for passage. Is there a second? Second.
 Second. Okay, thank you. We have a motion and it has been seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Wax. Councilmember Neskoski. Aye. Councilmember Thomas Morgan. Aye. Councilmember Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Aye. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Councilmember Brown. Aye. Councilmember Brown. Aye.
 President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. Bill, substitute Bill 59-20 has passed. Clerk Jones, would you please give substitute Bill 60-20 a third reading? 60-20, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, amending Chapter 21 of the South Bend Municipal Code to revise parking and access standards.
 Thank you. Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding Substitute Bill 60-20? Yes, President White. Bill 60-20 was sent to the full Council with a favorable recommendation. I would now like to entertain a motion regarding Substitute Bill 60-20.
 Move for passage of 60-20. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Nieskoski? Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Nay. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Aye. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember Brown?
 President White. Aye. Eight ayes. Substitute Bill 60-20 has now passed. Clerk Jones, will you please give a third reading to Bill 70-20?
 7020, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1915 North Bendix. Thank you. Councilwoman Niskoski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole? No.
 Yes, President White. Bill 7020 was sent to the full council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. I would now like to entertain a motion for substitute Bill 70-20. I'd like to make a motion for passage. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Councilmember Tomas Morgan? Aye. Councilmember Hammond? Aye.
 Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Aye. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. Council Member Watts.
 Council Member Neskotski? Aye. President White? Aye. Nine ayes. Substitute Bill 70-20 has passed. We'll now move into the resolution section of our meeting. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 21-01.
 21-01, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving the job description of the Community Police Review Board, Director of the Review Office. Thank you. Is there a committee report at this time? Yes. Yes. The resolution came before the Community Relations Committee,
 and was sent with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. At this time, is there a presenter? I do ask that you state your name and address, please. Yes. Dawn Jones, city clerk, offices on the fourth floor of the county city building. Okay. And we will share the presentation from this afternoon because we did make some changes.
 Excuse me, before you start, Clerk Jones, Attorney Palmer has his hands up. Attorney Palmer. Yes, since there were changes made in the ordinance and the appendix, I'll take that as an substitute. Okay. Thank you.
 I just caught that. Thank you so much. To the number. I can't hear. Yeah, I don't know. Due to the changes that have been made in terms of the job posting and also in regards to other comments that have been made, we need to accept the substitute version of resolution 21-01.
 Is there a motion to accept the substitute version? So moved. Second. It's been moved and seconded. Claire Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Hammond? Aye. Vice President McBride? Aye. Councilmember Davis? Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Aye. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Councilmember Neskotsky? Aye.
 Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. So we'll now be asking for the presenter to speak to the substitute version of the resolution and or the job posting and to point out the areas that have been changed. Yes. Roger, could you share the job description please? Yes, I'll do that now.
 OK, you got to make it bigger. The the job description. Yes, this is the resolution job descriptions opening right now. OK, OK, OK, the first change is in the Community Review Board summary.
 We took off the part of the board possesses subpoena authority. And then we also added the South Bend Common Council is charged with appointing the volunteer citizens to the CRB in coordination with the mayor. That was the changes for that section. And the next change happened in essential duties and responsibilities.
 The previous, it stated that recruits and trains appointed board members. It now states on board and trains appointed board members. So it takes the director part out in regard to recruiting board members. It clarifies that a little bit more. The next section is in education and qualifications. Wait, okay. Essential duties and responsibilities. It's.
 It stated assist citizens in filing complaints. It now states ensures residents have access to the complaint process established under South Bend Ordinance 2021. The next section is education and qualifications. And we have removed the two words of law enforcement. Okay, and those were the changes that we made to the job description.
 Are there any questions regarding that? Council members, do you have any questions regarding the job description and the changes? But also, I do know that Council Member Henry Davis wanted to make some comments. We've all have received an email from the mayor regarding looking at the job description. And I wanted to make sure, Council Member Davis, that you have opportunity to ask your questions first.
 I guess I unloaded on the wrong thing earlier. Excuse me. I'm on the right one. Forgive me for doing that. Excuse me. Can I say one thing before you make your comments in regard to the email from the mayor? I did after that, after receiving an email, we made sure that he had a copy, the latest version of the the latest version of the job description. So he does have that.
 so go ahead and so you and so you feel fine going forward with the vote
 Because if not, then my comments mean nothing. I just wanted to make sure that if we were going to table this, that you will have full and free access to his legal team and also obviously our counsel lawyer to make sure the language was consistent across the board. Because that's the only thing we're talking about. We're talking about language. OK, I have I have submitted this resolution and a job description multiple times to council members and to and to legal.
 to the administration, to council legal, and to my legal. And so I was told that it was consistent. So if there are any questions in regard to the job description and or the resolution, please let me know because we've had ample time to review this. Thank you. Councilwoman Rachel Thomas Morgan, followed by Councilwoman Sheila Noscovsky
 And any other council members, if you just raise your hand, I'll make sure that you'll be recognized. Thank you, Chair White, President White. Thank you, Clerk Jones and your staff for your work on the PD and the resolution. I had asked earlier in committee for inclusion of more language from the ordinance in order to make the job description.
 more consistent with the ordinance. And so can you tell me where you included that? Okay. Or did you? No, we didn't make any changes to the job description. The language is more so in the resolution talking about the job description. The actual job description was completed by administration.
 They looked at the ordinance and they came up with the job descriptions with the duties and everything that's on this job description came up with administration. It has been reviewed. It's been compared. And it's also been compared to other job descriptions around the country. And so this is what the human resource office with administration, the mayor's office, came up with.
 Okay, Clerk Jones, it's just from our previous conversation and how that conversation went, I'm just not confident that this is a draft of a PD that I can approve. So that's why I'm asking the question.
 So I it to answer my question, I'm hearing that there was no inclusion of additional language from the ordinance in this version of the of the position
 I would say your interpretation is correct, but let me ask this. What is it about this job description that's not consistent with the ordinance? My concern was just to echo some language from the ordinance into the job description for consistency's sake.
 And I mentioned several, I mentioned the section of the ordinance that you could pull language from. I don't want to take the time to do that piece by piece here. It may be worth another draft. So I'm moving into comments. I don't want to do that. You've answered my question. Thank you.
 Thank you. I'll now go to Councilwoman Sheila Naskoski. I see three other hands up. Clerk Jones, can you help me make sure that I will recognize individuals in order? Yes, thank you. And I would like to thank you for the work that the clerk's office has done on this. It's brought before us.
 However, in committee, there was a question brought up about that just concerns me. It was brought up about how the appointing the volunteer citizens are. And there was said with the mayor, with coordination with the mayor. And then they said, well, that was put in because there was a state code citing that he has to.
 now be involved in that. So I just want to make sure that we're clear on that point because I remember all the committee meetings we had and it was pretty clear that this board wanted to remain without the mayor's influence, I guess, if you want to say. So I'm just a little, I just want to make sure that we're clear on what is the state code that says that he has to be
 involved with the board appointments that's supposed to be by the council members. What's the Indiana code? Because my understanding was that he was not going to be involved with any of those appointments.
 Thank you, Councilwoman Neskoski. We'll make sure that we have the circuit back so you get those questions answered. I did see a hand of Attorney Palmer and then Councilman Henry Davis. Then I would like to make some comments, but I want to make sure all the council members have an opportunity to ask questions. We're not making comments at this time. We're asking questions. Attorney Palmer, did I see your hand up?
 Yes, President White. To provide an answer to Councilwoman Needskotsky, the mayor or the clerk's office has to make the decision to hire the director because that's a paid position. The board members themselves can be appointed by the Common Council.
 And as this job description states, that the council will be doing that in coordination with the mayor's office. But it is the Common Council itself that makes the that appoints the volunteer citizens to the board. Thank you, Attorney Palmer. I'll now move to, I believe, Councilman Smith.
 Go ahead. I will move to Councilmember Henry Davis. Then I want to make sure that all councilmembers have opportunity to ask questions regarding the information that has been presented. Then Clerk Jones will come back to you for rebuttal. Okay. Mm-hmm. Councilmember Henry Davis. Clerk Jones, what was the process in creating this job description? Did it go through Human Resources and also the attorneys at the administration level?
 Yes, it did. It went through. I met with first of all, I received a.
 an example of the job description from you and I believe Lori, the one that you all were working with. So we had that and then we also, and that was from Indianapolis. We also researched and found other job descriptions with other CRBs around the country. And we gave a copy of the job description that we had received previously along with the ordinance
 And along with the information from NACO and the Department of Justice, we gave all of that to the mayor to the mayor's office, his human resource department. And I met with the mayor and he asked for two different job descriptions, which we did get. And so we went with the one that had them in the both job descriptions came from administration.
 And so we went with the one that was closest to the ordinance. And so that's why we chose this one. And so that was the process. They came up with the descriptions. We sent out the descriptions that we received from Human Resource. We sent it to the council and we sent it to legal counsel. We didn't get really anything back in regard to feedback. We just kept moving forward.
 And we sent it out again. And so I probably have sent this job description out maybe three or four times in the last two months. And so we just recently got feedback yesterday and today. And so it's really kind of unfair to do it that way. I mean, we came up with this and we sent it out and we want it.
 and we've been asking for feedback and this is the midnight hour and we're just now getting feedback. So I'm just sure of that. Okay. So I think I lost. So you're right. I'm sorry.
 are not getting feedback from the administration or are you getting feedback from the administration? They gave us the job descriptions. The job descriptions came from administration. OK, so let me walk down this path with you. Let me walk down because I've got you more confused. And bear with me, please. So when you got the job descriptions from the administration.
 they, along with the mayor's office and human resources, you guys sat down and put together the language for this job description that we're looking at. Yes or no? Yes. Actually, we gave the language from- No, no. Hold on. I'm just asking. That's what happened? Yes. Yes. And so when you received the back, this was based upon what...
 the experts say it's okay. Meaning our experts, the legal team and also human resources. Yes. Okay. That's all I wanted. Thank you. Well, now, are there any other council members that have any questions? You have Council Member Lee and Council Member McBride. Thank you. Council Member Lee followed by Councilwoman McBride. I yield my time. I'm just sitting back listening.
 Councilwoman McBride. Thank you. I think I'm getting a little confused as well. I know that there had been back and forth, job descriptions sent and changed and tweaked, and e-mails back from administration and going back and forth. I just want to make sure one, I think Bob answered my questions that I was going to ask about clarifying the roles of the council in our selection.
 And I view it similarly as what we do now with our standing committees. However, I wanted to see if I see we received an email from the clerk's office and from the mayor's office. And we'll like to hear if the revisions that were submitted just prior to tonight's meeting are.
 agreed upon by both the clerk and the mayor's office. So is someone here from the administration to clarify so we can move forward as well? Yes, you have Mayor Mueller that has his hand up. Thank you. Mayor Mueller. Thank you.
 Thank you, President White. This is the appropriate time to try to clarify where things stand. You know, following some of the conversations I wanted to go back to see exactly how we may have missed it on our side on HR and the administration. And you know, maybe the clerk's office can correct us if we're wrong, but the last time there was correspondence on this job description was in October.
 And, you know, that was shortly thereafter, shortly after the ordinance passed. And if we recall, there were some last minute changes to the job description or to the ordinance as it right before it passed. And so one of the big changes is was that the office moved from the mayor's office to the clerk's office. And if you recall the office.
 draft of the position description that was circulated early last week. It still had mayor's office in that, so I believe that draft was the draft we we had in the draft
 hadn't been updated since since october and um there was a council committee meeting i believe at the beginning of december and there were there was a thought of where is this office going is it going to be uh you know investigative heavy or is it going to be more of facilitating the review board and potential investigations when necessary
 I believe the you know, I'm not going to put words into the Council members mouths, but I believe the outcome of that meeting was as to just get the ball rolling. Try to get, you know, get get a director in
 and get a review board members in place and a process to do that and, you know, working through that front. I believe council members were on most of the correspondences trying to get the most recent up-to-date job description, and the one that we received last week was the only one that we had seen since October last.
 And then we've tried to figure out this is to be clear. This is something that the council, this is a council is appointing the board members and the clerk's office is administering the office. And so by, by design, the administration is not trying to, to,
 to facilitate and obviously at the end of the day we have to work. Our Department of Police has to work with this board, but this is not something that the by design is not something that the administration owns, so we're trying to be.
 cognizant of our role. Now, we're always happy to help and we want to move this forward and make this work. And that is the spirit of the engagement. I have a monthly meeting with Clerk Jones and have given feedback at those meetings. And, you know, some has been incorporated, some has not. And, you know, what remains are some of the still the pieces that have not been incorporated. But I guess I will just, you know, finish
 If you look at the job description, the first line of title is not the title that's in the ordinance. The resolution is correct. It has director of review office. If you look at the ordinance, review office also means the director of community police review office. So either one would make sense, director of community police review office or.
 or Director of Review Office as in the resolution, if you look at the job description, the first line is Director of Community Review Board. There are other issues. So just from the very beginning, we're not off being consistent with the ordinance, and you move down the line and 
 This is something where most positions aren't defined in statute, whereas, you know, the council and we worked hard all through last year to get language. And it's pretty specific in the ordinance about what the roles of the director are.
 are what they are and what they are not. And so we are concerned that there are there seem to be some things that are moving away outside of what the ordinance has put forth, as well as some things that are in the ordinance that are not included in this job description. So, you know,
 The administration is here. I heard Council Member Davis asking if resources would be available. We are happy to provide resources from HR or our legal team to help make sure that this is fully consistent with the ordinance.
 This is not something that, this is a council board, appointed board, and a clerk-administered office, and so we do not want to insert ourselves where we are not welcome. So however we can be helpful, we will continue to do that in the best way possible. So happy to offer suggestions for how to move forward tonight or any other suggestions moving forward. Thank you.
 It really is what do council members and what does the clerk's office, how do they want to proceed? Okay. I would like to, Clerk Jones, we're still in the portion where council members are asking questions. And then we have gone to the public portion yet. I'm sorry, Clerk Jones. It was just a question.
 The my the clerk's attorney who reviewed the job description as well, Michelle Ingle, had her hand up. OK, I'm sorry. She is she part of your presentation or under? I asked her to be. OK, thank you. I did not know that. Well, OK, I'm going to see if there's any council persons that would like to ask questions that we go back.
 and to complete your presentation. I would like to say that I do have some concerns about the consistency with the titles and lining up with the ordinance. I have expressed those concerns. I've actually put them in writing because I think it's important that we have an ordinance
 that has been passed. And this is too important for our community. Our community has waited years to have a citizen review board, and we want to get it right. And I think by us working together
 and having a level of consensus in regards to the job postings, the first beginning. And we're going to have to work together to ensure that it meets the goals that we have outlined in the ordinance and working very closely with the clerk's office, with the mayor's office. But basically, the council, you know, has really spent time.
 tremendous time and efforts and the sponsors and the sponsor and the co-sponsors have numerous meetings. And so we want to when we come out in terms of advancing the Citizen Review Board, we want to make sure that we have the very best product. And that's where I'm at in regards to my concerns. So, Clerk Jones, I'll go back to you so that you do have your attorney who is part of your presentation today.
 At this time, I'd like to recognize your attorney. If she could state her name and address, please, for the record. Hi, it's Michelle Engel. I am representing Clerk Jones. Thank you, President White, for recognizing me and listening to the presentation. And I did have a chance to review the job description today. I just want to say, if it's, you know, various...
 titles and revisions that need to be made, that's not a problem. But in reviewing other job descriptions throughout the country, one in Charlottesville, Virginia, and Dallas, these job descriptions aren't mirrors of the ordinance. Anyone applying to this job
 who successfully gets the job would eventually have to follow the ordinance by the letter. A job description is, and this job description in particular, does capture the essence of this ordinance and comport with
 South Bend's ordinance and I'm comfortable with the language. If the council though needs some revisions, I think that's doable, but moving forward with it as is today is also doable in my opinion. Thank you. Thank you for your comments. We appreciate those.
 I was going to also say I have Roger Pinto, my deputy clerk, who also wants to speak to the timeline of the job description. Yes. Please do so. Roger. Roger.
 Thank you very much, Clerk Jones and President White. What Mayor Mueller said was entirely accurate from the point of view that the job description that was received by the clerk's office is the one that was attached as an appendix to this resolution. It was received by the clerk's office from the city human resources department on October 26th.
 It was created by providing the ordinance that was passed on October 5th, as well as support from NACO and the Department of Justice and biographies from directors of review offices around the country. And we received two products from Human Resources. One was a job description with subpoena authority and one was a job description without subpoena. The clerk's office moved forward with job description with subpoena authority because the ordinance includes subpoena authority. There have been no changes or amendments to the ordinance.
 That being said, the job description has remained unchanged until yesterday. And that occurred because the job description has been circulated amongst the Common Council and the Clerk's Office staff, with the Clerk's Office waiting for and attempting to facilitate some conversations around the understanding of that review office director position, hoping for some suggestions.
 We began to receive some suggestions. I know you provided some, President White, yesterday. And then we received the mayor's office suggestions earlier this afternoon. That being said, there are a lot of issues or questions in regards to what the actual review office director does. And we've had some of these conversations between the clerk's office and the administration of the county.
 in terms of better clarifying and understanding what this position is. And when we're having conversations around, you know, the language is inconsistent with the ordinance or there may be some issues, I think that's because some of these things haven't been clarified yet and we're moving forward with the job description. So if we look at the resolution itself, the language on the resolution is coming verbatim from the ordinance.
 as well as the 21 CP resolution. That's the physical resolution that's proposed with this as an appendix to it. The job description had remained unchanged until yesterday, and we begin to update that in terms of titles. If there's further clarification with regards to how it complies or doesn't comply with the ordinance, those are discussions that we're going to have to get more specific in terms of the language and which specific language is of issue
 past the titles because we had an email exchange earlier tonight where we discussed the actual director of the review office title and how it should be on the job description. So there are some little things like that, but I'm wondering if there's not a deeper issue within the job description itself or people's understanding of what the review office director should be considering we've gone through the process with HR already.
 Okay. Thank you. Appreciate that. Clerk Charles, is there anyone else that's part of your presentation before I go to the public portion? No. That is it for me. I am in agreement with my attorney, Ms.
 Thank you, Clerk Jones. I'll now move to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone present wishing to speak in support of Substitute Resolution 21-01? Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting? I do not see any hands up. Is it chat? I do not see anyone in the public wishing to speak in support of the resolution.
 Thank you. Is there anyone waiting to speak in opposition of substitute resolution 21-01? I do not see anyone in the public waiting to speak in opposition of resolution 21-01. Thank you. The public hearing portion is now closed. Clerk Jones, you have five minutes for a rebuttal. Okay.
 I don't think I need to take five minutes. As stated by both my attorney and my deputy, Mr. Pinto, I am in agreement that this job description has gone through a process of being reviewed by administration, by legal counsel, has been sent to council members. When we first began this journey,
 I was advised by council members to contact the mayor's office in regard to the job description. And so that is what I did. And that is the job description that we came up with. And I
 We attempted to get as close and in coordination with the mayor's office, with the human resource, we attempted to get as close to it as we can so that the person in the position can be successful and fulfill what it is that the council designed the ordinance to be. And I try to be very transparent in regard to giving, making sure you all get the information.
 and making sure you all had the job description. I passed this job description, I circulated it as Roger said, multiple times. I would like to just move forward with the job description. As stated, it's going to be when the actual director gets in, the actual director will fulfill the ordinance as stated.
 And they will move forward with doing what needs to be done. And so I'm comfortable, but if changes the changes that need to be made, I can make them. I'm comfortable with moving forward with this job description so that we can get this thing going. Because I'm asked, you know, about the timeline, which I didn't even get to review at this time, which we changed. But to speed it up, I can't speed it up by myself.
 So I'm just asking the council to move forward with passing the job description, understanding that the executive director is the person that really is going to make the job. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Well, the public hearing portion is now closed with your rebuttal. I'm going to go to council members. This is your opportunity to make any statements at this time. Council Member Henry Davis. Yeah, thank you. And so...
 Look, I just had like two years worth of MBA classes. We did a ton of discussions about human resources duties. Michelle Eagle was spot on on what she said. I agree wholeheartedly. The thing that I'm going to say that kind of contradicts with that first initial statement is going to be that we've worked really hard together, meaning we, the council, along with the members of the administration, along with the mayor to get this thing passed.
 If they are uncomfortable with what is on paper right now, I get it. Let's just get the paperwork in a language done the way that they feel like that it should be done on the same front. On the same front, you're going to still have a director that's going to implement and the director is still going to make sure that ordinance is being applied.
 so if it's two weeks just to get the mayor's office and his team on board and said that they're happy with it let's just go ahead and do it i just can't keep going going with this hamster wheel we have to get moving we have to get this done so that's what they're asking for let's just go for it and and next meeting i am sure we'll pass through and we can get busy thank you council member henry davis for those comments i go to councilwoman
 I want to see Rachel Thomas Morgan. Thank you, President White. I just want to make a couple points of clarification. So in as I look back at my timeline that she's frozen. Council Member Morgan, I think I'm going to circle back to Councilwoman. OK, good, because you had frozen for a period of time.
 Yeah, something just happened there. Mm-hmm. Sorry. Am I on? Can you hear me now? Yes, we can. Thank you. I, um, I'm, the point I'm making is, is a clarification on the timeline. Um, so I had seen two versions of the job description as Mr. Pinto described, with and without subpoena power.
 And then the mayor had, I saw, I was, we were copied into emails from the mayor's office that they hadn't received a copy. So a copy, I assume, was forwarded to them, although we were not copied on that.
 Last Tuesday, we received a copy of the position description from Clerk Jones as an FYI. There wasn't
 There wasn't a request for feedback on that. Maybe I should have assumed that. I apologize. Mr. Pinto then on Thursday, January 11th, forwarded the resolution and the job description last Thursday. And so the materials that would be supporting the resolution. So I'm
 I'm sorry, but I object to that this has gone through a process of feedback and iteration
 In my opinion, I have not. That's not the process that I have experienced. And I have no intention on holding this up whatsoever. I just want this job description clear and consistent with the ordinance is all I'm asking. Thank you, Councilwoman Thomas Morgan. Councilwoman Lori Hammond.
 The point I'd like to make is we were all on that joint committee meeting. We all knew that this was of urgency. So when those emails were received to review the job description, that was our job. That was what we were supposed to do.
 And if you saw those emails and chose not to review them and not to state your concerns, then to do it in the 11th hour is just not fair. I agree with Clerk Jones. And I don't think the desire for the perfect should be the enemy of progress here, y'all. We've been working on this really hard.
 And the job description is more than adequate. I agree with Attorney Engel. So I yield the rest of my time. Thank you. Are there any other council members wishing to make comments? Councilman Kenneth Lee? Yes, I would just like to say thank you.
 I don't want this to be as hard as it is. We're living in a very critical time where we need to get things moving. But I also agree with Councilman Davis. If we need to take some time to get things right so that everybody is good, because at the 11th hour, I never like to do things at the 11th hour because things get dropped or things are not done right. So we need just a little more time.
 to get this done. Let's get it right so that we can get on with this. And I think the clerk's office has been doing a very good job of trying to keep us in the loop of what's going on. And I just know that this is a very critical issue. It's important to the community. And I think the description is pretty good. But if we need to make everybody be okay with it,
 Let's figure out what we need to do so that we can move this ball forward. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Lee. Councilwoman Sharon McBride.
 I totally agree that I think we're very close and that we need to get it right. And I am willing to work with the clerk's office to make sure that we get everything that was outlined, whether by administration or by the council, to make sure that it's consistent throughout. I mean, I know it's a difference between a job description and a resolution and ordinance, but you have too many differences.
 Parties that's involved as well. The Council being one of them, so I think that we just gotta make sure we're right there. It's been a lot of work. Great work done by the Kirk's office and I think that we are really, really close that we can continue to move forward while we're finalizing and making sure that the changes are upgraded. So I think that we're right there, but we need to take whether it's the next council meeting to get everything cross referenced and incorrect.
 Thank you. I want to commend the clerk's office for their hard work that they have been doing. Thank you, Councilwoman McBride. Are there any other councilmen or councilwomen would like to make any comments? Councilwoman Sheila Naskowski.
 Yes, I would just like to echo Councilman Davis. You know, if we have to take a little more time to look at getting everything right and Councilwoman McBride. I think that this is so important that let's just take the time, come back in a couple weeks, hopefully, and be able to pass this. And I do commend the work of everybody. The committee that launched this and got this going has hours and hours of work.
 All of the council members have been engaged. So at this point, being so close, I would just feel better if we made sure that all of the language was 100% and then we can move on. But I would like to just let everybody know their hard work is noted and let's just move on and get it right. Thank you, Councilwoman Miskovsky. Are there any other council members who would like to make any comments at this point?
 at this time prior for me asking for a motion of action. I too agree with Council Member Henry Davis. He was a sponsor of this ordinance and the bill and Councilwoman Lori Hammond and all the work and time that was put in, but also the work and the efforts of the clerk's office. We are very appreciative. And as Councilman Davis has said that two weeks
 will be time well spent and when it comes before, if that's the desires of the council, then I know that we will be at a different level and that they will have clarity, has been asked that everyone will have a clear understanding as well. So at this time, I would like to entertain a motion from the council, from a motion regarding substitute, I mean, I'm sorry, substitute resolution 21-01.
 President White, I'd like to make a motion to send this back to the Clerk's Office and to the Committee for Revisions and brought back to Council on January 25th. 25th. There's a motion that has been made. Is there a second to that motion?
 SECOND. IT'S BEEN MOVED AND SECONDED. CLERK JONES, WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL? YES. VICE PRESIDENT MCBRIDE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER DAVIS. COUNCILMEMBER LEE. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WARNER. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER WAX. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER NISGOTSKI. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER THOMAS MORGAN. AYE. COUNCILMEMBER HAMMOND. NAY. PRESIDENT WHITE. EIGHT AYES. AYE.
 I noticed that Councilman Henry Davis, you have your hand up. The motion has passed. Councilman Davis? Yeah, I just want to say, everybody, I'm not interested coming back here two weeks from now and then we're going to pick it apart again. I hope that we have enough within ourselves to take care of this next meeting.
 I really do. I'm trying out the hamster wheel. Okay. I agree with you, Councilmember Davis, and we probably need to have a timeframe in which the draft would come back. And also, Clerk Jones, would you like to have some input from council members in regards to as you begin to look at the current job description? I know some have submitted suggestions and some from the mayor too.
 so if you could email us the council tomorrow to outline the time frame and also the level of engagement that you would like to have from council members that would be
 Greatly appreciate it, but also that the timeframe would be that we will come back on January the 25th and we will be taking action on this job posting again. As you've heard, all the council members have acknowledged all of the hard work that you've done, you and your staff. And as Council Member Davis have said, we're close. OK.
 So this is no reflection on anyone within your office. No, we just want to make sure that we're at the point that council members feel comfortable with the job posting. And the goal is to come out with the best that we can, but also to ensure that there is the level of support that's needed. Because as we all have said, this is too critical for our community. And this is just one little hurdle we have to jump over.
 I agree. Okay, thank you so much. We'll go now. There's no bills for first reading. Is there any unfinished business? Any new business? Yes, I have unfinished business. Okay, I'm sorry. Councilwoman Neskoski? Yes, thank you. Per the standard operating procedures 06-2016-SBCC, I just want to fully disclose that I have
 submitted to the clerk's office my uniform conflict of interest disclosure statement and it's supposed to be an acceptance for the next regular meeting under unfinished business and I have filed it with the clerk's office. Thank you, Councilman Wachowski. Thank you. Under new business, Clerk Jones will make some comments.
 Yes, actually the comments in regard to the standing committees, the boards and commissions, we're in the process now of getting all that stuff together and technology. And I don't have my actual statement that I have, but we will issue a press release once it is complete. Thank you, clerk, y'all.
 The information that's regarding the State Council Standing Committee's boards of commissions, appointees, and application procedures will be forthcoming from our office in a press release. Thank you, Judge Jones. We'll now move. Is there any other new business? Yes.
 Seeing well now. Yes, I'm sorry I didn't. I'm sorry I had my hand up. I just wanted to say thank you to the Council and administration for the hope for the holidays project that we had. There are a lot of calls and emails that we're getting from the community thanking us for the hats, gloves and scarves and socks and hand sanitizers and masks and the hams and.
 turkey giveaways and the Toys for Tots. It was a major undertaking around the holidays, but we did an amazing job and everyone wanted to say thank you for us coming together and helping out in the community. So I wanted to share that information. Thank you, Councilwoman McBride. Are there any other items under new business? I want to make sure that I do not overlook anyone.
 If not, we move to privilege of the floor. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under privilege of the floor? I don't see anyone waiting from the public to speak on the privilege of the floor at this time. Thank you.
 Seeing that there's no one wanting to speak on the privilege of the floor, again want to thank each and every one of the council members and the clerk as well as the city and our citizens. We want to welcome you to a new year and that
 We know that we have much work before us, but by working together, we'll be able to move forward. So I'm really appreciative of each and every one of you. And since there is no one waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor, this meeting stands adjourned. Good night. Stay healthy. Stay safe. Good night. Good night. Good night. Thank you.