We need to order. Clerk Jones, I believe that you would like to make some comments regarding the link for this meeting and other expectations at this time. Yes. Good evening, members of the public. For audio quality, we will be muting everyone not speaking by default to maintain good audio quality for the council and for yourselves.
 If you would like to speak during the meeting on a specific agenda item, please submit your request in the chat and directions will be listed in the chat. We ask that you provide your full name and your address as those are required for all speakers at in-person council meetings. If you would like to be called on during the meeting to provide public input, please insert the following into the chat and you will be called on during the relevant time.
 and insert again your name and your address and that you would like to speak for or against what the topic item is or the agenda item. You will then be given five minutes to speak. Please be sure to unmute yourself prior to giving your remarks. Thank you, Clerk Jones. I would like to read the following statement due to the executive order.
 by Indiana Governor Eric Holcomb, the South Bend Common Council meeting will be held legally by way of a virtual meeting by using Microsoft Teams application. At this time, I'm happy to introduce Mr. Michael Jacobs of South Gate Church who will give our invocation at this time. Mr. Jacobs.
 Thank you. You're welcome. Father, we thank you right now, Lord, for bringing this council together and bringing people together, Lord God, for this city of South Bend. Lord, we're praying right now. God, just everything that is being worked on, everything that is being figured out. You have real wisdom.
 And that you're able to touch everyone's minds, Lord, no matter what direction we're coming from, Lord God, no matter how we think you have a perfect outcome, Lord God. It may not look good at the beginning, God, but we're praying that you work it all together for good of the people of South Bend. We pray this in Jesus name. Amen. Thank you, Mr. Jacobs, for that invocation at this time. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes.
 Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Present. Councilmember Warner. Here. Councilmember Watts. Present. Councilmember Neskoski. Present. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Present. Councilmember Hammond. Present. Vice President McBride. Present. President White. Present. Nine present.
 Thank you. We'll now have the report from the subcommittee on minutes. Mrs. Jones, would you please read the report from the subcommittee on minutes? Yes. To the Common Council of the City of South Bend, the subcommittee has inspected the minutes of January 11, 2021 meeting of the council and found them to be correct. Therefore, we recommend the same be approved.
 Thank you. Is there a motion to accept the report from the subcommittee on minutes? So moved. Is there a second to that motion? Second. Okay. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Davis? Aye. Council Member Lee? Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Council Member Neskoski? Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan? Aye.
 Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you. The subcommittee amendments have been approved. I would like to make the announcement, if there's anyone on our meeting this evening for bill, I mean, Resolution 21-03, that resolution has been tabled until March 22, 2021. Okay.
 There is no special business at this time. We will have a report from city officers. Mayor James Mueller will provide a statement or statements of finances and general conditions of the city in his annual address to the council. And his address will focus on financial matters and other related issues.
 After the mayor's presentation, Councilmembers will have the opportunity to ask two questions. I will first start with the first district representative, Kenneth Lee, and followed by the second, the third, and thereafter. At this time, I would like to introduce our mayor, Mayor James Mueller. Thank you, President White, and good evening, Council. Bear with me for one moment as I try to bring up the presentation here.
 All right, that should be uploading. And, you know, as you know, this is the annual financial update and general conditions of the city, what's commonly called the state of the city.
 we weren't able to do last year due to the pandemic that emerged. And this year we were waiting to see if we might have a celebration of post COVID-19 for the state of the city. But unfortunately, the uncertainty with that will likely need to do either an outdoor event when the weather warms up a little bit with social distancing.
 and some limitations for safety or do it online like this. So we're still trying to figure out the best way to schedule that and stay tuned. And for tonight, we'll try to get through this as quickly as possible. The financial update, I know, is not always the most exciting topic that we deal with as a city. So first, just want to remind...
 Remind us of some of the key indicators that we look at in the city and you know we there's been a lot of discussion over the years about population and how to get our population growing again as well as how do we get our incomes to rise across the city, not just.
 for the more affluent households. So, here you can see the incomes, different metrics, median per capita, as well as defined as the poverty rate. And before COVID-19 and the corresponding economic headwinds, we were doing fairly well in terms of raising standards. We need to do a lot more to catch up
 to the state and national averages, but we were at least heading in the right direction. And so the other thing to note here is the 20 – normally we have –
 last year's data by now from the federal government, but because the census was last year and they have not finalized that, there are a lot of these numbers we had to take from Oxford Economics Group that are projections, but, you know, this could, these could be drastically different when we get the official data from, from, uh,
 from the Department of Labor Statistics and other places to see where we actually fall. But this was the path that Oxford Economics saw us on and has projected. But, you know, things could be dramatically different given all the upheaval of the previous year.
 So the first thing that's going to impact not just what happens in our community or what happens in our economy here in the city, but also the city's finances is
 how can we get the virus under control? And here I show the cases projected by the average of models by the CDC for the next month or so. And, you know, the good news here is that they project that, for the most models, project that
 the cases will continue to decline or stay relatively steady. There are some indications that by the after where this graph ends up, where by the end of March, the UK variant that's more contagious
 will be the dominant strain of COVID-19 within the United States. So, you know, this is good news that we have this on the horizon, you know, this period where we'll continue to hopefully decline, but then we may see an uptick in COVID.
 the contagious factor of the virus due to the UK strain taking hold here locally. But most of the projections then also show that because we're distributing the vaccine at a reasonable rate, that we hopefully will avoid getting back up to
 the level of cases and hospitalizations that we saw at the end of November and early December. So, we've, you know, I've said this many times, we are literally in a race here because these new variants are adapting and becoming, you know, more contagious. So,
 we really need to get this vaccine out to as many people as possible. And that will help protect us from the next surge. Then, you know, how do we get the vaccine out? This comes from McKinsey and Company Insights. And on the left, you'll see the various promises of vaccine from different suppliers.
 And the two that, that have been, uh,
 distributed locally and across the country have been the Moderna and Pfizer. This is a little dated. It's the end of January. I believe since then, because there were six doses per vial, as opposed to the five, some of this, it's been upgraded a little bit, 120 instead of 100, as you see there. But if you look at this by the end of June, if just Moderna and Pfizer were available,
 It would take till the end of June just to get through phases 1A through 1C there on the right. And so the number of doses that are required. So we're really hopeful that one of these other vaccines will come online.
 Most promising that's moving through the authorization process right now is the Johnson & Johnson one-shot vaccine. And a lot's been said about it's not as effective as these other two that are already out and being distributed. But, you know, that's one that will enable us to really have, if that is able to come online by the end of March or early April, would be.
 Enable us to to get most of the population vaccinated by by the June timeline.
 And so there's a lot of uncertainty with how fast, you know, how many vaccines will we have, how fast will it get out, and how many people will be willing to take it. There's been an estimate that, you know, there's 100 million skeptical Americans about whether they will take advantage of the vaccine.
 And so there's also questions about how much do these new strains reduce the effectiveness of our existing vaccine? So those questions create a lot of uncertainty for when we can say when will we reach herd immunity or when can we claim we're approaching the end of the pandemic? And that's the graph on the right.
 And, uh, as you see there, there are two lines. One was their estimate from November and then their, the darker blue line is an estimate from mid January. And, uh, you see that they're a little less because of the slow vaccine rollout, uh, at the end of the year, beginning of the year, uh, they became a little less optimistic about, uh, how quickly we would reach herd immunity. And this is based off of mostly the vaccine, uh,
 distribution plan, not necessarily the immunity that we're building up as cases spread throughout our community. So a lot of uncertainty, but by, you know, there's a good chance that we could reach that. If you look at the peaks there, you know, it's roughly the July to September timeline
 And, but that means, but it also means that there are reasonably good chances that it could happen before that. Unfortunately, there are reasonably good chances that people think that if the, if the variants keep changing and people are hesitant to take the vaccine on a large scale basis, that this could extend longer than, we're all ready to be done with it. And so hopefully we see that we're closer to the left side of that curve and we're,
 We reached that by summertime. So this has had a tremendous impact, and I believe I shared this with council and these projections for the economy by Oxford Economics that were done in late spring last year.
 And there were a number of scenarios. These represented the two most likely bounds scenario. So there was the optimistic strong growth rebound, which is the top light blue graph. And then there was the muted recovery where things were slower as the dark blue. And when we went through budgeting purposes, we split the difference and said, let's plan for being somewhere
 in between the growth rebound scenario and the muted recovery scenario. And so, Congress passing the CARES Act last spring really helped us get closer to the growth rebound scenario. So this red line is what we've seen.
 you know, what we've seen over the past year. And then the fourth quarter, I believe, is still a projection. It hasn't been verified. But we had a strong recovery out of the CARES Act, and then the lack of additional action at the federal level through the fall led to a little bit of a stalling out. And it's more pronounced now,
 on the employment side on the right graph there. So you see that things were going strong up in the third quarter and then the fourth quarter, the recovery slowed a little bit. So this is, you know, having the stimulus that passed at the end of December,
 as well as the talks now for renewed stimulus. We're talking about the difference between going to the dark blue line or worse, or getting back up to where we want to be, higher up and back into growth mode. So I'll quickly just share some 2020 highlights. You know, the COVID-19 response took place.
 took a lot of priority, both in terms of the virus containment, but also in figuring out how can we weather this storm and make it to better times. And so we're proud of all the work and thankful for the council helping us make funds, both grants and loans, available to our entrepreneurs and local small businesses.
 as well as money for those who found themselves in a place of vulnerability where having trouble with rental and just paying the bills, making ends meet, and putting food on the table.
 And then finally, we were able to put a lot of federal, this was enabled a lot from the CARES Act dollars, but put those to making resources available for the most vulnerable of our residents who find themselves experiencing homelessness. So that's, we really had to adapt on the fly there and do as much as possible. And of course, we started out this year with,
 and thankful for the council's support for the restaurant innovation grant program and we'll have to continue to monitor how to support our our local businesses here as we get through this dark winter and and get back to normal as soon as we're we're able to we also we're able to continue moving forward with with uh
 With some of the programming dollars that we prioritize every year in the community and neighborhood investment and the library to support the library project here at the main branch that had been supported by a previous council, of course. And but it it finally went forward with favorable interest rates.
 And so we're excited to see that project continue, as well as our home repair and workforce development. And then recently we had announced the winners of the ALIVE program grants that we're really excited to see how the community embraces this and helps us figure out how to move forward and build community and reduce gun violence among our youth.
 And then finally, we're very proud of the work we did partnering with the schools. I think at least during my time in the city this this is the strongest relationship between the city, both the the administ the administrations, both school and city as well as their the school board and common Council members. So we're excited about that. We're also excited about the.
 the ability for us to expand access to internet and receiving that grant to put 2,000,
 at home Internet packages for two years as well as 2000 hotspots for Wi-Fi. So the pandemic exposed the need and the divide in digital access and resources. And we were very pleased to get that grant and grateful and excited to work with the schools on that.
 on getting that out the door. The other piece that I thank President White and Councilmember
 for, uh, really spearheading the historic joint meeting with the school board. And that was, uh, not too long before we all had to go into, uh, had to stop seeing each other and have those, uh, large, uh, type of gathering. So once we're able to, uh,
 meet again in person. We hope we can build off that progress and have more more of these kind of joint meetings in person. You know we can look at doing other types of things as well, and I know there's a commitment from both the school board and Common Council to continue to look at how to formalize the partnership between the city and the schools. And then finally,
 really did, you know, during the middle of the, you know, the worst of the lockdown or the stay-at-home orders, there was a push to come up with a long-term capital and operations plan for the school and make sure that they had the resources to be successful going forward. So as part of that whole push, we were
 We had pushed trying to make sure there was a full study of how the schools can be more efficient at utilizing the resources they do have. Also making sure that they form a strategic plan that guides these decisions.
 And then also make sure that there is an external community advisory group that expands the stakeholders beyond just who normally comes and engages in school board meetings or engages with the school administration. So the schools have moved forward with all of those pieces, and they reported out the efficiency study late last fall.
 They've shared a draft strategic plan. They continue to work on that to finalize that. And I believe they formed the community advisory group toward the end of last year as well. So they're moving forward on all those things. And some of the individual items from those pieces are starting to move as well. So it's critical that our schools take the bold action necessary to
 to help turn the schools around. And that's what all of these items are intended to
 to help get us there. And, you know, from the city side, it's one of the challenging pieces is, and this came up when I was running for mayor, they said, you need to do this with the schools. And, you know, of course, we all know here that there were two completely separate entities and there's no formal authority that either the mayor or the common council has over the school system.
 But we can collaborate and we need to strengthen that partnership. So all of these pieces, the meetings, the formalized partnership agreements and these shared plans are important for getting us all rowing in the same direction and making sure that both our schools and neighborhoods are successful going forward.
 So here's getting into the finances, the summary by fund. What you'll notice here probably strongest is first the big drop in capital project funds. And that's by design. Capital projects are you're meant to spend the funds for capital.
 And, you know, you're not wanting to, it's not an operation based, so you're not wanting to, you know, hold the same kind of reserves or balance that you do. You allocate the funds and you want them to be spent as the capital project moves forward. The other big item is the other enterprise in terms of deficit, and that's more of an accounting change, the EMS project.
 there's an EMS fund that's been combined with the general fund, and part of that's due to how federal reimbursement and other things are going, that it really just no longer makes sense to be its own fund. And then it'll appear that there are a lot of, I guess, positive balances for general fund and income, or this is just general fund and special revenue funds,
 And, you know, the general fund, there was one that's where the transfer for the EMS fund went into because that's where our EMS and FHIR is primarily paid out of, as well as we received the CARES Act distribution, the $3.3 million or so that came in.
 as well as, you know, there's well documented our shortage of officers relative to budget for 2020. So all of those pieces and others go into these net balances that you see here. There's also, this is the accounting for what's currently in the bank.
 at the end of the year. And some funds that spill over or projects that spill over into the new year do get encumbered. So that doesn't mean that we have a net balance of eight and a half million, for example, in the general fund.
 There is a fair amount of funds that have been encumbered that are still going to be spent. So a good example of that is one that got done at the end of the year where Common Council approved the restaurant innovation grant program, and we were able to encumber those funds.
 but I don't believe they actually got out the door by December 31st. So that's one example of many where the dollars look like they're in the bank account, and they are, but they are accounted for and will, you know, it's not a surplus of dollars that we have there. So now I'll just quickly go through the financial position, and, you know, we look at this as a
 as four main parts, the liquidity, our debt load, what assets we have in terms of capital, and then how are our operations doing relative to revenues and expenditures. So we'll start with liquidity.
 And here, again, you'll see through the difficult year, we ended up with slightly more cash on hand in 2020 than at the end of 2019. Again, this is somewhat misleading because those encumbrances, as I mentioned earlier,
 it's up to 55 million. So if you subtracted 55 million, that's closer to when we show you the charts at budget time, the budget versus expected revenue and where we expect to be cash on hand at the end of the year. So there are some timing issues that show this looks like we strongly increased our, or not strongly, but we strongly increased our budget time. So that's a good
 not too strongly 10 million out of 300 or 290 million, but in a bad year, it looks like we've added more cash on hand than we likely will when all of the bills are paid from 2020.
 But looking at us compared to other cities, we're in a strong position. And our cash position that's been strong for a number of years is the primary driver for our bond rating. That's a double A that we'll get to. So the cash on hand is important for us to be able to continue to leverage debt at a low cost.
 So going into debt, we have two main types, the governmental and business type types.
 The business type are like the enterprise funds, so the ones that are meant and designed to be paid for by fees or revenue coming in for their service. And this is what we think of the utilities, so wastewater, sewer, water, and solid waste, and the building department. So there's a lot of, in our infrastructure, heavy enterprise funds. There's a lot of debt driven by those projects.
 And there will likely need to be debt issued in the coming years when we ever we do finalize the long-term control plan for wastewater, for example. There will be a number of capital projects that we won't be able to finance on an annual basis, and we'll need to look at debt financing to get done. Okay.
 And then there's all the other types of debt financing that we've done over the years, whether it was carried over from redevelopment districts or the parks debt financing, the library we talked about and others goes into the rest of it. But, you know, total...
 Total obligations that we have year to year has stayed very steady and this has been You know in many ways by design we try to for as much as possible try to match The you know debt that's falling off with new debt that we issue and over time you see that on the yellow line our percentage of total expenditures going to debt service has dropped and
 and has been the lowest. 2020 was the lowest. It's not, as you see, not audited yet, but lowest as it's been in a number of years. So we know that there is capacity for us to issue data. And like I said, there'll be a number of infrastructure things in particular that we'll need to pay attention to in the coming years. And this is a similar,
 similar measure debt per capita. Our population has been growing modestly, so not only has our debt been relatively stable in terms of debt service payments, but also our population has been growing modestly over a number of years. So you see a drop off there as well, being just barely the lowest in a decade.
 So here, again, you see we fall into reasonably competitive with other second-class cities, a little bit higher than Mishawaka, but well below what some would call the really high-growth cities around Indianapolis, like Fishers and Noblesville and Carmel. So this is a
 You can look at debt in any number of ways. It can be a sign. Debt by itself doesn't tell the whole picture. It can be a sign of a city that's struggling or it can be a sign of a city that's moving in the right direction. The key is what is the debt spent on? If you're spending debt to try to keep the lights on, that's obviously a sign of a troubled city. If you're investing in capital assets or smart investments to lead to growth.
 over time, then you're in a much better position and you're leveraging debt the way you should be leveraging debt. So that's what we aim to do. We're not looking to use debt to plug holes in operations budget, but there are a lot of capital investments that do need us to take advantage of debt financing to make happen.
 And this is something that we're very proud of, that we're a double A bond rating as a city. And there are a couple others now that have joined us as second class cities in Indiana with a double A bond rating. But this is what enables us to get very competitive rates worldwide.
 with any debt that we issue. So this is important to keeping those annual payments for debt service down for the same level of capital projects that we need to invest in.
 So now I'll go quickly into capital assets. And here you see that we have a little over a billion dollars if you look at how much it costs to invest in all the capital over the many decades that we've accumulated it. If you depreciate it over time, our net book value now is just over $500 million worth of assets, capital assets.
 and the average useful life remaining on these assets is just under 17 years.
 If it were a straight line depreciation, that $502 million is depreciated over 17 years in a straight line way, that would require us just to keep up at least $30 million a year in new capital investment. Some of these assets do depreciate faster than that, so we actually need to be investing
 slightly more to stay where we need to be. And as you see throughout the past decade here, we've been for the most part above that 30 million mark. And so that is the sustainable growth
 amount of investment we need to continue to work the budget each year. And you see a spike in 2019. Part of that is bond and other timing expenditures. If you were to go back and look at our budget, it would likely be a lot smoother than what you see in actual timing of the expenditures. Yeah.
 And then finally, we'll get into the operations budget here. And again, you see at the top line that a little misleading in the general fund, the $8.5 million. Again, there are a number of encumbered expenses that haven't gone out the door by the end of the year.
 as well as some shuffling of, you know, when we got the CARES Act distribution, that hadn't been planned for in the general fund. So when we look at all of our operating funds together, it starts to look more balanced, especially when you include those obligations that have not gone out the door yet.
 The other main piece, I guess you'll say, is solid waste operations. This has been an issue for two plus years now, and we kicked the can down the road in December by issuing a loan to cover operations in December.
 We just said we don't like to issue debt to cover operations, and we don't. And so we've got to find a way to remedy this issue, and that will be part of our longer-term conversations about operations and revenue for these enterprise funds that we'll have upcoming. The other piece on the utility side, water and sewer issue,
 Their operations are very healthy relative to where we are in solid waste, but the issue is they're capital heavy. So the major cost on the utility bill every month, a large portion of it is the debt service that we're paying off for the first phase of the long-term control plan and a large portion of what we're going to have to invest in
 in the coming years is going to be to cover the projects associated with the long-term control plan. And this is a federal government mandate that's unfunded. And so,
 You know, a lot of this is being driven at a level that is outside of our control. Of course, we're continuing to work to renegotiate that down to a more affordable level than what the original plan called for. But.
 even with the more affordable plan that we hope they will agree with us on, it will still involve substantial investments on behalf of the city. So those are the main items on the operating fund side. Then looking at property tax revenue, we're expecting...
 This is, of course, anticipated for 21, but we're expecting to be roughly close to where we were four years ago. So if you think of all the economic gains and market demand that's occurred over the past four years, we're expecting to be closer to losing those, but not the whole expansion since the beginning of 2020.
 of the Great Recession. So that's good. It's not quite as big of a drop as we had thought. And also to note, the property tax includes what was called the fiscal curve, or when the school's debt was no longer able to go beyond the property tax caps beginning last year.
 That hit is factored in, and you see that drop from the 2018 paid 2019 to the 2019 paid 2020. And similarly here, we're expecting a drop in local income tax revenue. Now, this is a budgeting issue.
 More of a budgeting estimate than an actual estimate. If you recall during the budget season, we looked at this as a three year budget to get back on track. And we'll show that in a minute. But the actual timing of when the income tax hit from last year will hit us is actually next year. But instead of having a huge, you know, instead of not preparing for it, we tried to distribute that over and have a smooth timeline.
 a smooth path back to a balanced budget by 2023. So that's, so this is later in the year, if you say, hey, this is, this number looks smaller than what we actually got. It's not new money. It's just, this is what we're budgeting for to make that smooth transition through the pandemic related economic hits.
 And then here's our current or the end of year full-time employee count and we're just over 1100 employees Roughly a fourth police police department officers and civilian support staff Public works team and is almost another fourth fire is almost another fourth and then you have
 A mixture between venue parks and arts and the greater community investment team. And then finally, the balance is the operations and general government that would include the mayor's office, common council, the finance team.
 central services, INT, and legal. So all of the things that go into making the internal operations of the city run would be included in that general government. And this is how it compares to over time. And as you see, a lot of this is, you know, where are employees at the end of the year? And as you know, we've had some fluctuations with –
 our number of sworn officers in our police department. So as that fluctuates in the timing of the year, so does this final count. There hasn't been, you know, if you look at the budget proposals over the past few years, there haven't been a huge number of new positions proposed. And so that's what's reflected here. You see very little variation from 2017 to
 2020 in terms of full-time staff in the city at the end of the year. And here's our favorite, our health insurance cost and we had done a fairly good job of having a little bit of cost containment and relief in terms of growth of the cost per employee over the past few years and then
 the jump this year. Part of this is artificial. 2020 was budgeted to spend down some of the excess reserves that had accumulated. So, you know, in terms of actual cost, it's a little, maybe a little misleading in terms of that jump. But nevertheless, there are an increase of health insurance costs for our full-time and covered part-time employees.
 So trying to summarize it all up, you know, we like to give the household equivalent of what the city's position is to try to make it more relatable. Because once you start talking millions, it's harder for me anyway to start grasping what it all means. So, you know, we have an annual revenue of $269 million. We have $300 million in the bank account or in a
 you know, money market that's very liquid and able to be accessed by state law. We're not able to invest this money in, you know, in, you know, more exotic investments, but nevertheless, you know, it's basically in a bank account. We own 501 million of assets and we owe 225 million in debt service.
 So, you know, for a household that makes $40,000 a year, that would be equivalent to having $45,000 in cash savings or checking, having assets, whether it's your car or your house or whatever, close to $75,000, and debt, student loans or mortgage or car payments, again, close to $33,000.
 And for reference, you know, when we talk about, you know, let's just say the roads, upcoming streets investment and financing, if you added, you know, that level of bond, you're talking about a little over $1,000 in this analogy. So is that, you know, and then you could say, well, do you leverage it? Do you take on more debt?
 Do you spend down some of your cash and savings? And that's the same question that households make every day, whether, you know, are you going to finance your cell phone? Are you going to finance your car? You may have money in an account in retirement or you may have money in your bank account in case or a rainy day fund.
 So just because you have money in the account doesn't mean it's not the right time to take out a financing option. And with the interest rates as low as they are, you know, this is this is a great time to to leverage the strong position we're in and be able to make the progress on on this infrastructure and while still maintaining a good financial position.
 So I'll quickly just go over what I appreciate the Common Council worked on throughout the pandemic year and came up with a good budget in difficult times. You know, when we started in
 Thinking about the impacts of the pandemic in March and April, you know, we thought things were going to be significantly worse than they ended up being, at least so far. So there's a lot of work ahead to get back to where we want to be in terms of growth and economic conditions, both as a city government and as a community with residents needing opportunities. But, you know, we certainly...
 could have fared far worse and we're worried about that so uh you know the the public safety is a is a major portion of our spending just you know it's very similar to the the pie chart on personnel public safety is a big portion of it the public works team is
 is the next biggest portion. And then, you know, everything else goes into the final little wedge there. And we're proud that we came up with a budget that 65% of the strategic spending that we do went into neighborhoods.
 And as we mentioned before, we have the three-year plan back to structural balance. And this is the breakdown of the different funds between the operations capital for general government departments and entities, and then also enterprise operations and capital. So the
 even though it looks like 21 again will be the big year, that is us trying to have the smoothest path to balance in 2023, where in actuality our 2022, when we go to look at the budget for 2022, that is when we will likely see the biggest
 drops in revenue. And so, accordingly, the biggest deficit. But this is for our planning purposes, how to get ahead of it and make sure that
 that so we did a lot of the hard a lot of the heavy lifting for the 2021 budget we've got some more heavy lifting to do for the 2022 budget and then the hopefully uh if congress keeps stepping up the uh the economy and the recovery will be in full force by 2023 and we'll be in a good position uh back to where we we want to get to
 And here are the highlights of where the strategic spending for 2021 budget. I won't go into these in detail. This is what was passed, but just here to remind what we're hoping to get done in the coming months here in 2021.
 And then, do want to spend just a brief moment on higher levels of government and how they may impact our finances and our condition. The legislature downstate is looking at reducing what would in effect reduce our business personal property tax receipts.
 And so, you know, we're not as dependent on that as some other cities around the state, but that would be, you know, a significant impact to our revenue stream. We are pleased that the next three are better news in terms of revenue.
 The agreement between the state and the Pokagon band to move toward and allow Class 3 gaming at four wins was,
 we'll continue the South Bend, uh, receipts of payment in lieu of taxes. And so Senate bill 356 is moving forward and that maintains our, our, uh, revenue, uh, agreement with the Pokagon ban. So that, that's good news. Uh, Senate bill 384, uh, is also has moved out of, uh, committee and, and, uh,
 People think it is good odds of passing this year and and that would restore the the professional sports development area tax for for us and
 as well as Evansville and Fort Wayne, I believe. I forget who the third city is. But that would be good news for us because this is revenue that otherwise would go downstate and would not necessarily find its way back up into our community. So that's an exciting bill we're looking to see move forward. And then earlier today in committee, you heard about the efforts to move the hotel-motel tax rate
 bill downstate and that's Senate Bill 164 and that has a hearing in committee tomorrow. So we're hopeful that those will move forward and help us get those investments that are associated with those moving forward as well. And then the big piece of course is the talks
 how to move forward the Biden administration's rescue plan, whether it's $1.9 trillion or $1.2 trillion. If it's above a trillion, it will likely lead to some state and local aid coming our way. And
 We have not seen any final legislation or even draft legislation for that plan. But if it's mirrored off of the if the state and local aid is mirrored off of the Heroes Act that passed the House last year, it would mean direct money coming to South Bend at some point to help cover the holes we anticipate, particularly due to the income tax fund.
 And then we all know our former mayor is now Secretary of Transportation, and transportation is expected to be a high priority of the administration. And a large infrastructure package may finally get done by Congress. And this is something like tax reform is talked about in every Congress, and it happens every now and then. Infrastructure is talked about
 every administration in Congress, and it hasn't happened for a while. So we're hopeful that this will be the Congress that finally makes a substantial investment in our infrastructure. And so we would hope to be competitive and be lined up to figure out how to be competitive for those funding opportunities.
 And then finally, upcoming items, the vaccine rollout is underway and we'll need to continue to do outreach as we discussed during the last council meeting to communities of color in particular. And I want to thank the council members and council leadership for helping us work on that and figure out how to get the message out. And we'll have more on that in the coming days.
 And then economic recovery, we're focused like a laser on how do we get through this last part of the pandemic and get to the other side where we really do hope that there will be, you know, people back together, people.
 pent up demand in terms of spending as well. Some people have been able to save, who were fortunate enough to maintain their incomes during the pandemic, but didn't have as many things to do. So we're hopeful that when we get the all clear and the safe go ahead, there will be a good rebound and growth opportunity for us here, both locally and nationally.
 I do want to finalize the streets plan that we unveiled the draft a week ago. And, you know, any comments from council members would love to get those to make sure we have all the streets included that we should be including. And then look forward to moving on the plan to finance it and get the jumpstart this year as we progress through the three-year plan to get back on track again.
 Also, we'll be working, hope to work a lot with the council on developing our longer term utility capital and operations plan. And we've talked about solid waste. I mean, that's on the operations side. We have to do something. We're also starting to get into a similar position as where we found ourselves last year with our police department, where we're having trouble retaining.
 our drivers, our truck drivers for solid waste. And we know that our wage has fallen probably to be not competitive with the market to make sure that we can recruit and retain.
 our drivers. So not only are we in the hole on operations, but we also need to really take a look at how do we get our drivers' situation stabilized.
 as well as there have been changes to service levels over the past few years, trying to save every penny that we can. And some of that has been out of necessity, but some of that may be things that from a policy level, the council and the administration would maybe like to see go in a different direction. So there are a lot of conversation with solid waste, obviously the long-term control plan
 be by far the big it's a two even the the uh the cheaper version that we hope to get approved by the federal government is still talking about uh close to 300 million dollars of new investment over the next couple decades so um you know that's a one of the bigger things we'll have to deal with and as part of this whole package we're going to have to work
 to see what is equitable and what is fair to pay for the infrastructure that we desperately need to invest in. And a part of that is taking a look at the customer assistance program and seeing where that should be. And I think,
 I appreciate that we weren't ready to act on that at the end of December, but that needs to be part of the mix because we need to fund our infrastructure and we can't squeeze people who don't have dollars to do so. So, we're going to have to work together to make sure that we have a plan to invest in our critical infrastructure while also maintaining fairness and not
 not causing our residents to go into financial distress due to our infrastructure needs.
 We'll continue to implement the 21CP recommendations and that's something, you know, maybe in March or April we can come back to Council and provide an update on. I know the next item is, I believe, on the agenda for next meeting at the end of February, so I won't go too much into that. And then we're also moving forward with the inclusive procurement.
 program that had passed at the end of 2019 and finally all the pieces seem to be firing, but there will be some some things to work on together on that. And then finally we're also getting firing in all directions over with our neighborhoods teams and want to work with Council on what to do there and what we can get done here over the next few years. So I think that's
 And so with that, I will take any questions that you have. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor. At this time, we'll start with the first district council member. I have an app. Thank you, President White and Mayor Fuller. Thank you for that presentation.
 My question is, what is going to be the economic impact of the street plans? Can you talk more about the street plans? Yeah. I mean, you know, when you look at the condition of our streets across the city,
 For one, you will see some neighborhoods have fared better in terms of quality of infrastructure than others.
 But the level and service level of our infrastructure is also what can drive investment or desirability. And so, you know, if we think of a block, for example, one like we were at last week,
 When you're going to, you know, when someone is looking to invest money, whether, you know, a homeowner or, you know, if you had your choice of where to invest and, you know, the how, you know, if a house was the same or a lot was similar, you know, you would probably pick the one with, you know, what's called curb appeal. Right. A little something that that seems similar.
 cared for and up to date. So there's that piece, there's the equity piece of making sure that we're maintaining our infrastructure across the entire city in an equitable manner. But then there's also just the impact of
 of how investment goes and how, you know, even when you think of financing from, from lending institutions, that all factors into it in terms of, of appraisal values. And then finally going to, you know, what we've heard a lot of,
 residents, I won't name any names, but there's a member of the council that's had damage done to their car due to the condition of our roads. And so not causing damage to personal private property are bills that our residents won't have to incur due to road conditions.
 And then my second question is, one of our major things will be rebuilding vibrant neighborhoods. To the average person, what does that mean? Well, the vibrant neighborhoods is, first of all, what we're talking about is a level of service in neighborhood infrastructure. So that level of the conditions of the physical conditions of the neighborhood.
 And then you layer on top of that amenities available and services. So a lot of that will come from the private sector, but we know there well were well documented that there are food deserts in our city where it's hard to get access to to to groceries in different parts of the city or harder in some than others.
 And that's something, that's a service that's provided by the private sector, but we need to figure out how can we incentivize or drive greater service levels across the city. So when we're talking about vibrant neighborhoods, a vibrant neighborhood is something we aspire to for all of our neighborhoods where you have good infrastructure.
 you have a good stable housing stock within the neighborhood, and you have services that,
 within a reasonable distance to be able to live your life and thrive. So that's what we envision for every neighborhood. Of course, we know that the market by itself will not always drive into that direction. And so we have to figure out how to help incentivize that equity. All right. Thank you, sir. Thank you.
 We now move to second district representative, Councilman Henry Davis, Jr. Yeah, James Merrimuller. Glad to have you. I wish you would have been on the meeting earlier during our meeting.
 committee here and I don't know if you were privy to that. And before I get started, that was my car that was damaged. It was damaged twice. Destroyed my front end and the rim and then I went back down another street and destroyed the other rim. It just wasn't a good year. I wasn't going to out you, but yeah, you... I think I told them that. Yeah, because there's some frustration that came from that. It was a lot of money. But anyhow, the
 meeting that we had earlier really concentrated on how this is going to look between the school and the city. Now, I had a resolution. You were privy to it, and we talked briefly about it, and you gave your comments on it as well. And so, I get it, and I think we got it too. We continued it over until the last meeting in March of
 hopefully the things that were talked about in the committee hearing does happen in between I think my question for you with that it has to do with your level of participation because I heard you say something about it was some type of like group that's already meeting if I have it right yeah the the superintendent has a group okay are we included in that conversation
 I do not have a full list of who's on that. I'm actually not on that that group, but I did encourage them at during the process last spring to develop a community advisory group that brought brought the stakeholders beyond just the ones they normally engage with. So I do not have a full list. That's something we can work to get.
 So what happens is this, that the council itself recognizes the need for partnership because the way it impacts the community neighborhoods, not necessarily the educational track of each
 of each student that goes to the South Bend School Corporation. I think there's a shared conversation in there. And I hope that you will be a part of the conversations as we move forward, because they are very important. I can't get into the conversation about the education because that's not my lane. But when we begin to talk about closing schools
 That is my lane because that creates some changes in our tax base and our neighborhoods and property value and development. So I think that those will assume that I know that those two conversations do go together. We just have to figure out how to marry them.
 So I know that the conversation goes back to the Community Relations Committee. And so I'm looking forward to hearing more about it. And I hope that you will participate so that we can get a handle on future planning and how this is going to work out. My second question, sir, has something to do with the twenty five million dollars that's getting ready to be invested for the street repair. We don't we do not have set aside in Indiana the last time I checked, but they may be there now.
 I need to know if we can if you're interested or have the appetite to create a program that allows people of color, mainly black and Hispanic brown folks to participate on these contracts. We have to be able to allow other members of the community to share in the promise of South Bend. There was over one hundred million dollars invested. I'm sure you know about this. And less than one percent of the money went to minority contractors.
 which is a travesty because that's less than $1 million. And in order for us to become the city that's inclusive of all races and all people, the money has to be shared. So I'm asking you, is there any appetite on your end to create a program to ensure that success?
 Absolutely. And that's, you know, when I talked about inclusive procurement, that's what I was talking about is once and for all finally getting that program in place and making sure that we can have those opportunities for all of our residents. So that's what that's about. I will say this is something that...
 you know too, has been going, you know, been talked about. Things have been, you know, for decades to be honest. So we think we're at, this is the year where we can finally move that forward in a real way. There are some things that we would like to work with council on to make that work. But there have been a lot of legal,
 complexities as well as just operational complexities. We do think we've worked through those finally and should have that up and running and there are other avenues too on projects that we're open to exploring not just through you know this inclusive procurement board process but there are other things that are other tools available to us that that we'd be open to exploring as well. Well it's coming so we got to make sure it happens.
 Okay. Thank you, Councilmember Davis. We're now moving to Councilwoman Sharon McBride, third district representative. Do you have any questions? Thank you. No questions, just a couple of statements. I want to thank the mayor for the presentation and along with administration and the council for being fiscally responsible, especially during these trying times. Just want to make sure that we're keeping at the forefront. I know we got a lot of shifting to do, a lot of priorities.
 due to COVID and our economy, but just want to make sure that we are continuing to be intentional and deliberate with making sure that we are still showing diversity and inclusion and not forgetting about, you know, the brown and black communities and the women businesses and minority contractors as well to make sure that we continue out with what we set forth to do.
 And I will yield with that. Thank you. Thank you. We'll now move to fourth district representative, Councilman Troy Warner. Thank you. I'm going to do like Councilman McBride. I don't have any questions, but a few comments. I think first I echo Councilman Davis's comments on inclusive contracting and
 Let's see some real results this year coming from the inclusive contracting group that you put together. It's interesting.
 it's vital it has to happen right and then next I want to commend you and the rest of the city staff on the programs that have been put together and implemented during this pandemic you know some of us council members you know we got to see some rental assistance we've got to see some help with utilities there are people in the community that have been just crippled by this business owners employees
 And I commend you and the staff for putting together those programs and getting help out to people that need it. And the restaurant program also. So I commend you for your work and the work of your team on that. Thank you. Thank you. We'll now move to 5th District Representative Councilman Eli Watts.
 thank you and thank you uh mr mayor for joining us uh quick question regarding um federal aid and how much that how much you're depending on that for your three-year budget plan um you know you mentioned that if
 the bill from Congress or whatever comes out is over a trillion. You expect the portion would be allocated to cities and States. If that doesn't happen or we don't see the relief from the federal government, have you started to crunch some numbers and figure out what the city's recovery may look like? Thank you for that question. Council member waxen. And this is a,
 when we went through the budget process, which I understand you joined late in the year. I worked in Congress for Senator Cantwell for a number of years, and I learned at that time, you can't count on Congress to do anything ever, for the most part. So the plan that we have in place does not count on Congress acting. Now, what will happen, we found about $4 million to cut for this year budget. Mike Zipursky
 And we would need to find another $4 million in operations for next year's budget to go on the plan that we've talked about so far. But what congressional action could do is make some of these tougher choices a little bit easier. You know, I think.
 you know, it's a one-time payment, so it doesn't change structure. Like the best thing we can do, I mean, the most important thing Congress can do is get us back to growth, get us back to full employment, make investments that aren't one-time payments, but are actually growth minded because that's what gets us sustainable is, is having growth in incomes across the board, having, you know, growth in, in, in valuations across the board. So, you know, it's, it's,
 But assuming we have a strong recovery, which is, I guess, let's be hopeful and say we're going to do the things we need to do to have, you know, closer to that strong rebound, then I think we're on a sustainable, you know, track.
 If we find, you know, we're going to have to do some, make some tough choices going into 2022, but we should be able to do that. Now, if they, you know, if they provide aid, that may take a little bit more, give us a little more breathing room as we look to implement those. Thank you.
 Okay, thank you, mate. And then you talked about direct investments into neighborhoods. I wanted to know if you could elaborate on that a little bit, what some of those previous expenditures were and what you're looking forward to in the future. Yeah, I mean, we can, I don't know the full list that goes into, you're talking about the 60 some percent number, the strategic spending?
 I think there was a number of maybe $28 million, and I don't have it in front of me. But I'm not asking for the whole breakdown. That includes, I think, when we go through the budget process, we also split strategic spending into operations and capital. So that will include...
 a lot of the neighborhoods operations teams that go into that so whether a priority of council in the last few years has been on you know making sure code enforcement uh is able to do
 Rental safety inspections. So those kind of strategic operations line items go into that number. But then also the capital investments as well, whether it's, you know, our Light Up South Bend program that the council members have have championed over the years, the curbs and sidewalks.
 As well as some of our more focused neighborhood plan implementation. So, you know, when we do the neighborhood plans, there's oftentimes a lot of infrastructure components to it. And so that line item would include some of the work that has been going on, you know, in the southeast neighborhood or the west side main streets.
 plan or other plans that goes that would go into that final number. And then I believe some of the neighborhood parks, not the not the giant part, you know, not the major park investments, but some of the smaller neighborhood parks line items would fall under that as well. So it's a it's looking, you know, when Dan, our controller, saw the
 splits up the budget. When he looks at strategic spending, it's those pieces. And we can, he'll be happy to break that down in full detail with you if you're interested. So, and we'll do it during budget time. Whether you're interested or not, we'll do it during budget time anyway. So, you know, whenever you're wanting to dive deep into that, let us know.
 Okay, will do. I'm looking forward to some parks on the southeast side like you mentioned. Sounds good. Thank you, Mayor. Thank you. We'll now move to 6th District Representative Sheila Naskoski. Thank you, President White, and thank you, Mayor Mueller, for your presentation tonight.
 I just had a question when you went over the presentation about leveraging debt in projects and how that debt had dropped down. And I assume that when you leverage debt, it's through bonds. And being that the bond market is at historic lows, we have a double A rating. What would that interest rate look at right now for us to make an investment in our city with that? Is it a percent, less than a percent?
 I mean, I would imagine it's pretty low at this point. Yeah, it's very low. It'll depend on exactly, you know, so for example, when we're looking at the streets plan, that's contemplated out of the income tax category.
 fund. So each source of revenue has its own security level in the bond market. So when we did our capital lease last year, I don't know if Dan's on the line, but it was close to a percent, I believe, at that time for that level of debt and that securitization. I think
 this potential issuance. But yes, it's going to be very, if you think of inflation rates, normal inflation rates or cost adjustments,
 It's going to be in that neighborhood. And that's in many ways by design. The Federal Reserve to to get through this this period of economic difficulty is almost trying to pay you to borrow money because they want to encourage investment. And so because that's the design of our monetary policy, that's why we see these historically low rates.
 Thank you. And my second question, when I looked at that health insurance cost, it looked like an increase of around $3 million, which I'm going to guess was due to the overwhelming need for health care this past year, and Senate Bill 336. So health care has went up. If they take that business property personal tax and that bill passes, is there an estimate of what the loss to the city would be for that? No.
 I don't have that off the top of my head. I don't know if Dan's on the line and does. They've changed the structure of it, too. So, you know, if they took it all away, you know, it's going to be a much bigger number. They're working on modifying it and maybe having some, you know, adding exemptions, but not completely getting rid of it. So we can get if Dan doesn't have that, if he's not on the line and doesn't have that off the top of his head, we can get that in the next day or so.
 Well, thank you. I was just, thank you. Yeah. Council member Nesgatsky, this is Dan Parker, city controller. I don't have the number off the top of my head either, but I will get the analysis and send it to council the next day. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. We'll now move to the at-large council members, councilwoman, Lori Hammond.
 Good evening, Mayor. I don't have any questions. I just want to thank you for your presentation and taking the time to be with us this evening. I yield the rest of my time. Thank you. We'll now move to Councilwoman Rachel Thomas-Morgan. Mr. Mayor, thank you for being with us this evening and for your very thorough and comprehensive presentation. I just had a quick question wanting a quick reaction from you about
 Indiana Senate's override of Governor Holcomb's veto of the housing bill that he had vetoed last year and what kind of direct impact we'll see in our own community? Well, yeah, that's a...
 I didn't focus on all of the problematic things that I would generally classify as a war on cities from the state legislature. And this is one of those, trying to preempt the ability for landlord registration or other types of landlord accountability measures that cities desperately need to protect their residents.
 So that's one, you know, there's the wetlands bill that went through. That's not necessarily fully, you know, on the city's package, but, you know, it's something that, you know, we...
 need to monitor and wonder, you know, where are we going as a state? But there are others, you know, there's looking at, you know, telling us how we can or cannot budget our public safety departments, looking at whether we can have requirements for responsible bidders at the Board of Public Works. So, I
 they've already, you know, it's about, we're supposed to have home rule as a city, except when we start to do things that they don't like, then there seems to be no longer home rule and preemption. And that's,
 throughout the years we've seen that on a number of issues so this is one that's concerning it it probably does and will impact uh our programming here in south bend but uh it's we were you know it was it was a bit of a relief when the governor vetoed it last year we did know i mean we knew that
 One, the threshold for overriding the veto in the state is low. It's the same threshold as passing in the first place and that there would be a substantial probably support for getting it through at some point. So we're told that there will be clarifying amendments passed after the, you know, they've overridden the veto and, you know, that has to go through. I don't know if that happened on the House yet.
 but so they'll override the veto and then they'll make some policy changes after that. And so really the how this all pans out will depend on what are the changes that move forward here in the coming weeks. Thank you, Mayor.
 I would like to thank the council members for your questions and also the mayor for the excellent presentation. This is a great kickoff as we get prepared for the upcoming budget process. Also, I would like to ask that if we could get a copy, each council member could get a copy of the presentation so that we can place it on our website, but we can have it for our reference as well.
 Of course. Yeah. Thank you again for a very excellent presentation. And it puts a lot of the various challenges that we have before us, but also it gives us a quick overview in terms of the priorities that we established during this previous budget process and moving forward. So thank you again, your department heads, and also Mr. Dan Parker and his staff. Thank you, President White. Thank you so much.
 And now we'll move to the Committee of the Whole. We'd like to entertain a motion to resolve into the Committee of the Whole. So moved. We have a motion, and it's been seconded. All those in favor of the motion, Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Lee? Aye. Councilmember Warner? Sorry, am I? Oh, okay. Councilmember Wax? Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Niesgowski. Aye. Council Member Tomas Morgan. Aye. Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Council Member Davis. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. The Committee of the Whole is now in session. This is the portion of the Council's meeting where bills are given a second reading and public hearing.
 I wish to share with you today that the bills that will be given a second reading in public hearing have been given a first reading and set for committee meetings and public hearing prior to this evening's meeting.
 In addition, you will hear from the chairperson of the committee where the bill was discussed and the results of their discussion. If the proposed ordinance is a zoning ordinance, a report from a staff member will be given. In all other situations, the formal presentation on the proposed ordinance will immediately follow the committee report. The formal presentation shall be untimed.
 Clerk Jones, we're going to start with Bill number 7120. Will you please give Bill 7120 a second reading? Yes. 7120, public hearing on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1643 Prairie. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Is there a committee report?
 Yes, there is. This came before the Zoning Committee this afternoon and is brought forward with a favorable recommendation. Thank you, Councilwoman Hammond. Is the petitioner present? I ask that you state your name and address and share with us the key points regarding the bill that is before us. Thank you, Council. Joan Molnar, Zoning Specialist with offices on the 14th floor of the County City Building.
 Today before you is a special exception request. This is a special exception because this property here outlined is zoned NC neighborhood center and in that zoning district a gas station is a special exception where you have to go through this process and get final approval from council. This property is located along Prairie Avenue. Just as Prairie Avenue jogs to the southwest, the head towards the casino and then further out of town,
 It's actually at a pretty interesting corner in the city, right where Dubail, Oliver and Prairie meet, forming this pretty unique intersection. Currently on site is a vacant former gas station, auto repair shop, and then also another lot that is a vacant field as well. And it is located in the sixth council district. Here is the view of the property from that intersection. As you can see the vacant,
 auto shop present there and the former parking lot and here is looking to the southwest you can see the alley that borders the property to the north the vacant field and then the abandoned auto shop this went to the board of zoning appeals last month for the request of a special exception but it also included three variances from the zoning ordinance
 one of those was to have two curb cuts instead of one as the ordinance prescribes the other was to have the building uh placed much further back than the zoning ordinance um we'd like to see for neighborhood center uh that that or even though the building exists uh the petitioner wished to expand the building so um
 because it was being expanded and it was being expanded in a way away from the way the ordinance reads That required the variance of both of those there was a third variance that was accepted, but those two variances were denied and
 But the special exception comes to you with a favorable recommendation of purely for the use that comes to you with a favorable recommendation, which is all the Council votes on. But due to those variances being denied, the site plan was adjusted by the petitioner to reflect that. Now we just have one
 curb cut coming off the alley as far away from the intersection as possible. Staff, both planning and engineering, were very concerned about the continued existence of the curb cut right at this busy intersection, especially with the type of traffic that a gas station usually produces. So that was the first chain, a major change to the
 And then the second change was very clearly moving the building right up along the street the way that the neighborhood center district envisions properties to be aligned. A much more urban type environment that provides much better streetscape that will look nicer along the street and not so suburban looking. And also if I can, neatly match this building here which has a similar outlook towards the
 This did have an unfavorable recommendation from staff at the BZA level, but the BZA still sent it forward with a favorable recommendation to you. And then with the changes, if the changes would have come before the BZA hearing, we believe staff would have been favorable as well at that point. I'm happy to answer any questions that you might have. And I believe the petitioner is here as well.
 Okay. Thank you, Mr. Molnar. Council members, do you have any questions of the petitioner? Okay. Seeing none at this point, we're going to go to the public hearing portion. Is there anyone from the public wishing to speak in favor of Bill 7120? Did you want me to talk about the site plan at all? It's Mike Danf. I've already started to go into the...
 If you would like to make a comment after I close the. No problem. Is there anyone here to speak against? I'm sorry, Clerk Jones. Is there anyone to speak in favor of the bill? No, I do not see anyone wishing to speak in favor of the bill. OK, thank you. Is there anyone wishing to speak against the bill? I do not see anyone wishing to speak against the bill as well.
 Okay, thank you. Well, at this point, then the public hearing on President White, before I close the public hearing, can I give Mr. Danch an opportunity to speak about the site plans? Please do, because then he can speak to the site plan and that if there are any, the public hearing portion has not been closed, correct? Yes.
 I have not closed it yet. So if there's anyone that may have some questions of him, they will have that opportunity. Wonderful, thank you. I wasn't sure since I've already started that proceeding if that was acceptable or not. So Mr. Danch, would you please proceed with the site plan? Thank you. Sure, I appreciate that. Mike Danch from Danch Hunter & Associates, 1643 Commerce Drive here in South Bend, representing the petitioner. As you had mentioned,
 We had gone through the Board of Zoning Appeals and had requested the approval of a special exception. As part of that process, what ended up happening is with the denial of a couple of the variances, we came back and redesigned the entire site
 to match what the intent of the Board of Zoning Appeals had asked us to do. And as Joe had mentioned, in this particular case, what that ended up being is that the existing out-of-date building that was on the property will be razed completely from the site, and we will build a brand new convenience store of approximately 3,900 square feet that you see on the site plan before you.
 that building will be up right at the street right away, which is meeting the requirements for the NC district, which is more pedestrian oriented type of zoning.
 So the building will sit right at the property line. What we also did then was move the canopy with the fueling pumps to the north side of the building as part of the other requirements for the Board of Zoning Appeals. They had asked us to only have one entranceway onto this particular site. What we ended up doing to make that work with this piece of property was we took the public alley, which is 14-foot wide,
 and we expanded it into a 24-foot wide driveway, 14 for the public alley and 10 foot on our property, to give us a full access width out to Prairie Avenue and for patrons that would come into the site as well as for a fueling truck that would come in to fuel the fuel tanks underneath the canopy.
 What we also have added was additional landscaping, the buffer areas along the residential to the west of the site and southwest of the site.
 All lighting is going to meet the latest requirements for the city so that there will be no light spillage onto any adjacent property. What we will also be doing is bringing this entire site up to the drainage standards for the City of South Bend so that any surface runoff created by this particular site will stay on the site, which is not happening presently for the property.
 What the contingent purser would like to do here is probably an investment of about a million and a half dollars to do what you see before you. We would hope that council will give us the favorable approval for that special exception. And if you have any questions for me, I'd be glad to answer. Okay. Thank you, Mr. Dansch. Clerk Jones, do you see anybody wishing to speak for or against? No.
 No, no one has expressed interest to speak for or against this bill. Okay. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Then I'm going to, at this time, close the public portion. So, yeah, so at this point, the public hearing on Bill 7120 is now closed. Would there be any council member that would wish to make any statements regarding the bill? Councilman Kenneth Lee.
 Well, we said it in a committee meeting earlier today, but it's just great to see investment in that area over on Prairie. It's starting to boom with the casino and all of that over there. So to see that someone is taking the time to invest in a gas station and investing in that area, it's good to see in a positive. It's just a positive thing.
 opportunity. So thank you for investing in that community and we look forward to it being prosperous and continue to develop that area. Thank you. Thank you, Council Member Lee. Is there any other council members that wish to speak or make a statement? Councilman Warner?
 Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Dansch. I think this is now the third project in a row where we started with a plan A, and you've been very amenable to all the city concerns, and I thank you and commend you for that. Thank you. Thank you, Councilman Warner. Is there any other council members that would like to make a statement? No.
 Well, I would like to make a statement being that I'm the 6th District Council member that, and I would like to thank you for making those needed changes and making that a safe corner for pedestrians and for traffic and for the investment to the district. I have a feeling that it may help spur some other development, which is very welcome. So I would like to thank you for your presentation and thank you for the investment in our community.
 You're welcome. Thank you. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion regarding Bill 7120. Is there a motion? I'd like to make a motion that we move Bill 7120 to the full council with a favorable recommendation. I second that motion. Thank you. The bill has been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Warner? Aye. Council Member Wax? Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Nieskoski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Aye. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Thank you, Mr. Danch. Thank you. I will now entertain a motion to rise from the Committee of the Whole and report back to the full Council. So moved. Second. Second.
 It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, could you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Neskoski. Aye. Council Member Thomas Morgan. Council Member Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis. Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye. President White. Nine ayes. Thank you.
 I will now entertain a motion to resolve from the Committee of the Whole to report back to the full council. So moved. Did we just do that? Hmm? I thought we just did that. Point of order, that's what my motion was. Okay, I'm sorry, I didn't hear you. I'm sorry. I thought we would vote on something else. I apologize. But now the full council is back in session. Clerk Jones, will you please give Bill 71-20 a third reading? Yes.
 71-20, third reading on an ordinance of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, Indiana, approving a petition of the Advisory Board of Zoning Appeals for the property located at 1643 Prairie. Thank you, Clerk Jones. Councilwoman Naskowski, is there a recommendation from the Committee of the Whole regarding 71-20? Yes.
 Yes, President White. It came out with a favorable recommendation with a 9-0 vote. Thank you. Is there a motion regarding Bill 71-20 at this time? I'd like to make a motion to move to call for passage. Second. Move for passage. Second.
 I think I heard a second. That was Councilwoman Lori Hammond. Yes. Thank you. We have a motion and there is a second to that motion. Clerk Jones, will you please call the roll? Yes. Councilmember Neskowski. Aye. Councilmember Tomas Morgan. Councilmember Hammond. Vice President McBride. Aye. Councilmember Davis. Councilmember Lee. Aye. Councilmember Warner. Aye. Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Bill 71-20 has passed. We're now entering into the resolution portion of our meeting. We'd just like to note once again that Resolution 21-3 has been tabled until March 22nd. And I don't believe that we have to take a motion on that.
 I want to make sure before I move forward. Isn't that correct? That's correct. Okay. Thank you, Attorney Palmer. We'll now move to Resolution 21-04. Clerk Jones, will you please read Resolution 21-04? Yes. Yes.
 21-04, a resolution of the Common Council of the City of South Bend, designating certain areas within the City of South Bend, Indiana, commonly known as 1915 North Bendix Drive, South Bend, Indiana, 46628, an economic revitalization area for purposes of a five-year personal property tax abatement for Royal Adhesives and Sealants, LLC.
 Thank you. Is there a committee report? Yes, President White. This came to community investment and goes to council with a favorable recommendation. Thank you. We'll now move to the presentation portion. We will first have comments from community investment. Mr. Dan Buchenmeier, followed by the presenter. We do ask that you state your name and address for the record, please.
 Thank you, President White. This is Dan Buckenmeyer, Director of Business Development, offices on the 14th floor of the City-County Building. So we're coming to you tonight with a request for a tax abatement for Royal Adhesives, better known to some as H.B. Fuller, a longtime South Bend business. We have done abatements for them in the past, and they have
 not only cash positive on those now but have met all their commitments of course on those in the past for this one we're looking at one of two locations this location again 1915 bendix it's benix road immediately east of the airport they want to expand their operations there to
 allow for the aerosolization of and packaging of adhesives that they manufacture here in South Bend. I love pointing out, we love a win here in South Bend. I love pointing out the fact that they considered another location in Houston, Texas as a possibility for this. They ultimately decided to do this in South Bend for reasons I'll let Mr. Greenlee petitioner get into.
 do, but we're thrilled that they've done so. It makes South Bend the center of just more of their verticalization of their business operations here and amplifies the impact of their South Bend operations on their national and even global distribution.
 They will be investing in, sorry, let me advance my slides here. Are we seeing the slides? Did I do that right at least? Okay. $1.3 million investment in this, and again, it's a private, I'm sorry, personal property investment, so not a real estate investment, but capital equipment that's going to allow them to do this.
 $1.3 million in set of investment. We talked about filling the cylinders and the aerosolization of that. They serve roofing and industrial markets. No current taxes on these because they don't exist at this moment.
 They, over the course of the five years, so this will be a five-year abatement, which is the common time period for private, I'm sorry, personal property tax abatements.
 And over that course, they still will pay about $16,000 in property taxes. These are estimates, as we all know. They'll pay about, I'm sorry, we will abate about $82,000 in taxes to allow them to cushion the blow of this project.
 million dollar million, $3, and actually more that they're investing in the local operations, which again, I'll let Mr. Greenlee get into, but we're thrilled to support this and hope council will support this. I also just wanted to point out, not that this is necessarily part of the abatement, but I thank Councilwoman Tomas Morgan for keying something that is in the petition that was put out
 we wouldn't normally bring out, but because again, it's not a requirement per se, but they're great track record over the last few years in terms of hiring and 49 minority and women hires in the firm over that course of the last couple of years, few years, and just a great track record and something that we appreciate.
 here in the city and as part of the goodwill and positive trends in terms of those seeking city support. So with that, I'll stop and allow Mr. Randy Greenlee to step in and say a few words and then open up for questions. Randy Greenlee Okay, good evening everybody. Randy Greenlee with Royal Adhesive and Sealants and I'm an operation director there. And I'm going to
 in my address. My office address is 2001 West Washington Street. So anyway, I think Dan covered everything pretty well. Yeah, we are spending about $1.3 million on equipment, and I think our total spend is about $2.1 million. And the way we got here is he alluded to looking at a
 Houston as well. They're another company of HB Fuller Royal Adhesive. And the reason why we were looking at, they make a liquid adhesive in Houston. South Bend makes a liquid adhesive at that plant, the main plant. And then we have a third party that fills the canister. So it's
 It's basically adhesive and a couple of propellants that go into that canister. So, you know, I personally worked with the city of South Bend on previous projects. And Ted Clark, who I used to report to when I was VP of Ops, also worked with the city of South Bend. And we, the two of us, really supported moving this operation to South Bend, basically.
 And in reality, too, logistically, it just made more sense because the third party is in another state. But everything once those canisters are filled by the third party, they come back to the Bendix warehouse anyway and get shipped out. So it just made more more sense to do that. And I think, you know, there's.
 I think it's a win-win for both parties. And, you know, we're going to save some money, too, on each canister. I think it's about $25 a canister. We're also adding, you know, six more jobs in the first phase. The second phase, another additional five people. The second phase is actually an aerosol can filling. So, like the cans, the 13-ounce cans you see in Lowe's or Home Depot, you
 And then there's a third phase for a two-part year thing that R&D is developing. And we're going to spend some money on that too. It's like $115,000. That second phase was like $672,000. So we're going to continue to grow. The main plan has been growing and adding people. So appreciate your support on this tax abatement.
 Thank you, Mr. Greenlee. Before moving to the public hearing portion, Councilmembers, do you have any questions that you would like to ask the petitioner or Mr. Dan Buchenmeier? Any questions from Councilmembers?
 I'll circle back after the public hearing portion where we will have comments from council members. I do not see any hands going up so I will move directly to the public hearing portion. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak in support of resolution 21-04?
 I do not see anyone in the chat room wishing to speak on in support of Resolution 2104. Seeing that there's no one waiting to speak in support or in opposition, the public hearing portion is now closed. I will go back to council members. Would you like to make any comments regarding Resolution 21-4 at this time? I do see a hand. Council Member Kenneth Lee.
 Thank you, President White, and thank you, Dan, and thank you, Mr. Greenlee. As I said in committee meetings, as we've said at the various times that we've had to look at this company, it is great to see that they fought to keep this in South Bend and not let it go to Houston. I had the opportunity to walk the facility and
 And it's a big building. And it was a big building sitting over in the first district that was empty. And so we're certainly glad that somebody is breathing life over in that area, in that empty building, and giving them an opportunity to invest big time in the first district. The jobs that he spoke of.
 it's going to make an impact. Good paying jobs. And we even had a chance to talk to some of the workers that was working over there and they, they seem like they like Randy. So we're excited about it. So I just want to say thank you, Randy, and to Royal Adhesives for
 for South Bend and keeping it in South Bend. And we want to see great things grow out of this. So thank you as the first district council person that we have a big building that was sitting empty that is not going to be sitting empty and they're already filling it up right now. So we're excited about it. So thank you. Thank you, Dr. Caniff. Thank you as well. Do we have any other council members who would like to make any comments at this time?
 I do not see any hands up. I move for passage. We have a motion to move for passage. Is there a second? I second. It's been moved and seconded. Clerk Jones, would you please call the roll? Yes. Council Member Thomas Morgan, Council Member Hammond, Vice President McBride. Aye. Council Member Davis, Council Member Lee. Aye. Council Member Warner. Aye.
 Council Member Wax. Aye. Council Member Nieskowski. Aye. President White. Aye. Nine ayes. Resolution 21-04 has passed. Again, we thank the Department of Community Investment and of course, the petitioner, Mr. Greenleaf, for your commitment to the city of South Bend. We'll now move to bills first reading. We do not have any bills for first reading.
 Is there any unfinished business? Councilmembers, any unfinished business? We'll now move to new business. Councilmembers, is there any new business? Councilmember Troy Warner? Thank you, President White. I had also asked Mr. Ray to have some numbers for the progress of the restaurant grants that the Chamber of Commerce is distributing.
 We kind of ran out of time and he forgot to give those. So as of right now, there are 47 grants, 47 checks have been mailed out. I know there were over 250 restaurants on the list. These are all small neighborhood, family-owned restaurants. He asked for help.
 from us getting out and letting restaurants know in our area. I've been out three times now, out walking restaurant to restaurant. I plan to do like 10 or 12 and then once I get started, they, hey, try this dessert, have a glass of wine, try this new app. I don't ever get as many done in the evening as I think.
 But I know about 10 or 12 in the 4th District have already gotten their grants. They got the checks from about two days after they applied. So it's a pretty quick turnaround. There's $2,000 checks. Basically, all they have to do is type up a paragraph on how the pandemic has affected their business.
 and it's easy to do for folks. So he asked for help getting that word out to restaurants. I know Caleb sent out a list in an Excel sheet. I printed the list and highlighted the ones in the fourth, and then just take a flyer with,
 and say hey there's a two thousand dollar check get on this link the application takes about 10 minutes to do it's very easy uh and then you know the checks come two days later so um that's money they want to get rid of so uh they need help getting the word out and the second thing is uh
 We had a lot of discussion on the schools. I have started watching the school board meetings. They're both on their website and on Facebook.
 I encourage on the January 25th meeting, there was the presentation of right-sizing that was given to the school board by the superintendents, the school administration, the superintendent's office. I encourage you to go back to that January 25th meeting. It's towards the end. There's a presentation on the school right-sizing and the plan to close these two schools.
 There's a lot of good information there. I think we'll answer some folks questions. Thank you. Thank you. The next council person is Councilmember Eli Wax followed by Councilmember Henry Davis Jr.
 Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on Council Member Warner. Was a flyer prepared ultimately? I know there was some emails about it, but I didn't see a final flyer. Do you know where I would pick one up? There was. Yeah, I'll check my email. If not, we can make sure that the administration sends it back out to you. It came from Caleb, so I'll get back to Caleb. Maybe I just missed it. Okay, thank you.
 Thank you. We'll now move to Council Member Henry Davis Jr. Thank you. I wanted to, you know, I just want to clarify here. We have a lane to fill. I get that the school corporation has done their homework for their schools, but because we are the governing body of the city of South Bend, all things are taken into account
 when we are trying to develop the city, whether it's a school there or not. So if I'm listening to the school corporation and their presentation on why they're doing what they're doing, it's going to make sense because that's what they're doing. I'm not against what they're doing. What I am interested in is making sure and ensuring successful growth
 when they do whatever they do, because it's going to impact all people. So I want to make sure that that's being clarified in a discussion. It just seems like it keeps going back to they're doing their work. I got that. I'm saying what they're doing is going to impact. If you don't want to believe me, let's take a ride through the second district and you will see what I mean, because it's very clear how that works. The other thing I want to point to
 If you sell a house to the south side of town and no one has to answer this. If you sell a house on the south side of town, how do you tell families the closest grade school is in Penn Harris Madison School District? I'm talking about people living in South Bend have to go to Penn Harris Madison School District because we can't service them. I'm done. Thank you. Are there any other?
 Councilmembers that would like to share any, I think I was at New Business. I don't see any other hands up. If not, I'll move to the privilege of the floor. Clerk Jones, is there anyone waiting to speak under privilege of the floor? At this time, there is no one waiting to speak under privilege of the floor. I don't know if you want to give it a couple more minutes, but there's
 I will ask one more time, is there anyone waiting to speak on the privilege of the floor? Clerk Jones, is there anyone that you see? No, I do not see anyone in the chat room waiting to speak on privilege of the floor.
 Thank you. The privilege of the floor is now closed. The council member, I mean, the council meeting is adjourned. I would encourage everyone to stay safe, warm, and healthy as we continue to do the work that we've been elected to do. Have a peaceful night and see each and every one of you soon. Good night. Good night, everyone.